Monday's edition of Chatterbox
There's a lot of excitement about what Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook is expected to launch later today (at around 6pm UK time). The expectation is that it'sgoing to be a Gmail killerwhich will introduce an email client only for its users - that is, only for the 500m-plus people who have signed up to the network.From one perspective, it seems odd: there's already email of sorts within Facebook, and instant messaging, so why would it want to let its brand start to spread soggily around the web by going free of the site?But Zuckerberg is not someone who thinks in terms of brands; he thinks in terms of permeating the entire web with his product.Some of the excitement is that "Project Titan", as it's rumoured to be named, could be used to filter out spam. After all, the thinking goes, because Facebook insists that you say who you are, and because you have to connect to people to be able to "email" them within the site, it's going to kill spam.So you have Jay Chamberssuggestingthat "this is something to watch very closely, especially for businesses who [sic] conduct B2C [business-to-consumer] marketing", who suggests that everyone might be getting @facebook.com addresses. (This seems unlikely, as Facebook employees already have those.)If not him, how about Craig Newmark, of Craigslist (the original email list that went ultra-viral), whothinksthat "Facebook email could indeed dominate all email" because "a Facebook identity (profile) pretty much ensures that there's a real person behind it. It's possible to fake a Facebook identity, but it's a fair amount of work, way more expensive than getting a new gmail or hotmail account."He continues: "Let's suppose that Facebook provides an email tool, and gives you options to control what email you'll actually see. For example, you might tell Facebook email to only accept email from people with Facebook-verified identities. You might have different levels of email priority, from friends, fans, friends of friends, and so on."Why would that put spammers off? "Spammers can create their own Facebook identities to try to work around this, but that's way more expensive than getting temporary email addresses, and that raises the cost of spamming people."Possibly - but I think that's underestimating how peoples' systems can be compromised. Remember that Facebook has seen scores of spam attacks and virus attacks which have spread at huge speed through the network, though only Facebook could tell you quite how broadly they have spread.If your best friend gets a virus on their machine, they're going to be sending you spammy or virus-laden email, and you'll accept it because your filters will let you. That'show the ILOVEYOU attack spread so quickly: it was coming from people you trusted, and you then sent it on, unwittingly, to people you trusted.Sure, Facebook could filter for spam and viruses, as it likely does already - but doing that for email is a whole different ballgame from doing it for a status updates. Apart from anything, for spammers the prize is bigger in email. It took Google some years from the launch of Gmail to get itself straight in spam filtering.Even so, you can count on Zuckerberg to play the long game. If this really is a Facebook email offering, will you take it up?
Rusty security. Photo bychefrandenon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNetflix on Android &gt;&gt; Netflix blog"We recently announced the availability of Netflix on Windows Phone 7 devices, which, alongside the iPhone, represents the second mobile phone platform we have enabled for streaming from Netflix. Notably absent from current supported mobile devices is Android and I wanted to provide an update on where things stand with this important platform."I recallasking Eric Schmidt about Android fragmentation in Juneand not being overimpressed by the response. It really is the biggest threat the platform faces for developers and savvy - which means decision-driving - users.The Great Cyberheist - NYTimes.comGobsmacking (and long) piece about Albert Gonzalez, who drove the TJX hacking - one of the biggest ever: "Now once Toey got him into a system, Gonzalez no longer had to sift through databases for the valuable stuff. Instead, he could go straight to the servers that processed the cards coming from the terminals, in the milliseconds before that information was sent to banks for approval. He tried this on JCPenney, the clothing chain Wet Seal and the Hannaford Brothers grocery chain, in the last instance compromising more than four million cards. His Estonian contact used the technique on Dave &amp; Buster's. 'Every time a card was swiped, it would be logged into our file,' Toey says. 'There was nothing anyone could do about it.'"FOI: Seven ways councils can make FOI cost less &gt;&gt; David HiggersonNotably: "Do more with the open data you are publishing: Of the councils which have began publishing opendata, many are publishing in formats which are aimed at developers – RDF and XML for example. This is excellent for them, but what about members of the public who just want to look at information? For example, Sunderland City Council's opendata page has a wealth of information but it's all XML, so meaningless to a member of the public who might find it. Formats more familiar to non-developers – even the dreaded PDF – would be a useful addition to many, and reduce the risk of basic FOI requests."Ask a Flowchart: Which Social Search Site Should I Use? &gt;&gt; Wired.comAll the options are there, from "Want to have your grammar corrected?" to "Do you want your question to be answered by topical experts, or will any idiot do?" to "Do you want them to flash their boobies?".Adobe Flash For Samsung's Google Tab Is An Embarrassing Disaster &gt;&gt; Business Insider"But so far, Flash has been one of the weakest, most embarrassing spots for the Galaxy Tab, severely depleting the device's performance, according to the reviews we've read. (We don't have a Galaxy Tab, so we weren't able to verify this ourselves.)"I've done a comparative test against a Viewsonic tablet. Flash is, indeed, worse on the Samsung. And the Viewsonic is about £100 cheaper.Facebook's obvious strategy for bankrupting Google &gt;&gt; Virtualeconomics"This [10% salary] raise is estimated to cost Google one billion dollars. Then yesterday they offered one engineer $3.5 million to turn down a Facebook offer. So what does Mark Z have to do to bankrupt Google? Simply offer their engineers jobs, one at a time."Introducing Deals: A new way to connect with customers &gt;&gt; Facebook"Deals gives businesses the opportunity to reward customers when they check in on Facebook, and this helps generate awareness, encourage in-store traffic and build customer loyalty. In addition, if someone checks in to a business that is offering a deal, their friends have the opportunity to hear about it through word of mouth marketing that is generated naturally on Facebook." Money, money, money. Who says Facebook isn't making money from your personal details?Friends for iPhone is coming soon! &gt;&gt; TaptivateLooks interesting because it's in effect an implementation of a "people hub" rather like Windows Phone 7: integrate all your social networks in one place.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
In the late 1950s, the German-born engineer Bernard Friese, who has died of cancer aged 82, joined forces with Giles Smith, a village butcher, to conceive and build the only truly Welsh sports car. It took its name, the Gilbern, from its creators' first names: the neat glass-fibre bodied coupes first appeared in 1959 and continued until 1973, when the arrival of VAT made build-it-yourself sports cars much less attractive. Unusually for a component car, the Gilbern also made the transition to being fully built.Friese was born in Marienwerder, east Prussia (now part of Poland), and joined the German army as a teenager. He was taken prisoner by the allies in 1944 in the Netherlands, and met his future wife, Betty (then 16), on one of his nightly forays over the fence of a PoW camp in Kent. They went on to have six children, before divorcing in the 1980s.Having received word from his father that there was very little to return to in Germany, Friese stayed in Kent throughout the 50s, working for a coach-builder called Martins, making bodies for fire engines and lorries, and sports-car bodies for the ubiquitous Ford 8 and 10 in the new wonder material of glass fibre.In 1956 he decided to move to south Wales to take a job as a washing-machine engineer, and it was here, in Church Village, near Pontypridd, that Friese met Smith, who also nurtured an ambition to build his own sports car. This was the era of the "special", when young men created exotic-looking roadsters based on cheap pre-war Ford 10s and Austin Sevens.The resulting Gilbern GT was a cut above the average DIY special, because both men were keen to create something more accomplished and bespoke than a humble kit-car. Firms such as Lotus and Jensen had made glass-fibre bodywork respectable, even desirable, given that it did not rust. It was also ideal for low-volume production-runs because it did not require such expensive tooling.The elegant little GT bore a passing resemblance to the contemporary Aston Martin DB4. In the great tradition of such specialist cars, it used suspension and drivetrain parts from a variety of mass-production cars and offered a choice of MG or Ford engines. But the solid space-frame chassis was to Friese and Smith's own design.The first Gilbern factory was a room above a slaughterhouse. A pear tree had to be chopped down to get the first cars outside, but eventually larger premises were found near Llantwit Fardre.The Gilbern car went through two further major developments that took it upmarket in search of greater profit margins. The 120mph Gilbern Genie of 1966 came with a completely new, more modern body, with small rear seats and the latest three-litre Ford V6 engine. In 1969 the Genie was renamed the Invader, with slightly revised styling and a walnut dashboard. But its £2,400 price tag highlighted Gilbern's vulnerability in the face of much cheaper competition, such as the Ford Capri. Gilberns sold at the rate of 100 cars a year at the height of their popularity, with famous owners who included the Prince of Wales and the actor Anthony Hopkins.In 1968 Gilbern had been acquired by Ace Holdings, a company that made slot machines, and there was money available to develop the cars and more employees to build them; the payroll increased from 20 to 60. But the imposition of VAT put £700 on the price of these already expensive cars. The Invader Mark III, introduced in 1972 (with its trademark red Welsh dragon badge), was the last Gilbern and was offered as a fully built-up car, for a steep £2,393. The new owners' lack of feeling for the nuances of the sports-car-making business did not help Gilbern's cause: by the early 1970s its founders had left, and the factory closed in 1973 with just over 1,000 of all models having been built.Friese felt he had proved his point when he moved on in 1969, having stayed on a year after the takeover, rarely reminiscing about his car-making days. He went on to build a 360-strong company called Morgan Marine in Llandybie, Carmarthenshire, which became one of the biggest suppliers of fibreglass to the building industry. After his second marriage, to Vanna, he lived for 14 years in Thailand, but spent his final year back in Wales in a hospice. A determined character who did not always see eye-to-eye with his partner in the car-building adventure, Friese kept in regular touch with his German family members.Friese's eldest daughter, Karen, predeceased him. He is survived by two sons, Julian and Christian, and three daughters, Nicola, Gillia and Felicity, from his marriage to Betty; Vanna and her daughter Saiesan, whom he adopted; and a daughter, Amy, by his partner Nok Kaenyangwai.• Bernard Hugo Friese, engineer, born 18 October 1927; died 30 September 2010• This article was amended on Tuesday 16 November 2010.  The village of Church was changed to Church Village.
Arriving with an entirely appropriate bombastic marketing campaign last week,Black Ops, the latest instalment of the Call of Duty series, has more of an air of the blockbuster film sequel or much-awaited follow-up album about it. The hype and colossal development spend were certainly similar, but is it worthy of all this shock and awe?Shifting the action to the 1960s and the cold war sends special ops veteran Alex Mason into furious combat with communist hordes in Russia, Cuba and Vietnam – the game opening in an aggressive interrogation, leading to playable flashbacks from the titular covert missions. Featuring historical events such as the Bay of Pigs incident and Kennedy's assassination,Black Opsdelivers a rollercoaster single-player campaign roughly a third longer thanCall of Duty: Modern Warfare 2; a lesson learned after gamers voiced their displeasure last time around.Black Opslooks and feels much the same asMW2, with sharp movements and responsive controls enabling you to duck and dive around fully destructible environments. Annoyingly, you still can't lean around obstacles.CoDrelies on relentless pace, pin-sharp graphics and blisteringly fast frame-rates to offer the spectacular but linear thrill-ride of the arcade game, which is its forte. YetBlack Opsbrings no real innovation to the genre.It looks fantastic, though, whether you're stalking Vietcong in dense jungle or exploiting exceptional distance rendering when sniping Russians on snowy mountains. The use of faded colour, to reference classic Vietnam movies, for example, is executed perfectly, although high-detail moments occasionally cause screen distortion. The weapons have also received an upgrade, with reload speed, ballistic power and accuracy carefully balanced to ensure that they don't offer an unfair advantage in multiplayer, incendiary "dragon's breath" shotgun rounds and exploding crossbow bolts in particular adding a level of depth previously unseen.Unsurprisingly, real longevity is online with new kill streak bonuses, including napalm strikes, controllable helicopters and an exploding remote-controlled car. Veterans can even wagerCoDpoints against players around the world, and teaming up in co-op and free-for-all challenges has lost none of its appeal.Black Opsis still best in class by some distance but let's hope there will be a little tactical tweaking away from the linear and claustrophobic single-player comeModern Warfare 3.
"The primary goal of any film-maker," writesMichael Haugein his classic bookWriting Screenplays That Sell, "is to elicit emotion in the audience." In contrast, the primary goal of the screenwriter is "to elicit emotion in the person reading the screenplay". Aaron Sorkin, who wrotethe screenplay forThe Social Network, a film about the origins of Facebook, clearly scored on both counts. For not only was funding forthcoming for a lavish, beautifully crafted movie directed by David Fincher, but it has also been a big hit with audiences.The critics have likewise taken it seriously.The Social Network,wrote our own Philip French, "takes familiar ideas about trust, friendship, endeavour, ambition, betrayal and greed into fascinating new areas of experience. It's as riveting, lucid and open-minded a film asRashomon".Novelist Zadie Smith used the film as the starting point foran extended meditation in theNew York Review of Bookson the generational difference that divides people in their opinions about Facebook. Writing in theLondon Review of Books, Michael Wood described the film as "fast and intelligent and mean, a sort of screwball comedy without the laughs", before going on to criticise its "insistence on two intriguing but evasive fables. One says that genius needs humiliation to get it going: so much so that the humiliation may be more important than the genius, a nicely faux-democratic message. The other says you can only make real money, money beyond dreams as distinct from just a lot of ordinary money, if you don't care about wealth at all. Genius doesn't calculate, even when it's a computational genius."Theonly real discordant notecame from Lawrence Lessig, the distinguished legal scholar and cyberlaw expert, who felt that the screenplay had missed one very important point. "The most frustrating bit ofThe Social Network," he wrote, "is not its obliviousness to the silliness of modern American law. It is its failure to even mention the real magic behind the Facebook story. In interviews given after making the film, Sorkin boasts about his ignorance of the internet. That ignorance shows. This is like a film about the atomic bomb which never even introduces the idea that an explosion produced through atomic fission is importantly different from an explosion produced by dynamite."Pause for plot synopsis. The hero of the film is Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, who is brilliantly played by Jesse Eisenberg as a gifted, borderline-autistic programmer (eerily reminiscent, by the way, of Bill Gates at the same age). It opens with a row between Zuckerberg and a girlfriend who tells him some hard truths about his arrogance and insensitivity, after which he races back to his dorm room and in a blaze of intense rage creates a vicious website called Facemash, which subjects female Harvard students to (male) ridicule.Soon after the site launches it overwhelms the university network and is rapidly taken down by the authorities who then carpet its author.However, Zuckerberg's newfound campus notoriety attracts the attention of two classic Wasp students, the Winklevoss boys, who recruit him to write a piece of software for a snooty, Harvard-exclusive, social-networking site that they have in mind. Zuckerberg takes the basic idea, creates it himself – and then launches it on the internet. The rest, give or take a few lawsuits, is history. Zuckerberg's little monster now has more than 500 million users.Lessig's point is that it's the open internet that should be the real hero of the story. "What's important here," he writes, "is that Zuckerberg's genius could be embraced by half-a-billion people within six years of its first being launched, without – and here is the critical bit – asking the permission of anyone." That's true, but I think Lessig is too harsh. The message he wants the film to communicate is there in the screenplay if you look hard enough. It lies in the film's portrayal of the contrast between what happens to unauthorised innovation on a closed, tightly controlled system and what's possible with the open, uncontrolled architecture of the internet.As the Harvard network grinds to a standstill under the impact of Facemash, the university's lead sysadmin is hauled out of bed at 4am and by 6am Zuckerberg's creation has been zapped. But when TheFacebook, as it was originally called, launched on the net, there was nobody who could be hauled out of bed to zap it. And that is something that even those who don't use Facebook should celebrate.
Super Scribblenautsachieves a remarkable feat, if one somewhat unusual in the field of gaming. It rebuilds the realm of the cryptic crossword as a friendly, interactive picture book, replacing the monochrome grids and daunting clues of newspaper pages with a quaint and welcoming rural landscape.In essence, the game is a puzzle collection that teases you with numerous visual dilemmas, each of which can be resolved with the introduction of objects. From villagers needing weaponry to cities needing buildings,Super Scribblenautsoffers a plethora of missing items and the player's role is to fill these gaps. The fun comes with the simple conceit that lets you summon the needed objects. Type in a word and the desired item appears. It doesn't sound like much, until you realise that the developers have created&nbsp;a bewildering array of objects. Almost everything you can envision can&nbsp;be brought into being and thus each puzzle can be solved in myriad ways.Despite some clever lateral challenges, the novelty does eventually wear thin: the difficulty is slightly underwhelming, and the gameplay is rather similar throughout, butSuper Scribblenautsdoes trump its predecessor (Scribblenauts) with plenty of new tricks. It teases the boundaries of the imagination and, as such, stands as a highlight of the DS game catalogue.
While the mainstream Pokémon games have wide appeal – accessible for newcomers, with hidden depths for older enthusiasts – its spinoffs have always been content to target a smaller niche. This summer'sPoképark Wiiwas best suited to a very young audience, whileGuardian Signsaims a little higher, albeit still with its sights trained on the pre-teen market.Rather than defeating Pokémon in turn-based battles, the player must convey feelings of friendship towards the creatures by rapidly drawing circles around them using the DS stylus. It's hardly elegant, but the frantic nature of the combat will likely appeal to younger gamers. Befriended Pokémon can use their abilities to assist in tougher battles or to clear obstacles, revealing new routes across the fairly substantial island levels.With around 300 Pokémon to encounter and catch, it's a hefty adventure, extended by lengthy dialogue sequences that will likely test the patience of its intended audience. Indeed, the plot takes its convolutions far too seriously, while the attempts at humour mostly fall flat. Pokémon fanatics will relish the opportunity to transfer rare monsters to theirHeartGoldandSoulSilvergames – and to kill time until the March release ofPokémon Black and White– but otherwise this is a rare mis-step for Nintendo.
Mentioning clones is likely to prompt nervous anxiety in manyStar Warsfans. Their connection to the crushingly disappointing prequel trilogy is, at best, an uncomfortable legacy. So, forStar Wars: Force Unleashed IIto rely upon the old clone device to bring back the first entry's vanquished hero, Starkiller, does not bode well.Picking up shortly after his death in the original, and a year before the events ofA New Hope, Starkiller has been resurrected by the nefarious Lord Vader to carry out his evil bidding. However, he isn't so easily controlled and sets out to investigate his origins and recapture lost love. It's horribly contrived, packed with worthless cameos from the likes of Yoda and Boba Fett, and the developers would have been better off sticking to their guns and going with a fresh lead character for this sequel.Equally, the gameplay, so fresh and fun in the first entry, shows a lack of development. The force powers are still exaggerated, whipping TIE fighters and imperial troopers across the screen is still entertaining, and it looks stunning, but not much has changed. The one new force power – mind control – leads to some amusing suicides and betrayals. And the lightsabre mechanics have been tweaked, but haven't improved enough.Players who enjoyed the firstForce Unleashedoffering are sure to find much here that will please, but because the original was so close to greatness, seeing the sequel fail to pick up that mantle and run with it is a sore disappointment.
More than half of the computers sold worldwide this year will be laptops – the easily portable form of the PC that for some people has become as indispensable as clothes. People carry their laptops around with their entire lives on them;Nicholas Negroponte, the futurist who headed the MIT Media Lab, was once asked to check his laptop in as he entered a building. Asked by the receptionist how much it was worth, he replied "half a million dollars" – and explained that it wasn't the physical machine, but the data on it that he valued so highly.But without the work of Bill Moggridge, perhaps we wouldn't be carrying laptops around. He has beenawarded the 2010 Prince Philip designers prize– which "recognises an outstanding contribution to UK business and society through design" – for designing the first laptop computer, the GRiD Compass, in 1979 (though it didn't appear until 1982). The design would look familiar today: a clamshell in which the screen folds flat onto the keyboard. It didn't have a hard drive or floppy drive; those had to be attached. But as a testament to its ruggedness Moggridge's design made it into space – it was used on the Space Shuttle – as well as into the hands of US special forces.The fact that he was the brains behind the form factor that is now so prevalent illustrates Britain's strength in industrial design. After allJonathan Ive, the head of design at Apple, is British too, responsible for iconic designs such as the first iMac in 1997 – which pushed forward the manufacture of large coloured translucent plastics – and the iPod and iPad. (Of Apple's 14 designers, six are British and only one American.)Moggridge's ideas follow in a line from theDynaBook, a theoretical design by Alan Kay at Xerox's famous Palo Alto Research Centre (PARC) in 1968. That looked unlike a desktop; it was much more like a laptop. Moggridge, the co-founder in the early 1990s of the seminal design agency IDEO, was able to give ideas like that real form, through his expertise in industrial design: he credits it with awakening his enduring fascination in "interaction design", which looks at how users interact with both the hardware and the software that they're using – seeing the two as integral, not separate.What, however, is the future for laptops? Although desktop and laptop computers still sell in their tens of millions, there's a new rival emerging. It's the tablet: "It's a PC that is virtually without limits," as one famous name in technology said of them. "Within five years I predict it will be the most popular form of PC sold in America."That prediction was made in November 2001, not November 2010, and was made by Bill Gates rather than Steve Jobs. Even so, the rapid growth of tablet sales, and the number of them that have appeared or been slated to appear (currently roughly 30, ranging from the plethora of  7in tablets running Google's Android phone operating system up to the 14in double-screened Kno tablets aimed at students in the US) suggest they will soon rival desktops in their ubiquity. Apple is on course to sell about 10 million iPads this year, and as rivals pile in the category is expanding fast – at the expense, apparently, of the little "netbooks" that zoomed in popularity a couple of years ago. Laptops, like desktops, might never die – but they might be superseded, like desktops, by easy-to-carry, easy-to-share tablets.For Moggridge, it won't matter: he has moved on now to become director of the Smithsonian Institution'sCooper Hewitt National Design Museum. Wherever computing goes next, it will probably end up under his gaze.
BT and TalkTalk have won the right to a judicial review of the Digital Economy Act on all four of the contested legal grounds, the high court ruled today.The verdict, delivered late on Friday afternoon, representsa 4-0 victoryfor two of the UK's largest broadband providers, though the Act was already on its way to judicial review before Mr Justice Wyn Williams had made the judgment.It does little to change the course of the controversial Act in the short term, but it stops the dust settling.The Act has its supporters. The Federation Against Software Theft (FAST) has been vociferous in its support of many of the Digital Economy Act's more contentious proposals since they first surfaced.John Lovelock, chief executive of FAST, said on Friday that BT and TalkTalk's public comments about the basis for their opposition was "a fig-leaf for their own agendas." The UK's Motion Picture Association (MPA) and the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) have saidmuch the same thing."It is staggering that this Act, born out of years of consultation, of debate and of parliamentary time, is now being challenged in some last ditch attempt by the ISPs to ensure they are not hit financially," Lovelock said."We have long struggled with rampant internet piracy, together with other intellectual property rights holders and that debate did appear to have taken a step forward when this Act was passed earlier in the year."But what we are now seeing is a rear guard action by some as a potential move to undermine its credibility and legal framework through the courts," he says, citing research purporting to show that 70% of illicit filesharers would switch off their torrents if they were sent a warning letter.A leaked business plan for London-based solicitors' firm ACS:Law showshundreds of thousands of pounds can be recoupedfrom sending out letters of this kind. The practice of pursuing people suspected of sharing copyrighted content has sparked controversy in recent months, with two London law firms – ACS:Law andGallant Macmillan– being the focus of complaint from those who claim to be wrongly accused."It was always our hope that the graduated response provisions of this Act will be proportionate and drive traffic towards legitimate downloads. What can be wrong with that? FAST has consistently called for behaviour change," Lovelock argues."We know that when people are challenged, they change their behaviour. An inevitable part of the legislative framework must discourage people from taking the illicit route. At this time of economic pressure it is great news for the country too, since more legitimate sales will mean more tax revenue and more workers in employment – everyone wins."Fast in September suggested that "the Digital Economy Act is here to stay, so cut it some slack". FAST quotes IDC figures estimating that 27% of software used in UK businesses is illicit or wrongly licensed.Other rights holders, also generally supportive of the Act and its measures, believe there is little to say until Ofcom's draftinitial obligations code, expected in the next few weeks.
Facebook is set to launch its latest Google-taunting product on Monday: the long-anticipated Facebook email system.The launch of an @facebook.com email is not itself a great surprise – the existence of a secret project officially known as Project Titan and unofficially as "Gmail killer" has been circulating since February.But tech industry analysts believe that a Facebook email system, coupled to its popular photo and events programs, could become a comprehensive competitor to Gmail.If, as anticipated, Mark Zuckerberg's firm launches a Facebook search engine that prioritises results around the known preferences of a user's circle of friends, then the commercial potential of social networking would be greatly extended.Google has more than two-thirds of the search market, and there is little doubt it is taking seriously the threat of Facebook, which has more than 500 million members but lacks business-orientated, revenue-generating services.Last week, Google announced plans to raise salaries by 10% next year for all employees, interpreted as an effort to staunch the loss of top staff to rivals."They don't have an absolute lock on the top talent anymore," analyst Colin Gillis of BGC Partners told Reuters. "Facebook right now is accumulating top talent and it's harder for Google to retain people."As social networking continues to challenge the power of search on the web, the moment may come when Facebook decisively threatens Google's control of $24bn in annual search advertising revenue.Google itself denies it is building a social networking platform to compete with Facebook. Instead, chief executive Eric Schmidt says it plans to add "layers" of social networking to its products.Last night, Facebook continued to deny the reports that its email application will be launched at Monday's media event where Zuckerberg is scheduled to speak."We don't comment on speculation about future products," a spokesman said.
Pink TentacleJapan and the internet go together like cats and keyboards, but this wonderful blog goes beyond the standard otaku fare and seeks to inspire us with awesome wonder rather than chuckle at cultural differences. Concentrating on arts and science, recent entries include galleries of 50s manga, edo-period anatomical drawings and the cult of customising lorries with thousands of lightbulbs – like an extreme version of Blackpool's illuminated trams. Dig down and you'll discover even more incredible stuff, such as the creepy fembot who's joined by four humans for an odd Pan's People-style dance routine or the strange examples of early advertising which feature a smoking horse and a beer-loving elephant. Videos include a brilliant time-lapse film of Tokyo at night with the added attraction of a Japanese dubstep soundtrack.Foster's FunnyAlan Partridge.The makers of the  "amber nectar", who once brought Paul Hogan to the wider world, have done the British public a far greater favour. After several years in the wilderness, the company that sponsors Channel 4's comedy output has tempted Alan Partridge back on air – or, more specifically, persuaded Steve Coogan to reprise his famous character. Mid Morning Matters with Alan Partridge very nearly broke the internet when it made its debut last week, and we've got 10 more episodes to enjoy, hopefully all featuring "great banter" with his comedy sidekick Tim Key. Elsewhere, the site is well-stocked with lists, clips, bar jokes and stand-up comics' finest Tweets.Blog roll: VideoTobuscus.TobuscusThe comedy genius behind the hysterical literal movie trailers and Ke$ha Wii dance-off.PogomixWonderful and uplifting video and audio mash-ups of Disney classics, Stewie from Family Guy and Willy Wonka.MagmaVideo portal that collates the most popular videos across Vimeo, DailyMotion, YouTube et al.Video Killed The Radio StarsRandom video action from the 1980s, 90s and noughties, with expert commentary of David Coverdale's yoga skills.Chris VangelVirtual DJ Vangel spins ancient 78s and the occasional vinyl 45 for enthusiasts of the crackle.BFIThe BFI's official YouTube channel features hundreds of vintage celluloid bits and bobs including early colour films of London life.What we learned on the web this weekBreadpeople.The Americancelebrities that are almost edibleAdolf issuch a scenesterDon Drapersays "what?" a lotHow trendsand creativity become contagiousThe priceof a two-mile taxi ride in 72 global citiesAlpacas havepost-punk hairThe timein HelveticaEveryone's awinner with Louis Walsh Bullshit BingoHow toremove corporate signage from your videosWhat the1960s future looked like
Kinect, Xbox 360Since the Nintendo's Wii's decision to forego the joypad in favour of waving around what looks like a stunted TV remote, the other two console manufactures have been scrambling to produce something as revolutionary. Sony released Move, which is effectively a technically superior Wii remote with some games that are very hard to love. Microsoft has gone several stages further by abandoning controllers altogether: playing Kinect games involves simply moving your body. The hardware itself looks and feels sophisticated, gliding up and down on tiny electric motors as it scans you and your room, as well as responding to voice commands, which control certain Xbox functions with inspiring consistency. You'll need plenty of space, with the optimum playing area eight to 10 feet from your TV, as well as plenty of energy, since sitting down isn't an option. Although regularly flaky, the first time Kinect recognises you simply by seeing your face, or you pause a film with a voice command, there's a distinct frisson of inhabiting the future.Microsoft, £130Kinect Games RoundupKinect Adventures.Kinect Adventuresis a compilation of one- and two-player mini-games ranging from involving whitewater raft-'em-up River Rush to highly physical 3D block smashing game Rallyball. It's a better introduction than the lacklustreKinect Joy Ride, which has you holding an imaginary steering wheel to fumble your way around simple tracks while your Xbox brakes and accelerates. Even worse isFighters Uncaged, a tragically terrible, mechanically broken fighting game that simply doesn't work as advertised.Your Shape: Fitness Evolvedis brilliant at projecting your form on to the screen, as well as knowing when you're even slightly cheating at its exercises, but fails to do much more than count calories to give you any sense of progression.Kinect Sports' lineup ranges from a slightly-too-easy bowling game to the sweat-inducing track and field, all of which beg to be played competitively. But star of the show so farisKinectimals, a beautifully rendered and unutterably cute set of interactive animal cubs and a thoroughly well-rounded game.Fable III, PC &amp; Xbox 360Fable III.You're a prince or princess who, along with the rest of Albion, is subject to the brutal rule of your older brother, whom you must overthrow to return the kingdom to peace and harmony. Your job, along with the usual quests, battles, treasure seeking and strange romantic entanglements, is to start a revolution by engaging with various potentially helpful factions; to secure their assistance you promise each to return the favour when you become king. Sadly it's this freshly invented portion of the game that proves weakest, presenting you with a series of facile choices, which involve letting down some friends, before dumping you suddenly into the final battle. Structural peculiarities aside, its superb script and voice talent, including Stephen Fry, John Cleese and Sir Ben Kingsley, make it a delight to play, as does the humour and variety of its missions.Microsoft, £29.99-£49.99
Who owns Saab this week? First it was flogged to American-owned GM, partially and then completely, and then to a Dutch outfit, Spyker Cars.What does any of that have to do with the new Saab 9-5 Aero 2.8T XWD? Well, apparently the 9-5 came close to being ditched when Saab was almost wound up last year. But now business executives can breathe a huge sigh of relief. Not because Saab survived in a bravura piece of industrial resuscitation, but because those very business executives now have another smooth and weighty saloon to ferry their well-cushioned behinds from airport to corporate gathering.It is certainly intriguing to consider how cars continue to be designed and built even as the companies that design and build them are accelerating towards the cliff top of commercial oblivion.Following Volvo's targeting of the lucrative German-dominated exec saloon market, their fellow Swedes at Saab have also got in on the act, with the help, naturally, of the Germans – where much of the new 9-5's engineering work was conceived. The result is a kind of Swedish Vauxhall. To be more precise, a SwedishVauxhall Insignia. As the Insignia is a first-rate car, that's no faint praise.The 9-5 is longer than the Insignia, and the extra length is best appreciated in the back. Often when manufacturers refer to leg room, they don't appear to include the feet in their calculations, as though you could remove them along with your shoes. But in the 9-5 there's not only leg room but foot room, too.As a result of this, and its splendid bulk, the 9-5 feels substantial in the Swedish tradition. In other words, heavy. There's a firmness about the interior, as well as a pronounced comfort, that given the troubled background to its inception is a little surprising. Presumably the added pounds of weight account for the pounds sterling that nudge its price towards the 40 grand mark.Yet if it's heavy, it's not in the least&nbsp;sluggish. There is, it's true, a&nbsp;slight delay in the response of the&nbsp;automatic gears, but that's sort of fun. For a semi-second after compressing the accelerator you get to enjoy a moment of calm and reflection, perhaps savouring the scenery or your recent, quick-witted undermining of a colleague, before the turbo kicks in and you're propelled leglong into the future.The 9-5 has plenty of notable qualities. All it really lacks is a distinctive style. It wears the insignia of Saab well enough to suggest that it could establish itself alongside the BMWs and Audis. But what it hasn't quite shaken off is the Insignia of Vauxhall.Saab 9-5 Aero 2.8T WXDPrice£37,795Top speed155mphAcceleration0-60mph in 6.6 secondsAverage consumption26.6mpgCO2 emissions244g/kmEco rating2.5/10Bound forThe outside lane of the M4 eastbound from HeathrowIn a wordFootloose
Have you added your details to theUK technology startup map poll? If you're a British-owned company, less than five years old, fewer than 100 people (full- and part-time, freelances excluded from headcount), less than £10m turnover) then you count.So far we've had nearly 400 companies inputting their details, and while we haven't checked every detail, we thought it would be good initially just to get the map out there so we could see how it looks.Thanks toBatchgeofor the geocoding on the postcodes. If you see any startups that aren't startups or aren't British-owned, or know of some more that should be in there, please either tell us about the non-ones in the comments, or add their details.(To the question: "do companies doing retail via the internet count as technology startups?" our answer is no - we're looking for something that creates new technology or a new use of technology.)Here's the map, which uses clustering: click on a cluster to expand what's there.What we'd like to do next is figure out a way to map the growth and movement of the companies: we've got the postcodes and numbers of staff for (most of) them. If you've got any suggestions for how that should be done, please let us know in the comments or by email -gdn.technology@gmail.com.
Photo byopensourcewayon Flickr.Some rights reservedUnconfirmed reports suggest that a mobile phone virus is spreading like a zombie plague among Chinese smartphone users - and that it has so affected 1m phones which are costing their users a total of around 2m yuan (£150,000) per day as they send out premium-rate text messages to people in the owners' contact books.A touch of scepticism may be in order: mobile phone viruses are much reported but generally little seen, and while China is a huge (huge, huge) market, the idea that this is feasible there but not in the developed west where mobile phone penetration is higher, and there has been longer-standing use, seems out of kilter.There is one possible reason why this might be happening in China, and not seen elsewhere: China Mobile, the country's largest mobile operator with about 570m subscribers, has developed its own mobile OS based on Google's Android, called OMS (for "Open Mobile System"). That may be vulnerable in ways that OSs in the west aren't - particularly through the Android (or OMS, or China Mobile) Marketplace.Shanghai Daily reportsthat "the 'zombie' virus, hidden in a bogus anti-virus application, can send the phone user's SIM card information to hackers, who then remotely control the phone to send URL links, usually pay-per-click ads, in text messages to contacts in the user's address book."The first virus hit in September, according to Shanghai Daily's report of a report by theChinese National Computer Network Emergency Response Technical Team Center, which is reported as saying that a further 10 have been identified since then. However this report does, on the surface, sound very similar toreports that surfaced in April, which said that a "new mobile virus" named "MMS Bomber" had run rampant in China, affecting millions of Chinese mobile phones. Beijing Business News said that the National Computer Network Emergency Response Technical Team/Coordination Center of China had alerted mobile users that the targets of the virus are mobile devices running the S60 3rd edition OS – mostly Nokia and Samsung smartphones.Unfortunately the CNCNERTTC's site is pretty unhelpful in English - some of the links don't go anywhere, or go to the wrong documents. TheChinese version (Google translated)doesn't seem to have anything specific about mobiles either - so it's hard to figure this out.So this seems to require a few things: (a) there are enough smartphone users in China for this to propagate among them (probably true: smartphones are more than 15% of sales in each quarter) (b) enough people with peers who have smartphones able to display and respond to URLs sent in texts (c) enough people using mobiles with the same OS that the virus can spread. It's not known whether the latest reports relate to Symbian S60-3e phones, or OMS.Is it credible? If the antivirus package was free, perhaps; given the propensity of some people to download any old thing from open marketplaces, quite possibly. And China is a huge, huge market: 1m infected users would only be 0.2% of its users, which would translate to a tiny number here in the UK, for instance.Even so, we'd like to see some clearer data about this.
Photo byJ. Chris Vaughanon Flickr.Some rights reserved"Hold on a second. Are you super sure you want to import your contact information for your friends into a service that won't let you get it out? "This is Google's new passive-aggressive front in its war against Facebook: a "trap my contacts now" page that you get redirected to if you try to export your Gmail contacts out, using the system that Facebook has implemented now that Google has removed the easy way of doing that (seeGoogle halts Facebook data usage - so Facebook polevaults).In the history ofpassive-aggressive notes, this is quite a doozy from Google:"Here's the not-so-fine print. You have been directed to this page froma site that doesn't allow you to re-export your data to other services[emphasis added], essentially locking up your contact data about your friends. Soonce you import your data there, you won't be able to get it out[emphasis added]. We think this is an important thing for you to know before you import your data there. Although we strongly disagree with this data protectionism, the choice is yours. Because, after all, you should have control over your data."You then get two checkbox options: "I want to be able to export my data from Facebook. Please register a complaint on my behalf over data protectionism. (Google will not pass on your name or email address.)" or "I still want to proceed with exporting this data. I recognize that I won't be able to export it back out."We'll be interested to see how this one plays out – and whether Google gets a large number of people going with its protest.
It's the news racing sim fans have been waiting for... then waiting for again... and again. Sony Computer Entertainment Europe has now officially confirmed that Gran Turismo 5, the latest in the highly realistic driving game series, will hit UK shops on November 24.The accompanying press release also features a list of the 1031 cars included with the game, as well as the 71 circuits. Sony highlights the Lamborghini  Murciélago LP 670-4 SuperVeloce, the Lexus LFA and the McLaren MP4-12C among the most prominent new motors.The Gran Turismo titles have been a mainstay of the PlayStation experience since the original title launched in 1997. Under the guidance of Kazunori Yamauchi, President of developer Polyphony Digital Inc, the series has garnered a reputation for depth, detail and perfectionism, with several instalments delayed for constant last minute tweaks. Today, Yamauchi had this to say:When we created the original Gran Turismo back in 1997, we wanted to set a completely new precedent for the racing genre. With the technological leap onto PlayStation 3, our objective with GT5 was to create another great revolution which would not only satisfy our own high expectations, but would meet or even exceed the anticipation of the fans. Satisfying the loyal Gran Turismo followers is at the heart of all of our efforts, which is why it was such a difficult decision to delay the release of the game, and one which we did not take lightly. I can only apologise to everyone for making you wait so long, and I hope that when you try out the wealth of driving experiences available in Gran Turismo 5, you will not be disappointed.So, is this really it this time? As Sony's email was also accompanied by the finished UK box art, I think it honestly is.
Twitter users angered by the conviction of a man who threatened to blow up an airport in a Twitter joke showed support for him in their thousands today, thumbing their noses at the law by republishing the words that landed him in trouble.Paul Chambers, a 27-year-old accountant, yesterday lost his appeal against his conviction and £1,000 fine for a comment he made in jest when he was concerned that he might miss a flight to Belfast."Crap! Robin Hood airport is closed. You've got a week and a bit to get your shit together otherwise I'm blowing the airport sky high!!" he wrote in January.Chambers was controversially prosecuted under a law aimed at nuisance calls – originally to protect "female telephonists at the Post Office" in the 1930s – rather than specific bomb hoax legislation, which requires stronger evidence of intent.Civil liberties lawyers criticised his conviction, as did the Twitter community, which reacted with a vengeance to his failed appeal today.Under the hashtag #IAmSpartacus– a reference to the film in which Spartacus's fellow gladiators show their solidarity with him by each proclaiming "I am Spartacus" – thousands of people have copied Chambers's original message.As a result of the show of support for him, #IAmSpartacus was the most popular worldwide subject being referred to on Twitter at the time of writing.Among those who have retweeted the message are the television presenter Davina McCall and comediansDavid Mitchell,Dave Gorman,Graham LinehanandMarcus Brigstocke.The writer India Knight also joined in with a reference tothe Conservative councillor Gareth Crompton, who was arrested yesterdayunder the same "nuisance call" law for reportedly tweeting: "Can someone please stone Yasmin Alibhai-Brown to death?"Knight tweeted:"Actually I might call for Robin Hood airport to be stoned. Ha. Yes. #fearless #IAmSpartacus."A number of people have also addeda "twibbon" mocking the judgment to their profile pictures with the words "may be a joke" imposed over their profile picturesso it appears alongside their tweets.The online campaign was started by @christt, whotweeted yesterday evening: "I think we should all tweet Paul Chambers' original joke, Spartacus style. Thousands of us. Would that work? #twitterjoketrial"He then decided to take his own advice, publishing aword for word copy of Chambers's tweet.Later, he wrote: "Feeling an unusual combo of pride, anger and fear, watching the #IAmSpartacus hashtag take flight. #twitterjoketrial"The judge who rejected Chambers's appeal is unlikely to see the funny side of it, having dismissed his lawyers' arguments that he should not be punished for a "foolish prank".Judge Jacqueline Davies called the tweet "menacing in its content and obviously so. It could not be more clear. Any ordinary person reading this would see it in that way and be alarmed".She also ordered Chambers to pay a further £2,000 legal bill for the latest proceedings.Stephen Fry has already offered, through Twitter, to pay Chambers's fine.Chambers lost his financial manager's job after his arrest in January. He sent his message to a contact called @crazycolours, a woman from Northern Ireland who was among 650 people who regularly followed his 140-character tweets.He now lives with @crazycolours, and they are considering a further appeal against the verdict.
Last year's Scribblenauts was, for the most part, a joy. Control niggles aside – it was all too easy to send pointy-hatted hero Maxwell to his doom with some unavoidably clumsy stylus action – it was, as the makers claimed, a game only limited by the player's imagination. And, admittedly, the occasional gap in vocabulary. However, in a game where you could summon up a diplodocus or Cthulu and make God fight a werewolf, it was easy to forgive most of the inherent flaws.Twelve months on, the cleverly named sequel hits the shelves. Gameplay is still the same, in that Maxwell faces a number of problems and overcomes them by writing the solution(s) into existence. There are still occasional frustrations with vocabulary or vague objectives, but the big issue of control has been sorted in the simplest of manners – you can now use the D pad to move Maxwell around – and it's perhaps even more churlish this time round to pick holes in the vocabulary when you can, for example, create a zombie bathtub or a friendly dinosaur.The "super" bit of the name neatly refers to the game's new addition: adjectives. It's not a comprehensive list and it's certainly family safe (it won't recognise "sexy" for example), but you can't help but admire just how much gets packed into a tiny DS cartridge.Although there are niggles with the vocabulary (and it won't recognise trademarked items, so you're looking at vacuum cleaner and cola and the like), pushing the game's limitations is, for the most part, an utter joy – and any game that allows you to create a "giant robotic angry weasel" is a hit in my book. You can't necessarily solve a problem with it, but it's a lot of fun to try.With 120 problems, Super Scribblenauts is arguably a little brief, although the advanced level means some need to be cracked an additional three times with different answers. However, the fact that it allows – and demands – such wild free thinking adds some synapse-firing scope and scale. This can also provide enough decent, giggle-heavy distraction if you don't want to problem solve or, indeed, use the level editor to create your own puzzles and send them out to friends via Wi-Fi.First time out, it scored four out of five, mostly for originality. This time round it scores the same purely for gameplay. That's definitely a (pin-striped ostrich) step forward.• Game reviewed on Nintendo DS
Okay, this time it's definitely my fault. Pic emailed this Best Of to me on Monday. Monday! And I'm only just getting it online. In my defence, I was in up north all week at theBradford Animation Festival, where I was recording a special version of theTech Weeklypodcast in front of a live studio audience. I was joined on stage by Broken Sword legendCharles Cecil, my old flatmate Kieron Gillen (apparently he writescomicsandgamesnow, or something) and experimental game designerDan Pinchbeck. We talked a lot about games and you can hear the results when the podcast goes live on Tuesday.Anyway, back to Chatterbox and here's everything noteworthy that happened in our daily comments bucket from Monday November 1 until bonfire night. Lots more Fallout, a bit more PES, and then Black Ops lurking stealthily on the horizon. Also, what did WeeCooper's dog do in the kitchen at 5.30 on Friday morning? All, unfortunately, will be revealed.Monday November 1Monday was an appalling day and best left untouched; trying to grab "the best" of Monday's chat was like trying to describe what you most like about having violent diarrhea (that warm feeling you get about five minutes after you've emptied your bowels).[Great start there, guys, thanks for that – Keef]In what was to become a continuing theme throughout the week, chat was dominated by spoilers-aplenty, mainly spoiling the fun for anyone who hadn't yet bought, or doesn't like, Fallout: New Vegas.  Blog opinion is seemingly split on this, some avid fanboys, some simply sick of the bugs already (and I don't mean radscorpions, whatever they are) but suffice to say we'll be hearing much more about all of it for quite some time.Much to the apparent chagrin of everyone but Rusty, chat also consisted of a hell of a lot of discussion about *spit* X Factor.  This was triggered by Rusty himself admitting to a sincere admiration for Cher, one of the 'talented' contestants. Considering everybody professed to having a hatred of the show, we seemed to know an awful lot about it. Many tried to justify this knowledge with cries of being 'made to' by significant others but let's face it lads, the fact you can be forced to watch X Factor is just as embarrassing as watching it by choice.Not everyone was as enamoured with Cher as Rusty, however, as McBegbie came up with his own description, in which admiration didn't feature at all really. Apparently it's, "like watching a cloning experiment going wrong in front of you". The increasing similarities between the contestant and her tutor, and that if you say her name quickly it sounds like Cherylloid, do all seem to be hinting at a nefarious plan on Simon Cowell's part.From Cheryl and Cher to Arsenal and Arsene, as PES chat returned to the fold. Bloggers seem torn over this latest incarnation, but rather than splitting the blog, it seems to be splitting individuals as people seem to both love and hate the game at the same time.  As much as those verdant pitches give them presents and fill them with feelings of kindness and warmth unmatched by their everyday interactions with friends and loved ones, not far beneath the surface the game is waiting to slap them around the face and call them worthless.  But like the masochists they are, they keep going back for more. Maybe one day things will change, they hope, though secretly they never want it to as then it just wouldn't be PES.TuesdayFallout: New Vegas continued to dominate the Gamesblog with more spoilers around the place than a car accessories shop. This seems appropriate given that the Box was a barren wasteland of chat on Tuesday. Pickings were initially so thin that the new Xbox 'dashboard' was getting decent air time though it improved when experiences of Fable 3 were shared:Timthemonkey:"I seem to have gotten married and ended up with kids by accident" (don't worry Tim, there's still time for that birds and bees chat before your big day).HumOfEvil was less interested in domestic bliss: "last night I jumped on the shoulders of a large bandit and shot him through the top of the head."In a somewhat unusual turn, some of the boxers found themselves comparing the hardness of their pets, but I think RivaldoRules won this debate with the most deadly and sadistic of all killer pets, his cat, who "found a nest of rats this weekend and so far we've had 13 of the little b******s at varying stages of death in the house."The merits of using a dodgy code to pre-order a hotly anticipated game from a failed high street retailer were then debated. Was it a good idea? Opinions were divided but as it transpired, no, no it wasn't. As the day came to a close, we saw antics from the latest game ofNeptune's Pridespill over into the Chatterbox and everybody got to see a different side to RustyJames,"Unfortunately I am fully committed to destroying Riad until he apologises or reimburses me to the tune of 1000 space dollars."Chilling!Quote of the Day"I once had a mixed grill so posh it looked like a sculpture, maybe something that would have been more at home in the Uffizi Gallery than on my plate."SageSmith6079 tells of his experience of Italian and Northern fusion cookery.Newcomers:PodgerookeeWednesdayWednesday featured plenty of discussion about the continuing absence of the now almost mythical Gran Turismo 5. Hope was sparked once again in the blog with this bit of info from Chubster2010:"Apparently Kazunori Yamauchi has gone on the record as saying 'The discs are being stamped as we speak.'"Despite this flicker of headlamps at the end of the tunnel, there's not much belief for a pre-Christmas release being held on the blog, as Catzilla summed up:"I'm gonna bring out the Amiga and put Micro Machines on. As for the discs being stamped, I assume it means stamped on by factory workers as there was slight error on the picture printed onto the face of the discs. The Polyphony quest for perfection has become tedious, just release the goddamn game already!"The general love of Fallout New Vegas continued[did anybody think it wouldn't? – Pic], and has left the box a fractured place for those trying to avoid reading possibly vital plot details. For them, reading the box at the moment must be akin to trying to transcribe a conversation with Shaun Ryder without the swearing. With spoiler warnings aplenty, it must have read a bit like this:Yeah its really great I {spoiler}{spoiler} it was awesome when {spoiler}{spoiler} then I {spoiler}{spoiler}.Great work people!Games:Fallout NV, Fable 3, FF XIIIQuotes of the day"Fun stuff today chaps. The difficulty with working from home when you have some cold beer in the fridge is having cold beer in the fridge and working from home. I can hear it whispering from here."Halloween seems to have affected Painstructure in strange ways.ThursdayLovely, over the hump of the week, downhill to the weekend and treasonous Catholic shenanigans. It started off well, we had a little bit of Fallout New Vegas, a debate about who was taking their hobby seriously and how you could tell, and an education in Prince's quest for self pleasure (although the Marc Almond story definitely isn't true) – familiar themes on the blog as you'll agree, but as usual there was a fly in the proverbial. What was the topic coming to wash away the innocence of this fine day? Testicular annihilation. Cough. I mean vasectomy blog.Much encouragement, disgust and denial abounded. To be honest, most of the quotes are probably unprintable but one will probably suffice. Sagesmith's own vasectomy story remains to be told, but considering the rest of his post contained the word 'tubes' alongside other such leg-crossingly squeamish terms such as 'tugging', 'sliced' and 'stitched', maybe it's best that we take his advice, opt for the general anaesthetic and never find out.Disturbingly, things then moved on to the smell of kebabs, eating burgers, steak, chateau briande, fried eggs... Thematically it was troubling. But if it assists Shadowmind's cooking skills it's all good.FridayRemember, Remember the 5th November, gunpowder treason and plot. So goes the rhyme, let's just see if today can be memorable for anything else on the Chatterbox...Excitement has been building for Call of Duty: Black Ops for a couple of weeks now and in between all the Fallout the Chatterbox NaN clan has been practising. Just as in real-life infantry training, quickscoping, tactical waiting and the judicious use of riot shields against Harriers are high on the curriculum. The quest is still on for the cheapest place to buy it on release next Tuesday, however. For those of us who fell afoul of Woolworths' literally too good to be true discount code, Stukos posted a link to say that Sainsbury's may be the place to go.Timthemonkey thought that a guest actor on The Big Bang Theory looked familiar – to be revealed as Blossom. From the TV show Blossom. That brought back some tender memories from other 'boxers, with opinion split on which was better – Blossom or Clarissa Explains It All (it's worth saying, our female Chatterboxers weren't involved...)Suffice to say that nostalgia ain't what it used to be and you should never go back. Especially you CatZilla.There may also have been some Fallout chat, but probably nothing different to what's been said over the past four days so we feel safe in leaving it out.Things we liked:Led ZeppelinThings we didn't like:The new Xbox Live dashboard.Quote of the day"Awoke to a faint smell of poo around the house. After a preliminary check, it wasn't upstairs. Phew. However upon entering the kitchen I was greeted by the sight of copious amounts of brown puddles. My dog's 13 now so I suppose this will happen now &amp; again. Not nice at 0530 though, I was heaving all through the cleanup."A strong opener from WeeCooper.Recommended booksFlat Earth News by Nick Davies[Hey, I'm reading this at the moment – Keef]The Ancient Guide to Modern Life by Natalie HaynesSo, the most memorable thing about today was a story about dog poo. I think that about sums us up - less gunpowder treason and more riot shield and Javelin missile.End gameJoin theofficial Gamesblog spotify listand share your own favourite tunes. Last addition – Through Silver in Blood by Neurosis...Check theGamesblog wikifor everyone's game tags and more!"At its best, entertainment is going to be a subjective thing that can't win for everyone, while at worst, a particular game just becomes a random symbol for petty tribal behavior."John Carmack
Google Street View car, parked in Mountain View. Photo bysanchomon Flickr.Some rights reservedIn no more than seven months, Google Street View has found itself the subject of investigations in 20 countries around the world.Launchedin May 2007in five US cities – New York, San Francisco, Las Vegas, Miami and Denver –exactly three years laterthe product began to morph into a global pressure point for invasions of privacy by companies operating in the stratosphere of the internet.Just this morning, the US Federal Communication Commissionbecame the latest regulatory bodyto scrutinise the so-called "payload" data collection by Google Street View cars. We'll leave it there, you can follow our ongoing coverage into the fallouthere.For now, we need your help keeping on top of the Street View scrutiny. Search Engine Land has done a wondrous job incollating a scorecard of the developments, which we've tweaked and embedded below.Problems or developments? Email them to josh.halliday@guardian.co.uk or, better still, tweet me with a link at@JoshHalliday. Click the headers to sort.Investigations into Google Street View around the worldCountryDate investigation openedSubject of investigationOutcomeAustraliaMay 2010Wi-Fi data collectionPolice investigation ongoing. Privacy commissioner ruled collection unlawful, but issued no penalties.AustriaMay 2010Wi-Fi data collectionIssue closed for now. Google deleted the data on request of authorities.CanadaJune 2010Wi-Fi data collectionGoogle has until February 1 2011 to delete the data.Canada-Street View per seGoogle satisfied concern by developing image-blurring technologyCzech RepublicMay 2010Wi-Fi data collectionNot yet resolvedCzech RepublicApril 2010Street View per seImage mapping suspended pending negotiationsDenmark-Wi-Fi data collectionIssue closed for now. Google deleted the data on request of authorities.FranceMay 2010Wi-Fi data collectionNot yet resolvedGermanyEarly 2009Street View per seGoogle satisfied concern by developing image-blurring technology and allowed residents to opt-out prior to publicationGermanyMay 2010Wi-Fi data collectionNot yet resolvedGreece-Street View per seImage mapping suspended pending negotiationsHong KongMay 2010Wi-Fi data collectionNo penalty issuedHungaryJune 2010Wi-Fi data collectionNot yet resolvedIreland-Wi-Fi data collectionGoogle deleted the data on request of authoritiesItaly-Street View per seGoogle required to mark Street View cars and pre-announce mapping routes, something it largely already didItalyOctober 2010Wi-Fi data collectionNot yet resolvedJapan-Street View per seGoogle lowers height of Street View cameras and re-shoots all imageryThe Netherlands-Wi-Fi data collectionNot penalty issuedNew ZealandMay 2010Wi-Fi data collectionPolice rule no laws breached, but privacy commissioner reportedly still investigatingSingaporeJune 2010Wi-Fi data collectionNot yet resolvedSpainMay 2010Wi-Fi data collectionData protection authority expected to issue fineSouth KoreaAugust 2010Wi-Fi data collectionNot yet resolvedSwitzerlandAugust 2010Street View per seLawsuit pending. Google agrees not to publish imagery until case is closed.United KingdomMarch 2010Street View per seJudged not to be violating privacy lawsUnited KingdomOctober 2010Wi-Fi data collectionJudged to have breached Data Protection Act, not fined.United StatesMay 2010Wi-Fi data collectionFTC ends investigation without penaltyUnited StatesJune 2010Wi-Fi data collectionNo action taken following 38-state class actionUnited StatesNovember 2010Wi-Fi data collectionFCC opens investigationSource:Search Engine Land
Mobiles have reached remote Indian villages. Photo byrajkumar1220on Flickr.Some rights reservedWhere can I buy one of those phones made by this company "Other"? They seem to be pretty damn popular: the number sold by them has gone from 49.9m worldwide in 3Q 2009 to 137.8m in 3Q 2010,according to the figures from Gartner released earlier this week. That's a rise in share from 16% to 33% - a rise in sales in percentage terms of 176% (ie, it nearly trebled); only HTC came anywhere near that, growing 144% mainly on Android phone sales, but only from 2.6m to 6.5m.As Horace Dedlu at Asymcopoints out, that sort of growth in relative and absolute numbers is so gobsmacking that you have to wonder what's going on. Dedlu, who takes something of a bargepole approach to analysts' figures, tries to triangulate it with IDC numbers:"IDC reports the same data and they only reported 340.5 million phones sold (vs. Gartner's 417 million). Excluding ZTE and Huawei the total share for "Others" in IDC would be about 20%."He reckons the difference in "Others" is about 77m (dumb)phones:"If Gartner is right, how could IDC miss 77 million phones? If IDC is right how did Gartner conjure up 77 million phones in one quarter? That number is nearly as big as all the smartphones sold (81 million). This is not within any margin of error for whatever sampling method they use."I had been puzzling about those numbers myself even as I was putting up the tablets. It's a good question - because if you can't trust those numbers, then your faith in the bigger picture starts to crumble. So I asked Gartner about the apparent gulf and whether it could solve the mystery of those extra phones.(Yes, there was discussion in the comments of the original visualisation - kudos@Bert9000and@FKafkafor going after it; you were posting your comments about an hour after this was drafted – though not of course written.)Gartner's reply:"The long and short of it, from speaking to the analysts, is that it's now relatively simple to assemble a basic mobile phone, lowering the barrier to entry for mobile manufacturers. It's not *quite* the same as the early PC white box market, but there are parallels. There's huge demand for basic (ie, voice and SMS) handsets in Asia and Russia that is now being tapped by these manufacturers."Gartner's PR also pointed us to a couple of previous releases on the topic:Gartner Says Indian Mobile Handset Sales To Reach 138.6 million in 2010, which points out that that is an 18.5% growth year on year, and that"The Indian cellular market is very dynamic. New carriers and many new local mobile device manufacturers have entered this already crowded mobile device market. This intense competition has led to very low call rates and low-cost devices from multiple manufacturers in the market. This market was previously dominated by just a few vendors such as Nokia, Motorola, Reliance and Vodafone."So what's happening?"Established global device manufacturers are losing ground due to fierce competition from local and Chinese manufacturers in the low-cost segment," said Anshul Gupta, principal research analyst at Gartner. "Price remains the main criteria when buying any consumer electronic device in India, including a mobile device. Carrier strategies, lower tariffs and/or third-generation (3G) data plans will continue to shape the mobile device market in India."Then there'sGartner Says Mobile Connections in India Will Grow by 27.3% in 2010- the latter noting that "India is expected to remain the world's second largest wireless market after China in terms of mobile connections", and that"The arrival of new players in the Indian mobile sector has led to fierce competition which has sustained the strong subscriber growth we saw in 2009," said Neha Gupta, senior research analyst at Gartner. "Furthermore, with mobile penetration standing at 44.5% at the end of 2009, there is still ample room for growth in 2010 and beyond."Note that these are dumbphones - simply able to do calls and texts. The proportion of "other OS" phones in the smartphone segment remained static, at 1.5%, even while the number sold from 612,000 to 1.2m.Quite what and where those "other" OSs are in the smartphone market... we're guessing Japan and China as being where they get used, but more information is always welcome.Then again,over at Fortune, Philip Elmer-DeWitt was contactedby someone who says they used to work at Gartner, and analysed the PC market - "but the methodolgy is the same for phones". (You can find their comment below the main article, timed at 11.29; the comments run in reverse chronological order.)S/he says, inter alia:"So, in 3Q98, I analyzed the "choke points," those parts of the supply chain where the channel narrowed enough to get a definitive count. At the time, it was OS, processor, graphics, and hard drive. As I recall, I found 20 million processors with no homes. The market at the time was about 100 million, so this was a 20% discrepancy."The process that ensued was a marvel of obfuscation. The leader of the Tracker team figured out a way to rationalize away all the extra units (e.g., multiprocessor servers, inventory, speculation, etc.). It was politically impossible to force the extra units on the regions because it would introduce gross distortions to the historical trends."So, the mantra became, preserve the growth rates; to hell with the actual numbers. Even the growth rates are fiction. The fudge is in the "others" category, which is used as a plug to make the numbers work out. In fairness, we did do survey work, calling around, and attending white box conferences and venues to try to get a feel for that market, but in the end, the process was political. I used to tell customers which parts of the data they could trust, essentially the major vendors by form factor and region. The rest was garbage."The industry itself was aware of these issues, but agreed to maintain the fiction because it was convenient. Most vendors kept their own numbers, but referred to IDC for public purposes. Thing is, real executives got real compensation based on our numbers. There were other games played, but that's for another time."
Google's collection of personal information – including emails and passwords from unsuspecting internet users – by its Street View cars is to be investigated by the US Federal Communications Commission (FCC).The data capture, which occurred when Google Street View cars took photographs for the panoramic imaging service, has already been ruled unlawful in many countries, including Canada and the UK.The US communications regulator said it will now examine whether the collection violated the Communications Act, confirming in a statement that consumers affected by "the breach of privacy" will be given the opportunity of redress. The investigation, thought to have been prompted by a complaint from the pressure group Electronic Privacy Information Centre, comes just two weeks after the US Federal Trade Commission dropped its investigation into the data breach.Google originally acknowledged the collection of personal information in May, posting an apology on the company's blog and claiming only fragments of information were collected.However, followingan investigation by Canada's privacy commissioner, it transpired that the technology giant had collected so-called "payload" data from unsecured Wi-Fi networks.Peter Fleischer, the company's global privacy counsel, recently said Google was "profoundly sorry for mistakenly collecting" the sensitive information. "As we have said before, we did not want this data, have never used any of it in our products or services, and have sought to delete it as quickly as possible."The UK's information commissioner, Christopher Graham, last week ruled that Google had committed a"significant breach" of the Data Protection Act (DPA), announcing that the company will be subject to an audit of its data protection activities in the UK.Ed Vaizey, the culture minister, announced earlier this month that the Metropolitan police have dropped their investigation into the personal information capture.Fallout over the data breach has evolved into a wider public scrutiny about users' right to redress when their privacy is invaded by an internet company.In the UK, the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) has come in for most of the criticism, with privacy campaigners labelling it an "apologist" for big business and some claiming it to have emerged from the Google payload collection debacle worse than the company itself.Earlier this week the ICO was accused of being "more Keystone Cops than a protector of our civil liberties" for "not sending technical people" to investigate the payload data at Google's London headquarters in July.The two senior ICO lawyers who were sent to investigate the data cleared Google of any wrongdoing at the time, only for it later to emerge that the company had committed a breach of the DPA.
Okay, this is the last thing I'll post on Black Ops for a while – mostly because some of the comments have beenpretty scary. I just think this final piece is worth sharing if you're venturing online with the game this weekend. If you're not a fan of Black Ops, or Call of Duty, or shooting games, or games, I'd give this one a wide berth if I were you. Just accept it isn't for you and move on.Okay... If youareenjoying the Black Ops multiplayer (and some people aren't, I accept that – may I refer you to the opening paragraph?), you may have already made it through that fun stage where you're being repeatedly gunned down by unseen assailants. But where next? As you move up through the ranks unlocking more and more hardware, should you immediately opt for a custom class and start loading up on exotic weaponry? Design director David Vonderhaar says, no. Actually, when I talked to him about this last week, his response was more like, 'Noooooooo!'His advice? For at least the first ten levels, stick with the basic kit. "We go out of our way to give you some of the best feeling weapons right away," he explains. "That was a deliberate design decision. "If you're a new player, don't worry about buying every gun that you unlock, it's not that important."So here are his four basic tips on arming yourself for multiplayer success.Opt for the MP5K sub-machine gun…"This is the base SMG in the game. It's the one all the other SMGs are modelled around. This gun has some pretty decent kick, but it's also really powerful."…And an M16 assault rifle"The M16 and the Colt Commando are great, easily understandable weapons platforms. The M16 is burst fire, it fires three at a time, so the truly new player may feel they're better off with a full auto. But the burst fire makes it controllable and that's what's important. Later, you can go onto an Enfield, which is the first full-auto assault rifle that you unlock."Upgrade rather than replaceWhen you start levelling up, Vonderhaar reckons it's a better idea to improve the tools you're comfortable with rather than simply buying ostensibly better guns. "As soon as you have the money, I would add a red dot or a reflex sight. I like the red dot on SMGs and the reflex on assault rifles, but it's a personal preference. Don't worry about suppressors, don't go crazy with perks, don't be buying killstreaks if you're a new player – just get familiar with the basics of SMG and assault rifle gameplay, and you'll be able to progress through all 50 levels. Then you can start messing around with other equipment."Learn the maps – and arm accordinglyEach of the multiplayer maps in Call of Duty is designed to support a range of different playing styles – you need to work out how to use each environment to match your approach, whether that's charging about with a machine gun, or camping with a sniper rifle. You also need to know how other players are likely to use the space. "Havana is a good example," says Vonderhaar. "It has a zig-zag shape and at both ends of the main street there are elevated platforms, so you can snipe down the entire length of the road. There are alternative flanking routes, but this map has clearly been built to have a main path, with sniper overwatch. If you keep getting sniped, you'll just have to take the long way." He also suggests that you stick with the SMG when you're on small maps and the assault rifle on medium and large maps. Now get out there and have some fun. If you enjoy this sort of fun. Which some people don't.
Ubisoft have announced the latest tracks for their forthcomingMichael Jackson Experience game. Along with the other tracks already announced fans will be able to dance (and sing) along to Don't Stop 'Til You Get Enough, Will You Be There and In The Closet. As you would expect the game – out on Nov 23rd – is fully Wii, Move and Kinect compatible though Kinect users are restricted to one player at a time.Yes, Michael Jackson Experience won't drag you away from Black Ops or WoW: Cataclysm this Christmas. And no, Jarvis Cocker probably won't be splashing out.  But this is likely to be a huge Just Dance-style chart hit. Anyway, the confirmed track listing so far is:·         Bad·         Beat It·         Billie Jean·         Black or White·         Dirty Diana·         Don't Stop 'Til You Get Enough·         Earth Song·         Ghosts·         In The Closet·         Rock with You·         Smooth Criminal·         Speed Demon·         Streetwalker.         The Girl Is Mine·         They Don't Care About Us·         Thriller·         Who Is It·         Will You Be There·         Workin' Day And NightWhat do you think then? Dreading the thought or counting the days until release? If you're a fan what other Jackson tracks are you hoping to see?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Woman with iPad, after Hiroshige. Photo byMike Licht, NotionsCapital.comon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWindows Phone review &gt;&gt; Jamie ThomsonThoughtful (British) review which looks at the services offered through live.com in some detail. Everyone seems to agree: it's a platform with a lot of potential, but it's not quite cooked yet.Windows Phone 7 updates: can carriers block them? &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThe answer is no, not at all. Well, a bit. Hang on..The Google Street View Scorecard &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandJust in case you were wondering in how many countries Google is defending itself from lawsuits over its Street View data collection and product.JooJoo is no more, Fusion Garage to keep on trucking -- EngadgetThe first iPad killer bites the dust. It ran Flash. I did hold one, briefly, and they were on sale in the UK. Did anyone buy one? (And what does this mean for Michael Arrington's lawsuit over the "CrunchPad", as this was intended to be?)Windows Phone 7, software updates, and carriers' ability to block those updates | Windows Phone SecretsPerhaps Paul Thurrott could save up for a Dictaphone so he can record conversation rather than just take his (non-shorthand, we're guessing) notes. But he thinks these are 'very nearly' the exact words of Microsoft VP Joe Belfiore: "On the end user update experience. 'A new update goes out, it's propagated to Windows Update. When you use the phone, you get an over-the-air notification. The update is performed via USB. The update works like it does on the Zune HD.'"#DEAct costs will run into £hundreds of millions – is this a good investment? &gt;&gt; trefor.netSpecifically, universities face big bills. "With the highly mobile nature of a student it would be nigh on impossible for the university to introduce the same tracking systems that serve ISPs and thus be able to maintain records of who might have been the infringer. It has been estimated that the introduction of mitigation measures such as filtering would result in an annual cost of £8m (excl staff) notwithstanding the fact that these measures would probably involve P2P blocking – Universities are big users of P2P for legitimate purposes."Adobe Flash contributes largest number of security patches in Apple's Mac OS X 10.6.5 &gt;&gt; AppleInsiderNice graphic, though it doesn't tell you about the severity of the flaws.Security content of Mac OS X v10.6.5 and Security Update 2010-007 [inc 55 Flash fixed] &gt;&gt; Apple"Multiple issues exist in the Adobe Flash Player plug-in, the most serious of which may lead to arbitrary code execution." I counted 55, though Apple has also fixed its own flaws relating to malicious PDFs. And 9 others relating to Quicktime.Samsung's New Android Tablet Is Gorgeous and Expensive &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comDavid Pogue likes it a lot, for many things. But: "the biggest drawback of the Galaxy, though, may be its price: $600. You could buy two netbooks for that money, or four Kindles —or one 16-gigabyte iPad, with its much larger screen, aluminum body and much better battery life. (The iPad gets 10 hours on a charge; the Galaxy, about 6 hours.)You can get the Galaxy for $400 if you're willing to sign a two-year contract for cellular service. All four major American cellphone carriers — Verizon, AT&amp;T, T-Mobile and Sprint — will offer it. The Galaxy gets online in Wi-Fi hot spots. But if you want to go online using the cellular airwaves, you'll pay $20 to $50 a month, depending on the carrier and how much data you expect to use. (Good luck figuring that out. Quick: how many megabytes do you need for 10 Flickr pages?)"Samsung's Galaxy Tab Is iPad's First Real Rival &gt;&gt; Walt MossbergNot better, but a rival. "On balance, however, I still prefer the iPad. For one thing, I like getting twice the screen size for a little more money up front—as little as $29 for the no-contract model with cellular capability. For another, the iPad has vastly more apps specifically designed for a tablet versus a smartphone—about 40,000 according to Apple, compared with just a handful for the Tab. And it can run about triple the apps overall, if you count smartphone apps that aren't optimized for tablets.Also, in my tests, the iPad's battery life was about five hours better than the Tab's, its maximum storage capacity is higher, and its aluminum body is more rugged than the Tab's plastic casing. Finally, the iPad can be bought in a Wi-Fi-only model that frees you from any entanglement with cellphone carriers."Apple did not acquire Bluetooth headphone maker &gt;&gt; MacworldSure, one of its staff went to work for Apple, but the company itself just ran out of money.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Stephen Fry took just minutes to reiterate his offer to pay the fine of Paul Chambers, the 27-year-old man convicted of "menace" after making a Twitter joke about blowing up an airport.Chamberstoday lost his appeal against the convictionand £1,000 fine, Judge Jacqueline Davies dismissing his case on every count. The former accountant's offending tweet – "Crap! Robin Hood airport is closed. You've got a week and a bit to get your shit together otherwise I'm blowing the airport sky high!" – sent publicly to a Northern Ireland mother he met online, was found to be a menacing threat to security.As news filtered out from the Doncaster courtroom, invariably through Twitter, the micro-blogging service was struck dumb, some of its most high-profile proponents tweeting their outrage.The hashtag#twitterjoketrialis currently among Twitter's trending topics worldwide. Chambers himself has yet to post a reaction,apparentlydue to an unpaid phone bill.Stephen Fryquickly tweeted Chambers reiterating the offer to pay his fine, which stands at £3,600 when combined with prosecution costs. "My offer still stands. Whatever they fine you, I'll pay",he said.Chambers's friends and associates were reported to be "gutted" by the verdict. His partner, to whom the offending tweet was directed,posted: "My battery is dying. We are gutted. It's not the fine, this is stopping Paul getting a job and has ruined his life."His solicitor wrote: "English law relating to freedom of expression is not in a good state."The comedian Dara O'Briain was rendered gag-less at the news. "An astonishing, ludicrous result in #twitterjoketrial. A victory for crushing literalism and scaremongering by the judiciary. Horrible," hewrote, lateradding: "So that's the banning of sarcasm, irony, sub-text and any of the other subtleties of language that we use AS GROWN UPS." Fellow funnyman David Mitchellcalledthe verdict "a disgrace", saying "he's being punished for flippancy" and "flippancy is important".The Doctor Who actor and director Barnaby Edwardscommented: "30,000 complaints to the PPC: Jan Moir 'not guilty'. One joke tweet: Paul Chambers 'obviously menacing'."Simon Holcombe, aka @OllyAitch, encapsulated the reaction of many,commenting: "Joke (n.): Something said or done to cause amusement (may not apply on Twitter or within British judicial system)."
Rockstar has launched the 'first' trailer for LA Noire, its much-anticipated detective thriller set in 1940s Los Angeles. Developed byTeam Bondithe game promises a Chandler-esque exploration of corruption and violence during the city's most tumultuous period. As the press release explains:"L.A. Noire is the first game to really explore what it means to be a detective, and offers players the opportunity to solve crimes blending classic action, investigation and interrogation, in the endless pursuit of what's right."Team Bondi is the Australian studio set up in 2005 by Brendan McNamara, the designer behind Sony's GTA-inspired gangster adventure, The Getaway. LA Noire, whichhasbeen teased at leastoncebefore, is due out on PS3 and Xbox 360 next spring.Have a look and let us know what you think...
It's fast, it's furious and it's out and it's out next week – Criterion's long-awaited take on the Hot Pursuit series is looking absolutely lovely. I had ahands-on sessionwith the multiplayer a while back, and it was enormous fun. But can the single-player mode match the excitement and inventiveness of the Burnout series?Frankly, this comedy 'live trailer' won't make you any the wiser, but itwilllet you enjoy the unlikely sight of musician Roll Deep chasing Ben 'The Stig' Collins in a hot sports car. Hmmm, how much of the marketing budget went on this, I wonder?
Europe will run out of capacity for new internet addresses by early next year, potentially cutting the UK off from the rest of the world online, one of the founding fathers of the communications network warned today.Vint Cerf, vice-president of Google and the man dubbed "the godfather of the net", said the shortage of internet address space represented a "serious boundary" to the growth of the medium.Cerf added that the problem is one of the "biggest set of changes in the history of the internet".Online access across Europe will remain fixed at its current rate unless internet service providers (ISPs) move quickly to implement new internet protocol (IP) space, the leading computer scientist warned.Most of the internet in Europe is based on IP addresses standardised in 1996, known as IPv4.IPv4 has space for 4bn internet addresses, whereas the new IPv6 can host "340 trillion, trillion, trillion" addresses, Cerf said. "So the theory is we won't run out, at least not until after I'm dead."But space for IPv4 addresses is running out, with the remaining 4% expected to be exhausted by spring next year. Cerf joined the new UK-based campaign group6UKin urging businesses to adopt the next generation of IP addresses, known as IPv6, as soon as possible."There's no question we're going to be out of address space by springtime of 2011," Cerf said.He added that this was a "serious boundary" to online growth that should be removed. "If nobody does anything then the internet will simply stop expanding," he said, comparing the situation to selling telephones without telephone numbers."You need to be able to talk to everyone in the world [who] is on the internet. If Europe doesn't implement IPv6, it wont be able to talk to the rest of the world that does implement IPv6 – that's stupid, and we don't want people here to be stupid," he said.The 67-year-old computer scientist, who helped build the internet while working as a researcher at Stanford University in California, issued the ultimatum ahead of the launch of6UK, a UK-based campaign group to promote the adoption of the new internet protocol, in London today."The biggest set of changes in the history of the internet are happening today," he said. "The change in the address space, the change in domain name languages, the introduction of digital signatures in the domain name system, the introduction of end-to-end cryptography in accessing internet-based services. This is a huge change in the net."
Call of Duty: Black Ops has generated revenues of $360m in its first 24 hours on sale in the US and UK. Released on Tuesday, the military shooter has out-performed its record-breaking predecessor, Modern Warfare 2, by $50m.According to MCV, 5.6m units have been sold across North America and the UK. Furthermore, according to developer Treyarch, within one hour of the launch, the game's online mode was being used by 1 million concurrent players.Activision is claiming that the Black Ops launch now represents the biggest entertainment launch in history. By comparison, the blockbusting 3D movie Avatar made 'just' $232m in its opening weekend. CEO Bobby Kotick has issued a jubilant statement: "There has never been another entertainment franchise that has set opening-day records for two consecutive years and we are on track to outperform last year's five-day global sales record of $550m."Although, the publisher has always been bullish about the prospects for Black Ops, industry pundits previously doubted that the new game would match last year's release. Modern Warfare 2 was developed by Infinity Ward, the studio that created the Call of Duty series; its games have often been thought of as the superior iterations. Treyarch, meanwhile, has been responsible for solid performers like Call of Duty 3 and Call of Duty: World at War, but has never attained the same levels of critical support.Meanwhile, Cuba's state-run news website has critcised the game for its opening mission which involves a CIA attempt to assassinate Fidel Castro.According to the Associated Press, an article on Cubadebate claimed, "What the United States couldn't accomplish in more than 50 years, they are now trying to do virtually."
Police in Birmingham today arrested a Conservative city councillor who sent a Twitter message saying that the newspaper columnist Yasmin Alibhai-Brown should be stoned to death.Alibhai-Brown said last night she would report Gareth Compton, a councillor for the Erdington district, to police following the tweet.Compton was arrested last night and bailed after questioning. A spokeswoman for West Midlands police said: "We can confirm a 38-year-old man from Harborne has been arrested for an offence under section 127 (1a) of the Communications Act of 2003 on suspicion of sending an offensive or indecent message. He has been bailed pending further inquiries."The Conservative party said Compton had been suspended indefinitely over the alleged tweet.A spokesman said: "Language of this sort is not acceptable and as a result Gareth Compton's membership of the Conservative party has been indefinitely suspended pending further investigation."Compton said the message posted yesterday onhis private Twitter accounthad been "a glib comment" in response to the writer's appearance on Nicky Campbell's Radio 5 Live breakfast show.The message – now apparently deleted – said: "Can someone please stone Yasmin Alibhai-Brown to death? I shan't tell Amnesty if you don't. It would be a blessing, really."Alibhai-Brown, who writes columns for the Independent and the London Evening Standard, said last night she regarded his comments as incitement to murder. She told the Guardian: "It's really upsetting. My teenage daughter is really upset too. It's really scared us."You just don't do this. I have a lot of threats on my life. It's incitement. I'm going to the police – I want them to know that a law's been broken."She added that she regarded Compton's remarks as racially motivated because he mentioned stoning."If I as a Muslim woman had tweeted that it would be a blessing if Gareth Compton was stoned to death I'd be arrested immediately. I don't think the nasty Tories went away."In a statement released in a series of tweets, Compton said: "I did not 'call' for the stoning of anybody. I made an ill-conceived attempt at humour in response to Yasmin Alibhai-Brown saying on Radio 5 Live this morning that no politician had the right to comment on human rights abuses, even the stoning of women in Iran. I apologise for any offence caused. It was wholly unintentional."It is not the first time that a Twitter comment seemingly intended as a joke has landed the sender in trouble with the law.Later today, Paul Chambers, a 27-year old trainee accountant from South Yorkshire, is expected to hear whether he has successfully appealed against £1,000 fine for a tweet sent when snow closed Robin Hood airport near Doncaster in January when he was due to go away. He posted: "Crap! Robin Hood airport is closed. You've got a week and a bit to get your shit together otherwise I'm blowing the airport sky high!!"
I'd like to breathe life into an old laptop so I can use it for web browsing and email. It's an old work laptop, a Dell, running XP Pro with Service Pack 2. It's very bloated with lots of unused apps and files all over the place, and it has security policies set up by our network admins to prevent problems for the whole network. I want to pretty much trash all the existing files apps and user accounts to get a slimmed down operating system in place that will run relatively quickly, without too much effort. I don't have the XP installation disks. I use an Apple iMac at home, but I'm lost when it comes to Windows. I'm trying to avoid buying an iPad or second-hand MacBook seeing as I have this old laptop available.Ben WhittleCorporate IT departments have different priorities to home users, and your best hope is that the laptop can be restored to "factory condition". Nowadays, Dell ships almost all of its laptops with a copy of the operating system image on a hidden partition on the hard drive.You can access this by holding down the control key (Ctrl) and pressing F11 while the system is starting up. You should be able to check if that's the correct key combination by searching the web for "factory condition" and your Dell laptop's name and model number.Dell has a support page that will walk you through the process:PC Restore for Windows XP. This will erase all the data currently on the laptop, so you should back up any files you want to keep.However, large companies tend to erase whatever the manufacturer installs on Windows PCs and replace it will their own disk image. Your Dell may no longer have a hidden partition for operating system recovery. If that is the case, you will have to reinstall the operating system from a CD, following the instructions atManually Reinstall Your Windows XP Operating System. To do this, you will need to obtain the correct Dell Software Recovery CD (SRCD) for your laptop. You can try asking for one via the Dell Support pageHow To Request Backup CDs for Your Dell Computer.Once you have a clean installation of Windows XP, and before you connect to the interenet, you must click Start, then go to Settings and Contol Panel to run the Security Center applet. Make sure that your PC has a firewall turned on; you can also turn on Automatic Updates. When you connect the internet, click Start and then select Windows Update. You may need to download several years of security updates, including SP3, and this will take some time. You may also need to go back to the Dell Support site to check for updated drivers.Once you have updated your Dell, back up the hard drive so that you can easily return it to this condition.Of course, Windows XP includes many features that you may not need.Since you don't know how to limit or remove these, you could try a utility such asXPliteto trim it down. However, I'm not sure there is much to be gained, for your purposes.You haven't said how much memory your laptop has, but you will need 1GB to run Windows XP Pro SP3 for email and browsing. If you want to run more programs at once, think about upgrading to 2GB or more.Crucial's website offers theCrucial Memory Advisor tool, which will tell you how much RAM is installed and how much it would cost to upgrade. Dell's website has a similar service,How do I identify and upgrade the memory on my Dell Computer?. (You can, of course, shop for memory chips wherever you like.)Laptops, unlike most desktop PCs, are usually difficult to upgrade, but you should be able to install RAM modules. There are YouTube videos illustrating the process, such asHow to add RAM to Dell laptopandDell Inspiron Memory Upgrade.There's also another way to get an old laptop up and running. Many versions of Linux are available in Live CD format, which means that you can run it from the CD or a USB thumbdrive without installing it or changing your Windows hard drive. Obviously it will not be a fast this way, but it will give you the chance to try Linux with relatively little pain. Usually, I recommend the Ubuntu version of Linux, and you canDownload Ubuntu Desktop Edition. However, for your purposes, I'd suggest using the smaller, fasterPuppy Linuxinstead.
It was the talk of his street when Derek Wills first brought home his colour television in 1968.Since then the hefty Mitsubishi set has provided the family with four decades of happy viewing – and is still going strong.Bought beforeBBC1 began broadcasting in colour, Wills's television is one of the oldest colour sets still working.Wills, 69, a retired engineer from Torquay, said: "It was far, far ahead of its time. It's got a beautiful picture."While his television does not manage a high definition picture, Wills does get a range of channels thanks to a set top box.He paid £300 for the 22-inch television – a huge sum at the time."That model had just come out when I bought it and it was sold to me as the Rolls-Royce of televisions – built to last," said Wills. "It was far, far ahead of its time. It's got a beautiful picture. The telly's still in great order."Wills's favourite programmes included the police dramas Z-Cars and Dixon of Dock Green. The set was the family's only television until he bought an HD flatscreen last year. Wills now keeps the old TV in his bedroom, where he continues to use it.BBC2 broadcast its first colour pictures from Wimbledon in 1967. By mid 1968 nearly every BBC2 programme was in colour. From 1969 BBC1 and ITV were regularly broadcasting in colour.David Attenborough, then the controller of BBC2, was responsible for overseeing the new colour service.
Google has sacked the employee who leaked an internal memo about an across-the-board pay rise for the company's 23,000 staff, claim US media reports.The confidential memo, sent to all Google staff by chief executive Eric Schmidt on Tuesday, was reportedly leaked to Business Insider and Fortune. Within hours, Google told staff an employee had been sacked for leaking the email,CNN reports.Google's across-the-board pay rise is thought to be a move to bolster staff morale after the exodus of anumber of high-profile product engineersin recent weeks, including the co-founder of YouTube, Chad Hurley, and the co-founder of Google Maps, Lars Rasmussen.All of Google's 23,300 employees will be rewarded with a 10% pay rise from 1 January. Schmidt told fellow "Googlers" in the leaked memo that the company wants to continue to attract top talent.Google would not confirm the departure of the employee, but said: "While we don't typically comment on internal matters, we do believe that competitive compensation plans are important to the future of the company."Schmidt said inthe memo: "We believe we have the best employees in the world. Period. The brightest, most capable group of this size ever assembled. It's why I'm excited to come to work every day – and I'm sure you feel the same way. We want to make sure that you feel rewarded for your hard work, and we want to continue to attract the best people to Google."The technology giant isreportedlygrowing its 23,300 staff at a faster pace than at any time in the past two years, hiring 1,500 people in the three months to September.Some 200 former Google employees have gone on to work forits biggest internet rival, Facebook, making up more than 10% of the social networking company's staff.Rasmussen, the engineering muscle behind Google Maps and the ill-fated Wave project, became the latest big name to leave Google for Facebook earlier this month. In an interviewwith the Sydney Morning Herald, Rasmussen said: "The energy [at Facebook] is just amazing, whereas it can be very challenging to be working in a company the size of Google."He said that it was "a little stressful" trying to convince Google not to pull the plug on Wave, axed after 15 months in August. The company "was just not patient", he added.
A video game developed in the US that challenges players to assassinate former Cuban president Fidel Castro has provoked an angry response from Cuba.Call of Duty: Black Ops, whichwent on sale in the UK this week, is set during the cold war, with gamers taking on the role of a special operative as he saves the US from a communist plot, travelling between Cuba, Vietnam and Russia.However, a mission in which players try to kill a young Castro has sparked a fierce response from the Cuban government."What the United States government did not achieve in more than 50 years, it now tries to do virtually," said a story on thegovernment-run cubadebate website.It said the game glorified real US attempts to kill Castro –there have been 638 attempts on the former leader's life, according to one of his bodyguards.In 2006 Fabian Escalante, the former head of Cuban intelligence services, revealed how plots ranged from an exploding cigar that was intended to blow up in Castro's face to a fungus-contaminated wetsuit that would infect him with a chronic skin disease.Perhaps the most fanciful plot involved planting explosives inside a mollusc shell painted in bright colours in the hope that Castro might be drawn towards it while scuba diving in the Caribbean.In a section of Call of Duty: Black Ops set in Havana, players gun down enemy combatants while pursuing Castro, who was president of Cuba for 49 years before resigning in 2008."This new video game is doubly perverse," the article on cubadebate said. "On the one hand, it glorifies the illegal assassination attempts the United States government planned against the Cuban leader … and on the other, it stimulates sociopathic attitudes in North American children and adolescents."It is not the first military-style shooter game to generate controversy this year. Medal of Honorwas banned from US military basesbefore it went on sale last month because it let players take on the role of Taliban fighters battling US and Nato troops in Afghanistan. Developer Electronic Arts later changed the name of the combatants from Taliban to Opposing Force.Reviewers of Call of Duty: Black Ops, which retails at around £50 in the UK, have been unfazed by the challenge of gunning down one of the primary leaders of the Cuban revolution. The game was givenfive stars by the Guardian.
The Digital Economy Act, which has divided creative industries since its first inception, has hit what may turn into a considerable stumbling block.Following a five-hour hearing at London's high court on Wednesday, Mr Justice Wyn Williamsgranted a judicial reviewof the act and its proposals at the behest of two of the UK's largest broadband providers, BT and TalkTalk. The act, which came into force in June, hangs "in a state of limbo" until the February hearing, BT says.Speaking to the Guardian after the announcement, Andrew Heaney, an executive director at TalkTalk, called the ruling a "three-nil victory". He added that "questions remain" over the implementation of the act, the most contentious aspects of which are due to come into force early next year."We wouldn't have put this argument forward if we didn't think there was a case to answer on this, and neither would the government," he said. "But I think the government should seriously consider how it takes this legislation forward."The judge is saying there's an arguable case against the implementation [of the act]. He heard both sides and fairly quickly came to the view that there was a case to answer. From that perspective we went into today not knowing what we could have got and we got a good result. I think they call it a good day in court."Simon Milner, BT's director of group industry policy, said he was "very pleased" with the result, which represents a sizeable dent in the proposals as piloted by Lord Mandelson under the previous Labour government."We started this because we thought there was uncertainty about the law and the judge agreed with us. From our point of view this couldn't have gone better," he told the Guardian after the hearing.The ISPs and the legislation are left "in a state of limbo" until the hearing of the review, expected at the high court in February, Milner said."The judge appeared to agree with the the heart of our case, that the last government – not the current administration – rushed this through in a really inappropriate manner given how controversial this was. We think the court will decide because of that, the law is unenforceable so we'll wait to see if we're right."Asked what BT expects will happen to the legislation during this "state of limbo", Milner replied: "That's not for us to decide, that's for ministers to decide. We do think it would be rather odd for ministers to proceed as if the court case didn't happen today though – that would be a bit of a slap in the face for our customers."Ofcom has indicated that it will go ahead with planning for the implementation, on the basis that the injunction granted this week is not a repeal, and that it should be ready to implement its work right away if the judicial review sides with the government. But the telecoms heavyweights could apply for an interim injunction on the act, which would stave off any implementation until the results of the judicial review are announced.Privately, though, lawyers familiar with the proceedings suspect BT and TalkTalk don't rate their chances of an injunction being granted, and that the review is little more than an adjunct to the pair's campaign against the act.One lawyer told me: "The important thing is that this case keeps going in the background to give a feeling of legal pressure backing the political pressure on the government to change direction over the next few months."It could actually detract from that campaigning purpose if they ask for the hearing to be expedited, so I don't suspect they will."Some rights holders, including the Motion Picture Association (MPA) and the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), suggest BT and TalkTalk's argument around the potential harm to "basic rights and freedoms" of internet users is little more than a ruse to protect their financial interests and market share.Chris Marcich, managing director of the MPA, said in a punchy statement: "The pursuit of this claim by BT/TalkTalk appears to be an attempt to avoid or delay playing their rightful part in tackling online piracy, and instead to continue maximising profit by continuing to make money from broadband traffic generated in part by the downloading of illegal content taken from rights holders without permission."The high court will on Friday decide whether BT and TalkTalk have succeeded in challenging the Digital Economy Act on the fourth and final ground. Described by lawyers following the case as "clearly their weakest" point, the ISPs argue that the act goes too far in restricting cross-border services, privacy and free expression.The government, arguing its best case for legislation harried through by the previous administration, believes it will chalk one back on BT and TalkTalk's "three-nil victory".
The latest dose of high-speed hedgehog platforming starts with Sonic rocking up to Dr Eggman's spangled new theme park and announcing to sidekick Tails that they've got to tear the place down because, 1) Eggman's involved so it's sure to be a no-good stunt, and 2) that'sjust what they do. Makes him sound like a lousy prickled killjoy, right? But to be honest, Dr Eggman's Interstellar Amusement Park (the setting for Sonic Colours) really doesn't feel like a superfun place to spend your free time.As usual, the Sonic world is all cartoon enemies and whip-fast tracks that this time alternate between 3D and 2D. But it looks dull: tweak your telly's settings all you like, the game is stuck in a murky soup of sludge tones. That's mildly depressing in the 3D sections where Sonic is clearly front and centre, but when you jump into 2D, the view rescales and shrinks the sneaker-wearing beastie to an infuriating smudge of bluey-grey lost in a greyish background. This isn't just prissy moaning from HD-pampered eyes: the graphical shortcomings make the game less fun to play than it should be. "Where am I? Oh, on the[ringdingdingdingding]spikes."The D-pad is usable but a little clumsy, especially in 3D; far better to execute your sweeping dodges and sideways leaps with the nunchuck. Spinning, jumping, ducking and grinding all feelgood: something about the timing between stomp-attacking an enemy from above and hearing the cheerful "pop!" of his demise achieves a platonic ideal of robo-busting satisfaction. And there's a new power-up system with the Wisps, friendly aliens which Sonic can absorb to gain temporary abilities – like Laser, which makes everything go a bit Tron and lets you point and release the hedgehog as if controlling a cannon.The jumps between dimensions never feel wholly persuasive. They're signposted so the transitions don't jar, but withEpisode 4already offering plenty of flat Sonic, it leaves the impression that Colours is just a little bit non-committal. Itwantsto be a 3D platformer, but it's scared you wouldn't love it if it changed completely. Still, there's a pleasing rhythm to the levels and they hang together nicely. Unlike the hub system, which is tangled like that drawer you keep all the cables in, with a Sonic Simulator (Wii only) where you collect Chaos Emeralds, a main hub and multiple sub-hubs. These last play interminable tween-trance at you as you pick your stage, causing unwelcome flashbacks to provincial nightclubs.Sonic Colours never feels like a world you want to hang out in. There are smart ideas and neat challenges here, but in the end there's probably too much stuff and the untidy interface makes it hard to get at the goodies. Despite the sturdy gameplay, the lack of polish makes you wonder if Sonic Team is just like Sonic himself: doing this because this is what they do, rather than because there's any real reason to.• Game reviewed on Wii
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Photo byTorleyon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAbout the Mac OS X v10.6.5 Update &gt;&gt; AppleLots of pretty abstruse changes. "You should back up your system before installation". Yes, always wise.Firefox v4 beta7 released &gt;&gt; MozillaWikiStill has a few "blockers" but this is the feature-complete form. Now it wants to be bug-incomplete.Microsoft Sells 40K Windows 7 Phones &gt;&gt; TheStreetIt's surely shortsighted to judge WP7 on the basis of one not-certain day's sales. But here you go: "So how does 40,000 Window 7 phones measure up? Google said last month that it was selling 200,000 Android phones a day. And Apple has said that its iPhone sales rate was 270,000 a day. Microsoft didn't help itself much, said Michael Cote, an industry strategist with the Cote Collaborative. 'Mondays aren't great launch days. They poured all that cash into it but they lost track of the fact that Fridays or Saturdays are the best launch days,' said Cote."Give it time.Analyst estimates 100,000 DROID smartphones sold in first weekend [Nov 2009] &gt;&gt; EngadgetJust for comparison for anyone who wants to laugh and point at Windows Phone 7's first couple of days. Look at where Android is now, too.Symbian OS – one of the most successful failures in tech history &gt;&gt; TechCrunch EU Guest PostTim Ocock, a former Symbian staffer with access up and down the organisation, considers what it did and didn't have. "Symbian has never been an OS for internet phones. The Symbian definition of a smartphone was a phone with PDA functions. The browser was always a second class citizen, a third party component – Opera by default in the early days, but freely replaced with a licensee's preferred option. Perhaps where Symbian started slipping in quality was the need, caused by the appearance of iPhone, to compete in the internet phone space too, a space Symbian thought it was in and thought it was winning without realising iPhone was something all together different."Very thoughtful and in-depth.Cooks Source Issues A Statement &gt;&gt; How Publishing Really WorksAfter the furore of last week, the magazine has made a $130 donation to the Columbia School of Journalism.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The columnist Yasmin Alibhai-Brown has said she will report a Conservative councillor to the police after he posted a message on Twitter saying it would be a "blessing" if she was stoned to death.Birmingham councillorGareth Compton posted the remark yesterday. He called it "a glib comment" in reaction to the writer's appearance on Nicky Campbell's Radio 5 Live breakfast show."Can someone please stone Yasmin Alibhai-Brown to death? I shan't tell Amnesty if you don't. It would be a blessing, really," he tweeted from his iPhone.Alibhai-Brown said she regarded his comments as incitement to murder.The journalist, who writes columns for the Evening Standard and the Independent, told the Guardian: "It's really upsetting. My teenage daughter is really upset too. It's really scared us."You just don't do this. I have a lot of threats on my life. It's incitement. I'm going to the police – I want them to know that a law's been broken."She added that she regarded Compton's remarks as racially motivated because he mentioned stoning."If I as a Muslim woman had tweeted that it would be a blessing if Gareth Compton was stoned to death I'd be arrested immediately. I don't think the nasty Tories went away."Compton, the Conservative councillor for Erdington, said he was writing in response to comments made by Alibhai-Brown on Radio 5 Live.The councillor claimed she had said, with reference to David Cameron's trip to China, that no politician was morally qualified to speak out about human rights abuses, including the stoning of women, bar the likes of Nelson Mandela.Compton, who later apologised on Twitter, added: "Twitter is a forum for glib comment of the moment. It was a glib comment. Who could possibly think it was serious?"Obviously I apologise. No offence was intended."The incident would not be the first time that a politician has been landed in hot water as a result of comments posted on Twitter.A Labour candidate was sacked during the general election campaign after posting a series of offensive comments about other politicians, voters and celebrities on his Twitter page.Stuart MacLennan, who was standing in the Moray constituency in Scotland, described the elderly as "coffin-dodgers" in one comment and complained about being "up north again in his constituency".• This article was amended on 11 November 2010. The online headline referred to Gareth Compton as an MP. This has been corrected.
The market leader Nokia lost share year-on-year in the worldwide smartphone market during the third quarter. even while it grew the number of phones it sold, according to data released by Gartner.The market overall grew by 95% from 41m to 80.5m, Gartner said. But only Android and "other" phones, principally sold in Asia, grew their market share faster. Even Apple, which saw the number of iPhones sold during the quarter grow by 91% year-on-year, fell back in market share from 17.1% to 16.7%.Nokia increased the number of phones it sold from 18.3m to 29.5m, yet lost share from 44.6% to 36.6%.But Android phones grew their sales dramatically, leaping from 3.5% to 25.5% to become the second-biggest smartphone OS in a year, replacing Research In Motion, which saw its share fall from 20.7% to 14.8%, falling into fourth position.The numbers pretty much speak for themselves: Android has gone from a virtual standing start a couple of years ago to a huge competitor - except it's not clear whether it's actually taking any money away from anyone: every platform has grown its actual numbers of phones sold. (Click on column headings to do your own on-the-spot analysis.)Worldwide smartphone market share, Q3 2010Company3Q09  units (,000)3Q10 units (,000)growth in units %3Q 09 share %3Q 10 share %change in share (%)Symbian18314.829480.160.9644.636.6-8Android1424.5205001339.13.525.522iOS7040.413484.491.5317.116.7-0.4Research In Motion8522.711908.339.7220.714.8-5.9Microsoft Windows Mobile3259.92247.931.047.92.8-5.1Linux1918.51697.111.544.72.1-2.6Other OS612.51214.898.331.51.50Total41093.380532.695.981001000source: GartnerSeparate numbers for the handset vendors show that most of them grew the number of phones sold – except LG, Sony Ericsson and Motorola, which respectively sold 4.4m fewer (down 13.9% on its 2009 number), 3m fewer (-22.8%) and 4.9m fewer (-35.6%) than in 2009. Motorola clearly has a huge problem: Google cut the ground out from under it when it launched the Nexus One, and Microsoft is suing it, which might make selling Windows Phone 7 models a challenge (although there are rumours that it will happen).The giant winner among handset makers? HTC, which grew the numbers sold by 144%. If there's anyone benefiting from Android's growth, it's probably HTC - and the carriers selling them - more even than Google. Those 20.5m Android handsets are worth at least £100 each to someone: that's an extra £2bn in the smartphone market that wasn't there a year ago.Meanwhile for Nokia... hmmm. There's such a thing as a long, slow fall from grace, and this is beginning to look like it.So here are the numbers. Slice and dice and see how the look to you. The graphics below are size-adjusted so that the area of the circle is proportional to the size of the market.Your predictions welcome now for how it will look in three months' time when the fourth-quarter numbers are out - and Windows Phone 7 might be edging in there. HTC certainly won't mind.And here are the handset numbers (total worldwide, not just smartphone). Again, click on column headings for your own on-the-spot analysis:Worldwide mobile phone sales, Q3 2010number sold Q3 2009 (,000)number sold Q3 2010 (,000)Q3 2009 %Q3 2010 %growth %Compared to trendNokia113466.211746136.7328.163.52-31.51Samsung60627.771671.819.6317.1818.22-16.81LG31901.427478.710.336.59-13.86-48.89Apple7040.413484.42.263.2391.5358.50RIM8522.711908.32.762.8639.724.69Sony Ericsson13409.510346.54.342.48-22.84-57.87Motorola13912.88961.44.52.15-0.59-70.62HTC2659.56494.30.861.56144.19109.16ZTE4143.76003.61.341.4444.899.86Huawei3339.75478.11.081.3164.0329.00Others49871.1137797.616.1533.04176.315.42Total308894.7417085.7100100.0035.030.00source: GartnerUpdate:for those discussing in the comments (hello@Bert9000and@FKafka) quite what makes up the "Others" category in the total phones, and where they are, there's a followup post:Where and what are those extra 77m mobile phones sold last quarter?
I recently had a chance to try out the terrifying audioiPhone game Papa  Sangre, due to be released by Christmas. Billed as a "video game without video", it is played using sound alone. Put on your headphones, close your eyes (it's not strictly necessary, but most people do), "walk" your fingers on the touchscreen, and explore theLand of the Deadwhere you can hear monsters coming for you but when you run (and you will run), you can't see what you're running into.Papa Sangre contrasted interestingly withThe Question, a game-like theatre piece that demoed over the summer. In it, you navigate a pitch-black real space guided by an electronic lotus flower in your hand whose petals open when you are near a "zone of interest" – whereaudio clips playand there are things to touch. The experience is  incredibly rich – you instinctively stretch out your hand to explore, listen intently, begin to recognise participants by their perfume. It was my standout theatre experience of the year.One of The Question's directors,Maria Oshodi, is blind. It occurred  to me that Papa Sangre is a sighted  person's idea of the dark – sinister and full of danger – while The Question might be closer to a blind person's  experience, that is, full of interesting things and navigational challenges rather than mythic horror.While I'm sure Papa Sangre will be a hit, and I hope The Question gets a longer run, videoless games aren't likely to become big business. But they demonstrate what games can do: put us in  unfamiliar places, and show us we possess skills we didn't know we had.
Guy Burkill QC, at Three New Square, is one of the UK's leading patent barristers, with particular expertise in telecoms-related and electronics patents.The major telecoms manufacturers are currently fighting each other – in an increasing number of cases and various combinations of adversarial pairings – in courts all over the world. Thisoutbreak of disputesis coming to be known as the 'Phoney Wars', but it is serious. And the stakes are high.To understand why, we need to look at the nature of a handset. The fact that a mobile phone "just works" is something we take for granted. But these indispensable handheld devices are remarkable in two respects.• First, the amazing amount of technology built into them: smartphones like the Blackberry, iPhone, or Windows mobile devices continue to evolve at an astonishing pace.• Secondly, despite the enormous choice of different products available, all are compatible with the networks and base stations of the various service providers - so e.g. Apples and BlackBerries both work on Orange's or O2's networks. This is a consequence of standardisation. The relevant standards documents are huge and cover all aspects of the interaction between phones and base stations.Both these aspects benefit consumers, who want the latest technology but in a device that works on existing networks wherever they go. It's the interplay between those aspects that is giving rise to complicated lawsuits over the patents involved.PatentsA schema from a Nokia patent. Photo byMicky.!on Flickr.Some rights reservedBoth the newest must-have technologies, and the creation of industry standards, have required enormous investment in research and development; complex electronics and engineering don't happen by accident.The patent system is intended to protect and encourage such investment. It recognises that ideas are expensive to develop, but cheap to copy. So in return for disclosing a new invention, the inventor is granted exclusive rights in it for a time.Unsurprisingly, the major telecoms manufacturers all hold extensive portfolios of hundreds or even thousands of patents. Qualcomm has a wall covered with reproductions of its patents."Essential" patents and standardsSome inventions, though new when conceived, are so useful that they later become standards. For example, one covers a particular technical method of controlling the output power of handsets, so each can be detected by a base station – and the nearer ones don't drown out the signals from distant ones.Once a standard is defined, all manufacturers must be able to comply with it. So standards-setting bodies insist that any owners of patents considered to be "essential" to a standard should give up exclusivity and instead agree to grant licences on "Fair, Reasonable and Non-Discriminatory" (FRAND) terms under those patents.An "essential" patent is still very valuable: all devices operating according to the standard must by definition fall within its terms, so the patent owner can demand royalties under a FRAND licence.But many patents don't survive a challenge in court. Determined opponents often raise new points not previously considered by patent offices. In a trial, patents undergo intense scrutiny: in Qualcomm v Nokia, a UK trial in 2008 involving just two patents, thejudgmentran to 480 meticulously reasoned paragraphs, many decorated with technical diagrams or equations.So the questions of whether a patent is valid (in particular, whether the invention is new and non-obvious), whether it is essential, and whether a rival is infringing it, are all issues that are ending up in court.Deciding licence termsBut the hardest question of all may be: what are FRAND terms and how do you decide? At the most simplistic level, what a patent owner may see as fair and reasonable can look extortionate to a licensee; conversely a licensee's suggestion of a "fair" royalty offer may look derisory to the inventor. And since most manufacturers own patent portfolios themselves, but also need to use the essential patents owned by others, there can be conflicting views on what royalty rates are "fair" even within a single organisation.Add to that worldwide sales of mobiles now exceeding 1 billion units per year, and the stakes are enormous – fractions of a penny per handset are worth fighting over.Some industries have a settled "going rate" for patent licences – say, 5-10% for mechanical inventions, rather more for pharmaceuticals. But in the mobile phone industry, a single handset may fall within the scope of hundreds of patents in the portfolios of many different manufacturers. So a 5% royalty on each patent, or even a flat 5% to each patent owner, is commercially impossible: the handset would be instantly unprofitable.Some (but far from all) of the major manufacturers including Sony Ericsson and Nokiaissued a joint press release in 2008suggesting that a reasonable maximum aggregate royalty level for essential patents in handsets should be a single-digit percentage of the sales price. In short, they proposed a royalty "cap" so that total royalties could not exceed 10% of the value of a given phone.But even a capped aggregate royalty can give rise to problems: who gets how much of the royalty "pot"? A simple split based on the number of relevant patents owned by each participant would seem straightforward, but would encourage companies to play the system by filing and/or declaring essential numerous applications of questionable validity. Alternatively, an assessment based on the validity or quality or value of patent portfolios would require enormous effort auditing them. And who would be deemed sufficiently independent to decide?And so, since no other mechanism exists for deciding who holds the strongest hand, and nobody can agree, the courts are now being asked to rule on individual patents – a massive task, since there are so many of them. To misquote Clausewitz, "law is negotiation by other means".Inessential patentsThe final ingredient in this recipe for dispute is the existence of non-essential patents: those that cover improvements that aren't part of a standard and so nobody has to use, such as a better way to make a display screen.As mobile phones become "smarter" and add functionality over and above core telephony features, inessential patents become increasingly significant, and can be more valuable than essential ones if infringement can be proved. This is because royalties, or damages for past infringements, may be sought without the fetter of FRAND licensing requirements – and patents carry the threat of an injunction to enforce the patent monopoly.Unsurprisingly, inessential patents are also being fought over in court. As well as having potential value in their own right, they strengthen negotiating positions over the FRAND issues.Where we are nowAll these factors have come together to cause the so-called "Phoney wars" – an outbreak of litigation in various jurisdictions, often in parallel, between various combinations of phone manufacturers. This will take time to resolve: cases may take several years to come to trial and typically only a few patents can be considered at a time.The bigger question is how to balance two needs fairly. Manufacturers need to be rewarded for innovation, for both essential and inessential inventions; but they also need to be able to sell standards-compatible products without incurring crippling royalty payments to others.The sums at stake are so large that the high cost of litigation is no deterrent. That makes it difficult to foresee how it will all end. Piecemeal resolution or settlement of individual cases, while necessary, still leaves open industry-wide questions of how to quantify, to limit, and to allocate, an overall royalty "pot".The good news is that end users are benefitting both from standardisation and from the overall operation of the patent system. Standards provide phones that "just work", while patents have supported the innovation that has led to the astonishing pace of development of products which consumers really want.&copy; Guy Burkill 7/11/2010; Guy Burkill also asserts his moral rights hereto under the CDPA 1988.
Microsoft's much-hyped attempt to remove the joypad from the gaming equation launched this week. Kinect allows users to interact with compatible Xbox 360 games through movement and gesture alone, ostensibly taking physical gaming beyond the foundations set by the Nintendo Wii.Here's everything you need to know - and the games to buy - if you're thinking of taking the plunge into a controller-free life…The basics: technologyThe Kinect device looks a little like a very wide web cam and sits beneath your TV. If you have the newest iteration of the Xbox 360 console, it connects to your machine via the special port at the back; if you have an older machine you'll need to use the Kinect adaptor, which comes with the standalone Kinect package. The three lenses on the front are an RGB colour camera for capturing photos and video as well as aiding in facial recognition; a CMOS sensor; and an infrared emitter. The latter two work in combination to act as a 3D sensor, tracking the movement of the player. This sensor is capable of distinguishing between up to six people, although its motion tracking capabilities are restricted to two players simultaneously.The device can track up to 20 joints and 48 different body points on each participant. It can also use facial recognition to differentiate between users, allowing you to sign in to your Xbox Live account simply by looking into the camera. Microsoft recommends that you have an eight foot space free in front of your TV to play the games comfortably. You may want to consider getting rid of all your furniture. Or putting the TV in front of your window and playing from the back garden.Kinect also includes a microphone, allowing players to communicate with the Xbox 360 via voice, and to engage in video chats without having to wear a headset. Several of the launch titles use this feature, and it can also be employed to control the video player (so if you want to pause a movie, you can shout 'pause'). Indeed, Kinect also allows users to interact with the Xbox 360 menu system via gestures and hand movements – yes, like Tom Cruise in Minority Report, but without the funky data glove.Much has been made of the latency that may exist when player movements are translated into on-screen action. However, developers reckon this lag is down to about a thirtieth of a second.The Kinect can tilt and pan to adapt to different player heights and more extravagant movements. It also senses when a game isn't Kinect compatible, tilting downwards in response like a sulky robot.The priceThe Kinect system retails at around £130 bundled with the Kinect Adventures game. Many retailers are also offering Xbox 360 + Kinect packages. These vary between £250 for an Xbox 360 with a 4GB hard drive to £299 for the 250GB model. (Here it is on Amazon.)The five best launch gamesThere are 19 Kinect titles available at launch in the UK, but many of them are rather poor – as is often the case with new technology debuts. Considering that Kinect Adventures comes with the system, the five titles we'd recommend are:Dance Central (MTV Games)Developed by Harmonix, the company behind Guitar Hero and Rock Band, this is easily the strongest title in the launch line up. Players must learn the choreography to a range of pop hits then perform them all with style. There are over 650 steps to master and 90 routines based around tracks from the likes of Lady Gaga, Kool &amp; The Gang and Kylie Minogue. It's an enormously entertaining addition to the rhythm action genre.Buy it on Amazon &gt;&gt;Kinectimals (Microsoft)Created by Frontier Developments this is a more touchy-feely spin on the 'virtual pet' concept. Your 'aim' is to explore a rich island setting, making friends with lion and tiger cubs and opening up mini-games. You can stroke and tussle with your furry pals, and the tasks, ranging from car races to assault courses, are a lot of fun. I played this with my two- and four-year-old sons at a preview event and they were immediately spellbound. It was a genuinely moving experience.Buy it on Amazon &gt;&gt;Kinect Sports (Microsoft)Yes, it's the mandatory multi-event sports game. Football, bowling, boxing, table tennis and several track and field events get the Kinect treatment with varying degrees of success. Despite some rough edges, all the activities are intuitive and accessible, and if you're playing with friends and family you will laugh constantly – especially when viewing the automatic video replays, which show (in merciless detail) your idiotic movements.Buy it on Amazon &gt;&gt;Your Shape: Fitness Evolved (Ubisoft)This is a rather serious-minded fitness title, but it's got a huge list of activities and provides a really well structured programme. Users can accurately track their progress and there's an online community element allowing you to compare results with friends.Buy it on Amazon &gt;&gt;Sonic Free Riders (Sega)IF you're desperate for a more 'arcade-style' Kinect experience, this is pretty much your only option right now. It's essentially a hover board racing game featuring sonic and his friends. You lean left and right to steer and scuff your foot along the ground to speed up. The controls aren't responsive enough for the demanding courses, but this is quite good fun for a quick blast, especially with a friend.Buy it on Amazon &gt;&gt;The eight most promising Kinect titlesA quick run through some intriguing possibilities…EA Sports Active 2A more gamer-friendly fitness title from EA, featuring a heart rate monitor that attaches to your arm and conveniently lets you know when you're about to collapse. Features over 70 exercises, including specific regimes for football and mountain bike training. Gruelling but competitive and fun. It's out next week.Pre-order on Amazon &gt;&gt;Yoostar 2A hilarious movie karaoke game that lets you re-enact key scenes from dozens of different movies. Could well prove the party game of the year when it's released in the first quarter of 2011.HauntDue out next year, this is 'horror' game from Pa Rappa the Rapper creator Masaya Matsuura. It's set in a haunted house and looks to be a light-hearted puzzler rather than straight-up spine chiller.Rise of NightmaresAnother spooky title, this time from Sega. Announced at the Tokyo Game Show in September it promises, "a spine-tingling horror experience that uses the innovative new controls of Kinect to give players the ultimate fright." Oo-er.Codename DLittle is known about Codename D (working title, apparently) other than it's being developed by Grasshopper Manufacture, the guys behind deranged cult masterpieces Killer 7 and No More Heroes. I think we can safely predict that it won't be like anything in the Kinect launch line up.Project DracoThe last of the four big Kinect titles revealed at the Tokyo Game Show. This is some kind of dragon-riding game from Yukio Futatsugi, who previously worked on cult Saturn shooter, Panzer Dragoon. It's touching down next year.Child of EdenA typically trippy music shooter from Tetsuya Mizuguchi, the genius behind Lumines and Rez. His performance of the game at Ubisoft's E3 press event was a joy to behold.Kinect Star WarsBeing developed as a joint project between LucasArts and Texan studio Terminal Reality, this looks to be a third-person Jedi fighting adventure, in which players are able to wield dual lightsabers. We'll feel its force sometime next year.Pre-order on Amazon &gt;&gt;
BT and TalkTalk today won the right to a judicial review of the Digital Economy Act, throwing controversial government proposals to tackle illegal filesharing into uncertainty.BT and TalkTalk, two of the UK's largest broadband providers, mounted their legal challenge to the Digital Economy Actin July, warning that it could infringe internet users' "basic rights and freedoms" and was given "insufficient scrutiny" in parliament.Both broadband providers will now be granted a review of the act at the high court to clarify whether it conflicts with existing EU legislation.The high court hearing on the judicial review is expected to take place in February 2011.The judge, Mr Justice Wyn Williams, ruled that BT and TalkTalk have grounds for a judicial review of the Digital Economy Act on three of the four contested points.These are whether the government gave the European Commission enough notice to properly scrutinise the legislation, whether the act complies with existing EU legislation on data protection and privacy, and whether it is compatible with existing EU legislation on e-commerce.The fourth point is understood to relate to "proportionality" – described as a mixture of EU free movement law and laws on human rights. Hickinbottom is expected to announce his decision on Friday.Andrew Heaney, the TalkTalk executive director of strategy and regulation, said the act "was rushed through parliament" in the dying days of the Labour administration in April with only 6% of MPs attending the brief debate and "has very serious flaws"."The provisions to try to reduce illegal filesharing are unfair, won't work and will potentially result in millions of innocent customers who have broken no law suffering and having their privacy invaded," Heaney added.He said the high court hearing would "properly assess whether the act is legal and justifiable", ensuring "all parties have certainty on the law before proceeding".A BT spokeswoman said: "It is important for everyone involved – copyright owners, consumers, ISPs and institutions like libraries and universities – to have certainty on the law before proceeding."A spokesman for the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills said: "The government believes the Digital Economy Act is consistent with EU legislation and contains sufficient safeguards to protect the rights of consumers and internet service providers."The Digital Economy Act sets out to protect our creative economy from the threat of online copyright infringement, which industry estimates costs them £400m a year."TalkTalk has been fiercely critical of the act's measures for tackling illicit filesharing since the launch of the Digital Britain white paper in June 2009. The broadband provider's "Don't Disconnect Us" petition against the so-called "three strikes rule" gained support from tens of thousands of signatories, including Stephen Fry and Alan Davies.A number of MPs and pressure groups voiced concern following the controversial bill being given royal assent in April after just two hours of debate in the Commons.The deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg,said at the timethat the act "badly needs to be repealed and the issues revisited".The Lib Dems later said that they would "take it off the statute book and replace with something better".However, in July the coalition government said it had no plans to repeal the act.The British Phonographic Industry (BPI), the UK music industry trade body, said BT and TalkTalk's legal challenge against the act is "misconceived and will fail".A controversial amendment to the draft bill was drafted by the BPI in April, allowing the government to block sites such as YouTube without due judicial process.A spokesman for the BPI said: "Parliament enacted the Digital Economy Act to encourage innovation on the internet and to protect jobs in the creative industries, which are a key area of growth for the economy. It's disappointing that a couple of ISPs are trying to frustrate this and resist any action being taken to reduce illegal filesharing on their networks."However, Jim Killock, the executive director of internet freedom organisation the Open Rights Group, welcomed the judicial review of the "legal mess caused by the Digital Economy Act"."The act is being challenged on grounds including privacy and human rights. It is unworkable, and needs to be scrapped," Killock said.Communications regulator Ofcom, which was ordered to draw up a code of practice for tackling illegal downloading under the Digital Economy Act, is understood to be in finalising its proposals.An announcement on the Ofcom code of practice is expected in the next few weeks, following thedraft versionput forward in May.Under the draft proposals, internet service providers with more than 400,000 subscribers will start collecting the details of customers suspected of sharing copyrighted content next year, in order to send them warning letters.Any internet user who receives three warning letters in the space of 12 months will have their personal details handed over to rights owners so they can be sued. ISPs will be compelled to suspend the internet connection of persistent offenders.Robert Hammond, the head of digital communications at Consumer Focus, said the decision meant the act will now be given "much-needed extra scrutiny"."While the judicial review is ongoing, the government should take the opportunity to reconsider whether the act is the best way to encourage the use of legal online music and film services," he said.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
