A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple Becomes Top Worldwide Mobile PC Maker Thanks to iPad &gt;&gt; GigaOm"The Mac-maker accounted for 17.2 percent of all mobile PC shipments worldwide during the fourth quarter of 2010, making it the overall segment leader"Texas AG's Letter Demanding Google's Search Policies and Ad Rate Formulas &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"The 13-page CID includes 39 different requests for documents ranging from those setting forth Google's policies and procedures for calculating AdWords prices and minimum bids to minutes and agendas from search quality team meetings and records of the 'black listing' or 'white listing' of specific Web sites. Also requested: Documents that 'œdescribe, analyze, or discuss competition for advertisers from Bing and Yahoo' and others concerning the strategy for e-commerce services like Froogle and Google Shopping. It's an extraordinarily thorough set of demands and shows the Texas AG to be reviewing not just Google's ranking of search results and setting of advertising prices, but questioning whether the company favors its own businesses and advertisers in results."Warner Brothers Debuts App-Based Movie Purchases &gt;&gt; Mac Rumors"Warner Brothers today announced the launch of "App Editions" of its feature films, providing the titles as App Store apps that offer downloadable and streaming versions of the films along with an array of expanded content. The program, which launches today with the release of Inception [App Store] and The Dark Knight [App Store], offers the apps as free downloads with full access to the films and special features available via in-app purchase."Webstock: An interview with the Daring Fireball &gt;&gt; NZ Herald NewsJohn Gruber on Apple: "As a company itself, Apple is very easy to understand. They're really not a complex company. Whereas Nokia doesn't make any sense - still pumping money into Symbian when it's already announced that MeeGo is the way of the future."Anonymous speaks: the inside story of the HBGary hack &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"HBGary won't be the last site to suffer from SQL injection, either, and people will continue to use password authentication for secure systems because it's so much more convenient than key-based authentication. So there are clearly two lessons to be learned here. The first is that the standard advice is good advice. If all best practices had been followed then none of this would have happened. Even if the SQL injection error was still present, it wouldn't have caused the cascade of failures that followed. The second lesson, however, is that the standard advice isn't good enough. Even recognized security experts who should know better won't follow it. What hope does that leave for the rest of us?"Nokia + Microsoft: An Analysis of the Strategic AllianceReally good analysis by Paul Thurrott (though I'd disagree that WP7 is the most innovative smartphone platform; I'd say that's Android). "Interestingly, Elop referred to Microsoft combining its "next-generation software platform" with Nokia devices, which was the start of a timeline discussion that eventually led to Elop admitting that Nokia wouldn't be moving ahead full-steam with Windows Phone devices until sometime in 2012. This leads me to guess that Nokia's first Windows Phone devices will in fact be based on the "Mango" version of Windows Phone, which is due in roughly October 2011, or GA + 1 (one year after the general availability of the initial Windows Phone version). Put another way, Mango is Windows Phone v2, or the first truly "finished" version of the OS. It's relevant, too, that Elop never referred to Windows Phone as "Windows Phone 7," i.e. the current version. He just called it Windows Phone." That's a very, very good point nobody else has made.Pixar's Brad Bird on Fostering Innovation &gt;&gt; GigaomIf you work in a startup or in any growing company - in fact in any company - then you must read this. Nine fantastic ideas for reshaping how you work to get the best out of everyone.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Google is to launch a music service to compete with Apple's iTunes music store as part of a forthcoming upgrade to its Android mobile operating system, according to Sanjay Jha, chief executive of Motorola Mobility, which will soon launch one of the first machines able to run the software.Speaking at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Jha said: "If you look at Google Mobile services [via Android] today, there's a video service, there's a music service – that is, there will be a music service." He added that the value of the upgrade to the Android system, known as "Honeycomb", which will power the forthcoming Motorola Xoom tablet is that "it adds video services and music services".Google has been expected to launch a "Google Music" service for some time, but it has been unclear how it would promote it. Now Jha has indicated that it will rely on Honeycomb, which is a version of Google's free mobile operating system that has been specifically written for tablet computers.The Honeycomb release, which appears to be tied to the release of the Xoom, is expected within the next two months.Last Friday, Billboard magazine published a list of executives at Google who are believed to be involved in the project. They include Andy Rubin, a vice-president of engineering, who is in overall charge of Android's evolution. Music executives told Billboard that Rubin has personally contacted them about the idea of a Google music service that would include an online store and service.Apple's iTunes music store, first launched in April 2003, has sold more than 10bn songs, a milestone it passed in February 2010, and has a 66% share of worldwide online digital music sales, making it the largest music retailer, despite competition from Amazon.In spring last year Google acquired Simplify Media, a startup which allowed people to share digitised music across platforms, including the web. At the time, Google vice-president Vic Gundotra said that its technology would be used in a desktop application offering remote access to music and unprotected films to Android devices.Google had not responded to a request for comment as this story was completed.Apple's iPad tablet, launched just over a year ago, sold around 15m units in 2010, prompting the launch of a number of rivals, almost all of which use a 7-inch screen, giving them only half the total screen area of the 10-inch iPad, and using earlier versions of Android designed for the smaller screens of smartphones. The Xoom will be the first device that will feature Honeycomb and use a larger 10-inch screen.Jha confirmed that the Xoom will cost around $800 in the US, defending the price on the basis that it was competitive with the top-end iPad, at $729, and would be able to connect to 50-megabit-per-second mobile connections from the communications company Verizon via a software update in the future.
You may have noticed all the fuss last week. Fox News, a reliably moderate and fair-minded news source, ran a story on EA's forthcoming shooter Bulletstorm, asking'is this the worst game in the world?'The question was moral, of course, rather than a damning review of the interplanetary blast-'em-up. "Players are rewarded for shooting enemies in the private parts," the article shrieked in horror before adding "(such as the buttocks)" in case its sensitive readers were unclear on anatomical slang.The in-game awards system, called Skill Shots, ties the ugly, graphic violence into explicit sex acts: 'topless' means cutting a player in half, while a 'gang bang' means killing multiple enemies. And with kids as young as nine playing such games, the experts FoxNews.com spoke with were nearly universally worried that video game violence may be reaching a fever pitch.Apart from introducing the bewildering phrase "nearly universally worried", all that this breathless paragraph – and the resulting article – really highlights is the ongoing ambiguity of the US video game rating system. TheESRBprovides guidelines for retailers and parents, but no actual age restrictions (apart from the Adults Only rating which has been used just 24 times since the board was established in 1994). So while a game may carry an M for mature content, shops can't be fined or prosecuted for selling games to minors – unlike in the UK, where BBFC certification is legally enforceable. This has been a hugely controversial point throughout the history of the games business, and over the last five years California has been attempting to pass a law banning the sale or renting of violent video games to minors. The US supreme court is currently considering the case.Much of the backlash against the article, however, has focused on a quote provided by author and psychiatrist-to-the-stars,Carole Lieberman:The increase in rapes can be attributed in large part to the playing out of [sexual] scenes in video games.It is, quite frankly, an astonishing claim – staggering on so many levels, many of us will have had to check it several times to ensure we were reading it correctly. It assumes that sexual violence is on the rise in the US (very difficult to prove for a multitude of reasons), and that games actually contain sexual scenes – which they very rarely do. It is a confident statement, light in ambiguity; if it had been made after rigorous first-hand research by an academic of worldwide standing, it would be actual news. But it wasn't, it was made by the author of Bad Boys: Why We Love Them, How to Live with Them and When to Leave Them.Hours after the news hit, game site Kotaku was barracking Lieberman for her sources and an explanation –which it received. In a sense. Then Game Politicsposted a storyin which the psychologist claimed she had been slightly misrepresented in the Fox article, but went on to cagily reiterate her argument – that sexually violent games are connected with aggression, and by extension, sexual violence. Tellingly, when Kotaku presented her with statistics from the US department of justice that showed a decline in reported rapes since 1973, Lieberman responded by suggesting that rape statistics are "known to be variable and unreliable", thereby invalidating her own central proposition.Later, when Liebermansent out a mass emailto journalists providing links to her sources on violence, rape and video games, it turned out to be a selection of eight studies, none of which tied sexual content in games with real-life sexual violence. John Walker at PC gaming site Rock, Paper, Shotguncarried out a painstaking analysis of the studiesand his article is worth reading, if only for the fact that it highlights just how inconclusive the links are between simulated and real-life violence.So should we be angry about this? Should it bother us that Fox News has taken such an aggressive stance with an unreleased game? Indeed, should we have been so angry three years ago when the network ran a report on Mass Effect which incorrectly suggested that gamers could have full interactive sex as a major part of the sci-fi adventure?I'm not sure any more. The problem is one of context and scale. Lieberman, like Cooper Lawrence who featured in the Mass Effect report, has been inundated with abusive emails; blogposts and news stories on the subject are followed by comments filled with violent and misogynstic threats. It is depressing and shameful, and these miserable outpourings only add credit to Lieberman's assertion that games cause sexual aggression. Plus, here is plenty of wonderful material for a publicity hungry pundit who now knows exactly how to raise her profile when required.And to most of us, it should be obvious by now, that such isolated attacks are not worth worrying about. Video games are part of the mainstream, they have powerful advocates, they make billions of dollars – there is no threat. EA barely bothered to muster an official response; the developers themselves tweeted about it quickly and dismissively. There is serious work to be done on the psychology of interactive entertainment, but it won't be carried out by Fox or Lieberman.In this country, Labour MP Keith Vaz who has made regular confused attacks on violent games, has allegedly found his point of view increasingly isolated within parliament. Last month, culture minister Ed Vaizeytold Gamesindustry.biz:I'm constantly teasing Keith and I think he is aware of the sea-change in videogames and that, particularly with the new generation coming into parliament, there are now many more MPs who grew up with games as a normal part of their life.Keen to check Lieberman's claims anyway, I spoke to Dr Mark Griffiths, a professor at Nottingham Trent University who lectures on video game addiction and is up to date with studies on the effects of video game violence. "The Fox report was sensationalist," he says. "It would be very hard to show that games were ever a key contributory factor – how do you control for other forms of sexual material that person has seen? It's what psychologists call confounding factors – how could you show that a particular event was caused by a specific game?""There are lots of studies published around the whole issue of games and violence – if you talk toCraig Andersonin the States, he would argue that his research shows a link between violence in games and violence that people go on to commit. I would argue most of his is experimental research that's not carried out in a real-life setting. There's no definitive proof."I don't know of any scientifc research that shows a link between games and sexual violence. Perhaps there's anecdotal evidence, maybe that's what she believes. But I think it's a very extreme statement – even if you rang up Craig Anderson, who's effectively the guru of violent gaming research, you'd be hard pushed to get even him to agree with that statement."Central to the controversy, then, is a highly questionable soundbite about sexual violence and the use of sexual imagery in games. Ultimately, the quote, and this whole issue, serve only to sensationalise and cheapen the discourse surrounding a devastating crime. And that's the real horror story here.
Aleks Krotoski is joined by Vic Keegan, former editor of the Guardian's Technology section and developer of iPhone appsCity Poems and Shakespeare's London, to discuss the latest coming from the "burning platform" at Nokia. The merger,  announced this week, between the mobile phone hardware manufacturer and the software developer has caused heatwaves throughout the technology industry, with pundits asking if this really was the big decision that Nokia CEO Stephen Elop needed to take to save the company.Rewired State's Adam McGreggor and the Guardian's Robbie Clutton join Vic and Aleks to talk through the results of last weekend's Guardian SXSW Hack, which saw a meeting of the minds between journalists and technologists. The 80-strong group worked through Saturday night to produce apps that hacks can use to cover news events, such as the SXSW conference. But what happens at these events? Aleks and Jemima Kiss report back after the dust has settled.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
There was something more than a bit special about last weekend's Guardian Hacks SXSW event. Not only did we have an an impressive European mix of newspapers and developers, but many of the teams were made up of people who'd never met before the weekend, and whose ideas took shape only after some in-depth conversations about what is possible, and what needs to be fixed.Exhausting, certainly. Exciting, definitely. Productive - absolutely. The best part of the weekend was seeing developers and journalists with very different skills, expertise and experience talking through problems and challenges and coming up with some truly inspired hacks. Particularly after seeing the amount of effort that went into all of these, judging the projects was like choosing between children.We'll follow these hacks to see which make into into serious development time and grow into something more  professional. There's some real potential in these ideas to grow into  something powerful.Lastly, we've done our best to list every  hack, every developer and journalist and to link to everything  appropriate as information has come in, but please keep sending  information so we can be as comprehensive as possible.Flickrpool here, plus a write-up from the Guardian'sMartin Belam.And so to the hacks. Each team had three minutes to show off work they created between 10am on Saturday and 3pm on Sunday.Guardian Hacks SXSW - the winners•ArticlrAndrew Walker,Daniel Harper,Jason Grant,Winner of Best HackWith tongue in cheek, Jason introduced Articlr as "real time, geolocated,  semantic, cloud based, web driven, socially contextual collaborative  journalist mashup". He's not wrong. Articlr is a composition tool that  lets reporters collaborate from different locations, flagging up local  sources and comment on Twitter, Flickr and other networks and showing up the latest related stories by the competition. Case study forRageh Omarhere. Read Jason'sexcellent write upof Articlr.Photo byFlexeFlixon Flickr.Some rights reserved•Audio Slide DeckGlyn Wintle,Christian Payne,Patrick Sinclair,Sheila ThomsonWinner of Kick-ass Developer: Glyn WintleWinner of Best Sound ProjectBuilds on the audio recording tool AudioBoo by allowing photos to be bookmarked at certain points in the story, creating an audio slideshow  tool. High-resolution images can also be used and will be automatically  resized when uploaded to fit the destination site template. Audio Slide  Deck can also pull in photos from Flickr. See @documentally's example post. Developer Glyn Wintle stood out not only because of the quality of his work, but his collaborative attitude and openness to other hackers.Christian Payne has recordedplenty of stuffabout the weekend.•Almost Live SXSWJosh PickettWinner of Guardian Had-To-Be-Awarded prize: Josh PickettListen to SXSW without being at SXSW. This app generates a random Spotify  playlist based on artists playing at the festival that day. We had to give Josh a prize because he's an outstanding talent - and still only 16.•In a WordJimmy Tidey,Alan Donald,Andrea Jezovit,Maria Font,Gareth WildWinner of Best CreativeOne-word good/bad reviews of SXSW gigs that can summarise the sentiment of the audience.Gareth Wild's write-uphere.•Sound ThingTom Kiss,James Fairbairn(Media Molecule)Winner of Best Use of DataSmartphone app that syncs with your music preferences and shares them with venues as you visit them. (Disclosure: Tom Kiss is my brother so I abstained from judging this entry...)•What the FlockJustin WindleWinner of Best VisualReal-time analysis of bands and social media mentions visualised as flocks.Runners-up•Live NowMarc Dassoneville,Edouard Andrieu, Yves Eudes (Le Monde),Iain CollinsRunner-upBuilds on the idea of CoverItLive, creating a simple interface for journalists running live reports with a feature to bring in related tweets.•FluffboxPremasagar Rose,Sym RoeRunner upComposition tool that combines Storify and Posterous, providing one  central hub for text, photos, videos and tweets that journalists can  collate by emailing them all to one place.•Dead InformedDan LevittRunner-upDefinitely funniest presentation of the day, Dead Informed (the  artist formerly known as Tribituary) presents audio, video and pictures  of dead artists alongside their obituary. Dan used Gary Moore in his  presentation: "People who liked this dead artist also liked these dead  artists..."•GazifyJoachim Bengtsson,Johan Bjork,Felix Bruns(Spotify)Runner-upUses eye-tracking technology to assess mood and play related music, and then tag parts of the page to certain tracks.•VueoChris Leydon,Lawrence Job,Louis Frankland,Ben ThomsonHonourable mentionThree journalists report on an event with live video on their iPhones. That's sent back to a central web-based hub that acts as a TV studio, cutting  between different shots of the action. The Vueo team want to develop  this into an iPhone app.•Visualisation of FansTrung Huynh, Guillaume Gardey and Matt JefferyMusic Metric's data used to visualise how fans are interacting with bands online.The best of the rest•Event LensAlyson Fielding,Ben Pickering,Dave AddeyUnbeknown to them, Event Lens tapped a theme the Guardian's SXSW editorial team  is already exploring - the idea of offering readers different 'lenses'  through which to experience the festival, whether that's through one  reporter or through one subject. Event Lens let's you combine a hashtag  for an event, so #sxsw with one reporter whose perspective you trust  following, so presents the tweets from everyone they follow on one clean page. Links to video are presented as video on the Event Lens page,  photos and photos and so on.•RompometerSym Roe,Joanna GearyCheer yourself up by tracking how many mentions of 'romps' are in today's Sun and Daily Mail, and see how today compares with other days for  rompiness.•Live CloudYves Van Goethem,Paul Filimon(SoundCloud)Mobile web app that shows multiple media streams visualised by location.•LightboxThai Tran,Nilesh Patel(Lightbox)Lightbox is an Android app that pulls photos from Facebook and Twitter to build a 'social camera roll' on your phone. For the hack, Thai and Nilesh built a Lightbox API that let developers download and aggregate photos, and a feature that shows trending hashtags from your Twitter feed, presenting those with any related photos. Lightbox will launch at SXSW.•Follow FanDavid KendalQuestion and answer tool for crowdsourcing questions to performers after SXSW gigs and sessions.•EventcrushJordan Hatch,Josh PickettTwo stars of Young Rewired State (at just 16) came up with a newspaper-style aggregator for SXSW.•SXSW Attendees Top 10Jameel Syed, Greg Mead(Music Metric)Rating SXSW ands based on sentiment analysis from online sources.•Press Coverage of SXSWJameel Syed, Greg Mead(Music Metric)Scrapes news sites to find who was saying what about SXSW.•FridgeGareth WildA graphical concept rather than a finished hack, Gareth designed the visuals for app like a fridge door that notes, drawings, photos and videos can be saved to.•The Heat MetricChris HuntCalculates the 'buzz' of events and gigs by using 'Klout' influence scores, multiplied by number of mentions divided by tweets - to calculate which events journalists should be covering.•ImgoingtosxswsotouchmeBen Nickolls,Matt Lucht, Paul TannerThis mobile app shows recommendations alongside event listings at SXSW.Hacks by Guardian developers•SXSW ListingsLisa van GelderAutomatically generated listing pages for SXSW musicians and bands.•Gig RecommenderRobbie CluttonUses SXSW gig data and Last.fm to help create a schedule for the festival. Robbie'swritten up his hack idea.•SXSW Music Guide 3000:Matt AndrewsSortable, searchable gig listings based on gig info scraped from the SXSW site.•Visualising the VaccinesAlastair DantAlastair used the Music Metric API andopen-source charts torepresent the popularity of SXSW bands in a mobile and web app.•Guardian Band TrackerMariana SantosAn idea for linking band popularity across different hacks to plot how they compare during the SXSW festival.Remote hacks•From Dusk Till DawnChris Thorpe(ArtFinder),John WillshireChris worked remotely on this app over the weekend. The starting point was  Chris's insomnia, so as a distraction in those lonely hours he devised an app where users can leave short audio comments about artwork and those  play like an audio slideshow. We can expect some form of this to  manifest in ArtFinder, Chris'snew startup.•SXSW+Lanyrd+IsotopeRupert RedingtonBeautiful hack by Rupert Redington, who submitted it remotely. Mashes SXSW session data with conference information from Lanyrd and presents it using Isotope.•Lanyrd SessionsNeil LyonsUses Lanyrd's API for SXSW conference data - set up by the Lanyrd team specifically for the hack weekend - to show whois attending which sessions and help compile a schedule.•GuAliveLawrence JobLiveblogging tool for iPhone, enabling text, photos and video to be published in real time.•MetchaStef LewandowskiWorked on remotely during the weekend, Metcha helps keep track of people you meet at the conference.
BAFTA has announced the nominations for the 2011 GAME British Academy Video Games Awards. 44 contenders appear amid the categories, but it's Ubisoft's historical adventure Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood leading the pack with an impressive seven nominations. Behind it, Call of Duty: Black Ops and Heavy Rain garner six each, while Mass Effect 2 manages five.There is one glaring omission, though. Rockstar's epic Western, Red Dead Redemption, one of the most critically acclaimed releases of the year, appears only in the publicly-voted 'GAME Award of 2010'. The publisherapparentlydecided not to submit the game to BAFTA for consideration.Elsewhere, I'm pleased to see the excellent Windows Phone 7 platformer Mush among the 'Ones to watch' nominations. We've been following the game since witnessing its inception at the X48 Game Jam last year, so good luck toAngry Mango.The award ceremony takes place at the London Hilton on March 16. Here's the full list. Let's have a think about potential winners...ActionAssassin's Creed Brotherhood (Ubisoft Montreal)Battlefield: Bad Company 2 (Electronic Arts/DICE)BioShock 2 (2K Games/2K Marin)Call of Duty: Black Ops (Activision Blizzard/Treyarch)God of War III (SCE Santa Monica Studio)Halo: Reach (Microsoft Games Studios/Bungie)Artistic AchievementAssassin's Creed BrotherhoodCall of Duty: Black OpsGod of War IIIHeavy Rain (Quantic Dream)LIMBO (Playdead Games)Mass Effect 2 (Electronic Arts/BioWare)Best GameAssassin's Creed BrotherhoodFIFA 11 (Electronic Arts/ Electronic Arts Canada)Heavy RainLIMBOMass Effect 2Super Mario Galaxy 2 (Nintendo)FamilyDance Central (Harmonix)Kinect Adventures (Microsoft Games Studios/Good Science Studio)Kinect Sports (Rare)Kinectimals (Frontier Developments Ltd)LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4 (TT Games)Toy Story 3 (Disney Interactive Studios/Avalanche Software)GameplayAssassin's Creed BrotherhoodGod of War IIIHeavy RainLIMBOMass Effect 2Super Mario Galaxy 2HandheldCut the Rope (Chillingo/Zeptolab)God of War: Ghost of Sparta (Ready at Dawn, SCE Santa Monica)LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4Professor Layton and the Lost Future (Nintendo/Level 5 Games)Sonic Colours (SEGA/Sonic Team)Super Scribblenauts (Warner Bros Interactive Entertainment/5th Cell)MultiplayerAssassin's Creed BrotherhoodBattlefield: Bad Company 2Call of Duty: Black OpsHalo: ReachNeed for Speed: Hot PursuitStarcraft II: Wings of LibertyOriginal MusicAlan Wake (Remedy)Fable III (Lionhead Studios)Heavy RainJames Bond 007: Bloodstone (Bizarre Creations)Mass Effect 2Super Mario Galaxy 2Social Network GameBejeweled Blitz (Popcap Games)Farmerama (Bigpoint)FIFA Superstars (EA Sports/Playfish)My Empire (Playfish)Zoo Mumba (Bigpoint)Zuma Blitz (PopCap Games)SportsF1 2010 (Codemasters Birmingham)FIFA 11Football Manager 2011 (SEGA/Sports Interactive)Gran Turismo 5 (Polyphony Digital Inc)International Cricket 2010 (Codemasters/Trickstar Games)Pro Evolution Soccer 2011 (Konami/Winning Eleven Productions)StoryAlan WakeBioShock 2Call of Duty: Black OpsFallout: New Vegas (Bethesda Softworks/Obsidian Entertainment)Heavy RainMass Effect 2StrategyCivilization V (2K Games/Firaxis)Fallout: New VegasFIFA Manager 11 (EA Sports/Bright Future)Napoleon Total War (SEGA/Creative Assembly)Plants vs. Zombies XBLA (PopCap Games)Starcraft II: Wings of Liberty (Blizzard Entertainment)Technical InnovationAssassin's Creed BrotherhoodCall of Duty: Black OpsHalo: ReachHeavy RainKinectimalsSuper Mario Galaxy 2Use of AudioAlan WakeAssassin's Creed BrotherhoodBattlefield: Bad Company: 2Call of Duty: Black OpsDJ Hero 2 (FreeStyleGames)LIMBOBAFTA Ones to Watch Award in association with Dare to Be DigitalMush (Angry Mango)Sculpty (Team Tickle)Twang (That Game Studio)GAME Award of 2010(voting is livehere)Call of Duty: Black OpsDance CentralFIFA 11Halo: ReachHeavy RainLIMBOMass Effect 2Need for Speed: Hot PursuitRed Dead RedemptionSuper Mario Galaxy 2
Nokia is not adopting Microsoft's current Windows Phone 7 platform – which means that there is no chance of any handsets running Microsoft's software before the end of October. It is likely to be a lot later.Rather than using the current version of the Windows Phone platform, first released last October, the mobile phone company is going to wait until a major release of the operating system, codenamed "Mango", is made available this coming October – and that is expected to have a slightly different name from the current Windows Phone 7 name.Stephen Elop, the former Microsoft executive who since September has been chief executive of Nokia, andannounced dramatically last weekthat Nokia will abandon its market-leading in-house Symbian smartphone platform, has been careful throughout the week to refer to the adoption as Windows Phone – and not Windows Phone 7.That, coupled with his repeated refusal to offer any timescale for the introduction of handsets running Windows Phone this year, points to a decision to delay the introduction until the newer version of the platform is available.A Nokia spokesperson said that Nokia has committed to using Windows Phone but would not comment further.Though the difference between Windows Phone 7 and Windows Phone may sound trivial, Elop, who previously ran the hugely profitable Office division of Microsoft, will have been keenly aware of the importance of the difference in naming and the need not to be seen at any future date to have misled investors, analysts or customers.Mary Jo Foley, a ZDNet writer who follows Microsoft closely,previously revealedthat Mango will be renamed, possibly to Windows Phone 7.5, with Windows Phone 8 following at the end of 2012. But Mango, which adds a number of new features including HTML5 support, is not due until autumn at the earliest.However it would have been impossible for Elop to announce last week that Nokia is adopting Windows Phone 7.5 as it would have given away too much about Microsoft's then-unannounced plans, and the delays implicit in Nokia's plans.Yet his refusal to say that Nokia is adopting Windows Phone 7 – a phrase that he has never used in a single one of the dozens of interviews and speeches he has made in the past week – now stands out.Elop has been briefed on upcoming Microsoft branding efforts. For example, at the announcement last week Elop did not mention Microsoft's Zune music platform as one of the benefits of the tieup; he said Microsoft has a "great software platform" in Windows Phone, and the brands that mobile consumers want, "such as Bing, Xbox Live, and Office."Yet neither Elop nor Ballmer mentioned Zune, Microsoft's music service that is expected to replace Nokia's offering in music.That is because in the past few days, growing evidence suggests Zune is being rebranded and that the name will be dropped. Itslogo was noticeably absentfrom Microsoft's press materials about the tieup.A Microsoft spokespersontold ZDNet blogger Mary Jo Foley on Tuesday: "We're not 'killing' any of the Zune services/features in any way. Microsoft remains committed to providing a great music and video experience from Zune on platforms such as Xbox Live, Windows-based PCs, Zune devices and Windows Phone 7, as well as integration with Bing and MSN."Elop would have been briefed on whether Zune could be mentioned as a benefit of the Nokia-Microsoft tieup – and noticeably did not.Analysts have marked down Nokia's stock in the expectation that it will have significant restructuring costs and that it will have problems selling Symbian phones in the face of growing competition from rivals as it tries to ramp up production of Windows Phone models.Elop has repeatedly refused to offer any timescales for the introduction of Nokia handsets running Windows Phone, saying only that Nokia expects to ship them "in volume" in 2012 and that he expects to sell 150m more Symbian handsets. At current sales rates, that would see the last Symbian handset sold in mid-2012, though a deceleration in sales is highly likely as consumers and mobile retailers discard the old platform.On Tuesday he told the Guardian, when challenged on how Nokia could maintain sales if competitors begin to describe Symbian as a dying platform: "Competitors will do whatever they think is right for their business, and, of course, we are going to fight very hard to retain those customers. Note that we have very strong brand equity and we take care of our customers in more countries around the world than anybody else. Our hope is that the good work we do will allow us to defend ourselves against any attacks that may come."He declined to say whether Nokia will remain profitable through the year, saying that he had given sufficient financial guidance in a briefing to analysts last Friday – where he noticeably did not guarantee that Nokia will retain quarter-by-quarter profitability this year.Asked whether Nokia was waiting for the next version of Windows Phone to arrive, Microsoft said: "We are not giving any guidance on product details, timings, markets, operators at the moment, but we can say we target to deliver significant volume of Nokia Windows Phones in 2012."
The most talked-about stand at this year's Mobile World Congress belongs to Google. It's an Android-themed playground, complete with giant green robots, on-brand green sweets and even a slide.Every so often, Google staff wander through distributing limited-edition vinyl toys of the Android mascot, and are mobbed for their trouble. What is most impressive, however, is the way Google has turned Mobile World Congress into a giant game for collectors.It's all about the pin badges – 86 in total – each featuring a different version of the Android mascot. To collect them all, you have to visit stands of Google's partners throughout the show, including Sony Ericsson, HTC, Samsung, Qualcomm, Nvidia and Vodafone.Google's stand at the Mobile World Congress. Photograph: Stuart Dredge"Meet the Android community," explains the printed map and instructions given to visitors arriving at the Google stand. Collecting all 86 has quickly become the week's main focus for many MWC attendees.It's very clever, and not just because Google has gamified the process of slogging around the sprawling Mobile World Congress site. The game highlights the inroads Android has made into the mobile industry, while also hammering home the message that Android is a strong brand in its own right.Look beyond the giant robots, and you'll see another message being sent out by Google's stand, which is packed with developers showing off their apps on Android smartphones and tablets. It's a powerful statement of intent.Now, if you'll excuse me, I've just got 82 more badges to collect ...
The Lego gaming juggernaut shows no sign of slowing down. Last week's Clone Wars news is followed up by the announcement that Lego Pirates of the Caribbean will be arriving on 3DS, as well as other platforms.The reveal trailer shows Captain Jack Sparrow and co in Lego formand hints that the novelty may not have worn off just yet. The action looks to be typical Lego gaming although the 3DS does add a unique feature called "Pirate Duel". This uses the 3DS' Street Pass feature – you know, the ability for the 3DS to automatically detect other 3DS consoles.So if little Jonny and Jane are out on a shopping trip and have their 3DS to hand then they can have a "pirate duel", presumably while their respective parents stand around and talk about the weather. The duel sees players battle it out for coins and points to gain experience and rewards. You would assume this feature is available for traditional multiplayer with people you know rather than just random opponents found by your 3DS.As you'd expect, the action looks familiar to previous Lego games. So expect lots of collecting, jumping and child-friendly combat set in the Caribbean. There are apparently 70 playable characters too, though quite how many – maybe five? – will be familiar to casual fans of the films remain to be seen. The Lego-fied cut scenes should be as amusing as ever though.But what do the 3D elements of the 3DS game add to the standard 2D version (Lego Pirates is being released on practically every standard format)? Yes, you've guessed it – depth. Disney Interactive Boss Adam Sussman says:The Nintendo 3DS lets players experience a Lego game like never before, and allows us to add new depth to the Pirates of the Caribbean universe.The game incorporates new features such as the Pirate Duel system and high resolution 3D effects to deliver fun and clever gameplay fans of the LEGO series expect.Star Wars, Indiana Jones, Batman, Harry Potter and now Pirates. Enough already? Or can you not wait to play as a Lego Jack Sparrow? If so, what film franchise would you like to see given the Lego treatment next?
Block 19.14am:(That's Central European Time, not London's GMT of course..)• Eric Schmidt's keynote speech last night was a sight more interesting than Steve Ballmer's. So good we split it into two stories: last night's onhis vision of the smartphone future, and another on all sorts of elements -HTML5, Android, ChromeOS (being pushed as "virus-free"), and plenty more. Worth a read.• That HTC tablet from yesterday? Tony Cripps, Ovum principal analyst:"HTC's first tablet – the Android-powered HTC Flyer – is a cautious first move by the company into the space and not one that it expects to compete on a volume basis with its smartphones. Nonetheless, the Flyer is noteworthy in bringing some innovation – and even some retro features – to the space."On the innovation side, the Flyer features HTC Watch, a video download and instant playback service that will live or die depending on the size and breadth of the content catalog HTC is able to build for it. It may also benefit from the partnership HTC announced last week with OnLive for online gaming. Either way, HTC deserves credit for pushing its own boundaries and acting on the need to bring more than just hardware to market if it is to remain competitive."Retro-wise, the Flyer's "HTC Scribe" pen-based input option – a first on 'lite OS' tablet devices, if not Windows models – may seem anachronistic given the current obsession with multi-touch (it supports that too!) but may well end up being widely copied if its utility can be adequately demonstrated."To which one can only say that "if" covers a multitude of possibilities.• Three ecosystems? That's what Stephen Elop (head of Nokia) and Steve Ballmer (head of Microsoft) keep on saying about the smartphone business - that there's only Apple, Android and now them. Which of course leaves out RIM, which happens to sell rather a lot of smartphones all around the world.So it was good to see Jim Balsillie, co-chief executive of RIM, asked about this on Reuters TV. His response:"I think there are a lot of different environments out there. Blackberry is number one in UK. Number one in LATAM [Latin America] and number one in North America and number two worldwide. We've grown 300,000 per cent internal organic [ie without acquisition] in the last 14 years, but we have to earn our credibility every single day and work hard and try to be relevant."Translation:screw you guys and your "three ecosystem" stuff and remind us again how many Windows Phone handsets have actually sold.Ah, the slings and arrows of business. Meanwhile, later today we're seeing Sanjay Cha, chairman and CEO of Motorola Mobility (think: Motorola Xoom tablet) - any questions in particular you want asked? Fire away.Block 210.43am:Meanwhile, back at the stock market, RIM's stock (the blue line) is up a few per cent on the past few days, while Microsoft (red) and Nokia's (green) are still down on the week - you can see people buying into the RIM stock as the news breaks about Nokia and Microsoft.RIM (blue) v Microsoft (red) v Nokia (green) share prices since the announcement on Friday of the Nokia-Microsoft tieup. RIM is getting the benefit.Maybe call it "revenge of the unmentioned".Block 311.27am:Smartphones with Intel chips will start appearing this year, according to Paul Otellini, chief executive of Intel. No further detail as yet - he said it during a panel discussion - but that's going to be interesting to see. Intel certainly needs to start doing something in this area (remember,smartphones now outsell PCs.But Intel's problem has been that it simply doesn't have efficient enough chips - certainly not when compared to ARM's offerings for the sector. That's why Microsoft has announced that it's going to get the next version of Windows to run on ARM, and why the Atom chip which has done so well for Intel in netbooks (and I'll have some more on netbooks in a subsequent blogpost: reports of their death have been, er, exaggerated ..by me) isn't appearing in any of those damn tablet things that are breaking out like nits in a nursery.Which smartphones, which manufacturers? No word just yet. We'll await.Right - I'm off to get some hands-on time with a Meego tablet and, with luck, HP WebOS tablets and see Sonos's Android app.Block 411.47am:Ah,CNet has the Otellini story. Who are those handsets coming from? "We can't preannounce our customers. I think it's going to be pretty exciting."Gnnh. OK.Otellini defended the PC business' 17% growth last year, and said customers won't settle on just one machine."No single device wins," Otellini said. "We don't see an environment where one machines satisfies all needs. At least for the next four to five years, we're likely to see multiple devices and multiple form factors simply because people want to do multiple things."And in an echo of that famous scene from the Graduate....Asked during a panel discussion after his remarks where he'd invest with the intent for returns over the next five to ten years, Otellini had a quick response: "Batteries.""We can't keep using lithium ion," Otellini said. "It'll be silicon-based, higher-capacity, longer life. Whoever invents that is going to make a fortune."OK, now really off to find those Meego tablets. No idea is they'll be demo'd by Mrs Robinson.Block 51.48pm:Some quickies.• Went to see the MeeGo demos. It's interesting, but for PC magazine to call MeeGo on a netbook "the worst product ... at Mobile World Congress so far" is unfair, and misses the point: MeeGo isn't about doing computer grunt work, it's about a few simple things done well. (The netbooks showing it did seem to have had better days.) To my mind it's more like BeOS - focussed around media, internet (and also social networks). Interesting to watch, and Intel echoes what it's been saying about "disappointed" over Nokia's decision to put it on a lifeboat behind the ship (I paraphrase about the lifeboat).• Sonos, the stream-music-around-your-house company, is introducing an Android app in March. It has taken a year to implement and will work on versions from 2.1 upwards. Neatly, it can access the hardware volume buttons on an Android phone (can't do that on the iPhone) and also take speech input to find artist or track names - which is very cool.Interesting points: there isn't much demand yet from Windows Phone 7 users - but nor yet from Android tablet users. They'll weigh up where the demand comes from before they develop for the next ones. The Sonos Android app won't load on 7-inch tablets like the Samsung Galaxy because it's not built for that screen size. But no doubt someone will figure out how to get around that.And: Spotify, the music subscription service, is doing very well on Sonos - the churn rate (how much people give up subscriptions v how many new subscriptions you get) is tiny, at 1% or 2%, compared to the much higher levels on other platforms. Likely reason: Sonos Spotify users can listen to it all over the place, so they don't feel like they're missing out on music.• HP is showing off its TouchPad tablet, which looks quite neat: the UI and organisation (using "stacks") is really clever, organising what you're doing into related pages from different apps. My observation: the hard part is simply going to be getting developers - HP may need to encourage a lot of web app (HTML5/CSS/JScript/JSON) development in the short term. But as I said the other day, if HP can't capitulate on Nokia's hassles then it doesn't deserve a place in the smartphone business.Block 67.06pm:Spoke to Motorola chief executive Sanjay Jha, who defended the $800 price of the Motorola Xoom on the basis that the top-end iPad costs $729 (that's 3G + Wi-Fi) and the Xoom (which will be, remember, the first 10-inch Android tablet with Honeycomb) will be software-upgradeable to connect to LTE (Long Term Evolution) mobile - which should run at 50Mbps.And he said that there will be lower-end Xooms with Wi-Fi only, but he's not going to announce prices yet because that makes them a target for competitors.Tons more, but they're throwing us out of the only place in MWC that has connectivity. Ah, the irony. Signing off for now, but join us for the embers on Thursday..
Eric Schmidt's keynote on the second day of Mobile World Congress contained lots of interesting glimpses into Google's thinking – certainly, it has to be said, a much more intriguing one than Steve Ballmer's, and as informative as (but broader than) that by Dick Costolo of Twitter, who followed Ballmer on Monday.A few choice elements from Schmidt's speech, and from answers to questions:• "We've got an OS for phones called 'Gingerbread' and one for tablets called 'Honeycomb'. G and H. You can imagine that the next will begin with I and will be named after a dessert, and it will unite them. Android releases follow on in a roughly six-month cycle." (Twitter folk are suggesting that the "I" will be for "Ice Cream" or "Ice Cream Sandwich".)• ChromeOS is "unrelated" and targeted at netbooks and PCs. "I learned a long time ago, don't try to force technology to be merged."• Hardware makers will start producing ChromeOS computers this spring. "It's virus-free, very fast, and allows for remote management – the things that IT managers are always asking for. We believe cloud computing can be applied to the desktop. ChromeOS won't run Windows apps, but there are some apps that you might consider as a substitution."• Chrome the browser has 120 million active users, up threefold in the past year. "Chrome will provide a programming platform for this next generation of cloud-based applications."• HTML5 could eventually become the platform that all apps, whether for mobiles or for PCs, are written on. "It's taken 20 years because the underlying standards had to evolve from the proprietary Mac and Windows platforms. But they have both adopted HTML5 as a future direction. So that means in future a lot of apps will be running in HTML5 in both mobile and non-mobile form." (That's interesting because it implies that we'll be platform-agnostic.)• YouTube doubled revenue in 2010: "We're finally now able to monetise professional content. We have a display [ad] business [online] that's taking off." (Notably, he didn't suggest that YouTube was profitable, and you'd expect that he would have made a lot of noise about it if it were.)• He has been "surprised" by the monetisation of apps – in the Apple and then the Google ecosystem. (He sounded as though he was surprised at the idea that people will pay for apps; of course if they do then Google, unlike Apple, doesn't get a cut and can't necessarily sell ads against them.)• He thinks that the dwindling number of IPv4 internet addresses is "one of the urgent problems" that the technology world needs to tackle. He feels that it threatens the vision which he had outline of pervasive internet connectivity wherever you are. (This vision was shown up rather neatly when one of his executives came up to show off his MovieMaker app for Honeycomb on the Motorola Xoom: he wanted to connect to YouTube, but the Wi-Fi was as dead as could be.)On IPv4, where Google is going to participate (with Facebook and a number of other big sites in an "IPv6 day"), he says "the general consensus is that modern devices and modern routers fully route IPv6. The problem is that if you accept an IPv6 address at  a router, you have to be able to be able to make the connection the whole way through to the other end. There's concern about the intermediate boxes like for network address translation (NAT). We're likely to find some problems there ... the technology is there, but it's important to make sure we do tests. We were concerned at one point that [the lack of IPv4 addresses] would mean that we'd have to run an entire continent like India on IPv6, but that turned out not to be the case."Even so, the time is now, we have to deal with it. In 1994 [presumably when he was at Novell] we did the math and said we'd run out of IPv4 addresses in 2008, plus or minus three years, so we're right on schedule."• Is Facebook a competitor? Google isn't seeing it affecting advertising income. "Our main competitor is Microsoft and Bing."• Translation systems in the cloud now mean that you can understand anything because you can get it translated on the fly. (Just about.) "That means you can talk to anyone anywhere in the world."• The growth in access to mobile "does change the power dynamic between governments and citizens in very interesting ways."• "The thing I'm proudest of is that this [mobile technology] is for the masses, not the elites. Because of the work that is spreading mobile devices, another 2 billion people will join the conversation, and they're coming in with human values, human concerns, human problems, and because of the designs that you [Mobile World Congress attendees – so, phone networks, handset makers, app makers etc] helped build, it's possible it will change their lives more than it changed any of ours, and that's what I'm proudest of."
Welcome to Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox ... but before you join in the chat, why not check out the details of our very firstGuardian Gamesblog Live event, hosted by our very own Keith Stuart. It's taking place THIS Saturday, 19 February, and tickets are just £12 each.
A quick burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft's ecosystem is a tough sell to Verizon &gt;&gt; CNET Reviews"The bottom line, [Verizon CTO Tony] Melone said, is that Verizon has what it needs from its current partners. "I don't think Verizon needs the Nokia and Microsoft relationship," he said. "Right now the three OS players we see for our network are Android, Apple, and RIM."The Pocket PC Paradox &gt;&gt; asymcoFrom way back in the archives (November 2009, in fact): "There is an implied message in Android advocacy that once more licensees join in, volumes will be distributed among a broad set of companies benefiting from a healthy rivalry. This broad licensing will be a boon for volumes and for user choice and the platform itself will prosper. "I'm going to argue here that there will be no healthy distribution of volumes or profits in the Android platform." Interesting, and despite - or because of - its age, this looks to be proving correct. Lots of Android entrants; little sign that the profits are being evenly spread. Applied to Windows Phone, that implies that if HTC does well at Android it will abandon WP7 to Nokia. Monopoly follows for "Nokindows" with WP7.Google Algorithm, Spam, "Content Farms", Life and Death for Sites &gt;&gt; InfothoughtSeth Finkelstein: "One of the concepts I've tried to get into certain discourse (and, for various reasons, pretty much failed) concerns the effect Google can have by making algorithmic changes which either favor or disfavor certain types of sites. When I attempt to explain this, usually to various people whose education was in law or philosophy or other humanities, the first problem I often find is that they have no idea what I'm talking about. They've heard Google doesn't make specific sites ranking choices. This then seems to displace anything else in terms of concepts."Top UK Mobile Sites by Total Minutes Spent &gt;&gt; ComscoreFacebook, as you might guess, is at the top, and Google second (though miles behind). Some of the others may surprise you though. Remember, this is for mobile.IE9 vs. Firefox 4, graphically &gt;&gt; Mozilla blogsThe folk at Mozilla seem a trifle piqued at Microsoft's claims of IE9's wonderful standards-ness.Action at a Distance – On Microsoft and Nokia"WP7 has exacting hardware requirements, including: - a 480x800 resolution screen with capacitive touch sensors- 1GHz ARM7 CPU- DirectX 9 capable GPU- 256 MB RAM, 8 GB Flash memory- Various sensors – accelerometer, compass, ambient light level, proximity, assisted GPS- 5 MP camera with LED flash- FM radio tuner- 6 hardware buttons "Clearly, it's going to be some time before even a relatively upmarket $99-upfront no-contract phone can hope to meet those specifications, let alone the huge variety of models Nokia sells below this price point. Indeed, a review of Nokia system specifications even shows that most of the 111.5 million 'smartphones' Nokia sold last year are far below this specification." Which is something of a problem once the 150m Symbian phones are sold, surely. That is, if they do sell.Microsoft And Nokia: Together, They Could Make the Worst Phone Ever &gt;&gt; Seeking AlphaOuch. The whole way through.Public consultation: Plans for a Public Data Corporation &gt;&gt; Cabinet Office"Right now we're a little less focused on datasets and data products created by public sector organisations operating in the fields of health, education, welfare and criminal justice. However, if you've been impressed by something you've seen in those fields – a user-friendly process or system, for example – we're more than happy to hear from you on this too. "This site will be running from 14 February to 11 March. To help structure and stimulate the discussion we've come up with a few questions. These are listed below. The hyperlinks will take you to a section of this site where you can respond in free text." The only way it could be improved would be if we could see the responses too.An open letter to Nokia shareholders and institutional investors &gt;&gt; Nokia Plan BOuch. Nine young Nokia shareholders want Elop out and to restrict Microsoft partnership to a "tactical exercise focused primarily on North American market". They plan to challenge company's new direction in next AGM on 3 May 2011.Who's who on the Silicon Roundabout? &gt;&gt; Brand RepublicUseful bit of mapping here. Not an exhaustive compilation, but 30 of the "buzziest" make the grade.What is an FOI request? &gt;&gt; FOI ManMore complex than you might think. "You would not believe the hours and days of my life that I have spent arguing with colleagues about whether a piece of correspondence should be classed as 'FOI' or not. Never mind the fact that unless they're planning to withhold the information it really doesn't matter as long as they answer within 20 working days. Or that if they are planning to withhold it, then it definitely should be dealt with under FOI procedures. It causes real angst to people. "Why? Generally because, rightly or wrongly, people perceive FOI procedures within their authority as more complicated than other processes."Mobile World Congress 2011 Day 1: Nokia's Competition &gt;&gt; Nokiausers"The first thing I spotted here was the very strong prescence of Samsung, and LG, both offering an amazing array of stunning devices running Android, and the performance of Android on these devices was mighty impressive too, so quick, and no lag it was a real eye opener for me.Â· The only previous experience I had with Android was on the early Nexus device, which was running quite an old version of Android.Â·Since that experience, the OS has certainly come on leaps and bounds, and I now understand why Stephen Elop was firm on making the statement last night, that Nokia's number 1 mission is to take on the mighty Android as they are currently spreading like wildfire, and moving so quickly in the mobile world." It reads like someone who has been recently released from long-term solitary confinement who discovers that there is this thing called "Android" and "dual-core processors".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Mobile phones in the future will be able to monitor our health, alert us to nearby sales and "do things that we haven't even begun to think of", Google's chief executive and chairman Eric Schmidt told the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona on Tuesday evening.Promising a world in which a further two billion people would be connected by mobile phone, Schmidt said that "pretty soon, in a year or two, with the phones many of you have already and the tablets, you will never forget anything. Starting soon it will be possible to remember the hotels you went to, the pictures you took, the friends you met, because computer memories last forever."He denied that Google was being affected by the rapid rise of the social networking site Facebook, insisting that Microsoft remained the search company's biggest rival. "We've seen no evidence that advertising on Facebook is hurting our advertising in any way. Facebook is additive [to Google's business]. Microsoft is a core competitor and likely to remain our main rival for a long time."He added that he "would have loved" for the Finnish mobile phone company Nokia, which last week announced a tie-up with Microsoft, to have chosen the Google's Android software platform for its future smartphones."We would like them to adopt Android in the future," Schmidt said. "We're sorry that they made a different choice. We certainly tried [to persuade them]." It has been suggested that both Microsoft and Google offered Nokia financial help running to tens of millions of pounds if it chose their competing smartphone platforms. Nokia did discuss the matter with Google, but talks broke down.Schmidt said that rapid improvements in the power of mobile phones and their built-in processors meant that top-of-the-line smartphones such as the Google Nexus S would be common and cheap in a few years' time, transforming the experience of many people."In the next decade, because I'm a computer scientist, I believe very strongly in the optimistic view of what we can do with computers and science. If you look at problems like global warming, terrorism and [the need for] financial transparency, they can all be helped by computing power. Those are fundamentally information problems, and that's what computer science is about."Schmidt, 55, announced in January that he will step aside as chief executive in April, to be replaced by Larry Page, one of its co-founders who ran the company until Schmidt joined in 2001.But Schmidt said Page was happy for him to travel and make speeches like the one he gave: "When we talked about making [Google's management] more efficient, Larry said 'you get to fly around more'. If Larry's awake he's at his desk now, while Sergey [Brin, the other Google co-founder] is working on new opportunities that you'll see." He shrugged off suggestions that the company might buy Twitter: "We love Twitter and I love to tweet," he said when asked whether Google was "interested" in Twitter.Schmidt said that people starting to write software now were beginning with mobile phones rather than PCs, because smartphones capable of connecting to the internet began to outsell them in the final quarter of 2010 – "and the PC isn't going to catch up".He said the biggest opportunities lay in smartphones that "with your permission" would be aware of your interests and be able to alert you to items of interest, whether they matched your personal tastes or your desire to purchase items and services.He alluded to Groupon, the local coupon company which last year turned down a $6bn (£3.7bn) offer from Google: "once your phone knows where the person is, via an opt-in service, then a business model where a phone can alert you to a buying opportunity should revolutionise business. Look at Groupon – these models around consumerism really do work when they're tied to location."Schmidt also suggested cars drive themselves – "perhaps with a kill switch in case there are bugs. They would certainly drive themselves better than you can when you're drunk. But it might take a couple of decades."Google revealed last year it had put a number of self-driving cars on US roads.
Ok, for me it was more aboutJamie and the Magic Torch, Mr Benn, Why Don't You? and Grange Hill but Sesame Street is definitely up there when it comes to kids telly from back in the day. Warner Bros will be banking on this nostalgia as they have just announced Sesame Street: Once Upon a Monster for the Kinect (Xbox 360). Most surprisingly of all the game will be developed byTim Schaferof Monkey Island and Brutal Legend fame. Quite what influence he will have on the finished game will be revealed when released this Autumn, but he certainly seemskeen.Sesame Street had a profound effect on me, and many members of the Double Fine team, when we were children. So did video games. Now many of us are parents and we want to share with our kids the great experiences we had, but also the completely new ones made possible by cutting-edge technology such as Kinect for Xbox 360. So it's a labour of love on many levels.The game itself sees kids and parents team up with Cookie Monster, Elmo and co as they adventure in a "living storybook". The press release promises plenty of dancing, jumping and flying. Being Sesame Street there is some education involved too with the ability to "learn key life skills".Yes, it's easy to be cynical but with Schafer's team adding some sparkle to the script and action sequences Sesame Street could be one of those family games that – while likely to be ignored by most hardcore gamers – achieves a Just Dance-style crossover.What do you think? Intrigued by the premise or will you be too busy playing the new Call of Duty to even notice?
Apple found more than 91 children working at its suppliers last year, nine times as many as the previous year, according to itsannual report on its manufacturers.The US company has also acknowledged for the first time that 137 workers were poisoned at a Chinese firm making its products and said less than a third of the facilities it audited were complying with its code on working hours.Apple usually refuses to comment on which firms make its goods, but came under increased scrutiny last yearfollowing multiple suicides at electronics giant Foxconn, one of its main suppliers.Last month, anti-pollutionactivists accused the firmof being more secretive about its supply chain in China than almost all of its rivals.The report says Apple found 91 children working at 10 facilities. The previous year it found 11 at three workplaces.It ordered most to pay the children's education costs but fired one contractor which was using 42 minors and had "chosen to overlook the issue", the company said. It also reported the vocational school that had arranged the employment to the authorities for falsifying student IDs and threatening retaliation against pupils who revealed their ages.Apple said it had strengthened its checks on age because of concerns about the falsification of ages by such schools and labour agencies. It also audited 127 facilities last year, mostly for the first time, compared with 102 in 2009.The report shows a marked decrease in compliance on working hour requirements of a maximum 60-hour week with one day off. In 2009, only 46% met the standard; last year that fell to 32%.Only 57% were compliant with its code on preventing working injuries and 70% or fewer met standards on air emissions, managing hazardous substances, and environmental permits and reporting.But there were some signs of improvement in other areas. Compliance on wages and benefits improved from 65% in 2009 to 70%.The report also says that137 workers at a Suzhou supplier were poisoned by n-hexane, a hydrocarbon,last year. Previous reports had indicated 62 employees were affected and Apple had declined to answer repeated queries about the incident.A spokesperson said it had "provided more transparency" regarding the company and Foxconn given recent concerns.The report said Apple was "disturbed and deeply saddened" by the Foxconn deaths. Apple's chief operating officer, Tim Cook, and other executives went to Shenzhen to see the facilities and the firm commissioned an independent review of conditions."I think it is positive that after such a long delay Apple has finally acknowledged the [n-hexane] problem," said Ma Jun of the Institute for Public and Environmental Affairs, one of the organisations that criticised the US firm last month.But he added: "This report shows that Apple is still not ready to accept public scrutiny ... We have listed the names of some Apple suppliers but there is no mention of them [here]."Debby Chan, of Hong Kong's Students and Scholars Against Corporate Misbehaviour campaign, said there was no way for others to monitor the behaviour of suppliers because Apple would not identify them or even say how many it had."I regard this report as a means of image-building rather than ensuring compliance with labour rights," she added.Apple said that immigrant workers in countries such as Malaysia had been reimbursed $3.4m (£2.1m) in "exorbitant" recruitment fees since 2008 thanks to its checks. It has also increased efforts to crack down on the use of potential conflict minerals and expanded social responsibility training.It is unusual in publishing its audit report and said 40% of the facilities audited last year said Apple was the first company to check them for social responsibility compliance.The report also said that 99% of facilities met its freedom of association requirements.But independent unions are not allowed on the Chinese mainland and Geoff Crothall, of Hong Kong's China Labour Bulletin, said: "It is Henry Ford-style freedom of association: You can have any union as long as it is [in] the All-China Federation of Trade Unions."Last month,Apple reported record profits of $6bn for the fourth quarter of 2010.• This article was amended on 16 February 2011. The original misquoted Geoff Crothall as referring to the Associated Federation of Trade Unions. This has been corrected to the All-China Federation of Trade Unions.
TheMars500 projectis a simulated mission to the Red Planet, currently being staged within an enormous hangar in Moscow. Three crew members from the European Space agency are spending around 520 days couped up together in a 'space station' so that scientists can observe the effect that such a long period of isolation can have on human bheaviour. An actual Mars mission probably won't be on the cards for another 20 years, but at least by then we'll know what it is that's likely to drive the crew to distraction while floating through thousands of miles of dark nothingness.Anyway, to keep the crew occupied during the experiment, they've been provided with a range of DVDs and video games. A photo released by ESA, shows Diego Urbina playing on a Wii balance board. Nintendo's console was surely top of the agency's must-have list as it will allow astronauts to exercise while fending off boredom. But we can also see a set of Guitar Hero drums in the background. Was this a wise choice?In some ways, music games are the perfect interactive entertainment on a long space flight. They're multiplayer, so crew members can enhance their group interaction skills, but they're alsocooperative, thereby lessening the possibility of people coming to blows (unless, of course, the electronics engineer just totally fails to nail the tricky lead solo in Slayer's Raining Blood).Guitar games are also physical and mildly creative. Of course, there could be problems if a lone crew member decides to practice one song over and over again at full volume while everyone else is performing a series of intricate low-gravity experiments. In space, maybe no one can you hear you scream, but they can certainly hear you rocking out to Megadeth's Hanger 18 if they're in the next module.So what game wouldyoubring along if you were to spend over a year in a series of small compartments, the largest of them no bigger than a bendy bus? Would you go it alone with Civilization III? or maybe pull your colleagues into lengthy Left4Dead sessions? Science needs to know...
The last time the WPP chief executive, Sir Martin Sorrell, attended Mobile World Congress, he warned mobile operators and handset firms they needed to start working more closely together to make mobile a viable platform for the advertising and media industries."We warned at the time that if the networks and handset manufacturers didn't get together, somebody would push them together," he told the audience during a keynote speech this afternoon. "We identified Google at that time, but we frankly didn't see the Apple revolution coming."Sorrell's appearance in a session titled "The Power of Apps" was a sign of the impact applications are having not just on those operators and handset makers, but on the wider media world.Sorrell pressed home the point, reeling off a succession of stats: the average iOS user has downloaded about 60 apps per device; cumulative App Store downloads will overtake iTunes music and video downloads in a matter of months; Gartner has predicted 17.7bn app downloads and $15.1bn of app revenues.WPP is involved in apps in three ways. First, it is encouraging its established brands to invest in mobile talent. Second, it is encouraging its online agencies to "embrace mobile in a more aggressive way – mobile for us is part of the online revolution". Finally, WPP is investing in concepts and companies that Sorrell thinks will improve its mobile capabilities."Apps are a classic example of this shift from broadcast to multifaceted engagement," he said. "They enable brands to connect with consumers at numerous touchpoints, whether at home or in the shops ... It opens a lot of opportunities for our clients, but also challenges."His mention of shops was deliberate, for Sorrell said WPP sees huge potential for retailers and consumer brands for apps that tap into location and commerce. "Location targeting is the holy grail that we as advisers on behalf of our clients are looking for," he said."Applications will be a significant opportunity for retailers to open another virtual shop, with the added benefit of it being in consumers' pockets both when they are out shopping – 'Can I get it cheaper elsewhere?' – and when they're not at the shops, because impulse purchases can be made anywhere."Sorrell also said he looks forward to mobile browsers becoming more powerful, enabling mobile websites to use features currently restricted to native apps. He resisted the urge to call apps "an evolutionary dead end" destined to be replaced by mobile websites, though, saying they will always offer some features that mobile sites cannot, while remaining popular for regularly accessed content such as news, weather and train times."It is likely that mobile apps will be the fat part of the curve in terms of usage, whereas the mobile internet will be the long tail," said Sorrell.
Block 18.51am:Welcome to day 2, which starts with HTC weeping into its cornflakes after its embargoes for new phones were broken by this "internet" thing. So the big reveal that it wanted to have at its press conference has gone the way of the dawn.The Seattle Times - obviously -has the skinny, which includes two new Facebook phones designed to appeal to teenagers, incorporating as they do a button that lets you go straight to your Facebook status to update it.And there's more: six products in all.• Desire S handset running Android 2.3 ("Gingerbread") with a 3.7" display• Wildfire S, "more youth-oriented". "We did our research - people who buy these products are style-oriented, so we will be offering it in multiple colours." That's what Drew Bamford, HTC's head of user experience, said last week, back in the days when the embargoes held.• Incredible S, which was previously only available in the US on Verizon. Yup, another Android phone. DLNA-compliant so you can stream files around your house from it, 8 megapixel camera, 720p video. "This is the mainstream smartphone," said Bamford.• the two Facebook phones (though they don't have the Facebook name on; however there is a "f" logo on the button). "It's taking social networking to the next level," says Bamford.Interesting to contrast Dick Costolo of Twitter last night who said hedidn't see the need for a Twitter smartphone- he'd rather just have it integrated into every phone.The HTC Facebook phones are called, wait for it, Salsa and Cha Cha. Nice. "To be released in Q2 [the second quarter of the year]." (Pricing? None yet.) He reckons that the potential ownership "skews younger - about 18 to 25." I'd guess more like 11-18, but we'll see.And finally, the HTC Flyer - a 7-inch tablet. Aluminium unibody construction, running Android 2.4 (which is "Gingerbread" for dual-core systems). HTC has also put some of the Sense UI onto it - redesigned the Home screen, given it a 3D feel where you see a carousel of apps. (I have to say it didn't thrill me: it seemed like a way to try to induce some difference between that and every other 7" Android tablet, but not a user interface breakthrough in its own right.) It will be updatable to Android 3.0 ("Honeycomb") when that comes out - a date that still remains shrouded in mystery but might be AprilThe Flyer also comes with an active stylus, in addition to all those "finger" things that you bring to it. Wait, a stylus?  "A new way to interact," says Bamford. (Sure, I'm thinking, in 1992.) "It will allow more precision for signing PDFs and marking books... and making notes [in the Notes application].. and simple drawings." The stylus is pressure-sensitive.The Flyer will also come with various content, acquired when HTC bought Saffron last week, for Europe and the US.So, Mr Bamford, how are you going to make this one different from all the other 7-inch tablets out there? "A tablet running standard Android isn't a particularly compelling proposition. What it requires is a redesign, and some compelling content and experiences built into the product." So, basically. HTC is trying to give it a leg up by starting off with its own little ecosystem of content.Pricing? No price. (Can we say we're weary of companies announcing tablets and then not announcing prices?) Availability? "Q2". Ah, the long days of spring/summer beckon.Here's the interesting thing, though, out of all of this. What do you notice about all these six devices? That's right - they're all running Android. What is none of the phones running? Windows Phone 7. Who wasone of Microsoft's launch partners for Windows Phone 7, "going big" with five phones?HTC.Remember what they said back then?"Windows Phone 7 is an entirely fresh mobile experience, on which HTC is excited to be going big. We see tremendous customer opportunities with the integration of Microsoft's most popular services like Xbox LIVE and Zune," said Peter Chou, CEO of HTC Corporation. "The value Microsoft is bringing to mobile customers around the world sets a new benchmark for the industry. HTC will be introducing five new HTC Windows Phone 7 smartphones at launch to support our customers with a broad variety of choice."Do you get the feeling that HTC's excitement about Windows Phone 7 has, um, dimmed a bit?Block 210.17am:Nokia has made the jump off the burning platform, but its share price now seems to be sinking:Nokia share price since Thursday: not encouraging..Block 310.21am:However Microsoft's share price, which you would expect to rise at least a little if people think that Nokia is getting the sticky end of the deal, isn't improving either. What is it investors don't like about this deal?Microsoft share price in the five days up to 15 February: if Nokia's is falling, why isn't this rising?.Block 410.59am:Reaction to the HTC phones from Ovum analyst Nick Dillon:"While not officially known as 'Facebook phones', HTC's socially oriented ChaCha and Salsa smartphones certainly raise the bar in terms of mobile implementations of Facebook. It is also somewhat ironic that the devices use Google's Android platform to enable that experience."Ironic, yes, true. The HTC phones and the Flyer tablet will be coming "soon" to Three in the UK. Prices? Not given. Dates? Not given.Meanwhile IMS Research thinks the growth of Android is going to spill over into other areas:There will be an installed base of 140 million Android portable devices, including smartphones and tablets, by the end of 2011, according to IMS Research forecasts. The market intelligence firm says the recent unveiling of Google's Android 3.0 (Honeycomb) operating system for tablets, along with enhancements to the Android Market website, will do much to enhance growth prospects for this segment."This provides an exciting opportunity for pay-TV operators, which have traditionally been tethered to the living room, to expand the reach of their brands to multiple portable platforms with apps development," says Anna Hunt, principal analyst and author of the IMS Research'sConvergence in Home Entertainment report.I'm not sure that many people will really want to pay a pay-TV operator for TV content on their smartphone or tablet - wouldn't it be more likely that the network operator or some intermediary (like Netflix) would do the task?Then again, here's an interesting question: would you prefer to pay money for extra services such as TV on your smartphone/tablet to your network operator, or a pay TV operator? (Granted, in the US and UK it's quite possible for them to be the same.)Block 51.34pm:By the way we missed the Steve Ballmer keynote last night in which, gasp, he showed off Windows Phone 7 and his new best friend Stephen Elop. This is the same Windows Phone 7 that he launched here last year, but - as one journalist commented to me - it says something that he had to go through the whole process of showing it off again. "Does anyone know it?"V3 werehardly bowled over:Now on to IE9 in our update release later this year. He's going to show it running on the phone, but first PC information. IE9 faster than FireFox 4 Beta, video demonstration claims. Now showing it running against iPhone4, which lacks hardware acceleration, and it certainly does look a lot faster.HTML5 in IE9 allows h.264 video display, although demo doesn't work (surprise!), and he also claims speed of net browsing is akin to running a downloaded app. Multi-tasking much faster than currently supported, down from four to 10 seconds to almost instant switching. Saving many seconds over a year, one assumes.Also task-switcher function built in, so you can go between numerous applications at once. Also adding support for third-party applications to play music in the background, which previously was not possible. He's demoing it with July For Kings. (Never 'eard of 'em).These updates not only updates, apparently, but no date for this raft of updates.One journalist familiar with the matter called it "an OS update which he keynoted for 45 minutes."Block 61.38pm:Shock of shocks, there are more Android phones.From the Wall Street Journal:Chinese privately-held telecom equipment maker Huawei Technologies Co. Tuesday announced a range of new smart devices including an Android-based tablet and a super slim smartphone.At the ongoing Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Huawei presented its new Ideos S7 Slim tablet, based on version 2.2 of Google Inc's (GOOG) Android software.The launch of the tablet is planned for April and should cost around £350-400 before subsidies, the company said.Huawei also announced a new super slim Ideos X3 smartphone, just 11.2 millimeters deep with a 3.2 inch display. The phone is based on the latest version of Android, Gingerbread, and will start shipping in March at around £150 before subsidies.Is it just me, or does a 7-inch tablet running Android 2.2 feel very... summer 2010?Block 71.40pm:Back from speaking to Stephen Elop, which was what is known in the trade as a bunfight, with five journalists from five countries.Key points: still no dates for launch of a Nokindows phone; no comment on whether there will be 6,000 redundancies at Nokia Finland (as being bruited by unions there); won't comment on whether Nokia would just cut prices on the 150m Symbian phones he says it's going to sell, nor comment on whether Nokia is going to stay profitable through the transition. Whew, there's a lot of no commenting.As to the market reaction (see earlier in the day for how the stock is still falling) - he says that that is the market perceiving risk in the short-term strategy and marking the stock down accordingly, but it is recognised as the best strategy in the long term. Does he regret the burning platform memo (which as he pointed out began life as a speech - as we noted)? No.What does he think of Vic Gundotra's "two turkeys don't make an eagle" quip? "I can imagine he might have been upset at that time, anticipating our final decision."I asked Horace Dediu, ex-Nokia, and now running the consultancyAsymco, what he thought of the decision to jump off the (burning?) Symbian platform and into the cold sea of Windows. "What every sailor learns is that you don't abandon a floating ship," he replied. He's extremely doubtful that Nokia will manage to get those 150m Symbian phones to sell - and that it will be able to maintain anything like its present big market share.Which in turn opens a huge opportunity in the smartphone market for the existing players - which must mean Apple, Google, RIM and now HP. If anyone should be happy over this, it must be Jon Rubinstein, now installed at HP from Palm. If HP can't make hay for WebOS from this past week, it doesn't belong in the mobile phone business.Block 82.27pm:More Nokia fun (it's as though Mobile World Congress were barely thrumming around us): "Nokia Plan B", which suggests that shareholders should vote at the Annual General Meeting in May to get rid of Elop and only sell Windows Phone in the US, while sticking with Symbian elsewhere.It starts:"We are a group of nine young Nokia shareholders. All of us have worked with Nokia in different capacities in the past. We plan to challenge the company's strategy and partnership with Microsoft in the next Annual General Meeting scheduled for May 3, 2011."And here's another thing: it's got 2,300 Facebook "likes" since it appeared this morning. It's not going to have any impact, but if the shareholders really get ugly enough (and it would be interesting to see a roster of Nokia institutional shareholders), there will be substantial pressure on Stephen Elop to execute the move to Windows Phoneextremelyrapidly.Block 93.36pm:To the question "Where are the Android versions of the iPod Touch" (to which one often has to add the phrase "apart from Archos, of course") there's now a new answer: Samsung.On Tuesday it announced the "Samsung Galaxy S WiFi 4.0 Smart Player". Android-powered (2.2, aka "Froyo"), 4" LCD, "delivers apps and entertainment". It's basically a Galaxy S smartphone, but with the phone bit taken out: "delivers all the features of the original, such as video communications via VoIP services, and video and music entertainment with multi-codec support, without the need for an operator contract."It's got Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n and "is equipped for access to thousands of apps, a huge range of multimedia content and innovative mobile services". Such as VoIP support via Skype (for video calls over Wi-Fi) and "access to social networking through the likes of Twitter and Facebook."A few specs: 1200mAh battery, VGA front camera, 3MP rear camera, 1GHz processor.All right, now let's get the three horseman of the Consumopacalypse - Battery Life, Pricing and Availability. Battery life? Not given. Pricing? Not given. Availability? "During the first half 2011 in global markets, and launches in the UK first."Your bets welcomed for the likely selling price in shops or online. (Should we ignore devices like this if they aren't going to be sold by phone networks yet don't give a price at announcement? It feels like classic vapourware.)One other point: because it doesn't have 3G, it won't have access to the Android Marketplace, because it's a condition of that access that you have 3G built in to the device. (Weirdly, there's absolutely nowhere that you can find this confirmed through a search - at least, none that I could turn up; your suggestions welcomed - but it has been confirmed vocally by companies such as Creative, which announced a slew of Wi-Fi tablets at the end of last year but had to admit they couldn't get to the Marketplace because of that point.)
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
The following blogpost originallyappeared on Florian Mueller's Fosspatents blog. Mueller has been following the ups and downs of software patents on the web closely for a long time. Here's his latest, used with permission, on VP8, Google's video codec, and H.264, the widely used encoding system.Amid all the debate about whether Google's WebM video codec VP8 istruly patent-unencumberedand a valid alternative to the market-leading video codec (AVC/H.264), a very interesting project nearly went unnoticed: the development of a royalty-free MPEG video coding standard.At a recent meeting of the Motion Picture Experts Group (MPEG),the decision was takento issue a call for proposals (which will formally happen in March 2011) on video compression technology "that is expected to lead to a standard falling under ISO/IEC 'Type-1' licensing, ie intended to be 'royalty free'." The announcement also states the following:"In recognition of the growing importance that the Internet plays in the generation and consumption of video content, MPEG intends to develop a new video compression standard in line with the expected usage models of the Internet. The new standard is intended to achieve substantially better compression performance than that offered by MPEG-2 and possibly comparable to that offered by the AVC Baseline Profile."It's important to note the difference between MPEG, the standardisation body, and MPEG LA, the licensing agency. MPEG defines standards, and those can be royalty-free or royalty-bearing, depending on what the owners of the essential patents agree upon in each case. MPEG LA manages patent pools related to royalty-bearing standards, serving right holders and licensees as a one-stop solution by way of aggregation.Rob Glidden, a former Sun Microsystems executive and digital TV expert, made me aware of MPEG's royalty-free codec plans via Twitter (thanks for that!). I found several interesting posts on his blog, such asthis recent onearguing for a royalty-free video codec standard. Just like me, Rob appears to besomewhat scepticalof claims that WebM/VP8 is truly patent-free.Three formidable hurdles for WebM/VP8Google and its WebM allies (primarily Mozilla, Opera and theFree Software Foundation) wanted to pose a direct challenge to AVC/H.264, the incumbent and ubiquitous video codec. Their strategy was to seek adoption of WebM/VP8 as an internet standard, claiming that it was the only format of its kind to be available on royalty-free, open-source-like terms. They thought they were already challenging the champion in the final match, but not so fast: MPEG LA may soon start collect royalties from VP8 adopters, and if MPEG's own royalty-free codec initiative succeeds, VP8 will have to beat it – or be forgotten.Using that tournament analogy again, VP8 is only in the quarter-finals. MPEG LA's formation of a VP8 patent pool and MPEG's call for proposals on a royalty-free video codec are such important developments that the results they produce will have to be awaited before standardization on VP8 will even be seriously considered by the W3C or IETF. There is no rush because everyone can demonstrably watch Internet videos for the time being even though HTML 5's video tag is currently codec-agnostic.I have drawn up a simple graphic that shows the three hurdles VP8 is facing.VP8 challengeIf MPEG LA's patent pool for VP8 disproves claims that Google's codec is truly free of charge, it loses its intended unique characteristic and is out of the game. At that stage, even the Free Software Foundation may feel forced to withdraw its support. It wouldn't be possible for the FSF to advocate a royalty-bearing format.Should VP8 overcome that hurdle, it would play a semifinal match against MPEG's royalty-free standard. I'll explain further below why this one is also going to be a tough challenge.Only if VP8 survives that round as well, it will get to challenge AVC/H.264. To dethrone the reasonably-priced market leader, VP8 would have to deliver high quality, not just royalty-free availability.The odds are long against WebM/VP8Surmounting three significant hurdles in a row – since failure at any of them means "game over" – is really difficult. Even if one assumed a 60% chance in each case, the aggregate likelihood of success would only be slightly above 20%. In my opinion, VP8's chances are less than that. Let me explain my view on each of the three challenges.1. MPEG LA patent pool for VP8MPEG LA requests submissions of patents essential to VP8until March 18, 2011. That's less than six weeks from the announcement. I presume MPEG LA already knows of a variety of relevant patents, and has discussed this with its membership. The first time MPEG LA CEO Larry Horn mentioned the possibility of such a poolwas in an interview with AllThingsD in May 2010.After the submissions deadline, MPEG LA's patent evaluators will make a determination as to which patents are truly essential to VP8. Obviously, whatever they conclude isn't the same as a judicial declaration of infringement. But MPEG LA is trusted by industry, and the moment it specifies the patents it believes read on VP8, Google and its allies will either have to invalidate those patents (which is unlikely to work for a reasonably long list) or prove that there isn't an infringement.There could also be patents which VP8 infringes but which aren't submitted to MPEG LA in that process. I didn't mention that before, just to keep things simple at the time. When assessing the likelihood of VP8 truly being patent-unencumbered, this additional risk must, however, be taken into account.2. Royalty-free MPEG video coding standardIt's plausible that MPEG can pull off a royalty-free coding standard. It will be able to draw from three types of patents for that purpose:• patents that have already expired• patents approaching expiration (which limits their commercial value)• patents whose owners are willing to forgo short-term revenue opportunities in favour of longer-term objectives, or who consider it a prudent strategy to support a royalty-free standard for web purposes and monetise related (but other) patents in other fields of use such as digital cameras and digital televisionCodec development was already reasonably advanced in the early to mid 1990s, and US patents of that kind have a maximum term of validity of 20 years. Therefore, the first two groups of patents may already be sufficient to produce a codec at a level with, or even significantly superior over, VP8.In order to compete successfully with a royalty-free MPEG standard, VP8 would have to be clearly better just to be considered. That's because MPEG has the backing of many vendors and offers an open and inclusive process. Under MPEG's stewardship, such a standard can continue to be developed (as new patents expire, approach expiration or are made available by their owners for other reasons) in a balanced, consensus-based way, while WebM is dependent upon Google, a company with specific strategic interests.The argument that the availability of a WebM reference implementation on open source terms ensures vendor independence isn't sufficient. Theoretically, it's true that anyone could take it in a different direction. Practically, such forking would result in fragmentation, and it's doubtful that anyone would ever put significant resources behind such an effort.3. Incumbent AVC/H.264 standardShould VP8 really overcome the challenges previously described, it would still have to garner broad-based industry support. It wouldn't be in the interest of standardisation bodies like the W3C and the IETF to formally declare a "standard" that fails to be adopted widely. Such failures can undermine the credibility and diminish the influence of those organisations.AVC/H.264 isn't royalty-free, but its terms appear to be acceptable to a majority of industry players. In order to take any sizeable part this incumbent's market share away, VP8 would have to be at leasttechnicallycomparable. Degradations wouldn't be acceptable to consumers. However, my own impression and that of most of the opinions I read is that there's still a noticeable gap.One of the challenges for VP8 is the limited number of hardware products supporting it. For hardware companies it's particularly important to be careful about patent-related risks. A software company may be able to just change its code. Hardware companies would be hit hard by injunctions or ITC import bans. VP8 faces a chicken-and-egg problem with the hardware industry, and the two new initiatives I described before will also have an effect in that area.Google and its WebM allies won't give up. They are determined to turn this into a new edition of the"videotape format war"of the late 1970s and early 1980s.Looking at the drawing that shows the three hurdles and considering the facts, I have my doubts that they will get very far.However, even if the odds appear to be long against VP8, it may have a positive effect on the willingness of patent holders to support MPEG's royalty-free codec standard.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamUpdate on Qt &gt;&gt; The Qt Blog"Unequivocally, Qt is not dead. This morning we heard top Nokia executives like CTO Rich Green talk about Qt and the future. Qt will continue to live on through Symbian, MeeGo and the non-mobile Qt industries and platforms."First Facebook SIM Card Released &gt;&gt; All Facebook"The SIM card will enable even the most bare-boned handset to have Facebook functionality, albeit text based for the leaner devices known as feature phones. This will help the social network approach its goal of becoming the standard social service for all mobile phones."New Chrome extension: block sites from Googleâ€™s web search results &gt;&gt; Official Google BlogOuch: "We've been exploring different algorithms to detect content farms, which are sites with shallow or low-quality content. One of the signals we're exploring is explicit feedback from users. To that end, today we're launching an early, experimental Chrome extension so people can block sites from their web search results. If installed, the extension also sends blocked site information to Google, and we will study the resulting feedback and explore using it as a potential ranking signal for our search results."Apple and Samsung Hammering Out $7.8 Billion Display Deal &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"With demand for its iOS devices growing, Apple is once again moving to secure vast storehouses of parts with which to build them. Cupertino is said to be finalizing a massive component contract with Samsung, one that would make it the company's single largest customer."iOS developers making leap to the Mac, thanks to Mac App Store &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"The Mac App Store is, by most accounts, off to a good start. But not all entrenched Mac developers are ready to entrust their entire business to Apple's recently opened digital distribution point due to certain restrictions placed on how apps are packaged and how they access certain system resources. However, several mobile developers – already accustomed to App Store life – have begun to bring their iOS-only apps to the Mac platform thanks to the ease of porting and their comfort with the app store model."IT managers find Internet Explorer 9 fails to render websites and web applications &gt;&gt;- Computer Weekly"According to its support page for IE8 and IE9 compatibility, menus, images or text may appear in the wrong positions on incompatible sites; some websites features may not work; visitors to the site may see scripting error messages; and Internet Explorer could stop working or crash on some websites. "Even the main Microsoft website has a fudge to work around IE8/9 incompatibility issues. It uses a tag in the site's header to force IE7 compatibility. "Unlike a home PC, where users can enable Microsoft to monitor how they use the web to improve quality, corporate networks block this data-gathering." Interesting question to ask yourself: where does your sympathy lie? With the companies, or with Microsoft?What A Deep Dive Into LinkedIn's S-1 Reveals About The Company's Growth Potential &gt;&gt; Business InsiderAn exhaustive delve into LinkedIn's recent S-1 filing. "One note regarding LinkedIn's financials: they have some 'variable' costs that vary with revenue (e.g. hosting costs, marketing expenses), and some that vary on a discretionary basis (e.g. investment in new products). LinkedIn has cut back their product development as a percentage of revenue, from 36.8% in early 2009 to 27.8% in mid 2010. This accounts for 138% of their increase in operating earnings. In other words, if they invested in R&amp;D like they used to, they'd be losing money."Dear Nokia fans: youâ€™re nuts! &gt;&gt; ScobleizerInsightful post from Robert Scoble - apart, arguably, from the stuff about RIM: "You add that all up as a salad and now the smart developers have to take another look at Microsoft and Nokia. They can't ignore them like they can RIM (we all know people won't use a lot of cool apps on a Blackberry). "So, should Nokia have gone Android? No way. That takes them through a real commoditization (IE, non differentiated) minefield. One that Nokia execs aren't smart enough to get through. "See, what you don't know is Nokia just doesn't have the right people to play in this new world. They needed to join the engineering teams at Nokia who know how to build great hardware with someone else who knows how to build services. That someone else is Microsoft. No one else was as strong a fit and if you think Google is it, well, sorry, no."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Frustrated trying to access the internet from the smartphone you bought at Christmas? It's partly your own fault, says the International Telecommunication Union, the industry body that represents the mobile and fixed-line industries – and it's likely to get worse unless governments and networks take urgent action.The problem arises because ownership of smartphones such as Apple's iPhone or models running Google Android software is booming, and on average they use five times more data capacity than users of "feature phones" capable only of sending text or picture messages or making video calls.The explosion in use has caught some networks off guard. In Britain delays to the government auction of extra radio spectrum, caused in part by legal objections raised by the networks themselves, means some people will not see improved access for at least two years.On the opening day of the Mobile World Congress exhibition in Barcelona, Hamadoun Touré, secretary-general of the ITU, said governments need to accelerate the introduction of high-speed fibre optic cable which provides faster data connections between mobile towers and networks. Governments also needed to provide greater availability of radio frequency spectrum for mobile signals.Smartphones are the fastest-growing sector of the information technology market, growing 74% in 2010 to a total of 300m shipped to retailers. In the last quarter smartphones outsold PCs worldwide. While "feature phones" still made up the majority of the 1.6bn mobiles sold in 2010, they are expected to be outstripped by smartphones within a couple of years.The ITU forecasts in a forthcoming report that the number of smartphones in use will rise from today's global estimate of 500m handsets to almost two billion by 2015.  "Operators are already having to employ multi-pronged strategies to keep up with demand and not all are succeeding," it said. "In some high-usage cities, such as San Francisco, New York and London, we are still seeing users frustrated by chronic problems of network unavailability."Industry observers said that the ITU was essentially putting pressure on governments which have been slow to free spectrum, which is needed urgently to cope with the "capacity crunch". One said: "It's apparent that some networks are suffering. O2's data network struggled badly last week and there have been complaints about Orange which showed up in last autumn's YouGov survey."Greater capacity on the network requires extra radio spectrum as well as "fibre backhaul" to provide fast connections from mobile masts to the core telecoms network. "Fibre will play a crucial part in providing the backhaul for increased data usage. BT needs to get moving on rolling that out," added the insider.Touré said that countries need robust national broadband plans to promote faster rollout of fibre networks. MPs and industry officials have reportedly criticised Ed Vaizey, the communications minister, over the lack of progress on four pilot schemes which are meant to push through next-generation broadband in Britain.Though announced in October, the pilot projects have not yet been put out to tender. Ian Lucas, Labour MP for Wrexham, said that "before we can make any progress, the pilots have to be commenced and assessed."Replying in parliament, Vaizey said that "no dates are fixed at this time, but will be made public at the earliest opportunity."British networks have insisted that they are well placed to deal with any capacity demand. A spokesman for Three, which offers unlimited data to smartphone users, said: "In the UK, capacity problems to date have largely been the result of some operators' under investment, not lack of spectrum."However, looking forward, a fair allocation of spectrum across the UK's operators is crucial to support the expansion of smartphone and mobile broadband use. We echo the ITU's call for governments not to limit competition. Without a fair allocation of spectrum across operators consumers will have less choice and higher charges."A spokesman for Vodafone said: "While there has been dramatic growth in data usage – we have seen data traffic grow 83% year on year - Vodafone has invested to create a smart network, staying one step ahead of rising demand."As this year progresses, it will become increasingly obvious which operators have failed to consistently invest in their infrastructure. Those that have underinvested or are consolidating their networks to boost profits will creak under the strain."
Twitter's chief executive, Dick Costolo, says talk of a $10bn (£6.2bn) acquisition of the messaging company by Google is "just a rumour" and that the site is already making money.Speaking at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Costolo asked whether Google could afford a $10bn acquisition – following rumours that this was the price being considered by the search engine firm for the messaging startup. "People write that stuff all the time … I don't know where these things come from, it's just a rumour." He fell short of an outright denial, however.Costolo also suggested that Twitter, which started operations in February 2006, will this year introduce a new method of making money, to add to its existing roster of promoted tweets, accounts and trends. However, he did not specify what that would be.His comments came as the online gaming company Zynga became the latest social media company to join the virtual gold rush. The maker of the phenomenally popular FarmVille game is reportedly holding discussions with investors about raising $250m in a deal that could value the three-year-old startup at $7bn to $9bn, according to the Wall Street Journal.Costolo, who took over as chief executive from Evan Williams, one of Twitter's co-founders, last October said Twitter was now regularly carrying 130m tweets a day, up from 100m at the end of 2010, and that at its peak in Japan at the new year there were 6,000 tweets per second. "At the end of this year's Superbowl we saw 4,000 tweets per second," Costolo said. "During the game there were sustained periods when it was 3,000 tweets per second. Just to give you some contrast, during the 2008 Superbowl we served 28 tweets per second."  He said Twitter has settled on a mission statement, which is to "instantly connect people everywhere to what's most meaningful to them". He said that the notion that the site is simply for people to announce that they are going to the dentist missed its purpose: "it makes no difference that there are 100m raindrops during a day. The point is that some will have meaning to me." The essence of Twitter's usefulness was the way that it links people socially, he said.While not revealing how many users Twitter had worldwide, Costolo said that 40% access it from mobile devices. He added that there had been "dramatic increases" in the number of users in Tunisia and Egypt before and during the recent upheavals there.But he said that it was important not to underestimate how it had been action by people which had made the difference in those countries, rather than the existence of social networking. "There's been a lot of discussion about the importance of these platforms and that takes away from what these people [in the Middle East] have accomplished."Twitter is trying to make itself simpler to use, and get incorporated into smartphones so that it is easy to use. He said that there were no plans to introduce a Twitter-branded smartphone, and that he was not worried about competitors – "only lack of execution".The initial analyst reaction was mixed. Eden Zoller, at Ovum, said: "Twitter quoted figures on healthy growth and use, which is good but not surprising. What it didn't provide was concrete details on was how effective its nascent businesses are proving to be in driving revenues – lots of case studies of cool brands using Twitter but no hard line on the margins this brings to Twitter. "Partnerships were mooted – cue Google and Facebook – but Twitter once again demurred. In our view partnerships that go beyond integration deals would be a good move for the company's future prospects, which are growing in terms of numbers but not much else."We expected more, for example what Twitter is doing to build its application ecosystem, given the importance of apps in adding value to the service and the fact that a growing number of Twitter users interact with the service via apps. We also hoped Twitter would show that it intends to leverage mobile location better than it is, and likewise search."Both have the potential to add further value to the service and also have business model potential, for instance in social commerce scenarios of the sort being driven by Foursquare among others."
Swing a cat at a tech conference, and you'll hit six gamification gurus. Some are brilliant, with thrilling ideas about how to apply game mechanics to a host of other areas. Others just know a good bandwagon when they see one, but are barren beyond the buzzwords.The gurus are having an impact, though. Soul singerErykah Badu's new iPhone appis an intriguing example of gamification applied to music. It has the standard artist app features like news, tweets and videos, but it also has its own "LoveMeter" scoring system to rank and reward Badu's fans.Erykah Badu iPhone appThe LoveMeter "tracks how much love you give to Erykah Badu", and is filled by sharing content with friends, buying her music and checking in at gigs, Foursquare-style.The rewards? Voice messages from Badu herself, which will apparently get "more personal" the higher a fan's "LoveScore" is. They can also send their own voice messages back, which – so the App Store listing assures them – are more likely to be heard by Erykah if they come from a high-LoveScore fan."You get love by giving love," explains the listing. Although if you want to look at this in more commercial terms, you get love by buying, consuming and becoming a link in a viral marketing chain. But "love" is the shorthand used here.Startup Fantrail has launched the app for Badu, and is currently trying to sign SXSW bands up for a free trial to get more artists on its roster.Badu is not the first music artist to get gamified in an app. Australian pop-punk band Short Stack have an app that rewards fans for checking in at their gigs and public appearances, while US rapper Soulja Boy has one called SouljaWorld that awards virtual tattoos for fan activity.Gamification can be powerful when applied to the artist/fan relationship – it helps managers and labels identify the keenest and potentially most influential fans, for example.It only works if the rewards are worthwhile, though. If Badu's most fervent fans feel palmed off with generic platitudes from the star, her own voice message inbox may be less appreciative than she is hoping for. However, with Badu already one of the more active and engaging musicians on Twitter, hopefully that won't be the case.
LG has unveiled its Optimus 3D handset at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. The smartphone features a 4.3-inch 3D-capable touchscreen that uses parallax barrier technology, which means that, like Nintendo's forthcoming 3DS console, it does not require the user to wear special glasses to see the stereoscopic effect. Also like the 3DS, the device has a slider which turns the 3D effect down – or off completely.The addition of two 5mp cameras will allow owners to record video footage in 3D.According to CNET, the device can record 3D video at a resolution of 720p, while standard 2D films output at 1080p. An HDMI  connection means users can view their footage on a TV – 3D films can also be uploaded directly to a dedicated 3D YouTube channel. The mind, quite frankly, boggles.Powering the Google Android device is a dual-coreOmap4430 chipset, by Texas Instruments, based around the latest ARM Cortex A9 instruction set and a PowerVR SGX540 graphics accelerator – the same technology that is driving Sony's NGP games console.Early responses from the MWC showfloor have been favourable but there have been some reservations.Tech Radar stated:There was a real depth to the images, to which the size of the screen also lent itself. We can't imagine 3D content on a smaller screen would be worth using. The background may have been spectacular, but the foreground was a little bit trickier. There's a definite sweet spot directly in front the face and if you mediate from here you end up with quite a bit of fuzz and loss of the 3D effect.In terms of game support, the Optimus 3D will ship with three pre-installed titles from Gameloft: Let's Golf 2, Asphalt Origins and Near Orbit Vanguard Alliance.But LG did not have the 3D scene to itself today. Qualcomm has also announced its new quad-core Snapdragon APQ8064 chipset, "for next generation tablets and computing devices". The technology is designed to achieve speeds of up to 2.5GHz per core, while minimising power consumption. It will also support HD gaming and stereoscopic 3D photo and video capture, and will output in full HD to 1080P displays via HDMI.
From the moment somebody started writing down what Homer was saying, the long block of text was on the up in European culture. Printing and Protestantism and public education all played their part into making prose the dominant form for communicating news, information and ideas. That, in turn, led to, among other things, to the good old newspaper – a device for communicating news and information that arguably reached its apotheosis in the year 2000.Since then, though, the move downhill has been surprisingly swift, as a casual glance at newspaper circulations and many profit and loss accounts reveals. The deterioration is a function partly of the advertising market, but really of changes in technology, which mean the future of news media is likely to look radically different from anything that has gone before. Which is where this weekend's #GSxSW hack day came in – an initiative created co-ordinated by my colleague Jemima Kiss and judged by a group of Google and Guardian types including myself.It was a weekend that saw 82 developers create 27 different hacks. Some were ambitious bordering on the bizarre. A team from Spotify tried (but failed) to producean app that monitored your eye movementsbefore playing a piece of music based on where your eye was lingering on the screen. Sadly, they couldn't get the technology to work, but you can't be sure that it would promote any readers concentration on a long feature from, say, the New Yorker, if the feature  played five different songs depending on which paragraph one happened to glance at.Other ideas, though, were more profound. Jemima will give a deeper insight into some of the other hacks, but two themes stood out.One group of people went immediately beyond text-based journalism – trying to find ways to help people navigate the music festival part of SxSW in two ways. There were the group who wanted to provide instant reviews – one word reviews in the case of the In A Word Team – that were all rated for sentiment by computer from one to 10 that in turn produced an aggregate score to help you decide whether it was worth bailing out of a gig and heading up the road.Others tried to take that sort of data and visualise it. One app – called Visualisation of Fans – simply tried to visualise the number of fans a band performing at SxSW had as judged by the numbers of  Twitter, Facebook and Last.FM followers. The more fans, the bigger the circle, and such were the graphics you could have pressed the buttons all day, before deciding what bands to see. Better still wasWhat the Flock– which turned SxSW schedule into a set of night-time skyscrapers, which each dot a band. Click on each, and flock of arrows, representing Twitter and Facebook follows would circle – again giving a simple representation of how popular each act was.Who needs to read a review, when at a click of a button an app can tell you how popular a band is through an easy to understand animated graphic, and when you can track how well a gig is doing in real time, with a simple out of 10 rating. It is that kind of simplicity that we are all searching for in our information saturated era, and why In a Word won the award for 'best creativity' and why What the Flock won the 'best visual' award, and came close to stealing the prize of best in show.Here's a video of the demo app in action:A second group of people tried to develop new editorial tools -Vueotried to replicate the experience of a TV mixing studio, handling multiple video feeds from iPhones and creating a single feed of a major event such as at Tahrir Square, at a fraction of the cost that CNN would incur. A team from Le Monde tried to reinvent live blogging tools that would better incorporate information from Twitter or Flickr; while another group produced a neat app – Audio Slide Deck – making it easy for journalists to synch pictures and audio produced by the hack on a job wielding an iPhone.However, what blew the journalists in the room away, was an idea for a new editorial system – Articlr. The principle was simple enough – a back end editorial system that understood what you were writing about, and where you were writing from. Say that was Tahrir Square. Then around the sides of the large text box for composing were displays of relevant tweets (all those geo-tagged from the location of the Square itself), pictures of the square scraped from Flickr, and a handy box to monitor what the competition had written about the same subject online. Better still, if there was a relevant image or tweet, it was possible to drag and the image into the story and refine your post with relevant multimedia.What if you record all this and edit it on the one iPhone...That may not seem exciting to a non-professional, but to any journalist under pressure, having a running ticker of relevant tweets, pictures and competitor articles without having to actually search for them separately, would radically speed up the business of journalism. Multimedia reporting is today hampered by the complexities of sourcing and editing relevant pictures, tweets and audio – unless you have the resources of the BBC. It's still too easy for solo reporters (like this one) to produce 500 words of prose, which on for anybody getting used to messing around with an iPad has to be an increasingly unattractive way to people absorb information.That's why Articlr won best in show – because it helps lead into a time when the written word is no longer the pre-dominant way to communicate news and information. Hold tight and wait for the transformation.
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 12 FebruaryPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Test Drive Unlimited 2(12+)Xbox 360 (68)PS3 (28)PC (4)12 (1)Dead Space 2(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (43)PC (3)33 (2)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (33)Wii (7)PSP (7)204 (4)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (35)Wii (6)PC (3)145 (3)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)136 (11)Mario Vs Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem!(3+)DS (100)27 (6)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)188 (12)Mario Sports Mix(3+)Wii (100)29 (–)Grand Theft Auto IV: Complete Edition (18+)PS3 (58)Xbox 360 (39)PC (3)110 (5)LittleBigPlanet 2(7+)PS3 (100)4UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
Developers, developers, developers. Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer's famous viral rant was delivered to an audience of Windows application makers, but if he were to deliver a reprise in 2011, the target would likely be mobile developers.Developers are the new kingmakers of the mobile industry. They have been the linchpin of Apple's success with iPhone and iPad, and now they're being eagerly courted by the very handset makers and operators who used to hold them at arm's length.Ballmer's latest initiative – a partnership with Nokia around Windows Phone 7 – is as much about winning the hearts of developers as it is the wallets of smartphone buyers. It's no surprise: developers are the people who make the apps that, increasingly, sell the phones. It's a dizzying time to be making apps, and an exciting time to be writing about them.A good time, then, for the Guardian Apps Blog. We'll be spotlighting the most innovative apps across all devices, and quizzing developers about the trends and technologies that are fuelling their best work. We'll be digging into new business models around apps, tracking the changing strategies of the various platform owners and, most importantly of all, we'll be trying to cut through the hype.Some developers are making millions from their apps, but many more are losing money or barely breaking even. We'll be writing about how developers succeed, and just as importantly, why they fail and the lessons they learn.It's a good week to start, as the Mobile World Congress show kicks off today in Barcelona. It was once the stomping ground of operators and handset makers, and while they're still there, the show's bustling heart is increasingly app developers, flocking to the sessions run by Google, Microsoft, Nokia, Samsung, Research In Motion and others. We'll be reporting from the show throughout this week, and pushing on from there.One more thing. As you'll doubtless have noticed, the Apps Blog has a sponsor: Blue Via. The editorial content is entirely independent, though: we'll be writing about apps and developers no matter what platform they're on, and where innovation comes from our sponsor's rivals, we'll be writing about that too. When there is a contribution from Blue Via, it will be clearly marked as such.The Apps Blog is all about the voice of app developers, in the posts and especially in the discussions that they spark. We hope you enjoy it.
The "hacktivist" group Anonymous claims to have access to the sophisticated computer virus reportedly developed as ajoint Israeli-US cyber attackagainst Iran's nuclear facilities.Anonymoussaysit has obtained details of the Stuxnet worm from the emails of HBGary, a US security company the loose hacker collectiveattacked earlier this month.It is not yet clear whether Anonymous plans to deploy the computer virus, but last week the groupsignalled an intentionto attack Iranian government websites in support of a plannedgreen movement rallyin Tehran.However, security experts told the Guardian on Monday that even though Anonymous does have access to parts of Stuxnet, it does not control the crucial code enabling it to attack Iran's Bushehr nuclear plant – an attack Russia's Nato ambassador said could potentially trigger a "new Chernobyl".Orla Cox, a security operations manager at Symantec, the cyber security firm that has been researching Stuxnet since its discovery, said it was "very difficult to tell" how dangerous Anonymous's copy of Stuxnet is."It would be possible [for Anonymous to use Stuxnet in an attack]," Cox said. "But it would require a lot of work, it's certainly not trivial."The impressive thing about Stuxnet is the knowledge its creators had about their target. So even if you have got access to it you need to understand the target – that requires a lot of research."Iran admitted its controversial nuclear programme had been delayed by Stuxnet last year, with reports later claiming that the worm was a joint US-Israeli project intent on knocking Tehran's nuclear ambitions off course. No group has yet claimed responsibility for building Stuxnet. Expertstold the Guardianlast year that Stuxnet would have taken five to 10 people around six months to create and required large amounts of funding.Computer viruses are largely uncharted territory for Anonymous, which has built its notoriety on crippling the websites of governments and multinational corporations, such as Visa and MasterCard, which it deems a threat to freedom of speech.Late last month the Metropolitan policearrested and then released five people on bail, including three teenagers, it suspected of being involved in December attacks in support of WikiLeaks.Snorre Fagerland, a senior threat researcher at the Norwegian internet security firm Norman, said it would be "very difficult" for Anonymous to use its version of Stuxnet in an attack. The hacker collective has obtained a "decompiled" version of the virus, rather than the critical source code which would enable an attack."The trouble with this [version of Stuxnet] is that you lose almost all context to its abilities," Fagerland said. "The original source code would contain all the text information about why it's built this way – that's gold if you want to use it. If you decompile it you lose all of that."Anew Symantec report released on Fridayshows that Stuxnet was built to repeatedly infect five key industrial facilities in Iran over a 10-month period.The worm, reportedly tested at Israel's nuclear development centre at Dimona, worked by sending Iran's centrifuges spinning out of control, while making it appear that everything was working as normal.
Kirby is Nintendo's forgotten games character – hardly surprising given that he is a near-featureless pink blob with no discernible personality. At least, that used to be true, until (perhaps influenced by LittleBigPlanet) he received a very clever arts and crafts-style makeover for this side-scrolling platform game. In Kirby's Epic Yarn, he is transformed into an outline – made of yarn – and plunged into a world made entirely of fabric. The end result is the first Kirby game that deserves any sort of attention whatsoever.The fabricisation of Kirby works on more than one level. First, it lends a glorious tactility to proceedings: stitched platforms have just the right amount of give when Kirby lands on them, for example. Second, it provides a great means of giving what is essentially a 2D game a three-dimensional feel. And third, it gives Kirby some interesting moves for the first time.As well as a basic jump and jump-stomp, he now has a yarn-whip move which can gather in enemies (rolling them up in a neat ball on his head to be fired at other enemies) or grab onto buttons, enabling him to swing. At a specific point in each stage, he's also transformed into something different (usually mechanical, but still made of yarn), such as a fire engine, dune buggy, cotton-wool-ripping crab or a giant tank. Which constantly adds little gameplay twists to the mix. Cute gameplay touches abound – he can, for example, enter doors taking him behind the outer layer of fabric, at which point he is discernible only as a bulge. He can rope in and collapse hollow blocks, pull bits of the scenery towards him by latching on to buttons (exposing routes to otherwise inaccessible places) and devolve himself to a string to traverse narrow passages.And at the end of each level, he battles a boss. Some of the boss-battles are actually moderately challenging, which is some achievement, given that Kirby can't die (instead, he's merely transported back to the previous checkpoint, and drops all the jewel-like beads he has collected). The bosses are often impressively surreal – they include, for example, a chicken with flaming wings constructed from different-coloured yarn and a couple of buttons, and Squashini, a pumpkin-headed illusionist who attempts to play deadly tricks on Kirby.Just about every level contains at least one cute, inventive touch: a desert, say, constructed from horizontal lines of sandy yarn, into which you sink if you're not careful, or keyboards which emit collectible notes as you walk across them. Despite the game's inventiveness, though, it's important to point out that it's primarily aimed at little kids, so there are times when it descends into the realms of tweeness, and devoted platform game fans will find it rather too unchallenging. Teenage boys will absolutely hate it. But when viewed as a platform game for kids, it's pretty impressive. Kirby first emerged in 1992; only now has his existence been justified.• Game reviewed on Wii
"Unlimited" is a bold word to use in a title. Trading standards lawyers of the world are no doubt rubbing their hands with glee at the "revelation" that, actually, Test Drive isn't "unlimited" at all. However, when there are this many challenges to complete, so many novel side missions, vehicles, things to buy, items to find, some 3000km of roads to explore and, no doubt, hours of downloadable extras yet to come, you can forgive a certain amount of artistic licence.After the cultish success of Test Drive Unlimited, the makers discovered that what people liked most about the game was its level of interactivity – the fact that it became an online social hub, where friends could hook up irrespective of real geography, go for a "drive", listen to some music and have a chat.That aspect is here and has been tweaked to the nth degree: this time you can set up race clubs, compete in group challenges and hang out at each others' virtual apartments – all of which adds many hours to an already deeply-involved game. That takes care of the 14-year-olds looking for a Facebook alternative, but what about the rest of us?Well, from a solo perspective there's much to recommend TDU2. At the start of the game – after a dream sequence that gives you a little taste of the vehicles to come – you're an Ibiza-based car valet with a dream and a bit of driving ability who gets a shot at the "big time" – a series of race events called Solar Crown.This throws you into various road races, time trials, speed tests – where you have to maintain a minimum speed for as long as possible to rack up points – and assorted other challenges. Win those, collect cash, buy new cars, enter next race ... you know the drill.Here though there's considerable variation, where you can ignore challenges and just cruise the island, discovering new shops, real estate agents, car dealerships, car washes, etc. Plus, in order to enter the next class of race, you'll first need to perfect some new skills and obtain the relevant licence. And once you've finished Ibiza and have earned enough money to buy a yacht you can sail to Hawaii and start a whole new island full of challenges.Graphically, TDU2 isn't the most elaborate thing you'll ever see; the hardcore driving gamer will find it childish and unrealistic and yes, the car-handling isn't as crisp and researched as, say, GT5. You'll also probably find the odd glitch in animation and environment (particularly if you head off road) but in terms of depth of play and regular jaw-dropping moments (sunrise or a thunderstorm for example) this is a game that will keep you occupied for weeks.Thanks to three skill settings, it's instantly accessible whatever your experience level, features tons of little touches for the completist and isn't shy on humour either. I was particularly taken with the stoner who pays you just to drive fast and the way any changes you make to the look of your avatar require: a) the discovery of a plastic surgeon; b) a visit to said plastic surgeon; and c) an hour of post-op recovery during which your avatar will be wearing bandages.At the moment – three weeks of regular play and barely scratching the surface – I'm erring on the side of caution with this score. Ask me again when I've made it to Hawaii and I suspect it may creep up a little.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Block 1.Block 2.Block 311.11am:Day 1 of Mobile World Congress is off with a bang: none of this waiting for starters' orders nonsense.Straight out of the blocks:• The Company That Is Not Here, Apple, is reported to be working on an "iPhone mini". That's a rumour that has been around for ages, but what's different this time is that it has come out of the Wall Street Journal, and in particular from writer Yukari Iwatani Kane, who has had the inside track on lots of Apple stories in the past. "Apple works on line of less-expensive iPhones" neatly avoids that "cheap" word, but has some tantalising details:"One of the people, who saw a prototype of the phone late last year, said it is intended for sale alongside Apple's existing line. The new device would be about half the size of the iPhone 4, which is the current model."As a strategy, it sounds very like the one that Apple adopted with the iPod - where it established itself solidly and then began to grab more of the market via price and feature segmentation with the iPod mini onwards. The question is, what features can Apple leave out of the existing iPhone to justify a cheaper - sorry,less expensive- iPhone?• RIM, the company that Nokia's Stephen Elop keeps not mentioning (he implies that the only ecosystems that exist are Apple, Android and Windows Phone), has announced more unicorns. I mean, forthcoming products. Even though there isn't a ship date or price yet for the first PlayBook (I'll be asking them for something later today), it's got more on the way:"Research In Motion today announced plans to launch two additional BlackBerry 4G PlayBook tablets during the second half of 2011, featuring support for LTE and HSPA+ high speed wide area wireless networks."Also - in your face, Elop -"Research In Motion today announced that BlackBerry App World is now available in 27 additional markets worldwide. With today's announcement, BlackBerry App World is now available in 101 markets. BlackBerry App World allows customers to discover, download and enjoy a wide range of mobile applications for their BlackBerry smartphones." Plus: "Research In Motion today announced plans for an innovative mobile gifting platform for carriers that will allow one authorized BlackBerry subscriber to use their post-paid or pre-paid account to conveniently, securely and instantly approve and pay for airtime, apps or other carrier services requested by another BlackBerry subscriber." And finally: "Research In Motion and the BlackBerry Partners Fund today announced that RIM is making a lead commitment to BlackBerry Partners Fund II, a new US$150 million independent venture capital fund focused exclusively on mobile computing.  BlackBerry Partners Fund II is expected to launch in June 2011 and will have a broader international mandate than the first Fund."• Actually, Elop was asked specifically about RIM/BlackBerry on Sunday evening. Here's the question and answer,via Engadget(Nokia's new favourite blog, which has been favoured with leaks of the burning platform memo and internal Nokia mockups of a "Nokindows Phone 7"):7:07PM Q: "Do you not feel threatened at all by BlackBerry?" Elop: "We believe that with the work we've done already with our lower-priced devices, combined with the business capabilities of Microsoft, we have a very strong competitive position relative to everyone in the environment."Block 411.16am:Near-Field Communications (NFC) is getting to be a big subject too. Here's Samsung, which has its Bada platform (one of the other platforms Elop didn't mention) pushing NFC in its new handset:Samsung Electronics Co today announced the Samsung Wave 578 at Mobile World Congress 2011. The new bada handset is equipped with Near Field Communication (NFC) connectivity, sleek, user-friendly design, and runs on bada, Samsung's own smartphone platform.Simon Stanford, Managing Director, Mobile, Samsung UK and Ireland said: "The Samsung Wave 578 handset combines sleek design with fantastic features, including super quick WiFi connectivity and NFC, on a really user friendly device. This handset enhances our expanding bada platform portfolio."Samsung Wave 578 features Near Field Communication (NFC) – a technology that makes many innovative services possible such as mobile payment at shops, paying transport fares, reading tags and getting mobile coupons, direct on the handset. The Samsung Wave 578 also has the fast connectivity around with Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n, Bluetooth 3.0, and USB 2.0, for fast data rates and easy information sharing.Availability is from May 2011. Come on, anyone out there knowingly got a bada-based handset? (It does sound like the sort of thingTony Soprano would own, doesn't it?)Block 511.45am:Adobe meanwhile is getting its own nyah-nyah at Apple, announcing that Flash is getting a promising uptake on mobile phones. (You'll recall that Apple does not ship Flash on any of its iOS-based devices - iPhone, iPod Touch or iPad.)At Mobile World Congress, Adobe Systems Incorporated announced that developers and content publishers can now deploy Adobe® AIR® applications to more than 84m  smartphones and tablets running Android and iOS. Thousands of applications have been created and made available on Android Market and Apple's App Store to date. By the end of 2011, Adobe expects more than 200m smartphones and tablets to support Adobe AIR applications. For examples of popular AIR applications for Android and iOS, visit m.flash.com.Well, of course we will. But what has the uptake been like?Adobe announced that more than 20m smartphones were shipped or upgraded with Adobe® Flash® Player 10.1 software on over 35 certified devices in the first six months following the launch. For 2011, the company expects Flash Player to be supported on more than 132m units worldwide. More than 50 tablets are expected to support Flash Player this year alone. Using Adobe Creative Suite® 5 tools, over three million Adobe Flash Platform developers are now able to author content across a substantial number of devices for both Flash Player and AIR."We are thrilled to see mobile adoption of Flash Player and AIR exceeding even our own expectations, with much more to come in the months ahead," said David Wadhwani, senior vice president, Creative and Interactive Solutions Business Unit, Adobe. "This is tremendous progress toward ensuring that mobile users everywhere have access to their favorite content from casual games to Web video and enterprise applications regardless of what device they are using. And, our CS5 customers are excited about the ability to easily extend their creative work across millions of mobile devices."OK, so Flash appears to be getting into mobile phones in a big way - which ought not to be a surprise, given the speed with which ARM-based chipsets and processors are moving: this year if you don't have a dual-core ARM processor running at more than 1GHz on your shiny new phone, then you look a bit last year.But let's put the numbers into some context. Number of smartphones (as defined by analysts) shipped last year:around 300m, of which slightly less than 50m were from Apple. So that's 250m smartphones shipped where the maker didn't outright ban Flash. Nokia shipped 100m of those; it's not clear how many of those were able to run Flash. Assume it was around 75%. So you probably have a target market for Flash Player of about 225m. Of those, Adobe is saying that about 20m had Flash Player 10.1. If the Nokia figure is upside-down, and you assume only 25% of Nokia devices could play Flash, then you have a target market of 175m. Even so, 20m looks surprisingly low in that context.And then there's the followup: "For 2011, the company expects Flash Player to be supported on more than 132m units worldwide." If you look at a smartphone market that last yeargrew by 74%, and if you expect it to continue at that rate - or even if you go for a lower rate such as 50% - then that's a total smartphone market of 450m smartphones (on a 50% growth rate), or 525m at 75% growth.Subtract Apple's share - assume it remains steady at around 15%, which gives you 67.5m or 79m, depending on the growth rate - and you have an addressable market of 382.5m (at 50% growth), or 446m (75% growth).And Adobe is only expecting Flash to be supported on 132m of those? That's only 34% or 29% of the smartphone handsets where the manufacturer hasn't ruled out Flash. It begins to look less impressive when you put it like that. The question suddenly becomes: why isn't Flash as pervasive as it is on the desktop?Block 612.11pm:More on the rumours about a Facebook phone from HTC:T3 has a piecein which Facebook kinda-sorta doesn't deny it:Dan Rose, Facebook's head of business development, told a gathering of hacks yesterday that such a phone simply didn't exist. "The rumours around there being something more to this HTC device are overblown."Oh, so it doesn't exist?He added, "This is really just another example of a manufacturer who has taken our public APIs and integrated them into their device in an interesting way." When asked flat out if the phone would be Facebook-branded, Rose answered with an emphatic, "No."Oh, so he means itdoesexist, but it won't have the Facebook logo on it. Got ya.Block 7Nokia CEO Stephen Elop. Photograph: Manu Fernandez/AP1.10pm:(By the way the timestamps here are local time in Barcelona, which is on CET, an hour ahead of London. It's not like I've invented a time machine or something.)Some more for Nokia: the shares are taking a further hammering this morning - down another 3.7%, following the substantial 16% drop on Friday. Analysts seem to think that the fact that there is no promise of a "Nokindows" (shall we copyright that?) phone this year (Jo Harlow, the newly-promoted head of Nokia's smart devices division, only said on Sunday that "I can't tell you when, but my boss has told me he would be much happier if that time was in 2011." That may mean that it's not going to happen in time to prevent everyone and their smartphone-buying dog from migrating to someone else.As Reuters reports:"Elop likened the plan to leaping from a burning platform, but Nomura analysts responded: "It's a long way down" and said the fact Nokia was so uncertain that it could not give a 2011 outlook made the stock "hard to own" over the next 12 months."The share are now at their lowest level since August 2010. "The chief executive will suffer from a lack of credibility among investors for a long time, fixing that will be a major task," said Swedbank analyst Jari Honko, cutting his recommendation on Nokia to "sell" from "buy".As Andrew Orlowski (who has long followed Symbian and Nokia)asks pertinently over at The Register, what happened to all the confidence shown a week ago, when Nokia's stock rose in expectation of this tieup? Now they've got the tieup, why is everyone selling?Here's why: because the analysts expected Elop to jump out of a cake on Friday brandishing at least two working Nokindows phones. Instead, he came up bearing a wad of P45s for Nokia staff, a stake through the heart for Symbian, and with only some vague assurances about shipping Nokindows "in volume" in 2012. Which could mean the end of 2012."I believe Nokia's smartphone sales will go down by some 20% for the rest of the year. They will lose a lot of market share," said Nordea analyst Sami Sarkamies, adding that the alliance could prove to be succesful in long term."We have lowered our Nokia smart-phone forecasts for 2011 by 7% and we are concerned by both the lack of preparation the industry/employees appear to have had (some key suppliers weren't told, operators were given 24-48 hours and Nokia's employees 0-72 hours)," UBS analyst Gareth Jenkins said. "We expect significant technological and re-organisational disruption in the next twelve months of transition."Others pointed out that Microsoft's experience in the mobile phone market did not bode well. "Nokia is...handing responsibility for its user interface to Microsoft, which has a poor track record in this area, and giving access to its innovations to key rivals," said Stuart Jeffrey at Nomura in a research note.Ouch. Poor track record? Still, Microsoft can point to the success of all its previous strategic alliances with other phone companies. Or, um, as Horace Dediu at Asymcopoints out, actually it can't. LG, Motorola, Palm, Nortel, Verizon, Ericsson, Sendo and Nokia itself back in 2009 - a deal made by some guy called, it says here, Elop. The plan: to bring "Microsoft Office Mobile and Microsoft business communications, collaboration and device management software to Nokia's Symbian devices." Yup, real barnstormers, all of them. That's quite scary context: if Microsoft makes this work, it will be thefirsttime such an alliance has succeeded.Block 82.43pm:LG is offering, wait, a 3D smartphone? Called the Optimus 3D, it will meanconsumers will be able to watch 3D videos without wearing special glasses as well as capture 3D content themselves via a special double camera on the back of the phone.James Cameron will be pleased."For users to be able to create content will be paramount to reach a critical mass in 3D content," said Daniel Hernandez, LG director of product marketing in Europe. "We believe this phone will act as a catalyst to create the 3D mobile industry."Minor technical point: you can only catalyse something that's already there (catalystsaid a reaction between two reagents while not themselves being changed by it). Sort of assumes that the demand is there. Colour me slightly sceptical.In order to make it easier for consumers to share 3D content online, LG said it has struck a partnership with popular online video channel YouTube.Here's the details:• Glasses-free LCD panel for 3D viewing• Record, watch and game• 3D enabling dualcore processor TI OMAP 4• Full HD 2D (1080p) / 3D (720p) video playback• 4.3" stereoscopic screen• Dual stereoscopic 5MP cameras• Mini HDMI output• YouTube 3D• 3 Pre-loaded gamesand Android, of course. (What, not Microsoft? "In February 2009 Microsoft Corp. signed a multiyear agreement for Windows Mobile to be included on devices from LG Electronics Inc. LG would use Windows Mobile as its "primary platform" for smartphones and produce about 50 models running the software." Well, perhaps two years is "multiyear" and so the agreement expired..)Commentfrom Stephen Shankland of CNet: "LG wouldn't give a straight answer on the effect 3D display will have on battery life in the Optimus 3D. My guess: it can't help."Our old friends Mr Pricing and Mr Availability haven't yet hoved into view, but the phone will be available from Three in the UK whenever it does.LG also announced a tablet - the 8.9-inch Optimus Pad, to run Android Honeycomb (whenever that appears) "which LG stressed would make it easier to pick up with only one hand, in comparison to other, larger tablets on the market." Uh-huh. It has dual 5MP cameras on the back for recording 3D content but can't play it back directly - though you can to a 3D TV. Specs: dual-core NVIDIA Tegra 2 processor, 32GB of internal storage, 6400mAh battery, 243mm x 149.4mm 12.8mm, weight 630g, "making it 100g lighter than Apple's iPad." And slightly smaller, obviously, compared to a 9.7-inch screen.Mr Pricing is MIA but Mr Availability is apparently "March in some markets".MarketWatchhas some apposite comment on tablets from an analyst:"U.K.-based consultancy CCS Insight believes it's only a niche and predicted that only 44 million tablets will be sold in 2011, compared to over 1.5 billion mobile phones."If Apple maintains its current trajectory, it's likely to sell around 30 million iPads, leaving a meager 14 million units for the rest of the market to share," CCS Insight analysts said in a note published last week."With Acer, Asus, Dell, HP, HTC, LG, Motorola, Research in Motion and many others chasing the opportunity, we expect there to be some big losers," they added.Block 95.19pm:Dick Costolo of Twitter is keynoting. (Sorry, missed Steve Ballmer's - but the slides were the same as at CES, so I'm suspecting it wasn't revelatory.)Costolo says you can ask him a question by tweeting @dickc with the hashtag #askdick. Of you go.Block 105.20pm:"Our mission for Twitter - when you create value for your users that value will be returned to you multifold." Quotes Steve Jobs saying "you can't connect the dots looking forware, you can only doing it looking backwards, and that's what we believe at Twitter."Quoting lessons from Digicel Haiti where Twitter helped earthquake victims."Our mission: instantly connect people everywhere to what's most meaningful to them."Beautiful sunset picture, tweet "What a day.. in more ways than one" - user @choppedonion. "Maybe a friend or a loved one knows that there's more meaning that than in it."Block 115.23pm:"I was at a conference and an executive was asked what he thought of Twitter and he said 'why should I care if someone goes to the dentist, I don't even go to the dentist'. What that notion of Twitter misses is that there's a social aspect. It makes no difference that there's 100m raindrops in the day, some will have meaning to me."Showing the famous image of the Hudson plane "landing" from the ferry: "This tweet became so newsworthy and so meaningful that it escaped the social context, but 99% of them are around it."40% of all tweets are created from mobile devices, and 50% of all active Twitter users are active on more than one platform. Twitter needs to be super-simple and it needs to be always present, it needs to be like water in my home. Instantly useful. Always present, I don't need to relearn how to use it in the shower after using it in the kitchen."Talking to networks about deep smartphone integration and stronger text messaging integration.Block 125.29pm:"If a user comes to Twitter and makes a couple of social connections they are far more likely to stay with it… and create an interest graph, following accounts that don't follow them back like a football team or a small business.""We've got to shorten the distance between awareness of Twitter and engagement with Twitter, and at the moment that distance is so great you can't see it without corrective lenses.""Medvedev started using Twitter and was welcomed by the White House.. we're very happy for that.""More and more users on Twitter aren't tweeting when they come to the platform. So what we're doing now is understanding that many users coming to Twitter are here for the consumption experience, they hear about it on the news or in an advert promoting a Twitter account, so again as we work with mobile operators to create a more simple embedded experience, we'll see more engaged users on all of your platforms. "Block 135.39pm:Max tweets in Superbowl 4,000, during 3,000, compared to 2008 when it was 28 max.Max ever Japanese new year 6,000 per second.Block 145.40pm:"People have talked about interactive TV and a second screen experience forever.""We're seeing now that the second screen is twitter. It already exists. Before the TV executives are doing anything about it.""Tweets about Glee go up 30x and they stay there until the moment the show ends when they drop back down to their background level.""We're already making money".Block 155.41pm:References Al-Jazeera adverts running on Twitter.Events in North Africa and Middle East. "we were blocked in Egypt for a while just like we're blocked in China. But people live in the desert because people know how to find a way to water. And where Twitter is blocked you just challenge people to find another way to use it."Block 165.42pm:Reiterates "instantly connect people with whatever's meaningful to them.""There's been a lot of discussion about the importance of these platforms and that takes away from what these people [in the mid-east] have accomplished.""All we care about is ensuring that we're instantlyconnectingpeopleeverywherewithwhat'smostmeaningfultothem."Said like that.BPGlobal: social satire, if we're providing an outlet... that's driving meaning to our users. "And finally" (for about the tenth time)Block 175.45pm:Cites Chinese artists Ai We Wei and his sunflower seed display. He calls it an interpretation of Twitter and the intimate connections, if you look at the detail you don't see Twitter you just see detail, and if you back out."we'll be successful if we're instant, simple and always present.""So simple you don't have to think about us, and then we'll be like water... and all we'll see if each other." Ends the formal part of the speech.Block 185.52pm:Twitter's biggest fear? Not competitors, lack of execution,.Over 130m tweets per day, couple months ago 100m.Just need to execute..Trends: got work to do on local relevance, bunch of work to do on local trends. Will see more progress on that in the immediate term and more later this year.One of the challenges has been multi-word trends, and we've cracked that now.What's next? All we need to do is continue what we're doing, and simplify the service.How monetise? We have three products, will offer more this year. Promoted trends, tweets, accounts. Allow companies to enhance the way they're already working with Twitter.Trends - trending topics allows company to promote something that people already starting to talk about. Toy Story 3 - people were starting to buzz about it so we allowed Disney to pay for 11th spot on the trends list.Tweet - any company can tweet a message out to followers, but promoted means if people searching for something then it's their tweet. Way we deal with quality is "resonance" - has to be an organic tweet, we know what tweets and follow rates, if their promoted tweet doesn't rise to a certain threshold and it doesn't appear.Accounts - on the RHS of the site we promote 3 organic accounts, based on who they follow. And allow people to promote accounts to people who share their interests.Block 195.55pm:Did you promote celebs to get users?"We don't go out of our way to promote famous people. We had suggested user lists, so there are some accounts that have millions of followers because they were in the suggested user list, it's only if you have a couple of social connections that you drive engagement, putting 20 random people in someone's timeline doesn't help.""Biggest mistake? The founders will laugh about this and tell you they shot themselves in the head and foot, not hiring fast enough, not scaling fast enough, I would say those are the things that have caused us not to catch up to the growth fast enough."Block 205.55pm:Don't yet have right-to-left languages.Q: used more actively outside countries against totalitarian regimes? Eg Iran?"There was an amplification outside Iran... but in current events we have seen dramatic increases in use inside those countries, looking at growth curves of signups in the middle east it's a dramatic usage, current events probably little different than how it was used in Iran.""The Guardian had an article saying it's the voice of the people.. but will it be voice of revolution of social media cash cow..while I don't particularly favour social media cash cow as a description, if we can provide meaning around a conversation both those things are possible." Yay for reading the Guardian (actually, Observer.)Twitter-branded smarthone? No. Believe there's need in existing ones.Block 216.00pm:How more deeply integrate into smartphones and carriers, and can Google afford a $10bn acquisition?"What I would love on Android now when you take a photo, integration means you can tweet the photo. What I would like are more single signon experiences and ability to sign on directly. Those things which remove veneer from Twitter and the complexity of using it.""Re second question, people write that stuff down all the time, I'll tell you - it was reported in the LA Times. Steve Ballmer and I had breakfast and I said there's a small restaurant on the 4th floor or someone will write about us merging. And on that morning there was a conference in the room next door... I don't know where these things come from, it's just a rumour."[Yes, but what was the breakfast about?]And that's it. All done from Dick Costolo, chief executive of Twitter. Thanks for joining us today. More MWC tomorrow.
Bit of a slower one for me this weekend, mainly because I've been reviewingGray Matter, the upcoming point and clicker for the 360. The fact that a game like this is even being released on the 360 was enough to get me interested in the first place. The genre – popularised by Monkey Island and co around 20 years ago – has seen a resurgence in recent years on mobile and handheld devices (ipad especially) but this is a big(ish) release for a console. As you'd expect the controls take some getting used to. Mouse or touchscreen remain the best ways to interact with games like this. Once you get used to things the action plays out in the languid pace you would expect although some fiddly and occasionally obtuse puzzles raise the temperature. More on Gray Matter when I post a review later this week.What about you though? How was your weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSearch Still Sucks &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"We need to see a real competitor emerge in search. If only because it will make Google up its game, and make all of us a lot happier."Search Optimization and Its Dirty Little Secrets &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comA long read. In sum: "Does the collective wisdom of the Web really say that Penney has the most essential site when it comes to dresses? And bedding? And area rugs? And dozens of other words and phrases?"Nokia CEO Elop Denies Being "Trojan Horse" For Microsoft &gt;&gt; Business InsiderIs Elop a plant for Microsoft? In his own words: "The obvious answer is no. We made sure that the entire management team was involved in the process, and of course the board of directors of Nokia are the only ones that can make this significant of a decision about Nokia. They made that final decision on Thursday night."Apple Works on Line of Less-Expensive iPhones &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Apple Inc. is working on the first of a new line of iPhones and an overhaul of software services for the devices, people familiar with the matter said, moving to accelerate sales of its smartphones amid growing competition."Any Nokia software engineers need a job? &gt;&gt; Aidan Biggins of Google"We're hiring: www.google.com/jobs". Turn that knife, Google.Nokia Appoints Chris Weber to President of Nokia Inc. (US) &gt;&gt; PRNewswireWondering where ex-Microsoftie Stephen Elop found him? "He is a Microsoft veteran, who during his 16 years with the company held several senior executive positions in sales, marketing and professional services. Among his key roles were Corporate Vice President leading Microsoft's US Enterprise and Partner Group as well as heading the US EPG National Sales Excellence and Industry Organization."Two turkeys don't make an eagle, but no penguin will ever soar &gt;&gt; AsymcoHorace Dedlu, ex-Nokia, who has called pretty much everything right on the mobile front for some months: "Android is a fast follower. The first Android prototypes looked like Blackberries because that was the input paradigm of 2006. When capacitive touch was shown to be a better input method, Android reacted swiftly. When app stores created a new medium Android reacted swiftly. When the iPad demonstrated that computing can be done in new settings, Android reacted. At such time when there will be nothing to follow Android will be the king of the last commoditized innovation, but as long as there is something worth inventing Android will be there to reproduce it. "This is not a judgement, but an observation: Nokia and Microsoft may not make an Apple but neither will Android ever create the future."PayPal's Micropayment Solution Opens to the Public &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWeb"Online payment company PayPal has opened up its micropayment solution to "game developers, media publishers, or anyone interested in selling digital content on a global scale." The solution was first announced last October when the company said that the upcoming feature would offer "a competitive fee structure for micropayments, with pricing at 5% plus 5 cents for purchases under $12.""You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
TheMobile World Congressgets underway properly (officially) in Barcelona on Monday, but that only means that Sunday is the perfect day to get something out there.So let's round them up.• Fresh from having essentially told every Symbian developer in the world to give up and start writing for another platform on Friday, Nokia's chief executive Stephen Elopmade his case for the changes again:"We are creating a swing factor," he said. "Wireless operators very much want a third ecosystem. They want customer choice and they want choices for themselves. And now they have that third choice."This is the same wilful refusal to accept that RIM is a viable contender that we've been hearing all week - which I'd suspect is going to have RIM's nose significantly out of joint. After all, GfK says that RIM's BlackBerry series was the biggest selling smartphone at retail in the UK for 2010."We are paying [Microsoft] for the software," Elop said. "But we won't have to develop the software. And there will be some very apparent operating savings from doing this." Elop tried to allay those fears as he explained that Microsoft will contribute financial benefits to the company that total in the "billions of dollars."So in essence it was the same line that he was spinning on Friday - which isn't surprising, since all there's been since then is the markets' reaction (bad), the employees' reaction (bad), the developers' reaction (bad among those Symbian developers still remaining outside Nokia) and the press reaction (mixed).Google called for disaffected developers to apply;so did HP.You can see that Microsoft might like the idea of being able to add location data from lots of phones, and Nokia might like the idea of cutting its costs while having a US-based ecosystem.Business Insider suggestedthat the benefits to Microsoft financially are very small - that even if you assumed Nokia keeps its smarpthone share, Microsoft only gets about $1.4bn in licensing revenue, which is peanuts by the standards of Windows and Office; on that basis it suggested that what Microsoft is trying to do is keep the enterprise.I don't think so - I think Microsoft has grander ambitions about cornering advertising and location-based services on phones, just like Google. There's going to be real antipathy between those two.• Samsung announced itsGalaxy S II smartphone, with dual-core processor and which runs Android 2.3 ("Gingerbread") and includes its "four content and entertainment hubs, for instant access to music, games, books, magazines and social networking services." Said Simon Stanford, managing director mobile for Samsung UK and Ireland: "Following the huge success of our first Galaxy S handset last year, which sold in excess of 10 million units, we're aiming for its successor to become the ultimate smartphone." And it has a 4.27" super AMOLED screen (active matrix organic light-emitting diode- basically, it's very bright but your battery lasts longer).• Samsung also announced theGalaxy Tab IItablet - and this is 10.1" rather than 7". It is, or will be, a dual-core machine running Android 3.0 ("Honeycomb") - the Android version devised for larger tablet screens, unlike, er, earlier Android versions such as you find on, um, the Galaxy Tab I. It will have a 1280x800 screen, 8MP rear-facing camera and 2MP front-facing camera, 16GB or 32GB models. Battery: 6860mAh capacity, though that's not an indication of life - and Samsung isn't making any claims about how long the battery will last.Vodafone customers will be first to get a go with it when it goes on sale "in the spring" (that's a suitably long period). Ah, and it also says that it "builds on the industry-wide success of the two million-selling Samsung Galaxy Tab." So, no dealing with the question of how many of those "sold" were shipped to Antarctica.• Since we're talking tablets, my sources tell me that HTC is going to be introducing a 10.1" tablet as well, also dual-core, also running Honeycomb. No dates, but it looks like it will also be sold through mobile networks.Separate rumours have been circulatingthat HTC is going to introduce a Facebook phone with a dedicated button - we'll have to see whether those pan out later this week. Last week (getting ahead of the rush?)INQ introduced a "Facebook phone"- though it isn't branded as such, as Tim Bradshaw of the FT noted in his report tying INQ and HTC into a "Facebook phone" that "neither is branded [as that]... HTC's handset will have a dedicated button that takes users straight to Facebook, according to people familiar with the device."• Sony introduced its own Experia PlayStation phone, though from the opening description you'd think it was a compact camera: "The Sony Ericsson Xperia™ neo features a powerful 8.1 mega-pixel camera, a VGA front facing camera and HD video recording capability. Furthermore, Sony's award-winning Exmor R™ for mobile sensor with the f/2.4 lens enables the capture of high quality, bright pictures and HD videos even in low light." And it makes phone calls too. Oo, and plays games too. Keith hasblogged about it on the Games blog.
Sony Ericsson has announced that its PlayStation-branded Xperia PLAY handset will be launched worldwide in March. As expected, the Google Android device features a four-inch multitouch screen and a slide out PlayStation-style controller which boasts a d-pad, two analogue touch pads, two shoulder buttons and the iconic PlayStation circle, cross, square and triangle buttons.According to Sony Ericsson's 'gaming ambassador', Jonas Berg, the controller is designed to free up the display for game viewing, so that players don't need to use an onscreen 'virtual joypad'. "When playing games on a smartphone device, you're actually covering up part of the experience... we've added the next layer of gaming," he explained. A built-in accelerometer also allows for motion controls.The Xperia PLAY uses the Gingerbread (version 2.3) of Android. The 1Ghz CPU architecture is based around Qualcomm's high-end Snapdragon chipset, together with an embedded Adreno GPU graphics processor. In a press release sent out tonight, Sony claimed the device would be capable of, "silky smooth 60fps 3D mobile gaming". It will be the first Google Android handset to comply with Sony's PlayStation certification scheme, which means it will have access to a range of classic PlayStation titles. The PlayStation Suite programme, will launch later this year.The phone and its game development environment are apparently the result of close collaboration between Sony Ericsson, Sony Computer Entertainment and several of the games industry's leading publishers. Electronic Arts has Xperia PLAY-enhanced versions of Sims 3, Need for Speed and FIFA 10 on the way, the latter with online multiplayer – a first for the mobile version of the series. Elsewhere, Ubisoft will be bringing Assassin's Creed and Splinter Cell, while Namco Bandai apparently has Tekken ready and Activision ironically opens its PLAY account with the recently axed Guitar Hero. Mobile gaming specialists Digital Chocolate, Gameloft, Glu and Fishlabs are also onboard.It is reportedthat 50 titles will be available for the release of the phone – they will be downloadable from the Android Market. Several games will also be embedded on the device at launch.The handset will also support the widely-usedUnity games development platform, which has been heavily used by iOS developers to bring fast 3D visuals to handheld platforms.Importantly, the battery will allow for up to five hours and 35 minutes of 3D gaming time, according to Sony's own calculations – a better figure than some pundits expected and comparable with the iPhone 4 (though that has recorded up to six and a half hours on minimum settings). The Snapdragon processor uses ARM's v7 instruction set, used throughout the mobile sector and designed for high performance at low power consumption. ARM technology is also used in Sony's recently announced NGP handheld games console.As for networks, all five of the majors – Orange, T-Mobile, O2, 3 and Vodafone – will carry the handset in the UK.Sony Ericsson has produced a range of videos to support the launch. They can be found on themanufacturer's YouTube channel.
What's your favourite piece of technology and how has it improved your life?The iPhone, but it hasn't improved my life in any way whatsoever, because I haven't figured out how to use the thing. But I like it very much.When was the last time you used it?A week ago, to find out where I was.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years?Almost certainly, yes.What frustrates you about technology in general?Its lack of consistency and the fact that the machine is never as good as when you first bought it.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?One of those very early palmtop computers – they were just terrible, they never worked at all. And if you ever let the battery run out, all the data would disappear. I hated that.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?This sounds terribly straight, but to read the guide book. But they're so big these days, aren't they?Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Neither – I'm exactly halfway between the two.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?A U-matic video recorder, which was around before they standardised videotapes to VHS. It had a monstrously sized tape deck in it.Mac or PC and why?I prefer a PC, because I'm more used to it. When I came out of prison [in 1995 – Marks had spent seven years imprisoned in the Federal Correctional Complex, Terre Haute, Indiana], I rather arbitrarily settled for a PC. And because that was the first computer I learned to use, I'm more comfortable with it still. But I do hate the fact that people divide themselves into Mac or PC users.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs or do you download? What was your last purchase?I mainly download these days, but if I particularly like an album and want to keep it, I'm old-fashioned and will go out and buy it. The last one I bought was Roy Orbison'sGreatest Hits– I bought that quite recently.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?No, I'd rather have a personal relationship with whoever's doing my butlering.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A mixing desk, but I haven't got a place big enough to put it. Where you've got an awful lot of knobs and lights but only have to use three or four of them – that would be my ideal piece of technology.•Mr Nice, a film based on Howard Marks's autobiography and former days as a drugs smuggler, is out now on DVD and Blu-ray
Blame Stephen Fry. In Twitter the preening polymath found his true calling, sending out an ever changing and oddly riveting mix of self-promotion and stream of consciousness as he tweeted his every thought and photo. His thoughts on Boyzone singer Stephen Gately, a picture of a parrot, a call for charity in Sri Lanka, Stephen in a balloon hat, all mixed in with his Wildean wit: "Streets of London fantastically full of young people. Either it's half-term or truancy in this country is running wildly out of control." Millions came to watch, millions more joined in. You may scoff but we are all Stephen Fry now.Twitter is five next month. There are now 190 million people using the micro-blogging website, sending 65 million messages of 140 characters or fewer around the world each day. Knockers may still dismiss the service as silly but Twitter – or some form of it – looks set to be with us for some time to come. For its legion of fans Twitter is part of a social media revolution that is reordering the way the world communicates, shaking up politics, business and social life and even, some argue, fuelling and co-ordinating historic upheavals from Iran and Tunisia to Egypt. The revolution will be twitterised.Last week the Californian business received another, more concrete, recognition of its status. Google and Facebook are reportedly courting Twitter. The price tag for this still loss-making venture is put at $10bn (£6.24bn). Just two months ago Twitter was valued at $3.7bn after raising $200m in new financing. In the meantime investors have gone mad for all things social media and Twitter has become one of the hottest properties on the block.The appeal comes because Twitter genuinely offers something new, says Douglas Rushkoff, author and media theorist. Twitter is "the first people's broadcast medium," he says. "You can do it now, it can go everywhere, and you don't have to sit with it. The best thing about Twitter is that it is not sticky the way things like Facebook are. I can throw out tweets without having to field a zillion emails or nurse some profile or deal with anything else. I can fling and not receive."Twitter's first broadcast went out on 21&nbsp;March 2006 when Jack Dorsey, a software engineer at a podcasting company called Odeo, sent a text message to a group of colleagues using a new system he had devised. "Just setting up my twttr," Dorsey wrote. It was the first&nbsp;tweet.A year later Twitter was the hottest act at South by Southwest, a music and film festival beloved by tech people who like to pretend they aren't all about the money. During the event Twitter messages shot up from 20,000 a day to 60,000 a day. Twitter's founding trio, Dorsey and his colleagues Ev Williams and Biz Stone, were about to become media sensations.Celebrity users included Fry, Lindsay Lohan, Lady Gaga and Ashton Kutcher. Even Dame Elizabeth Taylor loved Twitter. Justin Bieber seemed to build an entire career off the site. Five years later they continue to love it. Only last week Lohan tweeted her innocence as she faced charges in a case involving theft from a jewellery store.All this celebrity endorsement sent Twitter usage rocketing. The firm and its founders graced magazine covers and TV shows around the world. But we have been here before. Remember Second Life? The San Francisco company that set up a 3D virtual world enjoyed a similar moment in the sun. A fake U2 and a real Duran Duran played live on Second Life, Sweden opened an embassy, Reuters set up a bureau in cyberspace to cover the goings-on. The virtual future arrived and then just as quickly departed. Twitter has proved more enduring.Some of the froth came off its image during the protests that surrounded the 2009 presidential election in Iran, dubbed the Twitter Revolution. Enabling "ordinary" people to broadcast in real time has also been seen by some as instrumental in the protests in Tunisia and Egypt. But this vision of Twitter as agent of social change is not without its&nbsp;critics.Evgeny Morozovpans "cyber-utopianism" in his new bookThe Net Delusion. As he points out, there were only 19,235 registered Twitter accounts in Iran (0.027% of the population) on the eve of the protests. The biggest night of protests in Egypt came amid an internet blackout after the government pulled the plug for most users. Morozov argues that social media works as well for tech-savvy dictators and government spooks as for pro-democracy advocates. The Twitter revolution in Iran ended in a violent crackdown and 2,000 new political prisoners. China has effectively blocked Twitter. In the US, the firm has beensubpoenaed by the justice departmentkeen to get hold of private information about Wikileaks' collaborators.Mohammed el-Nawawy, author ofIslam Dot Com, says Twitter is important. "There's no arguing that Twitter has played a key role in these events," he says. The speed at which Twitter operates, its mobility and its reach made it incredibly useful for people desperate to get their voices heard. "I remember when Wael Abbas [the Egyptian journalist] was arrested at Cairo airport. It was 3am and he tweeted he'd been arrested, the message was picked up by bloggers in Canada, and they called people in Egypt to come to his aid. That's amazing," he says.But el-Nawawy said Twitter needed to be seen in perspective. "Social media played a role but this isn't about social media. Now things are at street level in Egypt, most of those people haven't even heard about Twitter. In the Arab world satellite TV has played a much bigger role than social media," he says. Al Jazeera's coverage of the unrest has reached far more people than social media ever could.Today's hot properties can soon lose their lustre. Myspace was once the buzziest social media firm on the planet, now it's sacking staff as rivals go on a hiring spree. "Platforms can be abandoned pretty quickly," says Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Partners. "Myspace shows that. But at the same time there is only one Twitter out there. Scarcity has a value and scale is hard to acquire."Eventually Twitter will have to answer its biggest question: how is it going to make any money? Last year revenues are believed to have topped $45m and they are expected to double this year. But those are tiny sums for a company supposedly worth $10bn and Twitter made a loss last year after spending all that money on growing its business.Twitter isn't the first fast-growing business without a coherent business model. Naysayers had (and some still have) their doubts about Facebook. Even Google struggled to find its money mojo; now it's one of the biggest cash generators in history. Last year Google's earnings topped $29bn.In the end, says Paul Kedrosky, Twitterholic investor and author of theInfectious Greed blog, Twitter is worth whatever anyone will pay for it. Anyone paying attention should realise that is going to be a very big number, he says. The service has become the "ubiquitous fabric" of online real-time conversation and it would be extremely hard for another company to replicate that. "Twitter is the dial tone," he says. "It's transforming how we communicate."And Twitter is making its way toward making money. The firm now offers sponsored tweets to advertisers and reportedly sells out every slot available. Last year the company reported that 20% of tweets – roughly 83 messages per second – contained a reference to a product or brand. It's not hard to see that there has to be money in there somewhere.Huffington Post has been sold to AOL, Facebook is preparing to let staff sell $1bn in shares as it lines up a $60bn flotation, Groupon and LinkedIn look set to join the stock market too, making their founders billionaires. Twitter's future is more obscure. Many of its fans reacted angrily to news that it could sell out. Too much advertising could drive users away.As its fifth birthday approaches sources close to Twitter say the firm doesn't want to sell. Right now it's managing its balancing act quite nicely. And anyway its investors think $10bn is just the start. No matter how things eventually turn out, no doubt we will read all about it on Twitter.
"When a true genius appears in the world", wrote Jonathan Swift, "you may know him by this sign, that the dunces are all in a confederacy against him". Thus it was in July 2006 when Twitter appeared. It was a "microblogging" service that allowed one to broadcast one's thoughts to the world, on one condition: that they should be expressible in not more than 140 characters.I thought it was a work of genius the first moment I laid eyes on it.But most normal people, and not a few of my friends, thought otherwise. The avalanche of incredulity, ridicule and scepticism that greeted anyone who came out as a "tweeter" in those early days is hard to imagine now,  five years on. But it seemed real enough at the time.The situation got worse before it got better. When the mainstream media discovered Twitter, it immediately took hold of the wrong end of the stick – by focusing on "celebrity" tweeters including Stephen Fry and Jonathan Ross – and ignoring what was actually happening, which was that ordinary people were beginning to make intelligent use of a surprisingly powerful communication channel.What sets Twitter apart from social networking services such as Facebook is the absence of any expectation of reciprocity. If you decide to "follow" my twitterstream, then I'm under no obligation to follow yours. Unlike email, a tweet carries no expectation of a reply, and so there's no heavy burden of obligation. The result is what one might call,paceMilan Kundera, the bearable lightness of tweeting.After email and the web, Twitter has become for me the most useful service on the net. In part, this is because I'm choosy about whom to follow. Most of those whose tweets I see are people I either know personally, or whose work and opinions I value. So what I'm effectively doing is plugging into a collective stream of consciousness. Like many heavy users of the internet, I use RSS (Really Simple Syndication) as a way of keeping track of the hundreds of websites and blogs in which I'm interested. But reading such an RSS stream was beginning to feel like trying to drink from a firehose.So Twitter has become my human-mediated RSS feed.The idea that a technology involving 140-character messages could become a serious medium for conversation seems as absurd as the notion that one could have philosophical arguments using smoke signals. And yet as Twitter has evolved it hasdeveloped a set of informal conventionsthat enable people to exchange opinions and to support or challenge one another. Users can reply directly to tweets, often appending URLs that support their position. More frequently, they will "retweet" tweets with which they agree, so that an idea that is gaining currency among one group of users will suddenly be launched into a completely different tweetstream with a completely different set of followers. In this way, ideas disseminate across the ecosystem with astonishing speed. Twitter was the way in which many people first learned of the death of Michael Jackson, for example; and  of Hosni Mubarak's departure on Friday.Recently we've discovered that Twitter has political uses too.Because it's easy to use on mobile phones, it has become an invaluable tool for dissidents and protesters everywhere. When WikiLeaks lost its DNS service, for example, and suddenly web browsers were unable to find the URL, the temporary IP addresses circulated as tweets.And when Egyptians found they couldn't access the net,a service called speak2tweetenabled them to tweet by leaving voicemail messages on international phone numbers. So what once seemed like a joke has become deadly serious. And we'd miss it if it disappeared.
Imagine a jumble sale just after a gaggle of pensioners have steamed through it. It's a haphazard pile of clashing colours and styles, heaps of dross tangled up with the odd gem. Yet if you let your eye adjust to the chaos, and then rummage, it's surprising what turns up.That, more or less, is what Twitter is like. Its charm lies not in whizzy new technology – or, as a confirmed luddite, I'd have given up ages ago – but in the constant churn of ideas, jokes, gossip, and discoveries. So the first thing I learned about Twitter is not to be afraid of it, just because it sounds geeky and looks&nbsp;chaotic.The second lesson was not to be seduced by the flashily obvious, but to burrow down to the juicy stuff. I tend not to follow the – mostly predictable – updates from the big fish of politics or showbiz, but the far more rewarding minnows: academics and scientists, obscure backbenchers and foreign bloggers, happy anoraks with a lifetime's lovingly stored knowledge of anything from Californian primary voting trends to making marmalade.Things I'd never have known without Twitter last week range from the hidden significance of sculleries (via a tweeted link to a beautifully written architecture blog) to the fact that Chinese schools, far from benefiting from zealous "tiger mothering", are now consulting British teachers on how to reintroduce creativity to their hothoused children. It's where I appeal for anything from new film recommendations to help fixing the printer: the wisdom of crowds may be hopeless for devising public policy, as David Cameron discovered, but it's very good for locating a discontinued shade of lipstick.Breaking news often comes to me first from Twitter: it's where I first heard about the protests in Tunisia. But it's also where I went to find demographers and development economists and Arab historians with insights into the deeper causes of the Middle East uprising. Twitter can look broad and shallow – all vacuous idiots broadcasting what they had for breakfast – but if used selectively it's actually suited to going narrow and deep.But Twitter isn't just an ivory tower: it has added a new, more open layer to political debate. Watching users react in real time to the three party leaders' televised debates turned the site for me into one huge focus group, illuminating a public mood that had previously felt difficult to grasp. It's taught me a necessary lesson about the gulf between what jaded hacks think and what the voting public does.But the most important lesson I've drawn from it is that the desire for intelligent debate in public space isn't lost. Just as jumble sales only work if people bring as well as buy, Twitter is all about the exchange of arguments and remaining open to new perspectives.It's changed my views on everything from police reform (following Greater Manchester Police's marathon tweeting of every 999 call received in one day, much of it astonishingly banal) to sleep (via some revealing statistics on how much of the latter parents actually get). Perhaps the most rewarding thing Twitter has taught me is how much there still is to learn.What Twitter means to meIan Rankin(@Beathhigh)I work from home and work on my own. Twitter connects me to the outside world, and makes it feel as though I'm in a huge, airy office full of funny, well-informed people. It gives me&nbsp;instant news, clever jokes, views, and reactions. Fans of my books can contact me, and I can let them know what I'm up to.Twitter is also my diary. I can scroll back through my tweets and recall what I was up to on any particular day. I keep in touch with friends, make new ones, renew old acquaintances, and sometimes am even gifted ideas for stories. All from my office chair, in 140 characters (which also makes it a fantastic daily exercise in editing and concision).Ian Rankin is an author and the creator of the Rebus crime novelsTracey Thorn(@tracey_thorn)Twitter is where I go for&nbsp;jokes and sympathy. It's hard to be humorous in song lyrics. When you write a song, you want it to be listened to over and over again, and funny lyrics very soon become extremely irritating. So Twitter is an outlet for the frivolous, the irreverent, the throwaway comment. It's also a good place to share arcane bits of information.It's not so good for expressing serious opinions. Twitter is at its most annoying when everyone gets up on their high horse about something. But it appeals to the economist in me. It imposes rules and sets limits, which I like. Use fewer words. Use shorter words. Get to the point. And try to be funny.Tracey Thorn is one half of the band Everything But the GirlJemima Khan(@JemimaGoldsmith)I dipped a toe in. It seemed like a place that gave monomaniacs a tannoy: so little space to say so little, Facebook for an older wastrel. I loitered, tweetless. I acquired 15 patient followers. I felt forced onto the stage with a mic and no speech.That was a year ago. Now, I'm a promiscuous twitterer. I use Twitter for up-to-the minute news, for aphorisms, jokes and links to obscure and interesting articles. I use it for charity as well as inanity. I use it to reply to Glenda Slaggs. I use it as a very resourceful directory. I use it as a friend to whom I can say "that's bollocks" when there's no one else around. Twitter never sleeps. It has revolutionised the way I procrastinate.Jemima Khan is a writer and campaignerVictoria Coren(@VictoriaCoren)I use Twitter in its most basic function: as an antidote to loneliness. I don't think you're supposed to admit that, if you're on TV sometimes and have a lot of followers. But if I claimed I use it purely to promote my work, or practise the art of the polished one-line joke, I'd be lying. I use it just as the most cynical anti-Twitter ranter imagines: to see who's eating toast or who's got a cold, and to feel part of a community. No shame in that. It's fun. If you fancy watching an election debate with 20,000 people, doing it this way saves a lot of trips to Tesco. The connections are brief but real. They're a bonus to life, not an alternative. We're all passing through this valley; why not smile at fellow travellers on the way?Victoria Coren is an author, poker player and Observer columnistOry Okolloh(@kenyanpundit)I don't have time to catch up on the various blogs, newspapers, TV stations, etc that I'd like to track, so I use Twitter quite a bit as a news curator of sorts – and love the way I can regularly stumble on something I ordinarily wouldn't. I also find it a good source of "cocktail hour" material that makes me sound smarter than I am. A surprise use: I have found it to be a fantastic way to network and make connections in person, especially when I travel. I tweet in the same way I used to blog: sharing thoughts mainly about Kenya, Africa and tech. Finally, I confess I use it a lot to procrastinate and escape my always overwhelming inbox.Ory Okolloh is Google's Africa policy manager, and the co-founder of crisis-mapping site Ushahidi.com and political site Mzalendo.com• This article was amended on 13 February 2011 to correct the number of twitter users watching the election debate.
Deathsmiles Deluxeis made by cult Japanese arcade developer Cave and is the studio's first boxed game to be released here. A relatively unknown entity in Europe, Cave's work is extremely highly regarded and famous not just for its intimidating difficulty, but the staggering prices collectors pay for copies of its rarest titles, which sometimes fetch more than £1,000.Deathsmiles, like most of Cave's output, is a 2D scrolling shoot-'em-up in its classic form. If you don't remember gaming in the early 1990s, a shoot-'em-up sees the player pilot a small vehicle through fields of bullets, taking down waves of suicidal adversaries. The genre's endlessly revisited premise – singlehandedly eradicating a seemingly insurmountable enemy invasion – barely needs elaboration. Always outnumbered, the player must press on, constantly being pushed to the edge of their ability to react in time. The reason for the battle matters not, only the fight itself.As with all of Cave's games,Deathsmilesdrives the concept of the shoot-'em-up to extremes. Here, where projectile-spewing fairies and mythical beasts replace the typical military spacecraft of the genre, bullets cascade towards the player at intense pace in dense formations. Intricate patterns of neon pink spiral and intersect, hypnotic and savagely intense. Amid this swirling maze of gaudy ordnance, the player must calmly dodge their way towards the game's end.And yet, behind all the excess and energy of the action, there is a scoring system that gives the game a quite remarkable depth. To play it properly is to juggle numbers and watch reeling bonus counters throughout, collecting and then banking multipliers and activating special mechanics that allow you to maximise scores.Equally, a common misconception about the shoot-'em-up is that the games end too quickly, and certainlyDeathsmilescan be completed in 30 minutes, but to learn to play properly – exploiting nuances and surviving the experience with just one "credit" – can offer hundreds of hours of game play, especially if you consider the numerous extra modes included here.As Cave's UK debut,Deathsmilesis a masterful selection from its back catalogue. Its gothic visuals are beautifully realised and its gameplay is exquisitely intricate. Neatly implemented customisable difficulty means players of every standard can enjoy the thrill of navigating the manic bullet patterns Cave is famed for and, thanks to its UK publisher, this wonderful game is finally both affordable and accessible.
When game characters are used on sketch shows to satirise the Israeli-Palestine conflict it must be accepted that they really have reached the popular consciousness, and last year's hitAngry Birdshas gripped the world (if you've not seenthe YouTube clip, it's well worth a look). And thus begins the search for this year's contender, of which the latest to challenge isCover Orange.First released late last year, it's starting to gain a reputation as the must-have iPhone game of 2011. Your task is to protect cute oranges from an evil cloud of acid rain. A physics puzzler, like the aforementioned avian mega-hit, it's presented in a similar cartoon style. The task is to drag and drop various objects – crates, wheels, the usual suspects – in order to guard your smiling fruity friends. The quicker the obstacles are set up, the more points are gained – just one drop of rain is enough to turn the oranges to blackened skulls – forcing a restart.It sounds simple, as the best of these puzzlers are, but it works perfectly, and while wholly logical, is tricky enough that trying levels over and over is irresistible. Moreover, at just 59p, it's a must-buy for players keen to stay glued to their phones for weeks.
Imagine a free-roaming adventure such asGrand Theft Auto, but without the wit or the plot. Imagine a driving simulator such asGran Turismo 5,but without the programming stringency to deliver a realistic driving simulation. Imagine a social networking website entirely populated by 14-year-olds, where your moral worth could be measured simply by how many pairs of trainers you own. Imagine a bloody, high-speed collision between all of those concepts. Chances are you'd come up with something not unlikeTest Drive Unlimited 2, although your version's probably more smoothly rendered.If you're familiar withTest Drive Unlimited, 2006's inexplicably popular forerunner, you'll be hard pushed to spot the differences. The action is transplanted from the Hawaiian island of O'ahu to Ibiza (with the net result that the scenery is less spectacular and the roads are marginally narrower). Two-wheeled test-driving has been binned in favour of off-road test-driving – and that really is about it. In every other respect,TDU2is just as superficial an experience asTDU. There's a modicum of redemption in the online racing, but that's assuming you can tolerate the numb, dislocated driving feel for any length of time. Of course, if you want a driving game that requires you to buy lots of sunglasses in-game if you're to make any progress, jump right in.
As I write, the most valuable company in the world, in terms of market capitalisation, is Exxon Mobil. This is a huge corporation, based in Texas and operating across the world. It drills for, and refines, oil; sells thousands of oil-derived and petrol-related products; and operates in all the major markets in the world. In the UK, it owns Esso, for example, and the chances are that if you bought engine oil or other lubricants in the last year you were purchasing an Exxon product. And last Thursday morning it was worth $416.3bn.Question: on the same morning, what was the second most valuable company in the world? Another oil giant? A global retailer such as Walmart? A multinational mining company?Answer: none of the above. It was a California-based computer manufacturer that makes outrageously expensive products for the wealthy consumer. Its name is Apple Inc and last Thursday its shares were trading at just under $360 apiece.It's surprising enough to see a mere technology company challenging an energy giant for top billing. But it's even more astonishing when one looks at the history of the two companies. In 2002, for example, Exxon's market cap was $300bn, whereas Apple's valuation that year peaked at $9bn in April. Go back even further – to 1996 – and you find that Apple was a company that most people believed was heading for the knacker's yard, with its shares priced at $24 and sliding.So what happened to change things? The answer is that Steve Jobs returned. He had co-founded the company in 1976 (with Steve Wozniak), but left in 1985 following disagreements with the board. He then went on to found another computer company (NeXT) and a film animation company (Pixar) while his successors at Apple fumbled and the company embarked on its tailspin to oblivion. In 1996, with disaster looming, Apple bought NeXT – and its technology – and Jobs came with it. The following year, he became chief executive at a salary of $1 a year.The rest is history. Jobs is a charismatic, messianic visionary – a fanatic for elegant design and high-end functionality. He is an incredibly demanding boss, but also an inspiring leader. And he is one of the technology world's toughest negotiators. Apple's recovery under his leadership began with a major revamp of its computer products, but only really took off when he began his bid to capture the market for online music with the iPod/iTunes combination. Having achieved that, Jobs turned his attention to the mobile phone business, which he is currently turning upside down. Latest figures reveal that the Apple iPhone has 17.25% of the "smartphone" market and an astonishing 4.2% of the total mobile phone market. And this despite not having a phone at all until 2007.Watching Jobs in action, I've always had the feeling that there's something eerily familiar about him. But it wasn't until I read a new book,The Master Switch, by Columbia law professorTim Wu,that the penny dropped. The book chronicles the history of the major communications industries of the 20th century and finds that pivotal moments in their evolution came when an entrepreneur arrived to offer consumers higher quality, production values and/or greater ease of use than were being delivered by the incumbents. The visionary entrepreneurs of Wu's century were men such as Theodore Vail (who built AT&amp;T into a powerful monopoly), Adolph Zukor (who created the vertically integrated Hollywood studio system) and David Sarnoff (who founded NBC and led RCA).In each case, these men saw in the chaotic openness of a nascent industry an opportunity for someone who could offer dependability, quality and ease of use. Which is why Steve Jobs comes to mind. Prior to the arrival of the iPod, for example, there were lots of portable MP3 players and a host of different programs for ripping, organising and playing music tracks on PCs. But getting tracks from PC to player – and keeping the two devices synchronised – required technical knowledge. Early adopters love such challenges. But the average consumer does not, which is why, when Jobs launched the iPod, he was pushing at an open door.This is why attempts to compare Jobs to computer entrepreneurs such as Bill Gates or Larry Ellison fall wide of the mark. He's not really a computer guy at all. Computers are incidental to his vision. He's a media mogul in the old style. And if things keep going the way they are, his company might be the most valuable in the world this time next year.
Buying big-budget console releases makes gaming an expensive hobby. But it need not be. A few of the best free-to-play titles capably rival the ambition and class of their boxed contemporaries and recent weeks have seen the release of a number of quality games, playable in a web browser and remarkably easy to access through a quick search.Goblin War Machine(bit.ly/fR4QoT, but make sure you're running the latest – 10.1, 10.2 or higher – version of Flash or it will crash your browser), is a fine example. This stylish monochrome fantasy adventure casts the player as designer and driver of a destructive wheeled battle station. The core of the game focuses on using it to wreak havoc on an ancient landscape, but the real pleasure comes in upgrading and customising, and tinkering below the bonnet quickly becomes surprisingly engrossing.More lo-fi in appearance, but no less enthralling isTealy and Orangey(bit.ly/ha9q4V), a curious platform-esque puzzler that sees you control two spheres each destined to reach separate goals in a pitfall-scattered maze. Jammed full of subtly brilliant flourishes, its core mechanic is stimulating and delightful and is implemented with simple but precise attention to detail.In stark contrast, zombie shooterBite Jacker(bit.ly/e3IHDf) is unexpectedly elaborate and includes such a range of features it's reminiscent of fully fledged console games from just a few years back. A frantic top-down shooter, as entertaining as it is technically impressive, it will be lapped up by retro fans. No need to part with a penny – here are three great titles that will be a drain only on your free time.
The stats so far:• 82 developers• 1000 'don't bug me' bugs• 12 full beards• 12 girls (none of them have beards)• 10 copies of Little Big Planet 2• 200 hack day newspapers• 5 rooms• 200 wifi codes• 47 boxes of food and drink from Ocado• 31 pizzas• 70 loaves of bread• 50 packets of biscuits• 4 days and 4 hours of hack day playlist music recorded to cassette on• 5 hifis and• 1 cassette recorder lent by Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian's editor-in-chief
It's much harder to hack newsprint than pixels, but it can be done. Day one's lunchtime diversion was provided Ben Terrett and Russell Davies of Newspaper Club, which can print small runs of personally designed newspapers. We designed one for the hack weekend.Newspaper Club has decoupled newspapers from news, said co-founder Russell Davies. "People are still happy to pay for newspapers, they just aren't happy to pay for news. Its really hard to wave a blogpost at people - the physicality of newspapers is important." Newspaper Club has printed papers of wedding photos as souvenirs, an end of year album for a Finnish paintballing group and plenty of experiments.Platform, one wing of ad agency Wieden+Kennedy, published Ball of Chalk - rhyming slang for 'walk' - with street-level historic photographs of a route in London. Hold the paper up at certain points along the walk and you can 'sleeveface' a past view of the street. Augmented reality via newspaper.Another early project byBergin Milan asked conference delegates to scribble down good restaurants or clubs they'd found that night, and sketch out maps to recommend good bars. Berg compiled those the next day, and slowly built up a layered map of the city.What has worked best so far? Davies and Terrett have established a few principles:• Abandon pastiche. You don't have to recreate a newspaper, and the first ideas people think of are invariably jokes on a newspaper.• Pictures work really well, especially double-page spreads. Newsprint can handle big images.• Don't worry about filling space - big text looks great, and so do big diagrams.• And there don't have to be lots of pages. Four, or eight, is enough.Some designers are too precious with their layouts. Davies said the aesthetic is rather likeGeocities- it doesn't matter how it looks, it's just very pleasing to have made.Meanwhile, in food-related hack news, developers have been Soda Streaming the milk. Fizzy tea is next.
We were ten minutes in to the first day of Guardian Hacks SXSW before a food-related disaster occurred; no tea and coffee delivery. Fortunately our fleet of attendees had plenty of energy (despite the hangovers) and no shortage of ideas."I wasn't sure why I was invited, but now I'm here I totally get it," said Christian Payne, otherwise known as@documentallyon Twitter, who explained that that this hack is a rare opportunity to explain some of the problems and obstacles for journalists and reporters. After a brief introduction and some encouragement that everyone should make an effort to talk to people they don't know, Le Monde developersEdouard AndrieuandMarc Dassonnevillegot straight into talking through the problems of real-time  coverage.FreelancerSym Roe, who works onfarmsubsidy.orgamongst many others, started thinking about an interface for reporters that would allow them to compile materials for a story in one place, but aggregating them via email - a combination of Storify and Posterous, and withPremasagar Rose.AndGlyn Wintle, freelance contractor with the BBC and the government among others, is picking up one of @documentally's idea for an interface that can link AudioBoos with time-stamped photos that play almost like a slideshow at relevant points in the audio story.Spotify'sJoachim Bengtssonand Johan Björk are looking at some promising eyetracking ideas (how our eyes respond to different things on different parts of the screen) and are talking at lunchtime on how to use features of the libspotify API.As I said in our introduction, we've got some good ingredients and some fantastic chefs. And the coffee's finally arrived...
