MobileT offers 3GT-Mobile has joined Orange and Vodafone in offering a 3G data card for laptop users. Once users purchase a &#163;199 card, they can have unlimited 3G/ GPRS access for &#163;70 per month. This fee also includes connection at T-Mobile's 500 UK Wi-Fi hot spots if the user has a Wi-Fi-equipped device.T-Mobile's 3G card differs from its rivals in that it accesses the internet at 128kbps - less than half the speed of the 384kbps offered by Orange and   Vodafone. Faster 3G connections are promised for later in the year. The network has yet to reveal how extensive its 3G coverage is.www.tmobile.co.ukSmart phonesLatest XDATaiwan-based High Tech Computers (HTC), which makes the XDA series of Microsoft Windows-powered smartphones for O2, is to start shipping the model that is likely to become the XDA III. The new model is similar to the XDA II, but includes integrated Wi-Fi, twice the amount of storage and a pull-down Qwerty keyboard. A version of the phone will be available in several European countries in September (though not the UK), on the T-Mobile network as the MDA III. An XDA/MDA with 3G facilities, enhanced screen and a significantly faster processor is likely to debut at the beginning of next year.Enhanced P900Sony Ericsson has unveiled the latest in its series of Symbian-based smartphones. The P910 sports many of the features of its predecessor, the P900, including its UIQ user interface, Opera   web browser, email client, VGA camera and Bluetooth. Enhancements include a Qwerty keyboard that is sited on the flip side of the number keypad, an improved screen, compatibility with both BlackBerry and Smartner push email systems and 64MB of internal memory. Images and audio files can be stored on a Memory Stick Duo Pro storage card. It goes on sale in September for around the same price as the P900.www.sonyericsson.comMobile phonesShock absorberSiemens has unveiled a shock-, dust- and water-resistant mobile phone it hopes will appeal to active sports fans and cyclists. On sale now via O2, the M65 is finished in metal and rubber and sports a toughened, hard-to-scratch screen. The phone features a VGA camera with a 5x zoom and attachable flash, triple band facilities, a 64K colour screen and a range of pre-installed games. It is also available with an optional &#163;339.99 Bike-O-  Meter. This includes a mobile holder that functions as a cyclometer, displaying information such as distance travelled and speed.www.siemens.co.ukEasy on the earBluetooth ear pieces - enabling you to listen to your mobile phone wirelessly without taking it out of your pocket - don't come smaller than the new offering from Bluespoon. It differs from most in being attached to the ear by a spring, thereby avoiding the need to have an unsightly clip behind the ear. The company claims that it acts as an earplug, reducing background noise.Reception was fine in quiet environments but not so good near heavy traffic. There is also a risk of making your ear sore while you practise fitting it. Like many other Bluetooth earpieces, it is a great idea that isn't truly user-friendly - except perhaps as a (legal) hands-free option in a car. At a cost of &#163;199.99, it will probably appeal to enthusiasts only.Stat of the week:  Google ranks Mercury hopefulsThe Mercury Music Prize always throws up surprises, but this year's shortlist is a close one. While the bookies weigh up the competitors, we let the web decide. Google puts Franz Ferdinand leagues ahead, while Amy Winehouse and Robert Wyatt don't stand a chance.Franz Ferdinand 	484,000Keane 	99,400The Streets 	85,900Jamelia 	79,600Snow Patrol 	59,900Ty 	26,300Joss Stone 	21,200Amy Winehouse 	 8,900Robert Wyatt 	6,050
A growing number of PDAs are being teamed up with wireless Bluetooth GPS systems. Navman has gone one better and integrated a GPS system into a Microsoft Windows Mobile 2003 handheld. The &#163;400 PiN is compact, with well-designed controls and a clear 3.5in 64K colour screen. It boasts a 300MHz Intel processor, 64MB Ram and the usual Microsoft applications.To activate the GPS, you install the SmartST system, flip up the receiver's aerial and point it at the sky. There's a neat windscreen suction attachment, along with a charger for use in the car. The SmartST software, and especially the 3D maps it delivers, are very simple to follow.Inputting addresses and postcodes couldn't be easier. The voice prompting is clear. Almost every time we took a detour it was quick to offer an alternative route. The criticisms: the GPS system took an age to lock in; there's no recharging cradle; and the screen is too reflective to work well in bright sun - not much of a problem in the UK.www.navman.co.uk
At a press conference last week, Sony Ericsson unveiled the P910 its latest smartphone. Executives told journalists the updated model had one really exciting new feature - an integrated Qwerty keyboard.It's a measure of how far keyboards on phones have come that Sony Ericsson feels it necessary to add one to its best-selling, top-end smartphone.It looked so different in the late 90s, when Palm unveiled a handwriting system called Graffiti. It, and similar systems, have never fought their way into the mainstream because busy execs seemingly don't have the time or the inclination to master them.Along with handwriting recognition - the other holy grail for inputting data - are voice-based systems."Voice browser technology, which allows users to reliably dictate email and control applications by voice command, will replace keyboards as the main input and navigation control medium," predicts James Pankiewicz, head of mobile solutions at technology consultancy Conchango. "Systems such as Microsoft's Voice Command for the Pocket PC are not reliable enough to completely replace keyboard control. But they are getting there."Not everyone agrees, though. Matt Millar, from Mobile Innovation, a software company, argues: "Even if voice recognition was perfect, it wouldn't be a great solution. Most people can't dictate clearly and a smartphone screen isn't a great solution for reviewing and reorganising dictated text."Another option is to offer users foldable keyboard attachments. Yet while they work well and there are some interesting models, including Bluetooth keyboards from Nokia and Stowaway, they take up valuable space. Virtual projected keyboards, from companies such as Canesta, are a potential solution. Yet the projectors are still large and only work on flat surfaces."Compacting more options into fewer keys such as the Unitap from Holland is another solution," suggests Jean-Paul Edwards, head of Media Futures at media agency Manning Gottlieb OMD. Again, there's a learning curve.And a final option: "Don't input data into smartphones as they are too small," argues Millar. "Input data to a PC with a keyboard and large screen, review it, then ensure your PC (or web service) is automatically synchronised with the smartphone."It kind of makes sense, doesn't it? Until you have to reply to that urgent email...www.sonyericsson.comwww.palmone.com/us/products/inputwww.rl-technologies.com/UniTap/ testdrive.php3www.canesta.com
Identity theftThe government has launched a website offering advice on how to protect yourself against identity theft, and what to do if you think you have been a victim. Home Office minister Des Browne says: "Having your identity stolen is very traumatic - it can take some victims up to 300 hours to put their records and their lives straight. ID fraud costs the country more than &#163;1.3bn per year." The site deals with the theft of plastic cards and documents but doesn't say much about "phishing" and similar online crimes. The UK launch came the day before President Bush signed the Identity Theft Penalty Enhancement Act in the US, which adds two years to prison sentences for those convicted of using stolen credit card numbers and personal data to commit crimes. The US's online offerings include the much more useful Facts For Consumers page on the Federal Trade Commission site.www.identity-theft.org.ukwww.identity-theft.org.ukwww.ftc.govwww.consumer.gov/idtheftwww.ftc.gov/bcp/conline/pubs/credit/idtheft.htmSocial snapsNTL is backing an exhibition of photography, Sometimes Words are too Slow, by The Forum group: it opens tomorrow at the Proud Gallery in London. NTL has also put the pictures online, and there will be extra images posted each week in a Communities Live section. If you can do something similar or better, you can enter a digital photo that "tells a story about your community" in NTL's online competition. The first prize is &#163;1,000, and four runners up will each win &#163;500. However, "all entries become the property of NTL" - a common but bad idea. The competition is open to non-professionals and closes on September 4.http://www.ntlworld.com/photographyexhibitionDoh!Weekly e-zine Need To Know has launched a site devoted to its popular Doh feature: web pages containing typographical or silly errors. The collection includes "image censors" on Japanese cars, "Aussies once 1.65cm tall" and "Sperm stuns Venus Williams" - intended to refer to tennis player Karolina Sprem. There is a submissions page so anyone can play.www.xcom2002.com/dohSuper YellYell, the online Yellow Pages service, has introduced Super Search. This is based on a new thesaurus that includes more than 40,000 product, service terms and brand names, so there's more chance you will find what you want. Shorter versions of entries are available via text messaging on 80248.www.yell.comhttp://mobile.yell.comLive StrongMention the yellow jersey or the maillot jaune, and many people will think of the Tour de France and Lance Armstrong's attempt at a record sixth win. Armstrong is a cancer survivor, and has launched a $1 yellow wristband that carries his slogan, Live Strong. He is trying to raise $5m for the Lance Armstrong Foundation, a charity that helps support people with cancer and their families. The campaign is sponsored by Nike, which has donated $1m and is selling bands in its US stores, but it does not extend to the UK.www.wearyellow.comwww.laf.org/aboutZim onlineZim Online has been launched this month so Zimbabwean journalists can publish uncensored stories about Zimbabwe - which is why it is based in South Africa. The site says it aims to "provide the world with an accurate reflection of the true state of affairs in Zimbabwe" and "afford a wide voice to those who have been rendered voiceless".www.zimonline.co.zaStart hereOne of the most tedious aspects of using Microsoft Windows is trying to figure out which programs are loaded at start-up, what they do, and whether you want them. Pacman's Portal offers a good guide to some of those applications and utilities, but it requires a lot of effort. Startup Inspector for Windows does a lot of the work for you, and it's free. It scans all the programs in Windows' Startup folder or the Registry, which makes it easier to remove not just legitimate apps you don't want but spyware, viruses, diallers, and other malware. Both are British sites, and the author of Startup Inspector works for a travel agency in London's Chinatown.www.pacs-portal.co.ukwww.windowsstartup.comNew &amp; notedJapanese ice creamArt rockers redesignedStar Trek v Doctor WhoSix of the bestGut weekGut Week 2004Gut game (Flash)How it worksDigestive Disorders FoundationFood bugsGut Online
PC sales grew by about 15% in this year's second quarter, as the industry's recovery continued. And Dell confirmed its place as the world's largest PC manufacturer, taking almost a third of the US market. According to IDC, PC shipments grew by 15% to 39.7m units, in a fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth. The rival Gartner research company reported 13.3% growth to 43m units.The quarter's outstanding performers were Dell and Acer. IDC and Gartner agreed that Dell's PC shipments grew by 22.5% to more than 7m units, while fifth-placed Acer, from Taiwan, increased its shipments by almost 31% to 1.3m units. Hewlett Packard, IBM and Fujitsu were in between.Dell now dominates the US market, where rivals have not been   able to compete with its patented innovations in low-cost manufacturing. According to IDC, Dell shipped 4.4m PCs in the US for a 32.9% market share. On Gartner's numbers, it shipped 4.3m units for a 29.5% market share.In the US, Dell was followed by Hewlett Packard (2.5m units) and Gateway (1.1m). The fact that HP's numbers also include Compaq while Gateway's include eMachines, shows how far its rivals have fallen behind.The situation is different in the EMEA region (Europe, Middle East, and Africa) where HP is the leading supplier, followed by Dell, Fujitsu-Siemens, Acer and IBM.In the second quarter, IDC reckons PC sales in EMEA grew by 20.3% to 10.1m units, with HP shipping 2.2m units for an 18.1% market share. Dell only managed   1.5m units for a market share of 12.6%. However, Dell's shipments increased by 34.7%, Fujitsu-Siemens' by 42.5% and Acer's by 60%, compared with HP's 12.8% year-on-year growth.As in previous quarters, the move to notebook PCs has been a big factor, and Acer now claims to be the largest notebook supplier in Europe. According to IDC, notebook shipments grew by 29% in EMEA, though this was down on last year's 40% growth.IDC says "desktop sales have been a major driver this quarter, boosted by an increasing number of corporate refreshes across the region and driven by the need for hardware replacement and OS migration". Companies have been replacing PCs bought in 1999-2000 with new ones running Microsoft Windows XP, and replacing costly   proprietary servers with cheap Intel-compatible machines running either Windows Server 2003 or GNU/Linux.But while there is jam today, there may not be much jam tomorrow. Notebook growth will be hard to sustain once everyone who wants one has one, and that, too, will become a replacement market. But PC giants such as Dell and HP will probably keep growing as they drive thousands of small, local suppliers out of business.In the Asia Pacific region, for example, "others" - mainly local PC assemblers still have at least 60% of the PC market. In EMEA, their share has just fallen fractionally below 50%, while in the US, they have been reduced to 33% of the market, on IDC figures. When the giants fight, the little guys get trampled underfoot.
Phone homeGreat Ormond Street Hospital (Gosh) is keeping young patients in touch with friends by introducing bedside pay-phones to replace mobiles, which are still banned in hospitals. The 350 phones supplied by CreditCall use pre-paid cards or credit cards, but charges are below BT rates for its national and international calls. The phones do not provide SMS texting.www.creditcall.co.ukMany HP returnsThe "greening" of Hewlett Packard will see the company recycling half a billion kilos of hardware and printing supplies by 2007. The target set by the company will be realised by the creation of incentive schemes and the provision of convenient channels for customers to return used or unwanted equipment to recycling centres. A pilot scheme in Germany requires customers to turn up at one of its Planet Partner retailers on a specified day to exchange recyclables for HP vouchers. LaserJet and inkjet consumables will be supplied with freepost envelopes for returning empty cartridges. HP's Planet Partner scheme has been running since 1991.http://www.hp.com/hpinfo/globalcitizenship/environmentLinspiringMicrosoft and Lindows.com have settled their long-running trademark dispute over the use of the Lindows name on a version of GNU/Linux aimed mainly at home users. Lindows will now stop using that name and switch to Linspire - a name it was already using where it had lost cases. Terms were confidential, but Lindows received an enormous amount of publicity and perhaps a $20m pay-off.Motor mouthItalian carmaker Fiat is working with Microsoft to bring hands-free internet services to motorists, using Fiat's bConnect service and Microsoft's CE-based Windows Automotive platform. The companies are developing voice-activated systems to provide in-car internet, phone and personal organiser facilities. The vision is to enable the driver to find and book hotel rooms or   contact garage mechanics to check the car remotely while driving. Microsoft says drivers will be able to use their own devices to integrate with the vehicle, such as connecting a mobile via Bluetooth. There will also be a USB port in the dashboard for digital music players.www.microsoft.com/automotivewww.bconnect.bizSafety firstsHardware companies are gearing up to support the 802.11i wireless security specification, ratified last month. The Wi-Fi Alliance industry consortium will start interoperability testing in September, or as soon as products reach the market. Intel claims its Centrino products already meet the specifications, and Aruba Wireless Networks says it aims to be the first to launch a centralised security switching system. 802.11i will introduce the Advanced Encryption Standard for use within a corporate network, and reduce the need for Virtual Private Network tunnelling.Recovery resellerManchester-based internet service provider NetServices is launching a reseller initiative to help it provide disaster recovery services to customers. The scheme allows the resellers to offer secure, remote site, data backup facilities to small to medium businesses. Costs will be controlled by using a Layer 2 Tunnelling Protocol (L2TP) VPN gateway rather than a dedicated leased line. The data is stored on customer-specific servers, which are backed up regularly. NetServices will provide resellers with training and help with implementation.www.netservicesplc.com/internetEC attacks UKThe European Commission has complained to the UK about its data protection law, which is based on a 1995 European directive. The complaint covers issues including the UK definition of personal data, which narrowed last year when the Court of Appeal decided Michael Durant was not entitled to see all documents mentioning him held by the Financial Services Authority. The EC can take the UK to the European Court of Justice if it is dissatisfied with its response.www.out-law.comCRM rushCustomer relationship management (CRM) software is operational in twice as many local authorities as a year ago, according to the Society of IT Management's annual software survey. Of the 339 councils surveyed, 114 are using CRM, compared with 54 last year. The government has placed use of CRM-style systems among its e-government priorities for English local authorities. SocITM also found declining use of specially written software. For example, only 26% are using social services software developed in-house, compared with 39% two years ago.www.socitm.gov.uk
How important was the net for researching the book?If it weren't for the net, the book wouldn't exist. Subscribers to World Wide Words asked me about the origins of expressions and told me funny stories about them, which alerted me to the need for the book. This was about six years ago and I wasn't as aware of the anecdotal popular etymology that exists online. If it weren't for the web it would have taken me 10 times as long to research the truth behind the stories. There's an enormous amount of digitised material available. On some sites you can search 150 years of US newspapers.   That kind of resource is revolutionising our study of the history of language.So the net becomes a vast library?There are repositories of modern newspapers or things such asProject Gutenbergwith all its books. I have a copy on my computer of every Project Gutenberg book in English. I bought a commercial search engine calleddtSearchthat has indexed them all.Is content still king?A static site is going to lose out to one that's dynamic. People want to keep coming back and you want them to come back, therefore you have to keep providing new material. I usually provide three or four new pieces on aspects of language every week and I assume that's one reason why the site is as popular as it is. I get 200,000 page hits per week. I'm switching my web hosting provider and   when I said I needed at least 11GB of bandwidth a month, some smaller British providers couldn't handle that.What's the secret?The website must be fast to load with a relatively minimum amount of jazzy Flash animations. Some people regard my site as a bit boring without animations but I'm in the business of words so a lot of imagery wouldn't be appropriate. As a result, my site is quick to download. The site is essentially the archive for the newsletter, which goes out once a week. It is quiet over summer but when the academic year begins, everything goes crazy.Is ever-more technology jargon creeping into the vernacular?Technology is a driving force in the development of vocabulary. There are so many new terms coming out, not only in computing but in all scientific fields, although only a proportion filter down   into an individual's vocabulary. A word like "broadband" for instance, wouldn't have been known a few years ago. Comparatively few make it into everyday use and then others go out of use. When did you last use the word gramophone?Has email killed the art of letter writing?You mean what was left after the telephone killed the rest of it? Actually, I think the reverse is true and that we're seeing a substantial increase in written text correspondence. With email, there's an enormous resurgence in people using the written word to communicate ... although they tend to be more the scratch note "see you tonight at 8pm" type of message rather than sweeping missives about what you did on holiday.Visit:www.worldwidewords.orghttp://news.google.com/www.unitedmedia.com/comics/dilbertwww.bbc.co.ukwww.gutenberg.netwww.oed.comwww.word-detective.com
"An audio technology that turns plants and flowers into loudspeakers has been developed in Japan, although some experts remain sceptical about the idea," reportsNew Scientist."The speaker system, designed by Let's Corporation, a technology firm based in Okayama, southern Japan, mimics the way conventional audio speakers work. But it uses flowers instead of the conventionally used cone made of paper, plastic or metal, to generate sound waves."Comment:"Hello, flowers! Hello, trees!" Flowers: "Hello, Fotherington-Thomas!"
"In a move demonstrating the growing popularity of MP3 players over PDAs, Duke University is giving free Apple iPods to its 1,650 incoming freshmen when school starts next month," reportsUSA Today."Since the iPod's 2001 debut, consumers have snapped up nearly 4 million units for listening to music on the go. Duke, however, bought iPods as mini-computers for educational uses, such as listening to lectures, practicing foreign languages and studying dialects."
Microsoft last night announced one of the largest returns of cash to shareholders in American corporate history, promising to hand back $75bn (&#163;40bn) in the next four years.Analysts had been pressing the software group fto release some of its huge cash pile following moves to settle lawsuits on both sides of the Atlantic.But the size of the return, announced after the close of the New York stock exchange,   stunned some on Wall Street and Microsoft's shares jumped 7% in after-hours trading.The return of cash is roughly equivalent to the GDP of Chile last year and will heap billions of cash into the coffers of chairman and founder Bill Gates and his executive team.But the company able to continue investing in its operating system software because it makes about $1bn a month. Last year Microsoft spent about $7bn on research and development.Microsoft intends to pay a $3 a share special dividend if investors approve the move in November, and switch from annual payouts to quarterly dividends.Its first such dividend, announced yesterday, will be 8 cents a share, making for an annual payment of 32 cents, double last year's level.The company will also spend $30bn buying back its own shares in the market over the next four years, a move analysts believe could reduce Microsoft's free float by up to 10%."We have been successful in addressing a significant portion of our ongoing legal exposure, and all seven of our businesses are growing," said chief executive Steve Ballmer. "We will continue to make major investments across all our businesses ... but we can now also provide up to $75bn in total value to shareholders over the next four years."The payout will also distract some investors from concerns about the underlying performance. Microsoft is expecting sales growth to slow to its lowest ever level - possibly as little as 3.4% - next year.The cash return will dampen hopes in investment banking circles that the company was steeling itself for a big takeover.Recently it emerged that Microsoft had been considering a takeover of its German rival SAP which would have swallowed most of Microsoft's $56.4bn cash pile.Observers believe that one of the reasons the company has backed away from such mega-deals is the threat of litigation and a long drawn-out regulatory process. The SAP negotiations came to light when bitter enemy Oracle threatened to reveal the talks as part of its legal battle to obtain clearance for its own takeover of rival software house Peoplesoft.But the most significant legal threats to Microsoft - the flood of litigation it faced - has largely been resolved.
Having covered the world's greatest bike race for the Guardian for 10 years, I have lost count of the number of times people have asked if I follow the race on my bike. The only answer is a hollow laugh. The Tour de France is the ultimate celebration of things two-wheeled, but the cyclists are outnumbered by cars 20-to-one, and the tour produces traffic jams that would give ecologists nightmares.And we, the race's 5,000 followers, live in our cars. Everything (yes, everything) happens in and from tour cars: team managers use them as the equivalent of the touchline, driving alongside cyclists and yelling instructions at them. Referees observe cheats and penalise them. Cyclists take tows on the sly, grab drinks and food from them, and are paced back to the pack by them. Doctors tend bee stings and bandage the wounds of competitors riding alongside. Mechanics oil chains and adjust saddles, leaning out at impossible angles. Corporate guests are wined and dined. Journalists eat, drink, sleep, watch TV and file stories from their cars.This year, the bulk of those cars, including mine, come from Skoda, official vehicle supplier to the race. Their arrival en masse in an event held up as the supreme embodiment of Frenchness seems a little incongruous - until you learn that, when Skoda was founded in 1895, it did not make cars but bikes, before arriving at four wheels via motorbikes.Even though Skoda is about as French a name as James Bond, the race and the cars do have one thing in common: both Skoda and the tour are brand names in the process of removing unfortunate associations from the past and making strenuous attempts to change the way the public see them. The bike race is trying to throw off all those unfortunate connections with performance-enhancing drugs; with the cars, it's all those old Skoda jokes. And before anyone starts sniggering at the back, the Guardian's new Octavia didn't need anything acquired from a dodgy Italian doctor in a camper van to make it faster. In fact, having observed the race for almost three weeks, I'd argue that Skoda is rebranding rather more successfully.The first plus point with Skoda is that it chooses sensible names for its cars, rather than something vaguely Greek, like dildo or hubris. Octavia has a refreshingly down-to-earth, home-counties boarding school, twinset-and-labrador ring to it, while the top brass on the tour are driving a Skoda model called simply Superb, which at least sets out its stall and says what it is supposed to be. The Octavia is actually rather like a Ford Mondeo, which for this sort of mid-market small family or rep-mobile is probably not a bad selling point, particularly as it comes in rather cheaper than the Mondeo and has more solid handling.If the front grille of the Octavia has a look of the old BMW about it, the fact that the chassis is by Volkswagen shows in its handling: there is little to induce howls of excitement, but the cornering is reliable, with no feeling of drift on back roads, hairpinned mountain passes or when swerving round cows. The suspension feels harder than that of your average mid-range saloon, with less of a blancmange sensation, so passengers are less likely to emerge from the vehicle on their hands and knees.In its way, the Octavia is what you would expect from eastern Europe by way of Germany. There is nothing frivolous here, just a couple of mild eccentricities, most notably the speedometer, which gets to 80mph and then switches from 10-mile increments to 20-mile ones, so that 100mph is where 90 should be. The French police have recently cracked down on speeding on the autoroute and "Oh, pardon, monsieur, my speedometer is mildly eccentric" will not cut much ice with les flics.There is a little less grunt about the 1.9-litre diesel engine than you might get with a 2.0 elsewhere, but this has a handy flipside. In low gears, there is no feeling that the engine is running away with you. The Octavia feels like a car, not an articulated lorry. There are handy touches too: a nice dangly rubber thing to close the boot with; you can turn the front airbag off if you want to put a childseat in the passenger seat; and, charmingly, the boot has a neat little netted place to stop bottles of wine rolling around - and it's bigger than the old Octavia's. We put three people's luggage in there, and it burped and asked for more.Most helpful, however, is the parsimonious fuel consumption, which is where the modern diesel scores hands down over its petrol counterpart. The literature says that, in the combined cycle, our Octavia would manage 53mpg. I found that, on everything from mountain passes to motorways, it managed more than 500 miles on rather less than a tankful. Two wheels and pedals may be the most energy-efficient form of transport known to man, and the tour's 2,100 miles in three weeks is the ultimate expression of that, but the Octavia is the motoring equivalent of Lance Armstrong: a very lean machine indeed.&#183;Giles Smith is away.
Britain's largest high-speed internet provider, British Telecom (BT), today confirmed that it is blocking 23,000 attempts to access illegal child abuse websites every day.Using new technology, BT blocked 230,000 attempts by its customers to access online images of child abuse between June 21 and 31.But BT, which has nearly 3 million internet customers in the UK, says it is unable to quantify or record how many people have tried to access such websites.A BT spokesman said: "The technology isn't set up in that way, and BT doesn't have a legal right to keep such information on people."Subscribers to BT's internet services who attempt to access illegal sites receive an error message as if the page was unavailable.Improvements in computer processing speeds have enabled BT to block access to a list of illegal sites compiled by the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), an industry watchdog which monitors harmful and illegal online content.Known as Cleanfeed, the project is the brainchild of John Carr, internet adviser to children's charity NCH, and has been developed in consultation with the Home Office.Mr Carr said the figures equated to BT blocking three attempts to access online child abuse images per second."It's a shocking number, but BT is just one of many internet service providers (ISPs)," he said. "To get the total figure for one day you'd need to multiply 23,000 by the number of ISPs across the world."Mr Carr said that BT were unable to track down the people trying to access online child abuse images because that would require a warrant.He added that the figures did not represent the number of individuals accessing child abuse images online. Some of the attempts to access the material would be generated by automated information retrieval programmes, known as webcrawlers, and spam, he said.Peter Robbins, chief executive of the IWF, said he did not know how accurately BT's figures reflected the number of people trying to access child abuse material on the internet. But he said the number did appear to be extremely high.Home Office minister Paul Goggins applauded BT's efforts, but said he was "deeply shocked" by the findings. He urged other companies to take up BT's offer of help.Wanadoo, the UK's largest ISP, and AOL said that they supported the aims of Cleanfeed and were considering whether to use the technology themselves.But a spokesman for the ISP Claranet said that Cleanfeed would not block access to all child abuse websites because the IWF's database was not comprehensive.He said: "It relies on the IWF database being complete. But it consists of illegal sites which internet users have stumbled across and reported. I've been using the internet since 1992 and I've never stumbled across such sites, so I doubt it represents the totality of the illegal content out there."
New technology is preventing thousands of people from accessing hardcore child pornography on the internet every day, it emerged today.British Telecom has stopped 200,000 attempts to access such images in just three weeks.The exact number of people trying to look at the sites is unclear because some may be making repeated attempts and the total number of attempts is likely to be far higher as BT is just one of a number of companies providing internet access.BT said it was surprised at the high number of attempts to access sites. And it has offered to help other internet service providers block access.Home Office minister Paul Goggins applauded BT's efforts but said he was "deeply shocked" by the findings. He urged other companies to take up BT's offer of help.Speaking on the BBC Radio 4 Today programme, he added: "Every image of a child that appears on the internet is a picture of a child that has been abused and that must remain firmly fixed in our minds as a key priority for taking the actions that we are determined to take."
Wanadoo, the internet service provider formerly known as Freeserve and now owned by France T&#233;l&#233;com, plans to launch a broadband home gateway next month which will open the door to cheap phone calls and eventually TV over the internet.Wanadoo's Livebox, available next month, will initially be sold as enabling wireless access to the internet at home. But from next year Wanadoo will also offer voice calls over the internet, known as VoIP, through the box and then   video on demand. BT announced plans for a similar internet telephony service called BT Communicator last week while millions of consumers have already downloaded VoIP software from companies such as Skype and Vonage.While offering phone calls over the internet is possible using current broadband technology, pumping video or TV down a home phone line requires Wanadoo to gain access to BT's local exchanges, known as the local loop.Wanadoo uses the UK network of Energis to reach its customers but chief executive Eric Abensur said he was in talks with other operators about using their services."Energis continues to be a very good partner but we have other options," he said. Losing out to another operator would be a blow to Energis, which was bought out by its banks two years ago and is run by one of the original Freeserve founders, John Pluthero.BT is also considering offering TV and video over broadband as it upgrades its national network. It is unlikely that Wanadoo will be able to offer a video service until the middle of next year.Wanadoo's Livebox, costing &#163;79.99, also has the capability to use Bluetooth technology, allowing the ISP to offer a competing product to BT's combined mobile and fixed line phone known as the Bluephone."It's not a current plan but if we have the opportunity to do a Bluephone with our sister company Orange why not?" said Mr Abensur.BT said last week that Bluephone, a handset which operates as both a home phone and mobile, will not be introduced until spring next year.
"Apple Computer has created a fourth-generation iPod that offers a slimmer case, click-wheel navigation and significantly improved battery life. According to Newsweek magazine, the two new models will offer greater capacity for the same price as the current lineup. A 20GB iPod will sell for $299, while the top-of-the-line 40GB model will retail for $399. Currently, Apple sells a 15GB version for $299, a 20GB version for $399 and a 40GB model for $499," reportsCNet.Comment:Apple UK says the new iPods are available immediately, with the 20GB model at £219 (inc VAT) and the 40GB version at £299, which also includes a dock. Apple is claiming a 12 hour battery life....
Panram International Corp, from Taiwan, has launched a USB Flash drive that looks like a cat, and theCat Barcomes in a range of colours includingblack. The specification says: "The Flash Mail software alleviates the tools while traveling, to read and send your personal e-mail from your personal account from any computer without alternating any account information on the guest PC," and "Can be configured as a bootable disk for system repairing", which sounds useful.Most importantly, of course, it says: "'Meow' when Cat Bar been plugged into USB ports".Thanks toShiny Shinyfor the story and the headline. Pop over there for the photo, at least....
Sun: A CEO's Last Stand, is Business Week's cover story for July 26, and there's an "online extra" in the form of aninterview with Scott McNealy. He's always interesting because he has the same kind of gigantic ego as his better-known buddies, Larry Ellison (Oracle) and Steve Jobs (Apple), even though Sun's products are becoming increasingly irrelevant.
"Use of Yahoo as a search engine ties that of the mighty Google in the most recent Consumer Technographics survey, sponsored by Forrester, of more than 60,000 North American households. Each of those search engines shows up with 40 percent of Web surfers who use a portal or search site at least once a week. And Forrester believes use of Yahoo search will surge ahead of Google in the first quarter of 2005, says George Colony, Forrester chair and CEO," reportsPC World."Colony says a great search site has three components: personalization, presentation, and quality of service. 'Of all the search engines out there, Yahoo is the only player that gets all three.'"
"Double-digit growth in worldwide sales of personal computers for the fifth consecutive quarter was driven largely by strong demand in Europe, according to a research company that tracks sales. PC sales increased 15% over the year-ago quarter, with 39.7 million units shipped, led by the strong demand in Europe, as well as better than expected sales in Canada and Latin America, according to Framingham, Mass.-based IDC," reportsAP."Replacement purchases were the key for 13.3% growth, and worldwide shipments of 43 million units, according to preliminary results compiled by Stamford, Conn.-based Gartner Inc., which also tracks sales."Comment:The top 5 PC suppliers were Dell, Hewlett Packard, IBM, Fujitsu and Acer. "Acer showed the greatest growth from the year-ago quarter, of 30.7% according to IDC, and 30.9% according to Gartner," says AP.The 39.7 or 43 million PCs sold include those 0.9 million Macs, putting Apple in fifth place in the US market (on bothIDCandGartnerfigures).Apple has been climbing back up the US charts with the disappearance of former rivals such as Compaq (absorbed into HP), eMachines (absorbed into Gateway) and Packard-Bell (now part of NEC) -- and the failure of Japanese challengers such as Sony and Toshiba to replace them. Fujitsu, which is Japanese, includes the Siemens PC business.
"Queen Elizabeth II dubbed Tim Berners-Lee a Knight on Friday, in recognition of his contributions to the World Wide Web. Berners-Lee, in a ceremony at Buckingham Palace, was dubbed a Knight Commander, the second highest rank of the Order of the British Empire. For Berners-Lee, a British citizen living in the United States, the knighthood marked the latest honor he has received since creating the protocols for the World Wide Web in the early 1990s," reportsCNet."I am humbled by this great honor," said Berners-Lee. "The Web came about through an ongoing collaboration with my fellow investors and developers worldwide. Everyone in the Internet community should be recognized by this honor."'Comment:CNet's subs will probably correct the headline (originally it read: "Call him Sir Berners-Lee") eventually. [update: They have.] Tim's reference to his "fellow investors" should presumably be to his "fellow inventors".
"While tens of thousands of tiny radio-frequency identification (RFID) devices have been implanted in animals for years, there were suspicions that, one day, they would have use in humans, too. That suspicion was confirmed this week, when Mexico's Attorney General Rafael Macedo de la Concha reported that he had a chip implanted in his arm for security reasons. Macedo went on to say that 160 of his employees had been implanted with the rice-grain-sized chips, manufactured by the VeriChip Corp., of Delray, FL," reportsTechweb."'We've sold about 7,000 [chips] worldwide,' said Angela Fulcher, VeriChip's vice president of marketing and communications, in an interview Thursday. 'We think about 1,000 have been implanted in humans.' Many final destinations of the chips aren't known, she said, simply because they are marketed through distributors, and VeriChip doesn't always know where they end up."Comment:This is the same as the chip used by a Barcelona night club, as reported in Online (newsandfeature).
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premier online current affairs forum!connecting to server ...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:the results of last night's byelections are in! How should Tony Blair be feeling this morning? What do the numbers mean for the three main parties? Who will win the next general election? What do you think?capitalistpiglet:now Hodge Hill did surprise meDaz-D:u r stupidHost_Chris2:it's a complicated picture overallcapitalistpiglet:something for everyone to be unhappy aboutDaz-D:I fartedPashmina has entered the NewsRoomgary3000:all the guys would say she mighty finePashmina:hi roomcapitalistpiglet:hi pashDaz-D:pashima r u hotgary3000:but mighty fine only got u somehwere half the timePashmina:school holidays is hereHost_Chris2:I'm afraid soDaz-D:I farted againLadeezMan entered the NewsRoomgary3000:&amp; the other half got u cursed out or coming up shortLadeezMan:yoHost_Chris2:we were discussing byelectionsgary3000:yeah now dig thisDaz-D:u mean bi erections dont uLadeezMan:did bnp wincapitalistpiglet:I don't think they even fielded candidatesLadeezMan:bnp is v bad, saw them on tellyPashmina:They are rubbish! u sign up &amp; then your phone goes dead!LadeezMan:your thinking of ntlDaz-D:I am bnpgary3000:she got a hotty body but her attitude is pottyPashmina:ohDaz-D:get out imigrints nowLadeezMan:thats themgary3000:when I met her at a party she was hardly actin naughtyLadeezMan:take a break eminemgary3000:its outkast grandadDaz-D:lolPashmina:just ignore them and they'll go awaycapitalistpiglet:I'm trying!Daz-D:yo pashima r u fitHost_Chris2:that's enough. The topic is last night's election results. Anyone not discussing the topic will be kicked out immediatelyLadeezMan:nice one Chris2Daz-D:I'd say the result in Leicester probably reflects local sentiments more than the national mood. I can't see those numbers translating at the next general election&gt;connection to server has been terminated . . .
"Microsoft plans to announce today that Live Communications Server (LCS) 2005, due to ship during this year's fourth quarter, will allow users to exchange instant messages with users on AOL's AIM, Yahoo Messenger and MSN Messenger. "This has been the top request from our corporate customers. They have clearly told us that anything we could possibly do to make this happen would make them the happiest," said Taylor Collyer, Microsoft's senior director for LCS," according toComputerWorld."The link between LCS and the three IM networks will be provided through add-on modules that will be sold separately, he said. Pricing for the connectivity modules is still being worked on and will be announced later this year. 'We'll try to make it an attractive proposition. We want to put this thing within reach,' Collyer said."Comment:Unfortunately this seems to be for corporate users only. Meanwhile the major IM suppliers continue to harm consumers and damage their own long-term business interests by failing to interoperate.
"IBM on Thursday reported its sixth consecutive quarterly rise in profit, as its long-term contracts largely shielded it from the shortfalls that hit other technology companies," reportsReuters."The world's largest computer company said second-quarter net income rose to $2.0 billion, or $1.16 a share, from $1.7 billion, or 97 cents a share, a year earlier, including items. Revenue rose to $23.2 billion from $21.6 billion a year earlier."
This morning, at a press conference in London, Sony Ericsson unveiled a handful of new phones, most of which will be available in the third quarter of this year. The most interesting is the P910, which is basically a P900 with a tiny keyboard on the inside of the flip-down keypad. SeeInfosync Worldfor more details of the spec plus photos.I tried the keyboard and it's nothing like as good as you get on the latest BlackBerry or the Treo 600. Still, it is very much better than not having a little keyboard at all. In use, it's also more comfortable than you might expect, because the phone is easy to support while you type with your thumbs.For details of the Sony Ericsson K500, S710a, and Z500i phones, and minor variants, gohere.But if you were hoping for aPremini, sorry, you will have to move to Japan.Sony Ericsson also unveiled excellent financial results for the quarter, asAPreports.
How did digital cameras fare against film in your Gadget Show tests?The ability to take pictures in colour, black and white with a host of other effects and see the image immediately makes digital photography more appealing and efficient. In episode four, using standard film and digital, we blew up two pictures to 10m x 17m. While film created a sharper image, the digital picture was a lot more flattering and this clinched the deal for me! We found that if taking an action picture, an element of lag occurred between pressing the button and taking the shot. Unless you still use a ZX-Spectrum and own a Betamax video, digital is the future.What digital camera do you use?I have aCasio EX Z40, with which I take lots of photos. It's small but has 4.0 megapixels, which produce sharp pictures, and all the functions are great.Any other favourite gadgets?My mobile's my favourite gadget. I have a love/hate relationship with it - I hate the fact I'm always contactable - but my Nokia 7610 takes great photos and I like to send them home as I'm away a lot. It's also useful for taking short video clips. However,Bose noise cancelling headphonesare the answer to a good sleep - perfect in-flight as they eliminate the shriek of crying babies and unwanted chat from the person in the next seat!Have USB and Firewire opened up the possibilities for gadgetry?Definitely, although you can be hindered by the pace technology travels and occasionally incur incompatibilities with gadgets and computers. For instance, an iPod needs a Firewire porthttp://developer.apple.com/firewireto transfer music files to and from the computer but slightly older laptops or desktops don't have them.Do you download music?Not from the net, but I record music from CDs on to my Sonic Stage software, which lets me transfer the music from my PC to my MP3 player or listen to created play lists on the PC. My Sony MP3 player is so small you can put it in a sweatband on your arm! The battery's better than the iPod's. I can't live without my music.So you're not a Mac user?I'm PC-based. As I've always used a PC I work on the philosophy that if it's not broken,   why try to fix it? Speaking of which, if you throw both out of a first floor window - which we did for the show - it'll cost &#163;65 to fix the PC and the Mac will set you back more than &#163;500!Is technology becoming more of a selling point in new cars?Clearly.GPS systemsare becoming standard on new models. We tested a homemade Head-Up-Display on the show, which worked quite well. It won't be long before they combine the two and that will be a standard feature. I don't have GPS in my car as I like to think I have a good sense of direction!Visit:www.suziperry.comHer bookmarks:www.johnmayer.comwww.expedia.co.ukhttp://www.wolves.co.ukwww.oceanuk.com&#183;The Gadget Show is on Channel 5 on Mondays at 7.30pm
Screen breakLast July, Matthew Somerville, a kind of renegade web designer, launched his version of the Odeon Cinema's listings site. Acting on his own and for no commercial gain, Somerville produced a new front end to the Odeon site that would make it much easier to use. By common consensus, Somerville greatly improved the usability of the site, especially for people using older browsers and, naturally, it gained a cult audience.Was the Odeon pleased with his intervention? Did it consider incorporating his good ideas or even offer him a job? Not a bit of it. Instead, the UK's biggest cinema chain recently issued a series of "strongly worded emails" claiming copyright infringement and so, on Sunday, under the threat of legal action, Somerville decided he had to "remove my accessible version of their highly inaccessible website".In its defence, Odeon says it is acting on "a number of complaints" from customers who say they have entered personal details via Somerville's site, "in the mistaken belief" that his site was affiliated to Odeon Cinemas Limited.  The sad thing is that the Odeon site remains just as unusable. Somerville recommends users switch to Scoot.com or a local paper if they want to know cinema times.Regular readers of this column may recognise Somerville's name as he also refashioned National Rail site's Live Departure Boards. That intervention remains live.www.odeon.co.ukwww.dracos.co.uk/odeonwww.dracos.co.uk/railwaywww.scoot.comwww.guardian.co.uk/filmChe lives and diesYou won't find much unexpected on the official site of the new Che Guevara biopic, The Motorcycle Diaries, although the interview with director Walter Salles does make an interesting read. Far better is the Che Lives website, which offers news, left-wing views and MP3 downloads of the iconic rebel leader. Elsewhere, the George Washington University offers a collection of recently   declassified US government materials on the death of Che Guevara.www.motorcyclediaries.netwww.che-lives.comWi-Fi cycle"I am like the ice-cream man, but with no music and I deliver free wireless access and not ice cream." If only every city had a Yury Gitman - a man prepared to take his internet connectivity to the people. Gitman regularly cycles around New York armed with laptop, mobile phone and Wi-Fi antenna. He says he can connect up to 250 users in a radius of 30 metres indoors and 100 metres outdoors, and he does it free. Last year, Gitman was the first person to send an email from a subway platform, and he's bringing a whole new meaning to the phrase mobile internet.www.magicbike.netOff registerUnder the slogan "take back the web", Bugmenot.com is a simple site that allows you to bypass those pesky registration log-ins for a range of online journals. If it's not there, you can always add your own.www.bugmenot.comFree Theft AutoScottish games developers Rock Star Games has just made its classic Grand Theft Audio game free for download.www.rockstargames.com/classics/gta.htmSell just a bit moreEx-KLF frontman Bill Drummond is back. In the 1980s, he wrote a book entitled How To Have a Number One the Easy Way, which urged musicians to sell their instruments and spend their time lounging around listening to Steve Wright in the Afternoon. Now he is fronting a provocative classified ads site that urges people to sell just a little bit more. Little more than a long, straight web page, YouWhores.com describes itself as "a site for you to advertise what you are willing to do and the price you are willing to do it for". And, by golly, people do. "Rare crimes committed at reasonable prices" touts one entry. Another promises to "say nice things about you at your funeral" (a snip at &#163;1,000). Then there is the dubious offer "to stalk you across any London Borough next Bank Holiday Monday". And so it goes, much of it obscene.www.klf.dewww.youwhores.comwww.tomrobinson.com/work/klf.htmNew &amp; notedEnglish Heritage's online archeryUniquely oversized versions of everyday objectsSix of the best:Tour de FrancePhoto tourTour de blogVersion AnglaiseFantasy cycling gameThe soundtrackCycle it yourself
The tiniest shift, history shows us, can signal the greatest change. News last weekend that Microsoft's Internet Explorer (IE) web browser had lost a single percentage point of market share might not sound all that significant today, but it could well mean the browser wars are back on. One percent is all it takes.The signs have been growing since the beginning of June. Since then, Microsoft has reformed the IE product team, Apple has unveiled details of Safari 2 and Dashboard - about which more later - and the Mozilla project released major new versions of Firefox and Camino, along with details of new funding from Nokia. Opera has entered beta testing for its new Mac browser and a major new industry body burst into existence to form proposals for open standards for web applications. In short, we're rocking like it's 1997.So let's step back, and catch up with some history. By 1997, you might remember, the internet had finally caught on. At the time, the most popular web browser was Netscape Navigator. It had 72% of the market, compared to Internet Explorer 3's 18%. But then, in the October of that year, came IE4. It was much better than Navigator, and - in an action that would later see Microsoft prosecuted for antitrust violations - came with a business plan that sought to destroy the relatively tiny Netscape. This it did: by the next year, with the launch of Windows 98 and IE coming free and preinstalled, Netscape was in deep trouble. Eventually bought out by AOL, it saw its market share plummet. Today, just over 94% of all web users are working with IE.But this week, we find that Microsoft's share has, for the first time,   dropped. Ever so slightly, from 95.73% to 94.73%. "It's the first time we've seen a sustained trend downward for them," says Geoff Johnston, an analyst with WebSideStory, which produced these results. "We have a trend. It's been about a month, and every day we have a steady incremental change."So what's going on? Three things: first, this last year has seen a series of well-publicised security issues with IE coincide with the maturation of the various alternatives to IE. This results in many people moving to systems such as Firefox, prompted invariably by news reports, good reviews or the recommendations of friends.Second, that very maturation has come as the developers of alternative browsers have been concentrating on the support of openly developed standards. Instead of developing things in-house and dropping them on a previously unsuspecting opposition, Microsoft's rivals are working with each other to implement public standards from bodies such as the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C).One difference today is that, apart from Opera, none of the competitors to IE's dominant position is in it for the cash: they just want a better browser. In 1997, Netscape's browser was a loss leader to sell more of its server software.This year, Netscape's funding of the open source Mozilla browser is a loss leader to give everyone a better browser.When Steve Jobs, the chief executive of Apple, demonstrated the new features of the 2.0 version of Safari to a developer's conference earlier this month, he wasn't demonstrating features closed to Apple. He was showing Apple's particular implementation of open standards that it is   building with the rest of the browser community. Mozilla and the rest will be free to follow suit, not as copycats, but as equals within a standards process.A publicly accountable working group was set up in June to manage one important aspect of this: the Web Hypertext Application Technology Working Group, or WhatWG. Anyone can join in the development process, and all the major browser authors, bar Microsoft, are members. The standard it produces will be openly published, and thus can be supported by everyone equally. This is a way of thinking that goes against everything that Microsoft has done before.For its part, the newly reformed Microsoft IE development team is keen to find out where it is going wrong. It has opened a site for users to leave feature requests, and the team holds monthly online chats. These make for interesting reading, if only for the curious way all of the requested features - pop-up blocking,   tabbed browsing, compliance with the accepted W3C standards, for example - are all things that have been around for nearly two years in rival browsers. With only one major upgrade since 1999, IE is far behind the curve on web technology. Futhermore, according to Microsoft, the next overhaul of IE will accompany the launch of the next version of Windows, codenamed Longhorn, which won't be available until at least 2006.This is the crux of the problem. With its immense market share, IE has an enormous effect on the ecosystem of the internet. Development is being slowed: differences in the way IE treats certain technical standards compared with the more modern systems, means that web designers must be continually aware of work-arounds and hacks to get things to work, and online security is seriously damaged. Screens full of pop-up adverts, automatically installing spyware, and unstoppable redirects to porn sites, are all due to problems   with IE. For the users of more modern browsers, these irritations are things of the past - although the upcoming Service Pack 2 for Windows XP will contain a small security update for IE that will fix some major holes and, reportedly, install a pop-up blocker.These improvements aside, one important question remains: why did Microsoft stop developing Internet Explorer? Why would a company so vocal about innovation cease work on perhaps the most used application in the world, and for nearly three years? The answer is not definitive, but the prevailing thinking points to the third aspect of the browser war: it is the beginning of an even larger, if deeply curious, battle for the domination of the entire computer industry.The vast majority of Microsoft's income comes from only two areas: Windows and Office. These two products rely on people, and especially companies, continually upgrading. This is a good business for   Microsoft, as we have seen, and one protected in part by the complexity and expense of Windows programming tools. Indeed, one of the anti-monopoly complaints against Microsoft is that the collection of building blocks with which programmers create programs, known as the Windows API, is secret. Microsoft's internal development teams get first dibs at it and so Word, for example, is able to be a much closer fit to Windows that a rival application built outside the company.However, what would happen if people's web browsers were capable of running complex applications, with code based on openly published specifications? Two things: first, the operating system would become irrelevant, so there would be no need to upgrade to the next version of Windows, and second, the playing field for everything else would be thus levelled. The majority of Microsoft's business, therefore, could have been threatened if the IE browser team had continued past 2001.The concept of running applications within the web browser is not a new one, and indeed has been tried before and failed. But today, with a combination of cheaper bandwidth and improvements in storage and clustering technology, things are looking promising.Certain things are very tricky to do, and others impossible - you would not want to build a version of Photoshop as a web-based application, for example. But for many of the most popular applications, and specifically many of the applications most used by the corporate community, a web browser would be perfectly good, especially given the addition of the   abilities being developed in the open, by people such as WhatWG.Google is a very good example of this. The reasoning behind its new webmail product, Gmail, puzzles many, but makes a lot more sense when you think of it as the first in a line of major web applications built to replace desktop programs. If you start to consider Google's own system as your hard drive, and your browser as your operating system, you might see how Microsoft could be deeply worried. No one would need to keep buying Windows, or upgrading Office if all they had to do was pay Google a monthly stipend for effectively unlimited storage, guaranteed backup and an installation or upgrade process consisting of typing in a URL.Of course, Microsoft is not standing still. It has announced, but not shown, its own technology for building web-based applications, called Avalon. This is due to come out with Longhorn, sometime in 2006, and is either a new system for easily building web applications, or for easily building web applications that will only run on Microsoft software, depending on who you talk to.The difference between the two - between Microsoft control or that of open standards bodies - will be the battleground for the next two years, and one that promises fireworks.By wrenching control of the standards for building such applications away from Microsoft today, rivals hope they can prevent another near decade of Windows domination. Microsoft, for its part, is not going to go down without a fight.The browser war may well be seen as nothing but a skirmish compared to what is coming.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
The online music service co-founded by singer Peter Gabriel that powers download sites from MSN, HMV, Coca Cola and others, said today that its popularity had not been dented by the high profile launches of Apple's iTunes and Napster in Europe.In fact, the hype surrounding the launches appears to have benefited OD2, which was recently acquired by US music technology company Loudeye.OD2's services, which also include GWR's innovative 'Hear It, Burn It, Buy It' site and a new music download site from Oxfam, saw the number of downloads sold through its systems surge by over a quarter in the week that iTunes launched.In the week that Napster relaunched in Europe in its newly legal incarnation, downloads from OD2 partner sites also increased - this time by 22%.The company's latest download charts, which compile the most popular tracks from April and May, provided further proof that the profile of online music buyers is a long way from the teenagers who dictate the physical singles chart.Radio 2 favourites Maroon 5 are No1, with other easy listening favourites such as Keane and The Corrs also featuring in the top 10. However some pop acts, such as McFly, D12 and Peter Andre, also make a good showing.In September the British Phonographic Industry will launch the first UK national download chart, seen as a precursor to including downloads in the official top 40 - a move with record labels will help revive the moribund singles chart and shows such as Top of the Pops."These results show the European market is entering a phase of explosive growth," said Charles Grimsdale, the co-founder of OD2 who is now managing director of Loudeye's international operations."All our retail partner sites have seen a surge in sales in the past few weeks, driven by the European launch of our pan-European SonicSelector jukebox service, and the enhanced profile of legal downloading resulting from the European launch of iTunes and Napster," he added.OD2's SonicSelector acts as a mammoth jukebox, allowing users a single play of over 350,000 tracks for 1p a time. If they want to download the song permanently, it costs from 79p.Record labels are watching with interest to see whether consumers prefer Napster's mixture of subscription and permanent downloads, iTunes' straightforward download service or OD2's hybrid version."The customer response to our 1p streams has been phenomenal," said Joe Ballard, OD2's merchandising manager. "Our customers can spend a few pence checking out a new album, artist or genre. And, if they like what they hear, with one click the track is delivered instantly to their PC for less than £1."OD2 also today announced plans to expand its catalogue of 350,000 tracks to over 1 million, thanks to Loudeye's existing licensing agreements. Loudeye, which provides the streaming services for iTunes and Amazon among others, is seeking to become the leading technology provider for download sites.Meanwhile, it is believed that the independent record labels who represent artists including Franz Ferdinand and White Stripes are close to agreeing a deal with Apple to licence their tracks to iTunes.When the Apple service launched last month it was missing many of the most popular and credible acts in the charts, after accusations that it was  treating independent labels including Beggars Banquet and XL Recordings as second class citizens.The labels believed Apple was trying to force them to sign a punitive deal on worse terms than the major labels. However, sources close to the talks have indicated that a compromise is close to being agreed.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
It's been a good walk, but now you're hot, footsore and slightly lost. You pause to hold your personal digital assistant (PDA) up to the horizon. Its screen displays a view of your surroundings dotted with items of useful information. Your position, of course. But also something more welcome: the Ordnance Survey symbol for a country pub, just half a mile away.Such a "magic window", guiding ramblers to beer, is one possible application for augmented reality, a technique for merging real and virtual worlds being investigated by the Ordnance Survey. Overlaying map data on a view of the real world could also equip planners and builders with "x-ray vision" to show the whereabouts of underground pipes and cables. Or it could give tourists a recon- structed view of archaeological ruins.Researchers at Britain's national mapping agency say augmented reality would be a logical development of a revolution in cartography: the completion of a database of every feature in the country. Although created for the purpose of map-making, information from Ordnance Survey's MasterMap database could be presented in many other ways, such as sounds.One suggestion is a personal "guardian angel" to warn when it might not be a good idea to walk down a particular street.The mapping and position-finding technology is all there, says Ed Parsons, Ordnance Survey's chief technology officer. "We know where you are, we know what you're looking at." The only lack is a business model for supplying data to individuals - and a PDA with attributes, such as a screen that can be read in daylight.By converting its maps into digital data - a process that began more than 30 years ago - Ordnance Survey has built a unique database of Britain's landscape and society. MasterMap, completed in 2001, contains 450m topographical features, each positioned to an accuracy of centimetres. The Ordnance Survey can now supply custom-made maps - with your holiday cottage at the centre, rather than at the corner, perhaps - or dispense with the map altogether.Government agencies make much use of MasterMap data. It is held in several layers. A topographical layer holds basic information such as hills, buildings, roads and pieces of land, such as you see on an ordinary map. Each item has a 16-digit unique number topographical ID (Toid) so it can be extracted individually for processing. A detached house would normally have three Toids, one for the building and one for front and back gardens.A second layer, Address Point, holds a geographical coordinate for every postal address in Britain - in effect, the grid reference of every letter box. This is widely used by public agencies, such as fire services. "Most people know what their address is, but quoting your grid reference when your house is burning down is a bit more difficult," says Parsons. Some local authorities use the data to calculate distances between homes and schools, to settle arguments about catchment areas and eligibility for bus passes.Another layer holds transport features, so IT systems can identify links from point to point. It contains only roads, but is being upgraded to include rail. This layer is used by car navigation systems. It will also underpin the government's web portal   Transport Direct, which will calculate routes from A to B when it is unveiled this autumn.MasterMap also provides raw data for commercial geographical information systems. These display points of data in the form of a map, showing up clusters of diseases, for example, or council houses of a certain age.Homes of children on local authority risk registers can also be plotted and layered with police crime reports and hospital statistics. Some authorities already use such data to predict where emergencies are likely to happen, and place ambulances there in anticipation.Parsons says the revolution enabled by digitising Britain's maps is just beginning. "We had a 200-year history of maps. Then we digitised them. Now we can present information that's in the map but in a more dynamic way."One example is a research project called Urban Tapestries, in which people added information that was important to them, such as sound effects, to digital maps. Ordnance Survey researchers are investigating this further in a research programme called spatial cognition, which studies how people relate to objects around them. "We're trying to find out what are the critical elements needed in finding our way around, for example the role of landmarks - what is it that makes them register in people's minds?" says researcher Jenny Harding. Anyone who has had a domestic dispute about map-reading will agree that different individuals interpret geographical information differently.Harding says, however, that there is no evidence the difference is related to gender.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Software piracy has always been a big problem for the games industry, last year accounting for an estimated $3bn in lost revenue. However, it is the theft of pre-release game code, which allows gamers to illegally download work-in-progress versions of games, that is causing most concern for developers, an unease heightened by last year's massive source code leak of Valve Software's hugely anticipated PC shooter, Half-Life 2.In January, it came to light that the FBI, Scotland Yard and the German authorities, along with the Half-Life 2 fan community, had been searching for the culprits since the leak was announced last October. Last month, the thieves were arrested in Germany and other undisclosed countries.Having accessed Valve's server through a security-bypassing loophole in Windows, the hackers were able to download an early and hugely incomplete version of Half-Life 2 and post it on the internet for downloading via Usenet. A boxed version of the code was even on sale on the Ukrainian and Russian black markets."Once into our network, hacking tools were installed, and a custom source control client created to extract the Half-Life 2 code," explains Gabe Newell, Valve's managing director."This continued until October, when one of the hackers distributed one of my emails on a website. We knew something was horribly wrong with our network, and took steps to prevent further incursions. This was followed shortly after by the hackers releasing the source code."The leak set the project back several months as Valve reassessed   its network's security and that of the game's networking code. "It's analogous to JK Rowling waking up to find the outline to the next Harry Potter book online," says Newell.The hunt for the hackers centred around two major investigations. The first was led by the FBI's Cybercrime Task Force, who examined machines for clues as to the source of the hack,   then find that machine and so on."The second investigation was run by the gaming community. Fairly quickly after the source code was leaked, we sent out mail to the gaming community appealing for assistance in tracking down the perpetrators. We set up an email alias for people to submit information, and amassed thousands of pieces of   evidence in a few days. That information was also redistributed within the community itself, as a smaller group took it upon itself to unmask the people. This non-traditional approach had the advantage of scale and of involving a large number of very sophisticated and motivated people."It wasn't long before both parties made inroads into identifying the   thieves, with the gaming' community and the FBI independently tracking the primary hacker to Germany.The risk of being caught prompted the primary instigator to contact Newell. He admitted hacking into Valve's server, but denied any role in the theft, instead naming those responsible for distributing the stolen code. "We now had three independent ways of confirming this primary instigator and, through conversations with this individual, had convinced him to fly out to us in Seattle for a job interview. The plan was changed so German authorities would do the arrests on German soil," says Newell.Investigations are continuing, with those involved found to have links with similar crimes. Valve is preparing to sue the hackers for damages, while working towards an end-of-summer release date for Half-Life 2 - widely considered the most anticipated shooter in PC gaming history.The repercussions have been felt throughout the gaming industry, with numerous developers reassessing security measures. "When we heard what had happened with Half-Life 2 we were appalled," says Jonty Barnes, head of Black &amp; White Studios, a satellite company of UK-based Lionhead Studios. "We even considered disconnecting the company from outside connections until we were satisfied."With new security protocols in place in the majority of the leading development houses, the chances of a similar leak have been reduced, while the capture of those responsible will have been a warning to hackers, especially now that the very audience they claim to cater for - hardcore gaming fans - have played such a role in unmasking them.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Spiderman 2PS2, Xbox, GameCube, &#163;39.99 Activision&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Spiderman 2 looks set to challenge for the crown of biggest ever box- office hit, so it was inevitable the film would generate a game. But what couldn't be predicted was that the game would possess merit. Despite the fact that this is a film-of-a-game - often translated as a contractual-obligation travesty - Spiderman 2 turns out to be one of the best action-adventure games released this year.Activision has taken a leaf out of Grand Theft Auto's book by including an impressively modelled city (in this case, New York) and has added a physics engine. So this version of the game not only lets you swing around with all the grace Spidey shows in the movie, but also possesses rigour: sling a web and it will attach itself to a building (rather than a skyhook) and stay attached to the same point.Spiderman has also acquired a gravity-defying super-jump and countless satisfying moves, such as the ability to run up the sides of buildings, and immobilise enemies in a web and swing them around to take out fellow baddies. Try leaving webbed baddies hanging from lamp posts.Gloriously varied missions build up a decent storyline, evil bosses abound, and you can even deliver pizzas. Climb to the top of the Empire State Building, swallow-dive into an elegant free-fall, and defy gravity with a judiciously timed web just before you hit the ground.Even though it is associated with a film, you should still take it seriously.Steve BoxerGround Control 2: Operation ExodusPC, &#163;29.99 Massive/Sierra&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;It's been a while since the original, but unexpectedly fond memories flood back the moment you install this. Realtime strategy games have a habit of being either smart or pretty but rarely both; this game is an exception to that rule.The key lies in that definition of RTS. Don't expect your usual base-building, resource-gathering antics. Any resources you use (armoured units and occasional sentry weapons) must be flown in, which means you have to capture and hold landing zones. With many levels requiring you to pull off complicated pincer-movements, this soon turns into a frantic tactical scramble, even in the excellent single player game.What of the rest? Graphically, it's as good as anything, with a fully rotational 3D engine you can pan around. When enemies are raining missiles from every angle, the effect of being under bombardment is as good as in any game.One downside is the storyline. Drawing on every sci-fi cliche from Aliens to Babylon5, it is hard to care about the badly voiced characters when you see every plot twist coming. You also have to question the single-player longevity. At just around 20 missions, it's over all too quickly.This year was supposed to be a golden year for gaming, but it is turning into a tedious wait for killer titles. Unexpected gems such as this make the wait just about worthwhile.Mike AnderieszAthens 2004PS2, &#163;29.99 Sony,&#42;&#42;&#42;Released a few weeks before the event itself, Athens 2004 is a retro game dressed up in fashionable graphics. This is a button-bashing exercise that mimics Track &amp; Field and other joystick waggling videogame greats from the 80s.With 25 events, official licensing and polished visuals, Athens 2004 rises above this simplistic heritage to offer an enjoyable, if flawed, experience. There are two gold medal features - competitive multiplayer and dance mat compatibility. By including so many disciplines, the developers have cannily covered their bases, perhaps realising that most of the track races are simplistic. The challenge lies in the more complex events such as gymnastics and archery, which require timing and strength.Setting records is a treat, especially when playing with friends. And multiplayer generally is a winner, giving a real competitive edge to even the lesser events. Another plus is the ability to leap around on a dance mat, rather than mash buttons, which works up a realistic sweat.Unfortunately, some false starts mar the game. Some events lack variety - quality rather than quantity would have been preferable - and lengthy play becomes tiresome.With a few tweaks, some more licensed athletes and online play, Athens 2004 could have been a winner rather than just a contender.Greg Howson
&#163;20 iPodsThere is a bizarre trend on eBay. Several items purport to be selling a link to a website where you can buy an iPod for &#163;20. Is this a scam?Doug SmallJack Schofield replies:It is connected with "matrix selling" schemes, which will not become illegal in the UK until the gambling bill becomes law this autumn. If you go to a site such as The Phone Matrix, you will find you can get an iPod or other goodies not for &#163;20 but free. However, you must purchase a CD or other item for &#163;20 and add your name to the list of people who want an iPod, or whatever. You get your "free gift" when your name gets to the top of the list. In other words, it works like a pyramid selling scheme, though technically you are not buying what you hope to get, and you are not obliged to sell the idea to anybody.If the site works, simple economics suggests that iPods will be despatched only when the cost has been covered by new people buying things they don't want at &#163;20 a shot. The Phone Matrix site, for example, says: "The Apple iPod requires 19 purchases before an iPod is sent out. So if you are 16th on the list, you will have to wait for 19 x 16 purchases." If the site is a fake, no iPods will be sent. Either way, you should be pleased you didn't pay &#163;95 for a link towww.thephonematrix.co.uk.No WMAA couple of years ago, I bought an Archos Jukebox Recorder 2.0. At the time, I only needed MP3 com patibility, but with the advent of Napster, it appears WMA &#91;Windows Media Audio&#93; is the only way I can legally buy tunes from the web! I want to be legal but don't want to fork out for a new machine, as otherwise it works fine.Jenny LeacroftJS:It is possible to update the firmware or add software to some music players, but Archos has no plans to support WMA and other formats on the Jukebox Recorder. Also, to be compatible with download services, it would not only have to support the file format, it would also have to support the DRM (Digital Rights Management) scheme involved. We are now entering a formats war between the Apple (AAC/Fairplay), Sony (Atrac) and Microsoft WMA systems, so it's probably better to stick with MP3 until the shooting stops. Although Napster is very nice, you can still download MP3s fromAllOfMP3.com,Bleep.com,AudioLunchbox.com,eMusic.comand similar sites.Rogue DiallersCan rogue diallers affect you if you use broadband, or is it just dial-up modems that can be affected?Tom PainterJS:Rogue diallers only work if they have access to a modem attached to a voice line. They will still try to dial out, even if you have broadband. It is possible to dial out on a second line, even if you have a broadband internet connection, but this is not common.Lost gamesI have accidentally deleted all Windows games from my computer (FreeCell, Solitaire, Minesweeper). Is there any way to reload them?Adrian M LentonJS:Go to Start|Settings|Control Panel and run the applet for Add/Remove Programs. Select the option to add or remove Windows components, the double-click Accessories and Utilities.   Tick the box marked Games, click OK, and Windows will re-install these from your Windows CD.Printing problemI started out in January 1987 with an Amstrad 1512, and while I'm now running a Windows XP machine, I'm still using the dear old dBase database in a DOS window. The problem is that I have a USB only printer, but dBase insists on printing to the old printer port, LPT1.Robin CherneyJS:Most applications will "print to a file" - in other words, send what they would have sent to the printer to your hard drive instead. Try loading this file into a word processor and, if it looks OK, printing it that way. However, in the long run you will probably need to upgrade, and you are fortunate that the dBase file formats became de facto standards and are still widely supported. A good upgrade would be Alpha Five v5, which is available in a $99 home edition. You can download a 30-day trial version fromwww.alphasoftware.com. You may also be able to find shareware or even freeware alternatives.Backchat&#183;Kirk Hammett is setting up a business and asked about "online printing sites" such asSurfprint.co.uk. Leigh Garland, a freelance graphic designer, says he has usedDigital-print.co.ukwith great results. Iain Row usedPrintingdirect.co.ukfor materials to promote MyWorldJournal.com and found it excellent. David Otoole went toVistaPrint.comin the US for business cards and says it was "very prompt, very inexpensive and good quality. Delivery from the US was not a problem." Martin Warne usedVistaPrint.co.ukfor three jobs and recommends the company to friends.
Gordon Brown isn't noted for his generosity, but the Treasury can be congratulated on one way it supports good causes. Every time it upgrades its computer systems, it gives the old machines to Computer Aid, which passes them on to schools, colleges, charities and organisations in the developing world.Computer Aid, based in north London, is the largest such organisation in the world. Founded in 1997, it has passed on 30,000 PCs to 85 countries. It plans to send out 25,000 machines next year, and 50,000 the year after.Even so, these figures are a drop in the electronic ocean compared with the number of perfectly good PCs ditched each year."No one is sure of the exact numbers," says Jaf Shah, Computer Aid's marketing and fundraising manager, "but I have seen estimates that 1.5m working PCs are thrown away in Britain every year. Last year, 145m PCs were shipped around the world,and given that most major corporations upgrade their systems every two years, that means a lot of machines are being thrown out."And yet, all over the world, lives can be transformed by being given access to a PC. One of the beneficiaries of the generosity of the Treasury and others (including British Airways, Powergen, University College London, Warner Brothers and Comic Relief) is the Computer Education Trust (CET) in Swaziland. Students in the main city, Manzini, can go through their education without touching a computer.One student is 16-year-old Tracey Jele, who is studying at St Theresa's High School and wants to pursue a career in medicine and psychology. Without basic computer skills, though, her chances are nil, and until two years ago, the school had only two computers for its 430 pupils.The director of CET, Sibongile Kunene, says: "Before the establishment of CET, 99% of Swaziland students left school without having seen a computer. A lack of familiarity with computer technology is as much an obstacle today as being unable to read and write was in the past. This project has had an enormous impact in a very short time, as now 50% of students graduate from the public schools computer literate."In rural schools such as Malindza High School, the problems are even worse, but the appreciation is even greater, as head teacher Mr Mdluli says. "Computers help our students develop a number of essential skills, which are needed in the working environment, and in starting businesses. Through research, our students   develop critical thinking skills."The students are equally enthusiastic. Sithembile Tsabedze, 16, is in her last year at Malindza. "It's great because today computers are a must. You have to be computer literate. It's a prerequisite for getting a job in Swaziland." Her friend, Gabsille Lukhele, agrees. "We come into the computer lab in our spare time to practise."For just &#163;50,000, one-third of Swaziland's schools have been provided with IT equipment through Computer Aid, which cannot keep up with demand. "The majority of our machines," says Shah, "go to schools and universities, and organisations working in areas such as the environment, Aids research, investigating rural poverty and so on."Applicants have to pay &#163;39 for each PC, plus shipping costs. "That varies a lot depending on the destination and how many computers are being sent," Shah explains. "It costs &#163;910 to ship 10 PCs to Addis Ababa, but for Cape Town it's only &#163;690. Even so the cost is infinitely better than the &#163;500 or so these organisations would have to pay commercially. The machines might also have to travel several hundred miles over rough terrain to get to their destination, but only 3% or 4% are dead on arrival. We always send extra machines to cover that eventuality."To keep up with the hundreds of enquiries it receives weekly, Computer Aid recently moved to premises on Holloway Road, a former clothing factory where it can process up to 1,000 machines a week using a team of about 30 volunteers, mostly students and between-jobs IT people. It plans to out-source much of the work, and build up centres around Britain to make collection easier. There are centres in Southampton and Halifax, and a pilot scheme in Manchester."The main problem," says Shah, "is that some companies don't have a policy on what to do when they upgrade their systems, so the machines sit around, or get thrown into skips. But under EU regulations that are probably coming in during August 2006, it will be illegal to dispose of computers that way."Only fully working PCs. Please telephone first. Collection facilities are only available for larger numbers of PCs. Otherwise, arrange delivery by Securicor (about &#163;10) for a typical PC system. Volunteers to check machines always needed in London.www.computeraid.orgTel: 020 7281 0091&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Less than a month ago, Kathy Rittweger went to the office of the technology magazine Business 2.0 in San Francisco to demonstrate Blinkx, a late entrant to the search engine market. The editor she was meeting brought two other people as he didn't know much about the subject himself.She left the office at noon, saddened that it had not gone very well. "I thought I did a lousy job. I've never really done this whole PR thing." She retired round the corner to Starbucks with her public relations adviser for a debriefing. He told her to be more provocative in future, not so humble and more proud of what she had accomplished. "He was also convinced we didn't stand a good chance".But by the time she had got back to her hotel, there was an email from one of the people at the meeting, Om Malik, whom she had never heard of. He said he had "blogged" the item on his website at 12.40pm while she was still commiserating over coffee.Malik wrote that he had the same tingling sensation watching Blinkx being demonstrated as he had had almost five years ago when two fresh-faced boys called Larry and Sergey had stopped by the offices of Forbes.com to demonstrate something called Google.Malik's comments were soon picked up by other bloggers and Rittweger started getting a wave of emails and calls, including some from venture capitalists, a breed thought to be in hibernation after the dotcom excesses.The blog was posted on a Friday, and by the Monday there were 5,000 links to it and people were discussing it all over the world. Since then, there have been 130,000 direct downloads,   and many more through users swapping files. This week, the site - which is only launched today - has been recording 6m links or hits a day solely from word-of-mouth publicity.You would be forgiven for thinking that Rittweger and her British business partner, Suranga Chanratillake, who used to work for the UK search engine company Autonomy, ought to be locked up for even thinking of trying to take on the almighty Google, especially at a time when it and the likes of Microsoft and Yahoo - not to mention dozens of smaller companies - are teeing up for the next battle in the search engine wars.Blinkxhas two selling points. First, it doesn't only search the web but simultaneously scours news sites, emails, attachments and your own hard disk. It does all this unobtrusively in the background until you pass your cursor over icons at the top or bottom of the page, when it reveals a digest of related sites as well as material from Word, Excel or PDF files. If you are working in a word processing document, it provides the same service.It also searches blogs. This function has just been added because Malik suggested it would be a good thing to do. "I didn't appreciate the significance until he wrote the article and then I thought, 'Right, I get it'," she said disarmingly. Blinkx can also search digital TV on the internet, which, in practice, means video output from the BBC. Why? "Because the BBC posts its digital TV free on the internet."Both Google and Microsoft are working on unified engines that search your desktop as well as the web, and some others already do it. But Rittweger believes Blinkx is the only one that offers all these facilities   including video search now. So the company has a window of opportunity in a market where consumers can switch allegiance with two blinkx of an eyelid.The second selling point is that, unlike Google, it uses artificial intelligence to rate stories, not page rankings. "What it is trying to say," she explains, "is that all words are not equal in a sentence... Quite critically, if you are looking at a document and trying to figure out what it means, Blinkx reads everything you are reading and sorts out what are the key ideas."Blinkx's planned business model involves getting advertising revenue from contextual adverts, product channels and white labelling, but she emphasises that the search is independent: it is mathematically based and just looks at words and their context. She adds: "It is clean, but users don't know that so we show our advertisements in a different colour".Her moment of truth came when doing a project on Japanese tourism a few years ago and found that when she put a page into a search engine, nothing happened because search was limited to 10 words. Later, she met Suranga Chanratillake, who shared her ideas and had the technological expertise to develop them.Whether they succeed is an open question. It is a tough market to crack because for many users, Google is as good as it gets - and, like Yahoo and Microsoft, it has immense resources. But people are also starting to realise that search engines are mining only a tiny proportion of available knowledge. And loyalty is only as deep as the click of a mouse.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Two Oxford University students could be banned from their studies after exposing serious flaws in the university's IT network by hacking into it while investigating a story for the student newspaper.After the article was published, first-year students Patrick Foster and Roger Waite were hauled before the university's proctors. They say they were made to dress in cap and gown and were questioned for an hour in a "virtual cell".The 20-year-old students insist they were conducting an investigation which revealed flaws in the university's computer system.But Oxford University abides by century-old rules which could see Mr Foster and Mr Waite "rusticated" - banned from the university buildings and facilities - for a year. They could also receive a &#163;500 fine when they appear before a court of summary jurisdiction in the next few weeks.The students say they face prosecution by a draconian system when they were acting in the interests of the university community.'"I can't wait to put my case to the university," Mr Foster said. "The fact that they're doing this just reinforces the widely held belief that some people at Oxford University live on another planet."They are a group of people so short-sighted that they can't see past the rule book at the end of their noses."The controversy started when the student newspaper, the Oxford Student, was alerted to potential glitches in the computer system. Mr Foster and Mr Waite decided to investigate and, using a free internet program, had pages of confidential student information on the screen in front of them in minutes. Hundreds of email passwords, private internet conversations and live CCTV footage from various colleges could be viewed."We basically decided it was an excellent story," Mr Waite said. "We had been made aware the Oxford network had these security problems which ran across several colleges ... it took us seven minutes to get all this information."Over the next three days, living on a diet of kebabs and spurred on by Bon Jovi's Livin' on Prayer, they did more research.Mr Foster contacted the university for comment, revealing how he had gathered the information. He received an email from the proctors saying they had reason to suspect he had committed a criminal act and would be referred to Thames Valley police. Half an hour later, and three weeks before his exams, Mr Foster's university email account was cut off and all his IT privileges were revoked.The story was published on May 27 and revealed that every student had the power to infiltrate internal email accounts.A university spokesperson quoted in the story admitted that, in some cases, a cheaper computer set-up was chosen to provide wider access.Mr Foster was then summoned to see his college tutor."At that stage we were being investigated by the police, the university and by the college - all acting separately."The police referred the matter back to the university, saying it was best dealt with internally.The student union moved an emergency motion in support, and even Cherwell, the Oxford   Student's traditional rival, felt compelled to defend Mr Foster and Mr Waite in an editorial: "They have performed a duty, as their status of journalist expects and dictates, and for that they deserve no martyrdom by virtue of expulsion, even of any more serious disciplinary action than a slap on the wrist."Oxford University said in a statement: "Anyone found to have breached university regulations on computer use would be referred to the proctors and would be subject to an investigation."The students say they are apprehensive about the hearing, and whether their degrees will be jeopardised.But Mr Foster has only one regret: "I regret the fact that the university's priority seems to be pursuing Roger and myself, rather than addressing the issues we raised."
Like Billy Bunter's postal order, the benefits of government IT investments are well overdue. Now the school tuck shop is calling in its debts. Sir Peter Gershon's review of public sector efficiency, published this week, says it is time to get some payback from the &#163;6bn invested in IT under the 2000 and 2002 spending reviews. Throughout the efficiency review, IT and e-government crop up as the key to cutting &#163;20bn in government spending by 2007-8.In theory, the way to save money through e-government is to persuade citizens and businesses to do their government transactions, such as filing tax returns, electronically rather than on paper. You then cut back expenditure on paper, people to shuffle it, and the buildings in which the   paper-shufflers work. This is what management consultants mean when they talk about "realising the benefits".It's a three-stage process: build the systems, persuade people to use them, then cut out the old stuff. There's plenty of opportunity, says the review. For example, the new Customs and Revenue department should be able to cut 12,500 departmental civil servants by developing electronic transactions.However, according to the review, up to now we have only done the first bit, building the systems.The second bit, persuading people to use them, has hardly started. "Relatively little emphasis has been given to the efficiencies that could be delivered by realising the full benefits of these investments in seeking to migrate particular customer segments to new channels."It suggests that departments sit down and work out what they have spent on e-government and other new channels, what benefits they are getting, and how to get more. This may mean further automation in call centres, targeting face-to-face contacts better - and improving web services so that people use them out of choice.And there is the option of making some e-services compulsory. Or, in the efficiency review's inefficient prose: "Move certain customer segments fully to e-enabled channels." It suggests that company registration would be a good candidate.Unfortunately for the efficiency drive, not all public services fit so neatly into this transactional model. Police and health services, for example. IT can help them do their jobs better, by cutting the   time police officers need to spend at the station, and the time doctors spend chasing missing x-rays, but this doesn't in itself save money.There's another twist. The review suggests that the agency charged with making this happen, the Cabinet Office e-government unit, will itself have to cut jobs.If all else fails, Gershon has another proposal. Government agencies can at least get better value for money when buying IT. It commends the NHS Purchasing and Supply Agency for saving &#163;12.7m by buying IT hardware through an electronic auction.No doubt there's a great deal of money to be saved. But in the end, it's a bit like telling Billy Bunter to buy his tuck at the Friardale Asda, rather than Jessie Mimble's tuckshop. A wise strategy, but it won't cure the Obese Owl's main problem.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Yahoo! has announced that it has acquired Oddpost, a tiny San Francisco start-up. The Oddpost team will be working on the portal's new email product - its response to the pending launch of Google's Gmail. Oddpost has the look and feel of Outlook, but works within a web browser. It is a beautiful idea and streets ahead of other webmail products in terms of looks and functionality, with very smart spam filtering.As a subscriber for the past year, I can say it works well, but suffers from two problems: occasional unreliability of its servers, and the fact that it only works with Internet Explorer. Oddpost includes a news reader, so you can check dozens of newsfeeds at the same time as checking your email (just as NewsGator works with Outlook). It has also been recently testing tools   that allow you to post to your weblog from within its interface.
Tell people you work from home and you get the strangest questions, such as: "Do you get dressed in the morning?"     Tempting as it is to reply: "No, I write all my articles in the nude," the reality is somewhat different.But the reality of teleworking - using computers and telecoms to work from home - is not something you will find the     technology industry filling you in on. Instead, it colludes with a fantasy view of teleworking because it encourages more     people to do it, and sells more products.Working at home is promoted as a kind of holiday or day off. Take Nokia's recent Working-from-home Walter     advertisements for its secure remote access product. There's Walter, unshaven and wearing his dressing gown - exactly     as if he was having a day off and had slept in.If he really is planning to work, then not shaving and wearing his pyjamas is a somewhat morale-sapping way of starting     the day, and I suggest he would be a lot more productive if he got dressed.In fact, there is nothing like full-time teleworking - which I used to do - to make one realise how efficient and enjoyable     working in an office is, at least some of the time.True, the technological barriers to working at home are falling all the time, but here are just some of the things you get in     an office that you can't get over high-speed broadband:&#183;You can socialise face to face without leaving the building, meaning more productive time for work  .&#183;You have people to bounce ideas off or suggest better ways of doing things.&#183;If you have a canteen, there is someone else to cook lunch and buy the food to make it.&#183;When you're busy, a colleague might make you tea, give you sympathy, answer your phone or do some research for     you, boosting morale and making you more productive.&#183;There's a whole infrastructure of machinery you don't have to choose and maintain, such as your PC, office     photocopier and printer.&#183;When things go wrong, you can share your grievances with people who do what you do, instead of obsessing about     them.&#183;When you want to post a letter, you can just go down to the mail room instead of trekking to the postbox.&#183;Some of the people you work with may end up becoming friends or lovers.&#183;The people you work with now may offer you jobs in the future.&#183;But best of all, you have people to laugh with, which lifts the spirits and makes work fun.In jail, solitary confinement is the top punishment, so why should working at home be so widely touted as a way of     improving the work/life balance?I am not saying teleworking has no advantages: it is great to do it for part of the week, or when you have detailed report     writing to do. And it cuts time spent commuting.But my advice would be: think before you telework full time. It may not be for you.     However, if you really do want to work in the nude, or in a dressing gown such as Walter's, it may be the only option.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Pirate software now accounts for more than a third of the programs installed on the world's computers, and last year cost the software industry $28bn (&#163;15bn) in lost revenues. Or so says the Business Software Alliance, a consortium of leading software vendors, using numbers produced by International Data Corporation (IDC).The US has the lowest incidence of pirate software, at 22%, while Vietnam and China had the highest, at 92%. The UK scored 29%, the same as Japan.This does not mean UK users can relax. It's a safe bet that BSA members are much more concerned about piracy in the UK than they are in Ukraine, for example, which has a piracy rate of 91%. I   can think of two good reasons why.First, the UK is a much bigger market: software piracy in the UK cost $1.6bn, whereas in Ukraine, it only cost $92m. Second, BSA members stand a reasonable chance of making British companies pay up. They have very little chance of collecting much money in Ukraine, Zimbabwe, Nigeria, Pakistan and other poor countries.And while third world piracy represents a "loss" for software suppliers, it does have benefits. Those illegal copies of, say, PhotoShop, are helping to develop millions of skilled PhotoShop users. Some of those people will eventually get jobs using the program, or start earning enough to want a legal, supported upgrade. In the long run, this is probably better for Adobe than driving them to a would-be rival.But BSA members could also do more to make their products affordable in less-developed countries. Last year in Thailand, for example, Microsoft supplied restricted, localised versions of Windows XP and Office for 1,490 baht (&#163;20) as part of a government-backed PC project. "Normal" prices would have been 4,500 baht (&#163;59) for XP Home and 15,000 baht (&#163;198) for Office XP. This year, Malaysia did a similar deal.Last week, the Motion Picture Association of America also released a study of 3,600 internet users in eight countries about the problem of movie piracy. It complained that almost a quarter of them (24%) had downloaded a movie, and 17% were likely to download movies in the future. If it follows the trail blazed by the Recording Industry Association of   America (RIAA), the MPAA could soon end up taking file sharers to court.The personal computer is, of course, a wonderful copying machine, and it doesn't just allow people to copy their own photos and texts. There is lots of software that enables users to duplicate or rip their CDs and DVDs, and while they can do this for legitimate reasons, they can also share these files with friends, or put them online. Indeed, it's hard to believe that PCs would be as popular as they are if they did not allow this kind of thing.Perhaps the computer industry has people who believe that consumers will buy PCs to copy music, movies and anything else they fancy, but will magically draw the line at copying software. But it sounds unlikely to me.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Systematic abuseI found your article(Patently unfair, July 8)an extremely accurate analysis of the problem of software patents, and the danger they pose. Could you forward a copy to the Prime Minister and his crony Lord Sainsbury? They have zero understanding of the dangers to both programmers and small to medium-sized businesses. We are seeing abuse of the system by companies demanding money from any web setups that include video or audio content.Such companies are beginning this pattern of targetting companies who cannot afford to fight spurious patents. If the directive becomes law, then all the UK software houses might as well shut up shop.Phil RutterBottlenecksThe comparison of software patents with pharmaceutical patents throws a cold light on the debate. With pharmaceuticals, the cost of invention is massively larger than the cost of production, therefore invention is the bottleneck. While patentability may temporarily increase the cost of medicines by the cost of licences, the effect is to increase the supply of new medicines.With software, the cost of invention is negligible - software patents are patents on ideas. The cost of production is vastly greater. Production is the bottleneck, and allowing software patents not only increases the cost of production by licence costs but also by compliance costs. Since software patents can apply at any level of abstraction, and - unlike   copyright - accidental re-invention is no defence, it is impossible to assure yourself or shareholders that your latest system is your property.I challenge any proponent of software patenting to provide a plausible estimate for the cost of implementing software patent compliance on any substantial current software project. I have never seen one. Until I do, the best step we can take for European competitiveness is to keep the ban, and get on with business.Francis NortonImmoral tenetAs a scientist, the concept of "owning" an idea is profoundly immoral. It's contrary to the public good, and it doesn't help the inventor whom it is supposed to benefit. The idea of patents runs contrary to the spirit of science that has served us so well.The example of pharmaceuticals is perhaps the only instance where a patent might be justified, but even this is dubious. The World Intellectual Property Organisation is responsible for the absence of cheap generic drugs for the developing world, and the number of people who die as a result of patents being enforced.The patent system should be removed. The only people who would suffer are the lawyers. Proponents of patents should remember they already have the protection they need in the form of copyright, which protects them against theft of their work. Patents would merely deny me the right to make use of my creations.Richard NeillCambridgeCheck it outIn my view, as a patent attorney, software patents can be a good thing, provided the relevant patent offices do a proper job of checking that the claimed invention is actually new and non-obvious. Since the Patent Office Examiners generally rely on prior patent literature, they often miss a lot of information available to the public prior to the filing date of the application.A third party can oppose the grant of a patent (or have a granted patent revoked) by demonstrating that the claims of the patent in question are not new, are obvious, or should not have been granted since there is no "technical effect".The Amazon gift ordering patent is a case in point. Its grant has been opposed by three third parties: Interflora, Foerderverein fuer eine frei Informationelle Infrastruktur eV (a German computer freedom group) and Gesellschaft fuer Informatik eV, on the grounds that the claimed method is not new or inventive, and that it is a method of doing business or a computer program, without any technical effect. For full details, seehttp://ofi.epoline.org, the EPO's online file inspection service.Chris VaughanLeedsE-jay itThere is a simple solution to Tony Fowler's problem of transferring tracks from his Sony MiniDisc to his hard drive(Feedback, July 8). The e-jay Music Cleaning Studio program (&#163;9.99 fromwww.e-jay.co.ukcontains the facility to convert audio input into wav. files. I have used it to put music from vinyl and tapes on to CDs.Patrick BillinghamBrightonLow up thereI think you will start a backlash from David Bowie fans by asserting his 1977 album Low wouldn't even feature in a list of Bowie's Top 10 LPs (Web Watch, July 8). Almost every poll by fans and music lovers alike (on and offline) has consistently put the groundbreaking Low album in Bowie's all time top three (and it's certainly my favourite). Dave Hutchison(Feedback, July 8)was also right in thinking I meant one in five online gamers were women.Dr Mark GriffithsProfessor of Gambling StudiesNottingham Trent University
It is ironic that in the week Samsung announced a phone with a 3 megapixel camera for the Far East, it touted to reviewers its first 1 megapixel mobile for the UK. We are a long way behind. The SGH-P730's images are much higher resolution than the VGA ones taken by existing phones, although not in the same league as those snapped by rivals from Sharp and Nokia.The P730's best feature is its camcorder facility, which, unlike rivals, allows users to shoot as much movie footage as the storage on the phone, and its accompanying MMC card, allows. The MP3 player is a neat touch, too. The phone is a rather chunky clamshell that sports Samsung's trademark pivoting screen.Annoyingly, if the main 256K colour screen is placed at the front, the user can't access many features without opening the handset. Also irritating is its protruding aerial and the absence of Bluetooth and POP3 email. Nevertheless, the SGH-P730, slated for a September launch, is a major step forward for the company.Ashley Norris
Buying ringtones and games on mobiles using premium-rate SMS (PSMS) services seems innocent enough. But this booming teenage economy - estimated to be worth &#163;1bn in Europe this year - is fuelling a big debate about the future of money on mobile phones.The key issue is that when users buy things that are not directly consumed on the phone - such as tickets and music - they are deemed by the UK's Financial Services Authority as buying with e-money. This makes the operators subject to the rules of the EU's e-money directive.This has three major implications. First, under the directive, the operators are required to keep the unspent money in walled-off trust accounts. Second, the funds must be refundable if required. Third, operators must know who the subscribers are. As 50-70% of pre-pay is currently used for purchasing ringtones and games, it is a significant issue affecting the growth of non-voice services on mobile networks.Discussion over what is something of an intriguing test of the directive comes to a head on Tuesday, with the deadline for consultation on the so-called Application of the e-money directive to Mobile Operators.To avoid new costs, many of those benefiting from this booming industry are arguing that pre-pay cannot easily be classified as e-money. They say that pre-pay funds are complicated by the fact that those subscribers normally only spend a small fraction of their pre-pay accounts on such products - the bulk goes on airtime and is therefore not spent   like e-money. They are also keen to ensure that close auditing of pre-pay subscribers - something that is part of the e-money directive to reduce money laundering - is not made mandatory because of the considerable back office burden it would introduce.Mobile operators can and do get around this problem completely by selling these services exclusively themselves. But in fact, there are often two other parties involved in the sale: the aggregators who provide infrastructure services linking to the operators, and the content providers.The aggregators are in a unique position, because they manage the flow of traffic going to the operators, as well as the flow of money and settlement going between operators and the content providers.Steve Proctor, chief executive of aggregator iTagg, expresses the concerns of many. "Overnight the entire ringtone industry could die. I am not convinced the operators are doing enough to stop this."Vodafone says it is consulting with all players - notably the Financial Services Authority in the UK and the European Commission - saying that it hopes for a solution that is "reasonable, proportionate and workable". It will not say exactly what this solution might be, but stresses that the current directive was formulated when the mobile payments market was not envisaged."It came as something of a surprise that the e-money directive applied to pre-pay," says Susie Lonie, Vodafone's senior product manager for m-commerce. She says Vodafone is looking at a solution where the operator becomes the factoring   company - effectively taking the debt of the third parties involved - as is being applied in Germany.mBlox, one of the largest aggregators, with operations in the US and Europe, believes the EU is keen to find a compromise. "At first, we all thought it was a car crash and we would just have to cut our own way out. Now we are realising that the EU   is trying to be helpful and is, in fact, trying to cut us out, not kill us off," says mBlox's chairman, Andrew Bud.Bud believes the problem could be largely solved if the industry were to estimate the amount of pre-pay used for PSMS by a typical user - a figure he puts at 2-5% (eg 25p out of a &#163;10 card). This sum could then be subject to e-money regulations without a   major burden on the industry. He also believes that a waiver allowing payments totalling &#163;10m should be in place for contractual arrangements between operators and aggregators to ensure the current structure of the industry is allowed to continue to flourish.But some operators are also pinning their hopes on a new payment system. Four operators - Orange, T-Mobile, Vodafone and Spain's Telephonica Movile - have clubbed together to create Simpay, a kind of clearing network that would link third parties directly to payment from the participating operators.A key aim of Simpay is to reduce the number of contractual relationships needed between operators and merchant third parties. In theory, one contract would allow transactions to take place between all members of the Simpay system. Its first test will be the launch of a live service slated for early next year.Simpay's chief executive, Tim Jones, says one of the thorniest issues is what is known in the industry as KYC - know your customers. Anti-money laundering legislation requires KYC, but he believes it would create huge problems for the pre-pay industry."Yes, we have customers called Mickey Mouse or Donald Duck, but what is wrong with that? If you had to know them all, you would lose thousands of customers: that would be a big deal." But Jones ducks the question of e-money, saying it is up to the operators to sort out.The idea that your mobile will replace your wallet looks set to remain on the drawing board for some years yet.
Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tags, which manufacturers use to track and identify products, have been coming under attack for the information they could reveal about your shopping habits to anyone with an RFID scanner. But the same technology could also make it easier for you to get information as well. As Nokia's Gerhard Romen puts it: "Today, RFID tags tend to be mobile and readers are stationary, but things get really interesting when you turn that around and make the tags stationary and the readers mobile."Earlier this year, Nokia joined Philips and Sony to create the Near Field Communication (NFC) Forum, and now it has its first NFC product - a reader for RFID tags for its 5140 phone, which replaces the Xpress-on cover and automatically loads the reading software into the phone.The Near in NFC means you're not scanning for every RFID tag in range, like traditional readers. Not only would that run down the phone battery, it's the kind of indiscriminate reading that raises privacy issues. Instead, NFC uses the 1356MHz short-range frequency, only reading a tag when you press the phone against it. The range is just over an inch, so you wouldn't scan a tag by accident. But you don't need to be too precise, and the phone vibrates slightly when   it scans the tag so you know it has worked.Romen thinks using a familiar device and a simple interface makes the system easy to operate for people who aren't experienced computer users. The other advantage is price. It is going to be far lower than the &#163;500-600 you would spend for a stand-alone RFID reader with a dock, or &#163;1,200-&#163;2,000 for a global system for mobile communications (GSM)-connected reader. If you want to experiment with RFID at work, this is an ideal solution. Plus you get a phone you can use as usual. Reading 50-80 RFID tags a day shouldn't run the battery down too much - you should still get several days' use.Nokia thinks the reader will be a big hit with service, utility and security companies, so it has picked a phone that is rugged enough to stand up to dust and rain; it even has torch and compass applications built in. Romen uses the example of security guards doing their rounds. When they press their phone up against an RFID checkpoint, the phone sends a message saying which area or door they've checked and when. This is much more reliable than a sign-in sheet, because you know the guard (or at least, the phone) was in the right place at the right time.The phone could replace any sign-in system from clocking on at work to certifying how often safety equip ment has been checked, or when a hotel room has been cleaned and is ready for check in. Unlike Wi-Fi RFID readers, you don't need to set up your own network, or worry about thick walls blocking the signal.Engineers servicing remote equipment don't want to drag along manuals and service histories for everything they might encounter. There are plenty of ways of reading serial numbers from devices so you can look up more information. However, having the reader and the phone in the same device means you can retrieve the information online and see the details on screen.Reading a tag can make the phone do almost anything: sending messages, downloading information, dialling a predefined number for a helpline, or running an application. Nokia has ideas for where the system could be useful, but Romen expects the market to go in its own direction, and the reader software is written in Java so developers can create their own applications."We're interested in the applications but we're not the experts there. What we know is how do you use this platform to get messages there and back."An RFID phone could appeal to consumers, too: they could check how many journeys they have left on a smart card such as the London Underground Oyster payment card, or   scan a product in a shop to download information from the web. It doesn't have to be an automated system that replies: the RFID phone could send a text message asking for a follow-up call. If you want to see a film that is advertised, you could tap your phone against a poster to book a ticket.Touching would also be a simple interface for triggering a Bluetooth transfer between two phones, or a phone and a camera. Instead of detecting the other device, establishing and approving a Bluetooth partnership then accepting the file transfer, you can just tap them together.Sony sees NFC as a new style of user interface: you could touch your PC with your mobile phone to buy music online or download an e-ticket for a flight and the details of your hotel booking. You could tap against the automated check-in kiosk at the airport, collect a digital key that lets your phone unlock your hotel room door, and check out by tapping your phone against a tag on the way out.In Japan, NTT DoCoMo and Sony are already testing a payment system where you swipe your phone against a terminal to make payments, and NTT is planning to license the technology to other mobile phone operators.With Sony and Philips involved, NFC makes sense for other devices, too. For example, rather than setting up a small network by hand, you could get an RFID smart card from   your broadband supplier and swipe it against an NFC-enabled Wi-Fi base station. Putting your notebook PC down on top of a "Wi-Fi here" sign would be an easy way to connect to a Wi-Fi hotspot and pay for the connection at the same time.There aren't many scenarios for NFC that couldn't be done with other technologies, but it has some big advantages. Retailers and manufacturers such as Wal-Mart and Gillette, who want to track thousands of products, are going to drive down the price of tags , and the cost of building an NFC reader into a device will be well under &#163;5. And unlike many ideas for adding features to your phones, it makes it easier, rather than harder, to use.NFC could be big business. Nokia is already looking at adding the technology to more phones, and a recent report from ABI Research expects the first NFC smartphone next year. It predicts that by 2009, more than half of all handsets will have it built in.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
HardwareFeeling groovyPhilippe Starck, a big cheese in the industrial design world, has created what Microsoft calls a "thoroughly modern mouse", which features two buttons separated by a blue or orange lighted strip. Starck says users can choose a special edition mouse that "makes a statement about &#91;their&#93; taste and personality", ranging from Groovy (&#163;34.99) to Crimson Fire (&#163;49.99). If you want eyes and whiskers, you have to add them yourself.Screen saverElonex has unveiled what it is billing as the world's first multimedia PC completely housed in an LCD screen/monitor, below. On sale for &#163;1,615, the eXentia Gold features the MediaCenter version of Microsoft's Windows XP operating system. It includes a secondary interface that enables users to access music and video content via a supplied remote control. The PC, which is housed in a 17in screen, also features an integrated TV tuner with digital video recording facilities, a 3GHz Intel Pentium 4 processor, 512MB Ram and a 200GB hard disk. It is accompanied by a wireless keyboard and mouse.www.elonex.co.ukMobile phonesSony Ericsson's 3GCarphone Warehouse may have unwittingly given away the timing of Vodafone's 3G launch for consumers. The retailer has confirmed it is to begin selling Sony Ericsson's first 3G phone, the Z1010, next month on either Orange or Vodafone. Yet with Orange announcing that its consumer 3G launch details won't be before September, Vodafone appears the only choice. The Z1010, which features person-to-person video calling, video download and playback, an MP3 player and Bluetooth, is likely to partner Samsung's Z105 as the net work's launch 3G phone in the UK.www.carphonewarehouse.com<./A>www.vodafone.co.ukMusic playersMini delay endsAfter a four-month delay, Apple's iPod mini digital music player reaches UK stores on July 24. The player, available in pink, blue, silver, gold and green, will retail for &#163;179.99 - at least &#163;20 lower than Apple had predicted. Similar to the original iPod, the mini is compatible with both MP3 and AAC files, including AAC music tracks downloaded via Apple's iTunes music store. Each player boasts 4GB of storage - enough for around 1,000 tunes. Battery life is rated at around eight hours and the iPod mini is accompanied by Mac and Windows-compatible iTunes software, earbud headphones, a belt clip, and FireWire and USB 2.0 cables.www.apple.com/ukStat of the week: Spam creeps upA quarter of all spam in May was promoting products, up from 22% in April. Adult material was down from 16% to 15%. Scams - like the notorious Nigerian begging letters - stayed at 9%. Political spam was only 2% - but the US election will change that.
P for powerIBM's latest multiprocessor server is "the biggest development in the Unix market since the operating system was created", claims Adalio Sanchez, general manager of IBM's pSeries server division. This ambitious boast is based on the eServer p5's ability to run up to 10 virtual servers or "micro-partitions" on a single processor, and it can hold between two and 16 processors. Sanchez says this allows the server to work at 80% capacity whereas traditional Unix servers often run at less than 40%. IBM is positioning the p5 as a way of consolidating servers, because it can run multiple instances of Linux, Unix and even the OS/400 iSeries operating system in one box.www-1.ibm.com/servers/eserver/pseriesOffshore boomThree quarters of Europe's medium-sized and large businesses plan to outsource services to offshore companies before 2009, according to Forrester Research. A survey of 247 IT decision-makers shows that the number of companies planning to move more than 1,000 jobs offshore will double between 2005 and 2008. The main driver is a desire to cut costs, but there is concern that cultural issues and language barriers could inhibit uptake. Other concerns are political instability and trades union resistance. The survey also shows that 66% of the companies using offshore services use India as their main source. This seems to be changing, Forrester says: outsourcing to Estonia, Poland and North Africa is gaining ground.www.forrester.comCouncil taskCardiff, Carmarthenshire and Wrexham councils are banding together to create a disaster recovery centre. The facility will be used to ensure that records of council tax, benefits, social services, housing and email will be recoverable. The Intel-based hardware from Sun Microsystems will be housed in Cardiff County Council's secondary data centre, and the project is being co-managed by Sun Professional Services and Fujitsu Services. The three councils will connect to the centre through the Wales Lifelong Learning Network, which is broadband-based. The shared facility is due to go live in August. Other councils and organisations will be able to join the project later.Aerial manoeuvresTritium is selling a low-cost Wi-Fi enhancer to extend the range of wireless networks. The Flatenna is a silver parabolic reflector that clips on to the   standard stub antenna on a Wi-Fi access point or PC adaptor. The reflector makes the signal more directional rather than increasing signal strength like a powered booster or repeater. This limits the Flatenna's usefulness, but at around &#163;10, it's about a tenth of the price. Tritium says the aerial's range can be increased up to three times, and the directional nature also controls the coverage area and cuts down on interference.www.tritium.co.ukOperator finedA Gwent Police computer operator has been fined &#163;400 by magistrates for looking up criminal intelligence files on people she knew. Leanne Thomas pleaded guilty to the charges, and was fined &#163;100 by Abergavenny Magistrates Court for each of the four occasions she improperly accessed personal records, as well as &#163;50 in costs. The prosecution said there was no further disclosure of this data. Gwent Police says Thomas has been suspended, and it is instigating disciplinary procedures.Open projectThe HSBC bank is rolling out the Niku Open Workbench, an open source project management package, to 19,000 users worldwide. The program has been available for years and has more than 100,000 users in companies such as BT, Visa International and Philips. Niku has just decided to make it open source to encourage improvements to the product and to try to increase the number of add-ons for specialist uses. By making its software available as a free download, Niku plans to challenge Microsoft Project's share of a market that Gartner analysts value at $700m.www.openworkbench.orgUnite against spamThe International Telecommunication Union (ITU), a United Nations agency, said all countries should introduce anti-spam laws to deprive spammers of a hiding place. The ITU, meeting in Geneva last week, said that laws in every country would provide a basis for a global legal instrument, allowing cross-border legal action against spammers. The ITU's acting chairman, Dr Robert Horton, of the Australian Communications Authority, said the organisation could assist countries by compiling model anti-spam legislation. If such laws are joined by more work by the IT industry, said Dr Horton, "I am convinced we can curb spam within the next two years."http://www.itu.int/newsroom
Sony isn't used to playing second fiddle. So it must have been galling that the unveiling of its Connect music download service two weeks ago barely received a mention in the press. Especially as rival launches from Apple and Napster a few weeks earlier had been so high profile. Even more annoying for Sony is that the service is still reeling from largely negative reviews that coincided with its US launch in May.A cursory glance at the service's website shows that this month's UK launch was a soft one designed to take the sting out of its rivals. Sony's marketing muscle is most likely to focus on Connect in September, when its iPod killer, the NW-HD1 hard disk audio player, which is smaller and better specified than its Apple rival, reaches the stores.There are plenty of issues Sony needs to resolve by then. First, the SonicStage 2.0 software required for the transfer of tracks is an astonishing 40MB download - twice the size of Apple's iTunes Windows software. Then there's a user interface that is cumbersome and tricky to use. Perhaps Connect's biggest weakness is what it lacks. Apple's iTunes boasts several community-type features such as iMix, where music fans share playlists. Meanwhile, Napster has recommendations that point usersto tracks and artists similar to ones they have already downloaded. Connect has none of these.Nor does it have the superb streaming facility offered by Napster that allows users to listen to any track or album with excellent quality from their PC (it charges a subscription fee for this service). In contrast, Connect offers limited 30-second snippets of its tracks.Connect is also lumbered with Sony's proprietary Atrac3 files. The format might boast superb sound quality, but Atrac3 files can only be transferred to certain Sony MiniDisc players and a few of its Flash memory-based Network Walkmans. Users can, however, create standard CDs from the tracks, and Sony will have an array of hard disk players in September.Arguably the service's best feature is its library of tracks, which more than rivals both iTunes and Napster. Sony claims there are 500,000 available for download, 200,000 less than iTunes, but due to its excellent selection of artists on independent labels, it is a very European-focused offering. And even though most of the tracks retail for 99p, there are some good deals on album downloads, with many retailing for &#163;7.99.While Napster has excellent streaming facilities and iTunes has the tie in with the iPod, Connect is, for the time being, a service without a unique selling point. Given the marketing might and ingenuity of Sony, don't expect it to stay that way for long.&lt;A HREF="http://www.connect-europe.com"Ashley"&gt;www.connect-europe.com
In unit terms, at least. In its last quarter, Apple shipped 876,000 Macs and 860,000 iPods, according to thepress releaseabout its financial results."For the quarter, the Company posted a net profit of $61 million ... These results compare to a net profit of $19 million in the year-ago quarter ... Revenue for the quarter was $2.014 billion, up 30 percent from the year-ago quarter. Gross margin was 27.8 percent, up from 27.7 percent in the year-ago quarter. International sales accounted for 39 percent of the quarter's revenue.""It was an outstanding quarter—our highest third quarter revenue in eight years," said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO.
"Six telecommunications giants in Europe, Asia, South and North America have formed an alliance to encourage convergence between mobile and fixed-line services, Switzerland's top operator Swisscom revealed. British Telecom will head the Fixed-Mobile Convergence Alliance (FMCA) in the first year, alongside the Swiss firm, Korea Telecom, Brasil Telecom, Canada's Rogers Wireless, and NTT Communications in Japan, Swisscom said in a statement Wednesday" reportsAFP.
Bit Torrent users now have asearch engine....
