Thenews that PC Zone magazine is to closewas no real surprise, given the low ABCs (11,000) and general decline in PC games sales.That won't stop many shedding a nostalgic tear or two, of course. Zone was especially relevant in the mid 90s. The games industry was increasingly becoming the professional gargantuan beast we know today, but Zone's tone and humour harked back to the more anarchic – at least in the UK – industry of the 80s and early 90s.Writers like Charlie Brooker – actually, shouldn't he be writing this? – made their names on Zone, but the internet and the growth of console gaming saw sales rapidly decline.PC Zone's launch publisher, Tim Ponting, who is now director of the videogame PR company Renegade, told us he was incredibly sad to see the magazine fold."It's magnificent that it lasted 17 years given that this is predominantly a market now dominated by the internet, and has been for some time," he said."There were some great writers who got their start on the magazine, likeCharlie BrookerandDavid McCandless, who have gone on to bigger and better things. It always managed to have that distincitve voice, like all great magazines."Brooker had this to say: "PC Zone was a cross between Viz and Which? magazine. It never took anything too seriously, least of all itself. It was also where I learned to write, so if you hate my flippant, manic-depressive 'style', blame PC Zone."Often the reviews were quite long: you'd have to write four or five pages on Tomb Raider, say, which offered plenty of scope for going off on tangents or penning lengthy nonsensical screeds. There was an attitude of 'anything goes provided it's funny'. It was as much comedy mag as games mag."I guess its demise is inevitable. Actually, I'm impressed it lasted as long as it did, given the dominance of consoles, and the sheer wealth of reviews and so forth you can find for free online. The mag itself may have died, but the general tone and character of PC Zone lives on in British gaming sites and forums, and in Ben Croshaw'sZero Punctuationpieces and the like."The sad thing is that the PC mags generally are probably more interesting now than they have been for at least five years. With PC releases less plentiful than they once were – although rumours of the death of PC gaming are hugely exaggerated – there tends to be at least one or two features a month worth reading.The console magazines, on the other hand, tend to be dominated by reviews – understandable given their younger audience and the sheer volume of releases.I'll miss PC Zone. What about you? And what about games mags generally – do you still read them?
UK web users watch less long-form video that many of their counterparts in the developed world,Gartnerresearch shows today.The results are something of an anomaly, given the high profile of iPlayer and other services, from which it would be sensible to expect UK web users to rank as one of the most enthusiastic audiences for web TV and film - but apparently not.Photo byxJasonRogersxon Flickr.Some rights reservedGartner found that of six internet-intensive markets including the US, Australia, South Korea, France and Germany, 21% of UK web users said they watched TV and films online with just 5% watching more than five hours each week. The US was the only country to watch less at 4%, compared to 20% of heavy use in Australia.In Germany, 23% said they watched long-form content, 28% in the US and 29% in Australia. No surprises that in South Korea, where connection speeds of 100Mbps are standard, 51%&nbsp; watch long-form content online.Short-form content, however, is another story. In Germany, 100% of those surveyed said they watched online with 91% in the US and 85% in Australia. The figure for the UK was 68%.How can be explain the UK's relatively poor performance? Gartner were surprised by the results, but speculatively this could be a reflection of erratic peak-time connections (from personal experience) as well as the user interfaces of many online video sites. Maximising video screens can make for a glitchy picture, and the design of many online video sites seems to encourages skipping and browsing rather than a laid-back 90-minute film experience.Arguably online movies have yet to produce a standout provider, still, as we are, in the age of the DVD.
Designing an MMORPG is a unique creative challenge. The initial game universe can take up to five years to build and often requires the formation of a complex mythology to provide and maintain its narrative thrust through future add-ons and expansion packs. In this sense, it's more like working on a TV series than a game – the design team just keeps writing new content, expanding the story, while hopefully attracting newcomers – and it can go on for years.So how does a development studio remain fresh, engaged and creative on such a lengthy and precarious production line? And where do they get their ideas? To find out, I spoke to three WoW veterans: lead designer Tom Chilton, lead content designer Cory Stockton and lead systems designer Greg Street. Here, they talk about the influences behind World of Warcraft, and some of the concepts they're taking onboard for the future of the game...So what were the key influences behind World of Warcraft when Blizzard started out on the project?Tom Chilton:It was most heavily influenced by the early MMOs. At the time, a lot of people at Blizzard were playing games like Ultima Online, Everquest and Dark Age of Camelot, and were really into that kind of game. The WoW team originally started off with a different project – they were making a game called Nomad, a role-playing game, but the decision was made that it was not making the progress we wanted. So one day we announced: "You're no longer working on Nomad, now you're going to make World of Warcraft!"And what are your key inspirations for the mythology and narrative elements on the game?TC:It's a combination of a lot of things. We're absolutely influenced by Dungeons and Dragons, and Tolkien, we're influenced by movies – and not just movies with fantasy settings, we're influenced by contemporary and sci-fi movies. All that plays a role.Cory Stockton:We all look to film, we look at the grand sets and think, "wow, that's crazy, how could we translate that?" Seeing something like Avatar or Lord of the Rings, it's just the way they can take a space and make it feel alive. We're influenced by tons of games and not just MMOs. I've always been a console gamer, so for me, I see Metroid, which has lots of exploration and discovering new things, and I see a lot of Zelda in WoW.Look at some of the boss fights we're doing nowadays compared to way back. One of our first raid boss fights, Ragnaros – he's stuck in a room and barely moves, the room never changes. But you look at the fights we do now, we have bosses who break down walls; you can break off parts of their limbs, then that falls through the floor, and the player jumps through too. If you think of the Zelda bosses, they interact with the whole environment. When I look at WoW, that's what I think of, the action adventure genre. You've got to get the MMO part of it out of your head. For a player, when they're doing a dungeon or a quest, there's no reason that you can't do things you can do in a console game. It's the idea of erasing those barriers.There are definitely some areas that have reminded me of Super Mario 64 and Prince of Persia – the way you need to plan your way through the environmentTC:Exactly, and I think you're going to see more of that in Cataclysm, and that's because our toolsets have got so much better. We tried to do some of that stuff in the past, but it probably wasn't as polished as we would have liked; now, with our vehicle system, we can do so many more things. And they're not even just vehicles; we can use the system to have you grab a rope and swing on to a pirate ship – that's done using the vehicle system, but to the player that's all invisible, it just feels like a cool mechanic.And just like Nintendo's games, the idea of balance is vital?Greg Street:My background prior to Blizzard was working on real-time strategy games and that was 100% about unit balance, making sure characters felt unique but not over-powered. I approach it like a maths puzzle. Things need to have a budget – if a spell is too expensive no one is going to want to use it, or if a spell does the exact same thing as another one it's not going to be attractive. It's almost like bringing the economy of an RTS into an MMO.We've talked about games and genres that you've all been inspired by, but are there any star game designers you look up to? Maybe the likes of, say, Richard Bartle or Raph Koster?CS:I look up to Miyamoto, I look up to Sid Meier. It's not just their games, it's their philosophies on game design. With Miyamoto, it's the idea that control is king – whatever crazy ideas he has for games what always matters is that the controls are unbelievable.We have the same design philosophy at Blizzard. When we do something in WoW, it's got to feel instantly reactive, it can't feel laggy, it can't feel confusing. Something as simple as the jump – you see people jumping about in WoW all the time and the reason they do that is because we tuned the living crap out of it. The animations are tuned exactly right, the way we send those commands over the server, we have prioritisation on stuff, so certain animations will play smoothly. And we have randomness built into that, in the way the night elf does an occasional front flip. A jump animation isn't just that, it has multiple alternatives. And no one would think that a jump animation matters that much, but we put in so much effort because we knew players would be doing it all the time.With Sid Meier, you get the influence on the overall game as a whole. He's got this theory of each game taking one third prototype, one third crazy ideas, one third proven ideas, and you put those together and you see a game evolve.How would you describe the development process on WoW these days?GS:We tend to work from these very long task lists of ideas. When we have a new idea, we put it on the list then we spend time either bumping them up or bumping them down. In the software we use to track our tasks we're in numbers like 20-30,000 ideas. And we'll see an item at number 5,000 that's just been bumped for years and years, and maybe some day we'll do it, of if the game has gone in a different direction, we just delete it. So for every patch we'll get the list out and say, "okay, is there anything on here we want to try to get in?" Often it just takes a designer who's very passionate about something. People have a lot of power on the team to just push something they're very excited about, to get it in the game. Often all it takes is one champion to get the ball rolling.How do new features get implemented – is the process led by the programmers or the design team?CS:Basically, we come up with a crazy idea, and then it comes down to, can [the coders] implement it?! If they can't then we ask, "what can we get?" And then it's down to time – how long will it take to get this done? We come up with a bit list and just see if we can implement it. A great example would be when we added flying to Burning Crusade – that was the biggest addition to WoW at that point – it was a huge programming task. We knew we had to have it, it was the key back-of-the-box feature, but it was clear we'd take a super long time to get it, which meant there were a couple of other things we couldn't do. But we had to decide, what will make the biggest impact for the players?How much of the current design work is based on watching emergent player activities in the game world and thinking, "hey we should actually support that more fully?"CS:It totally happens, both from playing the game ourselves and watching other people play. A good example would be Wintergrasp, which was our open-world PvP zone in Northwind. It was the first time we'd ever done something like that, – it was PvP but it wasn't in an instance, so any one could come. And it was really crazy, getting it into the game, and it turned out to be one of the most popular parts of the Wrath of Lich King overall.But we made a massive number of changes to it after it went into the game because people were playing it in very different ways than we expected. We had a system where you had to get a certain amount of honourable kills to get vehicles, but the players ended up doing something completely different to get vehicles so we modified the whole system. The way that they were attacking the bases was way different to how we had planned. The problem with something like that is, with the beta it's hard to get critical mass of people to play it, but when it goes on the server and you have a thousand people going on there at one time, a group mentality works very differently to a small number of players. Definitely, with things like that, we just make updates with every patch. Now we haven't touched it for a while, because it's running exactly how we want.TC:I'd say most of what we do now is driven by player feedback. It might be feedback we've been hearing since six years ago and we only now have an opportunity to do it, and sometimes it's things that have come up recently. And as you'd expect there are way more ideas than we ever have time to do.Part two tomorrow
Monkey Island legend Tim Schafer confirmed this morning that his studio,Double Fine, has four games in development, which have all been signed by publishers. Speaking at the Develop conference in Brighton, the forthright games veteran, who refered to Activision CEO Bobby Kotick as "a total prick"in a recent interview with Eurogamer, revealed that these are smaller projects, 'some' of which will be downloadable, while the others will have a full retail release.He wouldn't be drawn on the details, but did namecheck the lead producers on each title. As he explained, "What I learned at LucasArts was, you don't make your bets on ideas: ideas are cheap. You make your bets on people." Hence Lee Petty, the art director on Brutal Legend, will be heading up one project: "It's beautiful-looking, but it's also really fun to play," said Schefer. "The game mechanic is kind of retro, but also really new and exciting". Brutal Legend lead programmer, Nathan Marks, is heading up another title; "It's technically cutting edge in a lot of ways, but also accessible and really interesting," explained Schafer.The third game is being produced by Brad Muir, one the designers on Brutal Legend. According to Schafer, "he focused a lot on combat, so he's getting the chance to work on a game that focuses on gameplay mechanics." The last title is being overseen by Tasha Harris, lead animator on Brutal Legend, who came to Double Fine from Pixar, where she was a senior animator on movies like Finding Nemo. Schafer said, "We were able to get her away from that company because even though she's a skilled animator, she has the dream of making games."Interestingly, it seems the idea of concentrating on smallscale projects came out of a staff motivation exercise named 'The Amnesia Fortnight Project' that Schafer introduced between larger projects. He split his company into four teams and each had to produce a workable game in two weeks. Three of the teams were given project managers, while one had no leader and had to group-manage the project. "It was a huge morale boost," said Schafer. "It was so much fun. this huge energy just took over; everyone was running around, helping each other and coming up with ideas. It was like a little independent games festival within our own company. And at the end of the two weeks we had four really fun little games."The company had the chance to repeat the experiment when Brutal Legend 2 was canned ("Apparently, when they said we had a done deal, they meant, 'there's no deal, and we're done,'" joked Schafer). This gave him the idea to actually concentrate on these small development projects rather than huge Triple A titles. So the company produced its four prototypes and to Schafer's surprise all were signed by publishers.In the Q&amp;A session that followed his talk, I asked Tim whether his role as the manager of a multi-platform development studio would mean that he'd have to cultivate better relationships with CEOs and stop hurling abuse at them. He replied, "That was an accident [...] It is shocking how you really can't burn bridges in the industry. You have this boss you hate at your publisher, then you start your own company and you don't have to deal with this jerky boss anymore. Then you're going around pitching your games and you walk into a meeting room, and it's like Empire Strikes Back - you walk in and "holy shit, Darth Vader's at the table! It's such a small industry, you always bump into the same people again. No-one ever goes away..."
Panzer tank at the Imperial War Museum. We'll explain the connection in a moment. Photo bysimononlyon Flickr.Some rights reservedOK, you think you're so smart: see if you can work out the true failure rate of Apple's Time Capsule (its wireless backup device). We've got all the data you need - right here in this spreadsheet, allied with Apple's useful little data point about the sales.The spreadsheet comes courtesy of Pim van Bochoven, who ran theTime Capsule Memorial Register(TCMR) site, which logged the details - such as serial number, purchase date, size and expiry (literally) date of 2,500 Time Capsules.We publishedour analysis of that failure, based on Apple's announcement earlier this week that "Some Time Capsules sold between approximately February 2008 and June 2008 may not power on or may shut down unexpectedly after starting up."And it also offered us thishelpful bit of data too: owners of units whose serial number lies within the range of XX807XXXXXX - XX814XXXXXX can get them repaired or replaced free of charge, by post or in person.So: on sale February 2008: serial number range xx807xxxxxx. On sale June 2008: serial number range xx814xxxxxx.However that doesn't mean that it sold 7m Time Capsules in that period, unless you're a mad optimist. (It would be on a par with the iPod if it had.)So can you figure out the clues in the serial numbers, and - assuming that the TCMR is representative in some way (you can also get the countries, so you'll be able to analyse that: bear in mind that half of Apple's revenues, and presumably unit sales, are in the US) - we should be able to figure out how many Time Capsules were really sold, and what the failure rate was.It's been done before - notably withGerman tanks during World War II, and withiPhone sales. Come on, statisticians, prove your worth.A few points to note about the spreadsheet:&bull; the lifetime is in seconds;&bull; there's a set of 82 entries which don't have a serial number;&bull; the "replaced" code is as follows: 1 - I was offered a replacement under AppleCare (Apple's warranty); 2 - I was offered a replacement, even though I had no AppleCare; 3 - Apple, or my reseller refused to replace it, even when I contacted them after 15 November 2009; 4 -I did not take action to have it replaced, and I'm not going to; 0 - no response given.Now, over to you.Download the data•DATA: download the full datasheetWorld government data•Search the world's government data with our gatewayCan you do something with this data?FlickrPlease post your visualisations and mash-ups on ourFlickr groupor mail us atdatastore@guardian.co.uk•Get the A-Z of data•More at the Datastore directory•Follow us on Twitter
Have you any ideas for a suitably reliable and inexpensive technology for "the last mile" to a French hamlet where six out of the seven houses are desperate for fast internet? We are blocked from the local WiMax signal by a hill, and the 3G option is dreadfully slow and outrageously expensive for anything except checking your mail once a day.Timothy StroudWhat the communications industry calls "the last mile" – typically from the closest exchange to your front door – is a problem because the cost of installing a wired connection is high and the number of users is generally low. It's also risky because installing the connection is a sunk cost for the operator and there's no guarantee you'll keep paying for the service. This means rural broadband users will often have to find some kind of wireless solution, which probably means 3G or GPRS, WiMax, or satellite. (There are also lots of more focused alternatives such as microwave towers if you have enough money or enough users.)In your case, the two most likely approaches are some sort of WiMax repeater or a satellite connection. If you know who supplies WiMax locally, they might be able to put a small mast in a position where it would pass on the signal, if it brings them an economically viable number of customers. There are certainly products that will set up a Wi-Fi hot spot for your hamlet, using WiMax as the "back haul" technology, one example being theAlvarion BreezeMAX Wi2. (Technically, Wi-Fi is IEEE 802.11 and WiMax is 802.16. Intel is developing chips that support both standards at the same time.) I'm not an expert in this area, so I don't know if this is viable, but you could ask.The other option is to have a two-way satellite internet connection that should work almost anywhere in Europe. (You need line-of-sight to the Astra satellite, if that's not behind the same hill.) It might be possible to have more than one connection, given that prices have come down, but if not, you can share one via Wi-Fi, up to a point. The main drawback with satellite is latency: there's a delay while the signal makes its way into space and back. However, while latency makes satellite broadband hopeless for gaming, it's certainly OK for business use.I don't know exactly where you are, but France has relatively advanced broadband services.Viveolemight be worth a look. It offers "Internet haut débit par Satellite &amp; Wimax sur 100% du territoire".Nordnetalso offers satellite access.In the long term, a 3G or 4G mobile phone system such asLTE (Long Term Evolution)might offer a viable broadband connection. However, rural coverage is likely to remain poor, costs will remain high, and bandwidth will always be limited. Right now, WiMax is a cheaper and more efficient wireless solution, and doesn't require the same sort of high-priced spectrum – which may explain why most carriers are not interested. (See theLTE v WiMax Shootoutinfographic.)Tim Stroud replied to my email answer: "We had investigated satellite connections but found that, though generally reliable, they became remarkably expensive for the use we would need to make of them. However, I have contacted the supplier you suggested with regard to a repeater station (or whatever it is called) and they are putting together a proposal. In the end it will depend on how much money we would be prepared to contribute measured against the income they can make from it. Of course, getting administrative permission to construct the thing and finding somewhere geographically suitable and rentable might be a very different kettle of poissons!"
The apparent spat between the Number 10 and Facebook over the Raoul Moat tribute page has poured a little cool water on the Cameron/Zuckerberg love-in.During Prime Minister's questions yesterday,David Cameron agreedthat Facebook should take down the 'RIP Raoul Moat You Legend' page and said he "cannot understand any wave, however small, of public sympathy for this man". Facebook has refused, saying the page doesn't actually violate its terms of use.Photo bysmemon87on Flickr.Some rights reservedBut Number 10 think it's rather good not to be seen to be too close to  Facebook, we have been told, and that they need to be seen to be critical of the site from time to time as well as playing the down-with-the-youth/afternoon-tea-with-Zuck card when it suits.So this 'anger' over Facebook's refusal to remove the page is just another convenient ebb in the ebb and flow of public perception of Mr Cameron, and his meticulously orchestrated PR effort. Splendid.• Update:The page 'RIP Raoul Moat You Legend' has been taken down. Facebook said it had not removed it, but indicated that a page creator can delete that page at any time. Perhaps the criticism got to them, or they tired of the responsibility of looking after it.German minister proposes data privacy rulesMeanwhile the Facebook privacy row rumbles on, not because of any specific change by Facebook but because Ilse Aigner, Germany's consumer minister, has suggested that the internet community should club together and compose an 'internet honour code'.We all know how much 'the internet community' loves drawing up lists of rules. Because the success of the internet all comes down to rules, doesn't it?It doesn't? Oh. You might remember the carnage the last time someone proposed rules about blogging after thisKathy Sierraepisode. It doesn't work, in large part because most of us have a strong feeling about what Supernanny would call 'ceptable behaviour' online and slightly resent someone else's version being imposed on us - especially when it is only a tiny minority that act irresponsibly. That wouldn't work in the real world, but hey.Aigner wants ten "short, sharp and clear" golden rules, she toldDie Welt. "It would be good if users themselves made suggestions. We could base them on social networks that already have a 'netiquette'."Who writes down manners? Can courtesy be legislated?
Apple has announced it will hold a press conference tomorrow as the embattled technology company moves to quashmounting speculationover an iPhone 4 recall.In a brief email, Apple invited press to a conference at 10am PT (6pm BST) in California, saying the topic up for discussion would be - you guessed it - the iPhone 4.The first beta of the iPhone's iOS4.1 mobile operating system is nowreportedlyavailable, along with the 4.1 software development kit. The update is thought to be designed to tackle the "simple and surprising" software slipup which saw users being shown a good reception even though the signal was weak.Apple has come under increasing pressure this week to properly address a number of issues which have plagued the device. This came to a head on Monday as independent testing organisation Consumer Reports said they could not recommend the iPhone 4 (despite it getting a higher rating than all other smart phones evaluated), given the issues with its signal and proximity sensor.Shares in the technology companydippedsoon after the report went live, at one point wiping $9.9bn (£6.5bn) from its $230bn value.
This week's Develop conference - a gathering of the games development community - will probably be full of sore heads today. Yes, theDevelop Awardswere dished out in Brighton last night.  Unity Technologies won two awards, including the Grand Prix. Heavy Rain by Quantic Dream won Best New IP while the excellent Angry Birds won Best New Download IP.The winners in full:CREATIVITYBest New IPHeavy Rain (Quantic Dream)Best New Download IPAngry Birds  (Rovio)Best Use of a Licence or IPBatman: Arkham Asylum (Rocksteady Studios)Visual ArtsSplit/Second (Black Rock Studio)Audio AccomplishmentDJ Hero  (FreeStyleGames)Publishing HeroChannel 4TECHNOLOGY &amp; SERVICESTechnical InnovationUnity Engine (Unity Technologies)Tools ProviderHansoftEngineUnreal Engine 3ServicesTestologyAudio OutsourcerSideVisual OutsourcerAxis AnimationRecruitment CompanyAmiqusSTUDIOSBest New StudioHello GamesMicro StudioHello GamesHandheld StudioSCE CambridgeBusiness DevelopmentSony XDevIn-House StudioRocksteady StudiosIndependent StudioQuantic DreamSPECIAL AWARDSDevelopment LegendAndrew Gower &amp; Paul Gower (Jagex)Grand PrixUnity TechnologiesWhat do you think?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Despite being touted as theworld's most widely usedmobile operating system,the folks over at Gartnerbelieve the future for Symbian fans is not a happy one.Forecasts to be published at the end of the month show Symbian is losing market share at an ever-increasing rate.Symbian is still way ahead of the other players in terms of market share, and may be for some time to come, but the others (particularly Android) are catching up fast. (SeeWikipedia's graphic of the 2009 end-of-year share, which shows Nokia/Symbian at 44%, RIM at 19%, Apple at 15%, Android at 10% and Windows Mobile at 7%. Since then, Android has probably overtaken Apple.)The reason behind the downward drift appears to lie in a lack of design and purpose. RIM, Apple, Google and Microsoft have all tailor-made their latest operating systems for high-end devices with large touchscreens, providing excellent user experiences.On the other hand, Symbian software targets a much wider variety of phones, many at the lower end of the spectrum, with different interfaces and screen sizes to encounter.User experience has never been a high point of thedevelopmentfor the Symbian Foundation and little seems to be changing in the future. Although it is planning to bring a fresh new look for applications, the refresh is not due until next year.Says Gartner's Nick Jones: "So if the weak UI [user interface] is threatening Symbian's very survival the Foundation ought to be seriously worried, right? Wrong. I just looked on the Foundation web site and blogs at the roadmap and features for future releases. What I see is too much effort on stuff that really doesn't matter." Everyone would love HDMI output or an audio policy on their mobile phone but is this really necessary?With the three big players in smart phones each attempting to up the ante with each new release, the competition in the smart phone market is still very alive. The release of iOS 4, BlackBerry 6 and Android 2 have all brought impressive overhauls to the user interface. Whether Symbian can remain competitive and relevant in this evolving market yet is to be seen.
Overheated. Photo byTodd Huffmanon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft and the economics of Bing &gt;&gt; Business Insider"Microsoft's financial disclosures suggests thatMicrosoft is paying as much to gain every point of share as it is generating in revenue from each point of share. Put differently, it appears Microsoft has a 0% gross margin on its search market growth of the past year: For every $1 of new revenue it generates, it spends $1 in traffic acquisition costs.  That's just not a sustainable business."Kevin Turner's speech at Worldwide Partner Conference 2010 &gt;&gt; Microsoft"We already have 530 million Windows Live IDs. There's a little over a billion people on the Internet. We've got over half of those already, with the Windows Live ID."Kevin, if that's really the quality of your maths, I'm worried about how you rose almost to the top of Microsoft.Lords set sights on review of Digital Economy Act &gt;&gt; ZDNet UK"The Digital Economy Act could be reviewed by the House of Lords next year, if peers are given the right to scrutinise legislation after it has been passed into law."A lot hinges on that "if".Google climate map offers a glimpse of a 4C world &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukIt's interactive, using Google Earth to show you what a world 4C hotter - which is now expected - will look like. Buy suncream and at the top of a hill. And worry.What's wrong with Icann &gt;&gt; Kieren McCarthyIn a response on the Icann mailing list, McCarthy - a former insider at Icann, as well as a journalist - gives his thinking on how it gets it wrong: "My personal philosophy of why this vicious circle continues to persist is because ICANN lacks almost entirely a culture of learning from previous mistakes. Never has it had a review of the effectiveness of a particular process at the end of that process – despite this going against every best practice guidebook in the world."As a result, ICANN doesn't have any internal checkboxes or red flags that would indicate something is going along the wrong lines. And, ironically, the mistakes of the past are frequently repeated because they follow from well-worn paths of travel."CHART OF THE DAY: Here's How Apple's iPhone Totally Humiliated The Mobile Industry &gt;&gt; Business Insider"The most profound effect that Apple has had on the industry is how it has completely swallowed the lion's share of its profits, in a very short period of time, without even commanding much market share."Processing, the language &gt;&gt; Processing.org"Processing is an open source programming language and environment for people who want to create images, animations, and interactions." Now updated to 1.2. Very interesting - like a new form of Logo.Hidden features of Python &gt;&gt; Stack OverflowA fantastically useful list for anyone who uses Python - such as the developers at the Guardian, among others.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
As the government gathers business groups together for a "broadband summit" today there is growing concern that the infrastructure needed for a broadband revolution is causing needless damage to the street environment. Thousands of green street cabinets over five feet high are springing up across the country to connect the broadband network. BT's Openreach is already responsible for 88,000 cabinets and local civic societies report too many are being poorly located, inflexibly designed and made unnecessarily intrusive, even in our most sensitive conservation areas. The nation needs broadband, but does it have to be at the expense of our local streets – damaging views, impeding pushchairs and insulting the local environment? By engaging local communities in decisions over where cabinets are to be located and with a more positive approach to their design, Broadband Britain can look beautiful too.Tony BurtonDirector, Civic Voice
At the Develop conference this morning, Greg Zeschuk, co-founder ofBioware, gave an interesting keynote about the secrets behind his company's success – and about the "dangerous" nature of the contemporary games industry. He put the consistent quality of titles like Mass Effect, Dragon Age and Knights of the Old Republic down to the benevolent culture that's been nurtured at each of the five Bioware studios. It's all been about taking a long-term view rather than a short-term focus; remaining "super consistent" in terms of structures and work practices; and giving autonomy to development teams.But interestingly for a developer that's made its name on epic adventure titles, Zeschuk cautioned emerging developers against aiming to produce Triple A console titles. "Right now it's precisely the wrong thing to chase," he argued. "The opportunities there are getting narrower – it's like turning out a big Hollywood blockbuster […] at some level the innovation, the risk-taking is disappearing on the publishing side. The middle has dropped out of the market. It's the top ten games that are making all the money now."He suggested that studios should now be exploring the myriad of opportunities in online gaming – including Flash and browser-based titles, as well as social networking games. Development at this level, he asserted, is sustainable, which invites innovation.Of course, we're already seeing lots of small developers getting into the social/casual/online space, but that's often been viewed within the industry as at best a stepping stone, and at worse a compromise, with the true goal being big budget PS3 or Xbox 360 development. It's interesting to hear a studio of Bioware's size saying, in effect, 'forget it, those days are effectively over.'Zeschuk also told the Develop audience that Bioware is currently putting small, agile teams onto these sorts of projects – they've developed a Mass Effect iPhone game, a Dragon Age Facebook game, and they're looking into "smaller-scale MMOs" – a hint that we'll perhaps see a freemium-based online RPG from the developer, as well as its massiveStar Wars: The Old Republicproject.As we've written before on the blog – the videogame industry is very much going in the direction of the movie business, with huge bloated blockbusters at one end, a thriving indie sector at the other, and something of a wasteland in between. In some ways this is good for gamers – it means it's harder for publishers to justify commissioning reams of 'me too' titles designed to slipstream the success of genre leaders like GTA and Call of Duty. But on the other, it means that riskier original titles like Dead Space and Singularity might not get the green light as major console releases. If a developer like Bioware, with six titles in the top one percent of the highest rated games of all time, is looking into alternative platforms, it's a good indication that a troublesome era for game development is about to get even more difficult.
I'm controlling a female first-person avatar who's walking down a suburban street, gun in hand. A man hurls a catcall "I'm not hungry today, but I'd love to eat you." The avatar shoots him. Another man shouts a similar line. My avatar shoots him too. And so it goes.Hey Babymay be the weirdest game I've ever played. If you can call it a game. Its creator Suyin Looui describes it as "a conversation catalyst . . . a satirical project, based heavily as a spoof on the visual aesthetics and concept of games such as GTA" which reflects on the "history of public spaces as unwelcome or unsafe for women to wander".Yet the game doesn't quite hit the mark: the graphics are distractingly awkward, the gameplay clumsy. The streets full of nothing but catcalling men don't feel hostile as much as puzzlingly surreal. The two available responses (shoot or "shower with love") are equally unsatisfying. But Hey Baby is just one of a growing number of games more about the message than fun play. InDarfur is Dyingyou play a family hiding from Janjaweed gunmen while fetching water: it's almost unwinnably hard and, of course, that's the point.Veteran videogames designer Brenda Brathwaite has created the boardgameTrainin which players load passengers into trains – the doors are slightly too small, you have to really push them in – and advance them along tracks. Only once the destination is reached is its name revealed: Auschwitz.When I first heard about this, it  felt borderline offensive. But on reflection I'm glad games are tackling such big issues, even awkwardly. Train has moved some players to tears – if that doesn't make games art I don't know what does.
With the arrival and subsequent rapid growth in the app market – think iTunes, Android marketplace and the rest – you could be forgiven for forgetting aboutMinis. These bite-sized and low price games, available for PSP and PS3 via the PSN service, have now been downloaded over 1 million times worldwide.  Small beer compared to the5 billion apps(obviously games are only a percentage of these) downloaded on iTunes perhaps, but proof that demand is there for these kind of lighter (and cheaper) gaming experiences. As Pocket Gamerpoint outthough, these figures mean only 1.7% of PSP owners have downloaded a mini game. SCEE VP Zeno Colaço is looking on the bright side:We're always looking for exciting and unique content to offer our audiences and minis offer exactly that. minis offers a huge variety of snackable gaming experiences, be it games from smaller developers, with small budgets to more established developers, with established IPs that are easily accessible and great value for money.  We're proud to have achieved over a million downloads in less than a year and with new developers coming on board every day, bringing with them incredibly fun and creative games, we look forward to establishing minis as a fans favourite amongst the PlayStation community.The top ten list  suggests a varied, though clearly Zombie-loving,  audience are downloading minis:1. Age of Zombies2. Monopoly3. Fieldrunners4. Zombie Tycoon5. Bloons6. Spot The Differences!7. Pinball Fantasies8. Mahjongg Artifacts: Chapter 29. Yetisports Pengu Throw10. BreakquestThanks to the iPad  - don't yawn, but it is a fabulous gaming device – and the sheer choice of apps/games available I've not spent much time with minis.  I intend to change that, but are you? Anyone here regularly download minis? If not why not? And if you do, got any recommendations?
Oh Gillian.Gillian, Gillian, Gillian.An almighty brouhaha has arisen over on Twitter. And it appears we could yet be at the calm before the storm. Here's the story (for the history seehere):Gillian McKeith, of You Are What You Eat fame, appears to have takenumbridgeumbrage at a relativelyinnocuous tweetfrom Rachel E Moody:McKeith, currently promoting – ahem – anew book, was incensed – or at least the person operating what has previously been described as her official Twitter feed was.Scienceblogscaught the reaction before the angry missives were taken down:Note the word "lies" in reference to Ben Goldacre's Bad Science. Enter Mr Goldacre, who tweeted: "hi @gillianmckeith, i'm writing a piece about you libelling me in the context of #libelreform, can you pls contact ben@badscience.net thnks".UPDATE: Goldacre later said he regards McKeith's comment as "a very serious and undefendable defamation".And that's when the whole situation turned plain weird. Evolving miraculously into third-person mode – just days after afirst-person verification– the McKeith feed sought to take apart those questioning her qualifications.But it wasn't long before the collection of McKeith tweets weretaken down, replaced withan odd volte face: "Do you actually believe this is real twitter site for the GM?" Er, yes? In large part because it was linked from your official website:As it stands, McKeith is trending alongside Raoul Moat and Thierry Henry. As with everything on the internet, trending topics can't be deleted – so how do you solve a PR problem like McKeith?
Call him the 12th man: but this one was unusual, because according to the US authorities, Alexey Karetnikov – who was deported to Russia as part of the "spy ring" earlier this week – was working for Microsoft.According to details released by the US, Karetnikov entered the US in October and had been living in Redmond, the city in the north-western state of Washington where the software giant Microsoft has its headquarters – andaccording to his Facebook page, he was working for Microsoft and for Neobit, a Romanian-based software company.The US Department of Homeland Security said the suspect was "just in the early stages; had just set up shop" when he was detained in the sweep that led to the biggest spy swap since the Cold War.Karetnikov, a Russian citizen in his early- to mid-20s, was held over immigration violations in the absence of enough evidence to charge him with a crime. But he had been monitored almost as soon as he arrived in the US, and the DHS was confident that he obtained "absolutely no [useful] information".At a court hearing on Monday, the Russian admitted being illegally present and agreed to the deportation in lieu of further court proceedings.Microsoft said it was looking into questions about Karetnikov, but had no further information.It is unclear whether Karetnikov was part of the same spy ring that included Anna Chapman, who was based in the country's capital. One official told the Washington Post that Karetnikov had obtained a job in the US and was "just doing the things he needed to do to establish cover".
Culture secretary Ed Vaizey has reiterated his support for the video game industry, but is backing George Osborne's decision to remove proposed tax incentives from the budget.Speaking at the Develop Conference in Brighton, Vaizey told a packed audience of game developers and publishers that he remains "a committed champion of this industry" and that Osborne's plan to support the private sector through macro initiatives, rather than targeted measures, would make the UK games business more competitive.Introducing Vaizey to the audience, veteran video game designer Charles Cecil praised the minister's decision to walk into "the lion's den" – and Vaizey's opening gambit was a rush of conciliatory rhetoric."This industry ticks every political box going," he said. "It's high tech; it's regional, covering the nation from Brighton to Dundee; it attracts graduates from what we like to call the difficult subjects, such as computer science and maths; it covers a huge range of sectors, it's not just the leisure industry, it's health, education, defence; in almost any area you think of, video games have a role to play."Vaizey also talked about the sea change in attitudes to gaming – the fact that politicians have stopped blaming games for all of society's ills (although no one seems to have mentioned this to Keith Vaz), and that the wider media are now taking the sector seriously. "I think a reason for this change is that video games are becoming as essential to the home as television," he said. "Their influence can be seen in the way we learn as well as the way we play … a third of this country's population classify themselves as gamers."After conceding that "Britain is slipping down the world rankings" of game developing nations, Vaizey asserted his intention to help the industry compete effectively on the global stage. Assuring delegates that he had supported the tax credit proposals put forward to the treasury by the games industry trade body Tiga, he saidthat the budget still offered opportunities to the sector."George Osborne passionately believes in the power of the private sector to pull us out of recession, so there are a range of measures in the budget to help business," he said. "There's a major package of reforms to business taxation, reducing the corporation tax main rate to 24% by 2014; and reducing the small profits rate of corporation tax to 20% from 2011."He also mentioned proposed changes to the R&amp;D tax credits scheme to help innovation, as well as the coalition's decision to reverse Labour's plans to increase national insurance.As for specific incentives to aid the games industry, Vaizey mentioned the funding competitions run by the Technology Strategy Board for collaborative R&amp;D projects – which have, since 2004, "put in over £4m into games projects."He also reeled off the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council's £6m funding of the new centres for Digital Entertainment at Bath and Bournemouth universities, and support the industry has received from NESTA. He also formerly launched a new £2m fund to support new games IP run by the University of Abertay in Dundee, which is open to applications from any digital entertainment company in the UK.When questioned about the possibility of tax incentives being supported in the future, Vaizey was non-committal, but offered a glimmer of hope. "I can't emphasise enough that I'm not the chancellor; it's just that in my view the treasury is always open to rational argument."If you take the opportunity after the budget to look very hard at the kind of incentives you think the industry needs, particularly in order to attract foreign investment and also to compete across the world, then its up to you to decide the right focus and make that case."However, talking to the Guardian after the speech, Tiga chief Richard Wilson expressed his disappointment at the government's stance. "It's good to hear that Ed Vaizey is still supportive of the games industry. What's disappointing I think is to see how negative the treasury is toward sector-specific tax break."The treasury says it wants to show that the UK is open for business, but until we get our tax break against production, as far as the games industry is concerned, we're not going to have that sign above the UK economy."We demonstrated in our research – which the treasury accepted before the change of government, so the arguments must have been pretty convincing – that with a tax break against production we'd have another 3,500 graduate jobs, another £457m investment and above all the tax break would actually pay for itself. Can't they add two and two together?"Earlier, Vaizey had suggested that Tiga's case to the treasury hadn't been strong enough – an argument that Wilson vociferously countered: "It was included in the March budget, for goodness sake. We convinced the treasury pre-election and we apparently convinced the Liberal and Conservative parties while they were in opposition – in fact, Ed Vaizey's on record saying that George Osborne agreed with him about tax breaks against games production, before the election. It would be fascinating to find out what happened between the March budget and the emergency budget."Despite providing no real assurances on the future of tax credits, Vaizey was given a relatively easy ride by the assembled industry insiders. There was no doubt an acknowledgment that the culture minister's support remains a valuable asset – indeed, those at the conference were reminded of this fact by Charles Cecil as he took to the stage to announce the speech.During the Q&amp;A session at the end of the keynote, the question that drew the loudest response from the audience was: "What game are you playing at the moment?" Amid the laughter, Vaizey replied: "Super Mario Galaxy." Perhaps his most resolute and satisfying response of the day.
This may cause some sort of cataclysm: the collision of Apple and Twitter. No, not thedaftly-rumoured buyoutlast year of the one by the other; Scott Forstall, the excitable and always-happysenior vice-president of Apple's iPhone software division, has aTwitter account.How do we know it's him? Because it'sverified- Twitter will have checked against his email and other details.At the time of writing, he is following one person (the highly-favoured American comedianConan O'Brien) and more than 18,000 followers.And he has tweeted... not at all. Not a single time. Nada. Zilch. Though the account was only created yesterday, and he might have been busy with meetings or something about, umm, thepossibility of an iPhone software update in the very near future.So the world waits breathlessly to see if he's going to explain what's really up with the antenna. It's a fascinating development; although there are already a number of Apple staff on Twitter (Chris Espinosa, one of its longest-serving employees, for example), Forstall is one of the highest-ranking executives there, and certainly the most senior at Apple - unless Phil Schiller has a stealth account. Of course, if you choose to be like the Daily Mail, then you could always believe thatceoSteveJobsis the real item. (Though, reading it, it's a pity it's not.)
Bebo is getting ready to announce its first new activity since beingoff-loaded by AOLin the next few weeks, says Adam Levin, the managing partner at buyer Criterion Capital Partners, who has been named chief executive of the social network.You might usually expect a turnaround specialist to cut costs and lay off staff. But, in Bebo's case, the cutting had already been done by AOL (NYSE: AOL) - the sitenow has only 25 to 30 staff, and now Criterion will need to re-invest, particularly on engineers, Levin tells paidContent:UK.Photo byUntitled blueon Flickr.Some rights reserved"AOL left Bebo somewhat dormant, so we will be staffing up,we'll be announcing several new key hires in the coming weeks."Bebo will bemoving its San Francisco global HQfrom AOL's Folsom Street office to new premises at the Embarcadero this weekend, a switch Levin says willprovide existing staff with "a new start". "Outside of the US, we will still have staff - we wont be shutting offices - we'll just be moving (UK) offices from the AOL office."So what's the future for Bebo run by a merchant bank?Levin points to Facebook's blossoming from an Ivy League sideline in to a mainstream network. "AOL looked to replicate much of that (in Bebo) and have a similar strategy. But we have really strongnicheuser groups that allow us, from an advertising perspective, to reach a specific targeted group."Levin rejects the suggestion that the social networking game is over, won by Facebook, pointing to Bebo's differentiator: "Tween is our core demographic. It allows a tween or user an opportunity to create a customisable experience, as opposed to a Facebook, where they can interact with their friends. A 14-year-old may not have the opportunity to customise their house or buy the car that they want, but they can select their Bebo layout in the way they want to see it."Advertising will be the main revenue driver.There are also other opportunities that Bebo, under AOL, didn't look at. We're looking at increasing gaming, doing social currency." And Levin brushes aside the suggestion that advertising on social networks is proving too difficult, saying "CPMs are lower than many expected across the board" and expecting that demographic targeting can inflate those prices."Levin won't say how much Criterion paid for Bebo, just: "All of the needs of my investors in Criterion were met, as well as the needs of AOL - it was a win-win.""The new ownership structure gives us the ability to be aggressive in innovation and create a platform that's going to be engaging to users," says Levin, who was previously chief executive of mobile video distributor CinemaElectric."We're striking a bunch of deals out of the gates. Several different partnerships to enhance the functionality. Based on my background in mobile, we have been able to sign several deals thatwill enhance the footprint that Bebo has today dramatically over the next 60 to 90 days."Mobile sounds like a big focus now. "AOL had no mobile advertising (on Bebo), yet was seeing 200 million impressions on mobile monthly.There are some low-hanging fruit on the monetisation side." We expect a deal with a big mobile advertising network, as well as amping up in-house mobile ad sales."We're actively looking and talking to people about other properties that could add strategic benefit to Bebo."Bebo under Criterion is keen to stress a long list of numbers it says remain high - 1.2 million daily users, 52.4 million people have created a profile or visited in the last year, a quarter of whom are in the US. But Bebo's traffic, along with MySpace's, has been falling over the last year and Levin acknowledges some effort must be made to bring those users back. The site will run a "Free Love Day" in the UK next week as some kind of embrace for users there."Bebo's a great platform today - we have an incredible user base," Levin says. "There are lots of naysayers who say it has declined, but it allows users to have a tremendous amount of self-expression."Criterion's portfolio numbers a startup charter school, a commodity goods manufacturer and a specialty jewelry chain but its media and tech background is limited beyond Levin, so he's brought aboard online ad industry veteranRichard Heckerand partner Paul Abramowitz, who once helped sort out Enron's post-collapse debt.And if Criterion does manage to get Bebo back on course, what then? On his own role, the company's manager says he's the best man for the job right now but acknowledges: "There may come a time when someone more qualified or has certain attributes that I can't contribute - so we're open to anything and not ruling a change out at any time."And, naturally, Bebo may yet be sold again in future: "We are a merchant bank, a private equity fund - so we do look for deals that will return money to our investors at the end of the day. Sowe will be looking for a liquidity event at some point, but not for now."
The online auctioneereBayis being sued for $3.8m over six alleged patent infringements and breaking a confidentiality agreement relating to its PayPal payment service.According toReuters, XPRT Ventures claims that eBay incorporated information shared in confidence into the "PayPal Buyer Credit" and "Pay Later" services, and used it in a 2003 patent application.Photo bySam Howziton Flickr.Some rights reserved"This involves a trade secret theft, along with sheer patent infringement," said Steven Moore, a partner at Kelley Drye &amp; Warren LLP representing the plaintiff. "It is bad enough to take someone's technology, but it is a bit much to use it in your own patent application."The payments division of eBay generated $2.8bn in 2009, 32% of their $8.73bn total for the year. XPRT seems to be looking for a chunk of this, seeking a minimum of $3.8bn in monetary damages. It is also seeking treble damages resulting from eBay's alleged "willful and malicious conduct", punitive damages, among other claims.Much likeFacebookin the case brought by Paul Ceglia that  we reported yesterday, eBay dismissed the complaint as "without merit". A spokeswoman said: "We intend to defend ourselves vigorously."The news had little imapct on eBay's share price, which closed3.9% up at $21.01last night.
A Google-backed research project is to map out the relationship between location and literature, visualising works related to a specific era or place usingGoogle Earth.A joint project between  theOpen University, theUniversity of Southamptonand theUniversity of California at Berkeley, Google Ancient Places will let users search for books related to specific geographic location during a particular time period, which are then visualised on Google Earth or Google Maps.Academics will be able to access data compiled from a broad swathe of literature, including many out of print and rare material often kept just a small number of institutions. Researchers say the project will help to open up interested in history, classics and archaeology, but will also help develop new tools and research methods as well as expertise in using data in this way.Photo bydfulmeron Flickr.Some rights reservedAnother project, led byDr Alfonso Morenoat Magdalen College Oxford, is producing an index of translated European literature from 1701 to 1917. TheBibliotheca Academica Translationumwill be used to research what Moreno describes as the changes in the transmission of knowledge in this period.In total, Google has announced $1m (£665,000) in funding for 12 projects at 15 universities exploring 'digitised literature', which its defines as the "use of quantitative techniques to analyse large amounts of literature and identify trends over selected periods of time, by language, by geography and by topic".Apost by Googleexplains the projects in more detail, including one that aims to analyse  all literature written in the Victorian era to identify trends in the use of vocabulary, while another could compare every version of the opening line to Virgil's Aeneid to see where and how often it has been quoted.The researchers will also have support from various Google tools and technologies and access to parts of Google Books catalogue that includes book scans and histograms.Clearly this project is very far from a direct money-spinner for Google but part of a well-orchestrated, long-term campaign to reassure and win over academics and publishersconcerned by the scale and impactof Google's wider books initiative.
Thelatest gossipto fly around the web is that Google is about to throw itself into the social network arena and launch a full competitor to Facebook.Since Digg founder Kevin Rose, tweeted (since removed) "Ok, umm, huge rumor: Google to launch Facebook competitor very soon 'Google Me,' very credible source," sources have been investigating the rumours and the evidence is starting to pile up towards a launch.Google isreported to have been conducting focus groupresearch into social networks, looking particularly at usability.In a Q&amp;A session, Adam D'Angelo, a former chief technical officer at Facebook, stated: "This is not a rumour. This is a real project. There are a large number of people working on it. I am completely confident about this."A fascinating presentation onThe Real Life of Social Networkinghas appeared online, produced by Paul Adams from the user experience team in Google. It examines how social networks (mostly Facebook) operate online and ways in which they fail to mirror social interactions in the real world: "The problem is that social networks we're creating online do not match the social networks we already have offline. This creates many problems and a few opportunities." The impression given throughout is that Google is working on something along the same lines as Facebook but modelled more closely on real-life interactions.This would not be the first time Google has tried its hand at social networking.Buzzwas aimed at linking personal and professional lives through Google Mail butprivacy concernsand a lack of innovation hampered its launch. TheOrkutsocial network has been active since 2004 and is extremely popular in Brazil and India but less so in the rest of the world.Google Friend Connectwas an attempt to allow users to connect friends together on different websites, which again has failed to make much impact.WithFacebook stacking up over 500 million users, it will be extremely difficult for a newcomer to the scene to mount a credible challenge. Will Google be more successful with Me than past efforts, or will the old privacy concerns rear their head? How easy would you find it to move away from Facebook? Let us know your thoughts below.
Apple shares dived by 4% last night, cutting $9.9bn (£6.5bn) off its $230bn value after speculation grew that the company would have to recall or issue hardware fixes for the new iPhone 4.The fallfollows a reportby the independent American testing organisation Consumer Reports which said reception problems meant it could not recommend the device.Apple was accused of censorship byremoving discussionsabout the negative Consumer Reports evaluation from its official message boards over the weekend, though it seems now to have relented.A number of PR experts contacted byCult of Mac blogyesterday said a recall of the iPhone 4 was "inevitable," comparing the situation toToyota's global recallof its hybrid cars earlier this year.Yet others including Marco Arment, lead developer of Tumblr and Instapaper,say that a wholesale recall would be a step too far, but that Apple needs to "replace, redesign, or relocate the proximity sensor" – which tells the phone when it is close to the user's head or hand and changes its radio output and screen brightness accordingly.UK consumer watchdog Which? told the Guardian that although it had done initial tests on the iPhone 4 proximity sensor – finding that the screen is "disabled" the closer to your head the phone is held – it would carry out a "more comprehensive" review of the device in the near future.Others have suggested that Apple should give owners free rubber "bumpers" – sold for $29 (£25 in the UK) – which fit around the edge of the phone, ostensibly to protect it from damage, but which also cut the signal loss that is at the core of the dispute.But for Apple to do that would be tantamount to admitting that the device has a design problem, which could open it up to class action lawsuits from aggrieved buyers.Apple has tended to decline recalling products that have had design issues, preferring to deal on a limited basis where people complain. Earlier this week it quietlyannounced that it would replace faulty versions of its Time Capsule backup product, after thousands of them failed after just 18 months. When a number of its iBook computers were found to have faulty soldering in 2007 by aDanish consumer investigation, it did not issue a recall.Apple UK had no comment this morning on whether it will be making any announcements about the iPhone. UK Consumers' Association magazine Which? said that it intended to test the phone "soon".Despite the fall in the technology company's share price, it remains the largest on the US stock market, ahead of long-term rival Microsoft. And although Consumer Reports did not "recommend" the iPhone 4, other commentators have pointed out that it stillranks it highest among the smartphones it has tested– and that its second-ranked smartphone is the iPhone 3GS, the predecessor to the latest version.Even with a growing clamour from users and testers who have discovered that the phone's reception seems to drop off abruptly when they position their hand around the left side, the company has remained almost silent – except for a statement on Friday 2 July, when it put out a "letter" a week after the phone's release in which it said that the dropoff in reception was due to a "simple and surprising" mistake in every iPhone's software which meant that it overstated signal strength in weak reception.Although the launch on 28 June saw 1.7m iPhone 4s soldin the first three days, the most successful yet of the annual refreshments to the model, it has proved to be a continual headache for Apple.The first issue to appear was the discoloration of the high-quality "retina display", which appears to be linked to the adhesive used to bond the glass and display together.But the major woe for consumers has been the signal issues. Testers at Consumer Reportssaid  that holding the iPhone at the bottom left-hand corner causes the signal to decay significantly.Despite Apple's low-key suggestion that there is nothing wrong with the phone, it is understood that staff on its warranty service AppleCare have beenadvising customers to buy a case or hold the phone in a different way.Consumer Reports hasheld off recommending the iPhone 4, despite it gaining a higher rating than all other smart phones they have evaluated.
In some ways Blizzard is just like most other major development studios. There is a strong work ethic, and a symbiotic attempt by the management to indulge the workforce. Here in Irvine, that means the provision of a 24-hour gym, a basketball court, lots of games rooms, and regular parties (they've just had a mini-music festival out on the lawn, featuring bands made up of Blizzard employees). There's an amiable atmosphere. Everyone smiles as we pass.Behind it all is a palpable sense of pride. The three large office blocks that make up the Irvine HQ are stuffed with memorabilia and iconography. Almost every gathering space has a life-size statue of a Starcraft of Warcraft character, while posters of classic titles line every wall. There are enormous game art murals dotted about, even in the lifts. A particular highlight is the huge image of drunken dwarves which festoons a wall in the staff cafeteria. Here, kitchen staff often serve meals based on Blizzard games, including the Undermine Clam Chowder that features as a cooking item in WoW.This sort of enforced celebration of company prowess can often take on insincere Orwellian connotations, but here, it is entwined wholly with the process of creating these mammoth games. The Blizzard museum, which takes up a room beside the ostentatious reception area, is filled with concept art, sketches and trophies; it is as much a tool to remind designers about the canon of games like WoW and Starcraft, as it is a glorification of the studio's many awards.Really, it seems that communication and inspiration govern the dynamic here. Staff are housed in an array of smaller office rooms, built into hubs that surround comfortable communal lounges. The idea is that team members can get together for quick intimate design discussions without having to invite a whole bunch of people into a soulless conference room or holler at each other across 18 desks. Each development team has its own lounge area, all individually customised to staff requirements – I liked the Victorian-style billiards room, but there's apparently a fetching Tiki-style lounge somewhere, too. Like WoW itself, it's all about ownership. There's also a substantial library, featuring hundreds of books on programming and development, as well as games, movie DVDs and source materials for artists and designers. Blizzard could well be the only developer with both a full-time museum curator and a full-time librarian.But amid this obsession with WoW, there is also a keen awareness that, in order to avoid stagnation, the game must continue to attract new players – it's not just about cosily meeting the desires of established users. With Cataclysm then, there have been some helpful tweaks to the user interface, to make menus and option screens more logical. The spell book now tells you when new spells are available (rather than forcing you to discover them yourself), while a new talent pane houses all three talent trees so they can be easily compared.Elsewhere, there are new PvP battlegrounds. The aim with these has been to introduce some new environments for scenic diversity, rather than to bring in lots of extra gameplay mechanics. So we have Twin Peaks, a 10 vs 10 'capture the flag' domain which works similarly to Warsong Gulch, but with two central graveyard areas. "These alterations in the midfield significantly change the flow of how the battle plays out," asserts producer J. Allen Brack. There's also The Battle for Gilneas, an urban 25 vs 25 face-off between the Worgen and the Forsaken for control of the city. Paced like a domination-style map, it's all about seizing and holding as many of the four districts as possible.Another major tweak, and one that seems to have met with the approval of veteran players, is the restructuring of guild activity. In organisational terms, there's a fresh guild landing page, which works almost like social networking site with an RSS-style news feed, notification of upcoming Guild events, and sticky items that maintain reports on memorable guild activities (like killing major bosses). What this screen also shows are the new Guild Perks, which were hinted at during BlizzCon, but which have since gone through some major modifications.Originally, the team was going to implement a guild talent tree, but the system wasn't working, so now it's a levelling system. As Stockton explains, "similar to the way a player earns a new spell when they level, a guild will earn a new perk. And we have one perk for all 25 levels of the guild. These vary from passive abilities, all the way to new spells. Passive abilities should be things like earning extra XP, increased mount speed, reduced repairs costs… Spells will be things like mass resurrection, which lets you res all 25 people on your raid at the same time; or something like raid teleport, which lets you teleport all the members of a raid to one specific spot. It's all about convenience – nothing gives player new power." There will also be a weekly cap on the amount of perks a guild can earn, ensuring that the game's larger groups cant just sale through to level 25 in a matter of days.Perhaps more important though, are the features that will define each members' role and contribution within the guild. Each player will have a Guild Reputation figure, based around how much XP they've earned for the guild. There are four ways to increase your rep: killing a raid or dungeon boss, completing a guild achievement, winning a rated battleground with other guild members, or completing quests. Through this system you progress through Friendly, Honoured, Revered, and Exalted status. This in turn earns guild rewards. The idea is to build your affinity with the group, to give each member a personal and compelling stake in its success. At the same time, the re-tuned guild roster page lets you check out the contributions made by other members to the guild XP, so there's also a healthy sense of competition there too. "We want to give you a reason to set up events with your guild, to show up, to give you the feeling of teamwork. It's one of the most important aspects of the whole system," says Stockton.Cataclysm will also introduce guild achievements, which work similarly to the player achievements in Lich King. It might be something like 'beat all the raid bosses', then the reward is unlocked in a vendor, and anyone in the guild can purchase it – as long as their reputation is high enough. Again, it's all about encouraging active participation within guild activities: nobody gets a free ride. Rewards will all be vanity or prestige items – flying mounts, ground mounts, bank slots and standards that you can put in the ground when you've killed a raid boss (it makes a nice screenshot for your guild gallery).In game design terms, the key aim with Cataclysm has, once again, been to simplify things for a new audience. Some veterans have read this to mean dumbing the game down, but it's more about giving players better signposts and streamlining information to create a more logical, less dense experience. As  lead systems designer Greg Street explains, "Three years ago the people picking up WoW had probably played a lot of PC games, and probably even played MMOs. But now we're getting teenagers for whom this may be their first game, or they've played consoles and don't understand how to use a mouse and keyboard to move around. Balancing the game for newcomers is a lot of the focus of Cataclysm."Before, the philosophy was letting players explore and figure things out, we'd throw them into the lake and shout swim! Swim! Swim! Now, we try to provide a lot more direction – so it's, 'hey you've gained a level you should go see your class trainer so you don't miss out on a spell'. We've seen tests where a new player would take a mage, which is a spell caster, and they ended up getting to level six just by hitting things with their staff – they'd never cast a spell. That's a painful, horrible way to play, but it was our failure, we didn't teach them to use spells to kill things. They were doing things in a very sub-optimal way and probably not having fun."So for Blizzard the Cataclysm of the title is not just a narrative apocalypse, it's a re-thinking of what their world means, and what interacting with it entails. But Stockton is also keen to point out the new opportunities available to the longterm fans: "Cataclysm has the largest amount of class changes that we've ever made in an expansion. So if you play as a warrior, his warrior class from 80 to 85 is going to see the biggest change he's seen since he went from 60-80, in terms of his stats and talent tree and the way he plays his class. That'll all feel inherently different. The things he experienced in Northrend, he'll get more of – new dungeons, new quests, new raids…"Tom Chilton picks up on the theme. "We have a philosophy at Blizzard: we make games that are easy to learn and hard to master. So we're always approaching WoW from the perspective that we need to lower the barriers to entry and ensure we have a learning curve that's as shallow as possible. But at the same time we have a very deep game. There's a long-term experience for anyone who stays interested."I've played through a few hours of Cataclysm, I flew above the new domains, the seismic cracks in the planet's surface, the cities teeming with new life and new quests. There is plenty still to experience here. And despite talk of a WoW successor (Blizzard has five development teams here, and one is certainly hard at work on a follow-up), no-one is ready to talk about the end of the World of Warcraft. There are still, after all, thousands of items on the design team's 'to do' list – and there remains a vast population of players online. The stability of this community is vital to the Blizzard business. That's why the company looks to have backed down on its recent plan to use real names on its forums – there was a massive outcry: fans suggested the plan was more about harvesting user data for advertisers than it was about attempting to moderate the behaviour of more unruly posters. It seems Azeroth is not a dictatorship – it is an unruly and active democracy.Stability is key – not just in terms of audience contentment, but in terms of the gargantuan technical challenge of keeping a worldwide server-based adventure running. This becomes clear during a tour of the building in which we're shown the Global Network Operation Centre, a darkened, securely locked enclave that resembles a NASA control room – a mass of computer terminals and huge wall-mounted screens. What the displays show are news feeds from all over the world: if anything big happens – a hurricane, a mass power cut, a riot – Blizzard's server team need to know, because suddenly that's a major chink in the WoW network. It's a weird concept – that after every humanitarian disaster, there's a group of people in a room in Irvine thinking, 'yeah, but how will this effect World of Warcraft?' The game must go on…Outside, laid into the pavement surrounding the giant orc statue, are eight metal tablets onto which are carved Blizzard's core values. One of them is 'Embrace your inner geek'. It's the most important of them all, because it's something they seem to do here as a matter of course. This is a geeky place, peopled by obsessives. That's what it takes to get an MMORPG running for six years. And that's why WoW remains, despite its age, its quirks and its controversies, one of the best places in gaming universe for the rest of us to follow suit; to embraceourinner geeks.
From the bottom shelf at Asda to the top of theViral Video chart, Old Spice is showering the social web with just-for-you messages.Following on from the success ofFebruary's more traditional television advertisingcampaigns, the face of Old Spice - actorIsaiah Mustafa- is back with a more personalised digital campaign.Simply send Mr. Old Spice a message - throughFacebook,TwitterorYouTube- and wait for his visual retort. He's getting through the videos, considering the amount of messages received, but you might be one of the116lucky recipients likeGizmodoorKevin Rose.The campaign goes hand-in-hand with the Old Spice worldwidepromoted Twitter trending topic.Top marks to Old Spice for a refreshing (boom tish) take on video advertising, I look forward to hearing the company's take on its value. In the meantime, we've sent Mr. Spice acoupleofpleading tweetsin the hope of a video reply.
On this week's podcast, we'll be finding out more about Facebook's new safety features for under-age users: some are calling it a "panic button", but the social networking service says it's not.We chew over Google's announcement of a mobile phone application development tool that could open up the lucrative market to non-techies.And joining Aleks in an outdoor edition of the programme is Kristian Sagerstrale, vice president and general manager of web game company Playfish, who discusses the success of the games industry through a recession.Also taking a soft drink in the summer sunshine is the Guardian's new media correspondent Jemima Kiss and the European editor of TechCrunch, Mike Butcher.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
British troops under fire during the first world war. Photo byNational Library of Scotlandon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPR Experts: iPhone 4 Hardware Recall Is "Inevitable" &gt;&gt; Cult of MacWe note that none of the so-described "experts" actually works for Apple. And, this being American journalism, we await the "balancing" piece saying "No Need for Apple to Do Anything, Say Other PR Experts."BBC iPlayer on Android update &gt;&gt; BBC iPlayer blog"We have limited resources on BBC iPlayer on mobile and therefore have to carefully prioritise development work to maximise reach and value. So, if, for example, I have 15 units of work I need to do on mobile iPlayer (support, maintenance, new features, new handsets etc) but only 5 units of effort available, I've got to focus on the high volume phones to get the service out to as many people as possible."OK - now let's see the sales figures for Android 2.2 iPlayer-capable devices vs iPhone/iPod Touch/iPads. That's what is missing from this post.How to keep Windows XP SP2 safer after Microsoft stops patching &gt;&gt; ComputerworldNo, the answer isn't "wipe the drive and replace it with Linux".Twitter Starts Name Dropping In Search Results - Huge For User Discovery &gt;&gt; TechcrunchWhen you search on a name (or name-like) in Twitter, it adds names.ORGCON, July 24, London &gt;&gt;  EventbriteSpeakers include Cory Doctorow, Tom Watson (on what's next after the Digital Economy Act) and Heather Brooke of MPs' expenses fame.Microsoft Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2 SP1 Beta &gt;&gt; Microsoft"Please Note: This early release of Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2 SP1 Beta is not available for home users. The SP1 Beta does not provide new end-user features, and installation is not supported by Microsoft."We prefer Google's betas. You can use those. Often for years.Windows 2000 End-of-Support Solution Center &gt;&gt; Microsoft"The Windows 2000 End-of-Support Solution Center is a starting point for planning your migration strategy from Windows 2000 to Windows 7, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008 or Windows Server 2008 R2."Translation: upgrade and buy a new licence, dammit!Steve Ballmer Speech Transcript: Pocket PC Launch, April 2000 &gt;&gt; Microsoft.comSome of this is amazingly accurate: "Think through what will it be like five years from now, ten years from now, to use the Internet.Will we still really be thinking just about browsers and HTML 3.2 and Web pages, or will we be talking about a much richer experience, an experience where you will expect to go from your handheld device, you will expect to be able to check your flight -- is it on time, is it late, send notification, whatever that means, to the person that you're visiting..."But then it goes off track once they start imagining that the way you'll want to do that is by - sigh - using your PocketPC version of Word, or Excel.... Perhaps that's where Microsoft's vision fails: the Office suite is the entirely visible elephant in the cubicle, and it can't see past it to little self-contained "apps", because of course everything must be subservient to the Big App.Develop 2010: InstantAction CEO talks social gaming | Mobile Entertainment NewsEvolve strand kicks off with a view from the frontline.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The Develop conference is going on in Brighton today and tomorrow. While primarily focussed on games developers there are usually some good talking points that come out of the event that don't involve pixel shaders and programming tips. Taketoday's keynotefor example. InstantAction CEO and games biz veteran Louis Castle called for more original games and less reliance on big brands. He said:I was at E3 and I couldn't believe how few new [original] projects have been started.The question is do gamers actually value originality?It is easy to get jaded when you see yet another first-person-shooter trying to be Modern Warfare, or a racing and sports game with minimal upgrades from the previous iteration. I know I do. But these games – ok, maybe not some of the racing games – do sell.  And they sell more than original titles like say Braid or Ico.What do you think? Do you want to see – and spend money on – more original games? Or are you happy with the current staple of big brand genre titles that normally top the charts?
A Reading-based startup company that claimed to have sold tens of thousands of e-readers in its first three months of trading last summer, reputedly catapulting the business to the number two spot behind Sony, has quietly gone bust.Despite a winding-up order being issued by the high court in Liverpool against Interead more than four weeks ago, the firm's £189.97 Cool-er product is still being sold by Argos  and Tesco. Neither retailer is informing prospective customers that the firm behind the Cool-er has gone bust.In a statement Argos said: "We took the commercial decision earlier this year to phase out this product range. We no longer have an active working relationship with this supplier and were unaware of the suggested recent developments within their business."Earlier this year Interead reportedly said it had 20% of the e-reader market in Britain and before Christmas claimed it had already broken into profit. Since then, however, the business has failed to win essential support for its expansion from its bank, HSBC, under the government'senterprise finance guarantee, according to sources close to the company.Meanwhile, Interead claims an order for 17,000 Cool-ers from a high-profile American retail group was cancelled at the 11th hour, plunging relations with its Taiwanese manufacturers into crisis.A source close to the business said: "From our point of view we would rather keep things quiet than have a story ... that Interead is in liquidation. What we want to do is maximise what we can get for creditors." The source claimed 37,000 e-readers had been sold in more than 30 countries and the business continues to flourish outside the UK.Neil Jones, the Marbella-based British entrepreneur who founded Interead in March last year, has told friends he is the firm's biggest creditor, claiming to have put about $1m (£660,000) into the business. The company has not filed any accounts and is being wound up following an outstanding claim from public relations advisers. Jones is still involved in a website called Coolerbooks.com, which sells ebooks for the Cool-er and other electronic readers. The site is owned by a separate company, registered in the British Virgin Islands, called Interead.com. It claims to be "the first ebookstore outside the US to partner with Google Books".Asked before Christmas how many units Interead would have to sell to break even, Jones said it was already in profit. More recently a source close to the company clarified: "On a month-by-month basis we were trading profitably ... We were looking to hit break-even within the first year following the trading cycle that we'd been following. We had the orders but we didn't have a bank that would finance them for us."
Here's an intriguing one: Microsoft User Research wants to find out more about iPad users - in detail, via a two-hour, in-depth study that it's going to carry out at its campus over the next week or so.Remarkably, the company openly advertised its desire to connect with iPad owners "for an upcoming study to get feedback" ona Facebook page- though within hours of going up, the page was shut down.Mistake, or was the quota filled rapidly enough to satisfy everything that the company wanted?Given that itshut down its Courier project, which to some had looked like a viable (or at least interesting) alternative to the iPad, and that HP is reported to have shifted away from Windows 7 for its tablet/slate offering to its newly-acquired Palm OS (though a slide on Steve Ballmer's presentation the other day suggested that HP is back in the Windows fold for tablets/slates: we shall see), this doesn't look promising.Why? Because if Microsoft has to study how people use the iPad atthisjuncture, it is going to take it a very long time - six months? Nine months? - to embed whatever it learns into software. Then that software has to go out to the hardware manufacturers, who have to test it against their prototypes, refine, tweak... and then get out to market.Obviously, we'd love to hear from any readers who are based up in Redmond and have been accepted for the study. What did they want to know? What did they test? Tell us everything, by email (charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk is a good one).And if you were at Microsoft User Research, what lessons would you be looking to learn from the iPad?
Steve Ballmer has admitted that Microsoft "missed a generation" on the mobile side but insisted that the company's upcoming Windows Phone 7 - which has garnered "really quite nice reviews" - "give you a set of Windows-based devices which people will be proud to carry at home, and which will really fit and support the kinds of scenarios that enterprise IT is trying to make happen with the phone form factor."In hisspeech to the company's Worldwide Partner Conference, which brings together companies that sell, develop and use Microsoft products, Ballmer, head of the company for the past 10 years, said that slates devices and mobiles are "certainly an area where, how do I say it, we feel all of the energy and vigor and push that we have ever felt to innovate, to drive hard, to compete."But without naming any of the rivals who have overtaken Microsoft's mobile sales - such as the iPhone, launched in 2007, which Ballmer initially dismissed, or Android, the Linux-based mobile platform from Google which now outsells both Windows Mobile (soon to be superseded by the incompatible Windows Phone) and Apple's iPhone - Ballmer insisted that Microsoft is focussed on getting the IT functions within organisations to offer Microsoft solutions to staff: "So, I encourage you, and certainly we're going to reach out vigorously to work together with you, and to drive enterprise IT, as well as the consumer, the people who work for the businesses we serve, they've got to come into IT and say, I want a Windows 7 slate. I want a Windows Phone 7. And we're absolutely hell-bent and determined to drive that volume with IT as well as with the end consumer."Ballmer made no mention of theabrupt cancellation last month of the KIN social networking phones, which were meant to be the result of its billion-dollar acquisition of the Danger mobile company.Now the company has unveiled a number of services to go with Windows Phone - whose release date is still not set. Windows Phone Live, a companion online service,was announced today. Pitched in the same territory as Apple's paid-forMobileMe, used for over-the-air synchronisation of iPhone contacts and calendars, it is intended to provide remote synchronisation, remote wipe, and a central location for pictures, contacts, calendar and notes within 25GB of storage. But unlike MobileMe, Microsoft will provide the service free to all Windows Phone customers - apparently for the duration of the phone contract.Beta versions of the Windows Phone development toolswere made available: the new API is nearly feature-complete, with updated push notifications and accelerometer interfaces. The Community Technology Preview back in March allowed for feedback from the development community and Microsoft have said it has been "blown away by the early apps". Pre-productions devices will be shipped later this month to selected developers, as well as deployment and testing labs in major cities. And earlier this week a group of Polish students were thefirst non-developers to get pre-production Windows Phone devices.Appreciating that having applications ready for the launch of the devices later this year is essential to success, Microsoft is running avirtual live class for interested developersin the platform.There are rumours that HTC - which used to be the biggest licensee of Windows Mobile, but has recently turned towards Android - will launch the first Windows Phone 7 handset in the UK, to be called the HTC Gold, though there is no confirmation from mobile networks or from HTC. There are also"leaks"claiming there will be models called the HTC Mondrian and Mozart, also running Windows Phone 7 on 800 x 480 screens without a QWERTY keyboard, with Internet Explorer Mobile 7.
No, your eyes do not deceive you: Google Maps appears to think that Tessa Jowell is a landmark in the same way as Big Ben.You can do it too: put the postcode SW1A 0PW into Google Maps (here's the link) and scroll in a bit. Pop! There's Ms Jowell.No, we don't know how she got there, and the person who pointed this out to us promises he didn't. "I'm not aware that she's been mounted on a plinth or any such thing - any idea what's going on?" he asked.We don't know either, though our call to Google is going through...Interestingly she doesn't appear on Bing's Maps, using the fabulously authoritative and free Ordnance Survey maps. Make of that what you will.Update:Google tells us: "the reason for this is that the information and listings contained in Google Maps are provided by a third party and this is included in that database." However, it doesn't know who.Although we managed to findthis entryin the Thomson Local Database. Could that be it?Thanks too toDoctorFeggfor the link to theGoogle Maps Fail blog. Ideal for passing the time while you wait for the tube to arrive at Jowell Squa.. Westminster. Thanks too to everyone who pointed out my foolish error in calling her the Labour deputy leader. That's next October, of course. (As in my favourite apocryphal Peter Mandelson joke, in which he's on the phone to a journalist who is being 'difficult' about suppressing a story: "So sorry to hear about the broken leg," Mandelson says. Journalist: "I haven't broken my leg." Mandelson: "Oh, of course, that's next week, isn't it.")Parliament, mapped by Bing Maps using Ordnance Survey: Tessa Jowell not visible
The news thatApple will replace dead Time Capsules without questionif their serial number lies in a particular range (XX807XXXXXX - XX814XXXXXX) is welcome for those whose machines lie inside that group - which Apple says means they were sold between February and June 2008. The symptoms: "Some Time Capsules... may not power on or may shut down unexpectedly after starting up." As we have pointed out, this is due to an overheating fault in some of the electronics around the power supply. Inside the Time Capsule (which combines a wireless cable modem with a backup drive), the hard drive is fine (and so is your data), but you need to rehouse the disk to get it back.But the Guardian has also seen the text of an email that was sent to Apple Genius Bars earlier this year, to confirm free work authorisation on dead Time Capsules. And that has a very different range of serial numbers which are eligible for replacement with or without Applecare (Apple's after-sales warranty extension).The serials there are xx807xxxxxxx through xx852xxxxxxx - very much broader than those in the statement yesterday.So is Apple trying to stiff people whose devices have broken down? We've been helped in analysing this by Pim van Bochoven, of the Time Capsule Memorial Register, who had a site which crowdsourced serial numbers, purchase dates, sizes and other information about the failed machines.Pim kindly sent us the (anonymised) dump from his database - so no email addresses or other identifying information - which has 2,500 entries, of which all but 82 have serial numbers. So that's a sample of2418serial numbers.We analysed the failed devices' serials against Apple's public range, and found that a remarkable2261of them fall inside it - that's 93.5% of those with serials (90% of all of them, though it's reasonable to think that the missing serials would have been distributed in the same way as those of the failed machines - in which case you'd expect that 76 of the 82 fall into the range).But what about the wider range - up to xx852? Further analysis shows that there are119failed devices which have serials between xx815xxxxxx and xx852xxxxxx, and a further37with serials above that, or below the xx807xxxxxx range (actually, there's exactly 1 below it).The detail of the serial numbers with free replacement: almost all lie in the replacement range. Data: Time Capsule Memorial Register. Analysis: The Guardian.So in short: Apple is concentrating on the vast majority of failures. It's clear there was some sort of manufacturing screwup in a batch of devices, but of course that only came to light when they reached their failure point, which was about 19 months after they'd been made. It would be interesting to know whether the fault was discovered at the manufacturing stage - might it even have been a follow-on from the famousflawed capacitor problem? - or whether the end of the largest spike in failures was by chance.It's notable, after all, that there are still failures - but what's not clear is how frequent those failures are compared to the number of devices sold. To figure out the latter, one would need to do someGerman tank analysison the serial numbers - but if we can persuade van Bochoven to let us put the database out there, perhaps some can do that, and we'll know just how out of whack the failure rate was.We did ask Apple why it had changed the recommended replacement range between its internal note and its statement yesterday. It had not replied at the time this blog post went live.
This is what you can do with Facebook icons with a little patience, a lot of skill and Adobe Creative Suite, Apple QuickTime Pro (I'm not sure why a video programme is needed) and Synthetik Studio Artist.Photo bytsevison Flickr.Some rights reservedCharis Tsevis created this image of Mark Zuckerberg for the latestUK Wiredmagazine.He's done the same forSteve Jobs and Apple icons, as published in FOCUS Italia - the density and detail in that picture is quite incredible. His work for Esquire magazine - an image of Greek designerGiannis Kouroudisis particulalrly impressive. And best of all is the portrait ofPresident Obamausing Ndebele tribal designs, Tsevis says, and Madiba presidential shirts.Photo bytsevison Flickr.Some rights reserved
A report last month in the Economisttells us that "blogging is dying"as more and more bloggers abandon the form for its cousins: the tweet, the Facebook Wall, the Digg.Do a search-and-replace on "blog" and you could rewrite the coverage as evidence of the death of television, novels, short stories, poetry, live theatre, musicals, or any of the hundreds of the other media that went from breathless ascendancy to merely another tile in the mosaic.Of course, none of those media are dead, and neither is blogging. Instead, what's happened is that they've been succeeded by new forms that share some of their characteristics, and these new forms have peeled away all the stories that suit them best.When all we had was the stage, every performance was a play. When we got films, a great lot of these stories moved to the screen, where they'd always belonged (they'd been squeezed onto a stage because there was no alternative). When TV came along, those stories that were better suited to the small screen were peeled away from the cinema and relocated to the telly. When YouTube came along, it liberated all those stories that wanted to be 3-8 minutes long, not a 22-minute sitcom or a 48-minute drama. And so on.What's left behind at each turn isn't less, butmore: the stories we tell on the stage today are there not because they must be, but because they're better suited to the stage than they are to any other platform we know about. This is wonderful for all concerned – the audience numbers might be smaller, but the form is much, much better.When blogging was the easiest, most prominent way to produce short, informal, thinking-aloud pieces for the net, we all blogged. Now that we have Twitter, social media platforms and all the other tools that continue to emerge, many of us are finding that the material we used to save for our blogs has a better home somewhere else. And some of us are discovering that we weren't bloggers after all – but blogging was good enough until something more suited to us came along.I still blog 10-15 items a day, just as I've done for 10 years now onBoing Boing. But I also tweet and retweet 30-50 times a day. Almost all of that material is stuff that wouldn't be a good fit for the blog – material I just wouldn't have published at all before Twitter came along. But a few of those tweets might have been stretched into a blogpost in years gone by, and now they can live as a short thought.For me, the great attraction of all this is that preparing material for public consumption forces me to clarify it in my own mind. I don't really know it until I write it. Thus the more media I have at my disposal, the more ways there are for me to work out my own ideas.Science fiction writer Bruce Sterling says: "The future composts the past." There's even a law to describe this, Riepl's Law – which says "new, further developed types of media never replace the existing modes of media and their usage patterns. Instead, a convergence takes place in their field, leading to a different way and field of use for these older forms."That was coined in 1913 by Wolfgang Riepl. It's as true now as it was then.
BMW is thefirst car manufacturertoannounce support for the little-heralded iPod Outfeature from theiOS 4.The feature allows all devices running the latest version to output the iPod interface to an external screen. Compatible devices include the iPhone 3G, 3GS and 4 as well as the second and third generation of iPod Touches. Despite using theBMWiDrive system, the interface is Apple's own and seems rather like a combination of Front Row and the traditional iPod interfaces of old. Eschewing animated graphics of album art for a basic menu interface makes for easier navigation and less distraction from the road.The promotional video outlines how the technology will work and how it integrates with BMW vehicles.The advantages of such a system? It is far safer (and more legal) than browsing through your iPhone with your hands while driving. It also allows the devices to be charged while motoring from a single wire. The universal interface will make users feel at home, as well as access to Genius mixes and playlists. If more manufacturers adopt iPod Out for future vehicles, this could be the next  optional extra to add to your automotive purchase.This is not the first time Apple has partnered with car manufacturers to bring integration into cars. BMW released thefirst iPod automobile interfaceback in 2004, which allowed drivers to control the iPod from their steering wheel. Apple has continued to expand its range of partners over the years - with companies including Mercedes-Benz, Volvo, Nissan, Toyota, Alfa Romeo, Ferrari, Audi, Honda, Renault and Volkswagen all providing integration in some form.Personally, I have a cassette adaptor in myGolfwith a stereo line in, and that mostly works. It might be a bit of a driving hazard though, so safer to get a friend to change the track...
Twitter is serving more than 800m search queries a day,according to Biz Stone. "That's over 24bn searches per month, more than Bing (4.1bn) and Yahoo (NSDQ: YHOO) (9.4bn) combined,"Fast Company chirps.Big deal.Comparing the search feature of Twitter with search engines like Google (NSDQ: GOOG) is almost as irrelevant as the continual stories whichgleefully reportTwitter has more users than media outlets like The New York Times (NYSE: NYT). One's a network, the other's a news publisher -this is not comparing like with like.In the same way, one can't group Twitter together with web search services and proclaim: "Twitter has taken the title." Sure, both such services have a searchfunction, buteach indexes a very different kind of material- one, rapid-fire conversations and news updates; the other, deeper, more static and longer-lasting information.What's more, these numbers likely don't include automated searches conducted by bots and scripts rather than humans.This doesn't mean Twitter has no value in search. If I want to find out what people are saying about the World Cup rightnow, I might search Twitter. And you can see how Promoted Tweets against search terms would mimic the contextual advertising relevance which Google's AdWords pioneered (say, showing a Nike ad to soccer searchers).But if I want to find fixture lists, stadia capacity and previous tournament winners, I'm going to Google.The value of advertising against real-time updates is nascent, and the challenge for all concerned appears to beunitingconversational search with informational search, providing the best of both worlds. In that, the incumbent web searchers with which FastCompany contrasts Twitter have an advantage, now comprising both Twitter and deeper search results…Conversely, Twitter can't necessarily say that it boasts search access to older, more static information, so it's on-site search credentials will remain constrained and the network may pose more value as provider, a part of a wider ecosystem.As Evan Williams himself said last Tuesday (not quoted by FastCompany but the video is embedded below):"You can search on Twitter, but I think the search has a long way to go... With Twitter, you have no history about a document. If freshness is a key component, they (Google and Microsoft) will surface tweets. They are just at the beginning stages of that and we are at the beginning stages of that. It's an unsolved problem. Even though we're working on it, having Google engineers figure out how to surface the best information to people is a good deal because it's not figured out."Stone: "There's a big difference between searching the web - which is about I,me, I'm asking the search engine to give me something - and when you are on Twitter, you are open to information that'scomingto you."There's surely a tweet search opportunity a-brewing - but only if everyone brings a degree of granularity to the prospect and is prepared to recognize thatnot all 'search' engines are necessarily equal.Here's the interview video from the Aspen Ideas Festival:Twitter's Kevin Thau will be appearing at our next conference, paidContent Mobile: Leveraging the Smartphone Boom, July 20 in New York City. You can find out more about the agenda and register athttp://paidcontent.org/event/mobile2010/
Facebookis in court todefend yet another claim to ownership, this time from a web designer cum wood pellet distributor who says a previous contract entitles him to 84% of the company.Filed in the Supreme Court in New York's Allegany County last month, the lawsuit details how Paul Ceglia signed a contract with Facebook in April 2003 to design and develop the website TheFacebook.com for an agreed $1,000 (£665) fee and a 50% stake in the site.The contract stipulated, Ceglia claims, a further 1% stake for each day until the site was finished on 4 February 2004. Facebook is valued at an estimated $6.5bn, so an 84% share would be worth around $5.46bn.Following Ceglia's lawsuit, acting New York Supreme Court justice Thomas Brown issued a temporary restraining order that blocks Facebook from transfering assets. That means that the company cannot raise any more venture capital by selling shares until that order is lifted. The case has now transferred to a federal court and Facebook is trying to have it annulled.Facebook dimissed the case as "frivolous" and "outlandish", said it will fight it vigorously and pointed out that a lawsuit over a contract broken in 2003 is "almost certainly barred" by the statute of limitation.There are a number of reasons that success for Ceglia sounds unlikely – not least waiting until the site reaches 500 million global users before bringing his case, waiting until the outcome of the (successful)Winklevoss claimand the rather bizarre sidenote that a restraining order was granted against him in 2009 by an attorney who alleged Ceglia haddefrauded customersof his wood-pellet fuel business to the tune of $200,000.But imagine, for a minute, that Ceglia succeeded, and moved in to take 84% of Facebook. We might have a new entrant in theMediaGuardian 100...
Outside Blizzard's offices in Irvine, California, in a large square surrounded by picnic tables and well-maintained lawns, there is a 15ft high statue of an orc riding a wolf. Designed in conjunction with Oscar-winning special effects company Weta Workshop, it was forged in China then shipped to the US in two enormous pieces. Many developers just don't bother to erect statues outside their offices, but Blizzard is different – it has, after all, constructed its own extraordinarily elaborate fantasy realm with 11 million subscribers. And if you thinkyoutakeWorld of Warcraftseriously, you have absolutely nothing on the people who make it. They love this game, and they have a gigantic statue to prove it.Now in its sixth year of business, World of Warcraft has outlived most of its contemporaries in the notoriously tough 'MMORPG' genre. With its third expansion pack on the way, an add-on that's somehow designed to indulge complete newcomers as well as long-term fanatics, it looks set to hang around for several more years – even if Blizzard is already working on a 'next-gen' successor.The question these days is, what more can be done to energise a game that's now seen six years of patches, expansion packs and endless raiding, questing and dungeon hacking? Where is this world heading? And how do the staff stay motivated? I mean, they have the statue, but is that enough?One thing is immediately clear: as the title suggests, the story behind the forthcoming Catalcylsm expansion pack is not one of just maintaining the narrative status quo. No, it is the story of a giant dragon named Deathwing, exiled beneath the surface of Azeroth since his defeat in Warcraft II, who has now erupted back into the world to seek vengeance on – well, pretty much everybody. This apocalyptic re-birth has caused some massive changes to areas of the familiar WoW map; in our demo, for example, Blizzard show us the vast Stormwind City, which now has a deep, devastating fissure running through it, splitting the urban centre in two. Over in Thousand Needles canyon a gigantic dyke has been destroyed, flooding a huge expanse of desert. And in the background, with the death of the Lich King, there is massive political upheaval. All the factions are wrestling for control of the blighted kingdom. A war of biblical proportions is all but inevitable.But it's not all been about creating a giant apocalyptic mess. Now that the WoW emphasis has retuned to the original areas of the map, the lands present before the Burning Crusade and Wrath of the Lich King expansions, the design team have taken the opportunity to re-energise things a little. So apart from the destruction caused by Deathwing, Stormwind City also has a new keep, a sprawling building which will house its own story elements complimenting the Cataclysm plot line. "It's the way we always envisioned it" says lead content designer Cory Stockton, "A proper landmark". Furthermore, a second trading area has been built so the Dwarven quarter now has its own bank, auction house and inn. These seem like small elements, but to experienced players, for whom the geography of Stromwind is intimately familiar, it's like tearing down a whole section of their hometown and erecting some eye-catching Norman Foster skyscraper.But most dramatically, the fact that players can now hop on to flying 'mounts' (an array of obedient dragon-like creatures) and explore the classic areas by air has meant that whole regions have had to be rethought. As lead game designer Tom Chilton explains, "we never designed the original world to support flying, there were tons of things [to prevent it]: there were flat scenic facades, there were large parts of the world that had never been finished… At the time we thought, 'ah, that's just an area for a some future expansion, we don't need to worry about it now', so we'd just have a giant field of grass or an ocean, or we'd block it off with mountains."But when we introduced flying in Burning Crusade, players were saying, 'this is awesome, but when can we fly in the old world too?' And we thought, 'yeah, we sort of expected that'. But it was no trivial thing for us to go back and rebuild the world to support flying. It's something we've only had the chance to do with Cataclysm."  To illustrate the changes forced by the inclusion of flight, Blizzard shows off a huge expanse of ground behind Stormwind City – once unreachable, it has been re-landscaped with lakes, a graveyard and its own range of NPCs and quests.Meanwhile, in the Orc stronghold of Orgrimmar, the new Horde leader, Garrosh, has been carrying out some design changes of his own. Decking out every building in masses of jutting black steel, he's created an imposing fortified metropolis, complete with new flight paths and landing pads for the Horde's steam punk-style zeppelin craft. New areas of Orgrimmar  have also been constructed for the monstrous Tauren and for the goblins and trolls, who find themselves ghettoised on the outer reaches of the city, in messy shanty areas.Interestingly, Cataclysm does seem to have this underlying theme of displacement – of unfavoured peoples clinging to the lower echelons of the power structure. The undead race known as The Forsaken are effectively refugees, lacking a homeland and engaged in combat with more settled and powerful foes – as with the modern Battlestar Galactica series, there's more going on under the surface of this fantasy fiction than mere genre plotting. Indeed, Stockton asserts that the Blizzard designers are keen to explore wider ideas and implications. "There are huge underlying themes to all of our big stories, and lots of those have come from the Warcraft series as a whole," he explains. "When you see the idea of betrayal, that's something that's happened throughout. And there's the idea of how war can split people apart, and how that allows bad thing to happen."He also points to the political tensions between WoW's tribal chiefs, and how the actions of these characters are often as closely scrutinised as genuine world leaders. "Sylvanas, as a leader, is so powerful, what we have her say and do in the game has a big impact – players will take one line of dialogue and if it doesn't match what we're trying to do [with the story] it gets taken out of context. It's the same with Obama, if he says one thing that doesn't match up, people take it in a different way…" This is crucial stuff, really, in understanding the lasting pull of WoW. It's a world fraught with recognisable tensions, a world that explores themes of race, identity and homeland. It's not just a string of epic battles fudged together with some Tolkienesque imagery.Cataclysm also offers plenty of new areas to discover, exhibiting fresh architectural and geographical influences. Uldum, for example, is a level 83/84 zone with an overt Ancient Egyptian theme. Statues of animalistic gods line the streets, beside hieroglyph covered towers and sandstone buildings. Stockton explains that this whole area was once cloaked by the Titans, a powerful race of demi-gods, but when the cataclysm hit, the gigantic shield generators failed, and the city was revealed, attracting hordes of plunders and tomb raiders.This subplot reflects another intriguing new addition to the WoW experience: archaeology. Characters with the requisite skill will be able to search specific areas for buried fragments left by long dead civilisations, which can then be assembled into items. These will mostly be collectibles such as vanity pets, toys, mounts and rare weapons. However, Archaeologists will also be able to decipher runes that provide unique buffs for themselves and their party.The Blizzard team also shows us Deepholm, a hellish spherical cavern from which Deepwing bursts at the opening of Catacylsm, tearing asunder the surface of the planet and unearthing the Elemental Plane, a sort of subterranean prison dimension, constructed to contain the ancient elemental spirits. It's all shadowy crevices and spooky blue green lighting, with stone troggs lumbering about in the semi-darkness. At the bottom of the pit lies the ruined Horde gunship, Orgrim's hammer, which lead world designer, Alex Afrasiabi, says points to, "some interesting lore shake-ups".And then there's Skywall, the elemental plane of air, which provides a dramatic new dungeon area. It's a collection of marble palaces atop cloudy mountain peaks, linked by intricate arched walkways. Players will be able to fly there on mounts, then take on a range of dragons and elemental warlords. "You've never seen anything like this in Wow before," enthuses, Afrasiabi "I mean, it looks like a painting – but these are all places you can go to..."Part two tomorrow.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Periodic Table Of Swearing &gt;&gt; JezebelJust in case you'd forgotten what real swearing was like. Best read in a Malcolm Tucker voice. Especially as quite a few of them seem to have come from him.Facebook Buys User-Generated Destination Guide Nextstop (and shuts it) &gt;&gt; Digital Trends"In the end, however, we decided that pursuing our mission to help people discover the world around them was something that could be done with greater impact and scale as a part of Facebook," quoth Nextstop.PlayMesh Fishies App Story: iTunes Password Caching &gt;&gt; RohdesignIn-app purchasing considered harmful: "this was all a result of iTunes storing my username and password from a prior purchase for in-app purchases in Fishies.&#10;&#10;"Now one might argue that $149.99 in virtual currency or objects of any kind are just nuts. I would agree with you, but that's is a separate subject from how items like this could be purchased as in-app add-ons.&#10;&#10;"This is an issue with any iOS app that uses an in-app purchasing model, because iTunes stores your username and password, which is subsequently available for in-app purchases, even if you don't know it."News Corp. Should Get Rid of MySpace &gt;&gt; BloggingStocks"Chief Digital Officer Jonathan Miller .... denies rumors concerning a desire on the part of News Corp. to sell the [MySpace] asset. Too bad, because I think it should be sold. Seriously, my sympathies go out to anyone in charge of bringing MySpace back to relevancy."Java supplants IT security as most sought-after tech skill set &gt;&gt; Network WorldTrouncing IT security, Java is most difficult skill set for manages to hire, says survey. Does that mean IT security is easier or Java programmers are rarer?Conversation with a Univac &gt;&gt; Boing BoingAn interactive conversation with the 50+ year old Univac mainframe computer. Hey, Univac. STOP SHOUTING WITH YOUR CAPITALS OK?Spotify for Linux &gt;&gt; SpotifyStill in development, and for premium users only ("we haven't found a reliable way to display ads yet"), the music streaming clients makes its Linux debut. Packages available for Debian and Ubuntu.GPS from the 1920s &gt;&gt; CNET Asia"This product from the 1920s is a scroll-map navigator in the shape of a watch. It came with tiny interchangeable instructions that you scroll manually to see which roads to take when driving from one location to another."&#10;&#10;Though the road network is a teensy bit more complicated now than then.Why Consumer Reports can't recommend the iPhone 4 &gt;&gt; Consumer Reports"There is a problem with its reception. When your finger or hand touches a spot on the phone's lower left side—an easy thing, especially for lefties—the signal can significantly degrade enough to cause you to lose your connection altogether if you're in an area with a weak signal. Due to this problem, we can't recommend the iPhone 4."&#10;&#10;(Hopeful voice) Price drop?Dilution &gt;&gt; XKCDIn which the geeks' favourite cartoonist takes on homeopathy. Make sure to look at the cartoon so that you get the alt text as well.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
I was on holiday last week so missed the Alan Wake/Blur/Split Seconddisappointing salesstory. The figures quoted were from the US but it seems like the UK is suffering asimilar trend, with overall games market sales down 16% - or 180m UKP - year on year.   Hardware has seen the biggest fall with sales down 32% to £256m. Software sales have fallen 10% to £533m.  Bad news then?On the surface yes, especially when you consider the generally high quality of games we have seen in the first half of the year.  But the figures do not include one hugely important and ever growing element of the market  - pre-owned.  As anyone who has been into a games retailer in the last 12-18 months can testify pre-owned is a huge – and growing – presence in the store.  Anyone else bought a game and been told the resale price at the same time as I was the other day? The figures also exclude digital but it is the lack of pre-owned data that is likely to have the biggest impact.External factors are key too. ELSA director general Mike Rawlinson hits the nail on the head:UK consumers are also getting their gaming entertainment in a variety ways. They are increasingly downloading video games from websites, and are playing games on their mobiles or through social networking sites – not only on consoles. This is proof that interactive entertainment is expanding way beyond its traditional boundaries.What do you think then? Is the market downturn this year a blip that will be rectified next year when 3DS , Move and Kinect have arrived? Or is this a longer term problem for the games market?
In a strange way, Sniper: Ghost Warrior feels in tune with these credit-crunched times. Whereas most modern games vie to outdo each other in terms of providing a cinematic, complex experience, it takes a more modest approach. A first-person shoot-em-up set in an impressively rendered South American jungle environment, it eschews unnecessary frills such as arcane storylines and co-operative modes, in favour of the all-important basics.For most of the game, you play as Tyler Wells, a sniper in an (unspecified) elite US military unit. By far the game's best aspect is its sniping engine: along with the expected cross-hairs, you're given a red dot which shows where your bullet will end up after being affected by wind and distance. Pull off a head-shot and you're treated to a very satisfying bullet-cam view of your kill. Your ghillie-suited character is also required to crawl around stealthily at times, which should please those anxious for another instalment of Metal Gear Solid. But the downside is that the impatient will find Sniper: Ghost Warrior intensely frustrating, particularly given that it is pretty unforgiving, with AI enemies seemingly able to detect you even when hidden, and enemy snipers just as well trained as you.As the game progresses, it throws in some more conventional run-and-gun passages, in which you take over the character of one of Wells' colleagues, armed with an assault rifle rather than sniper. These appear to be unnecessarily in thrall to Modern Warfare 2 (one sequence is even set on oil rigs), and aren't enormously convincing. Things are more challenging when you play as Wells and enemies get up close and personal, forcing you to fall back on a silenced pistol and grenades. He can also throw knives and use a grappling-hook to abseil down cliffs – but only at prescribed points.Technically, Sniper: Ghost Warrior isn't great – movement is a bit clunky, and you can get stuck between tree-roots or boulders, necessitating a return to the previous checkpoint. Multiplayer-wise, up to 12 people can take each other in snipe-fests in some decently thought-out maps.While Sniper: Ghost Warrior has its faults, betraying the fact that it was created by an obscure Polish company rather than one of the big beasts, it will still satisfy those who naturally gravitate towards any opportunity for sniping when playing first-person shooters. And its no-frills, straight-up approach is curiously refreshing – it certainly doesn't promise more than it delivers.
Many of you may remember the mercifully short-lived late-nineties fad of selling non-name-brand DVD players bundled with dozens of "free" DVDs. The logic being, I suppose, that Joe Bloggs would be more willing to take a risk on buying a Sunyo if he could amass an extensive film library as part of the deal.There's a similar principle at work in Big Beach Sports 2 – it doesn't have the Nintendo seal of approval like Wii Sports or Mario and Sonic at the Winter Olympics, but hey, it's cheaper and there are eight different games to play. A couple of them must be good, right?Loosely tied around a beach theme (hey, it's summer, so let's sit indoors and play a summer-themed video game!), the game seems to be set on some kind of tropical island. A bearded man parps a horn-shaped shell at the start of every contest, but don't ask why. Context is not important here – you just pick a Mii-like avatar, and off you go.The three racing offerings are much of a muchness; dune buggy racing, canoeing and "water rocket", which sounds a lot more exciting than it is. All are hugely inferior to Mario Kart, and let down by poor controls and deeply frustrating collision detection. The slightest touch of any obstacle and you're spun 180 degrees – though you'll still probably be able to catch the bafflingly daft opponent AI.On to the ball games. There are beach classics such as, erm, rugby and football to start with – played, inexplicably, on green, grassy pitches. They really haven't made much of an effort here, have they. Both are infantile in their difficulty levels and understanding of the rules of their respective games. I would have been offended by a football game with a static keeper you could walk the ball past on my NES, let alone on the Wii.Cricket is a little more fun, though it's not a patch on the original Wii Sports' baseball. There's also frisbee golf, which is horrendously difficult – ridiculously so in relation to the other games on offer. Meticulously tilting the Wiimote to a precise and uncomfortable angle, only to watch your disc sail into the sea time and time again is not fun. Let's face it, you just wouldn't play frisbee on a small island prone to strong gusts of wind, would you.Surfing offers some respite with a 1080 Snowboarding-like jumping and trick-hitting experience. There's certainly a half-hour or so of fun to be found here, especially with the Wii Balance Board. But sadly this is one oasis of mild satisfaction amid aPensacola beachworth of depressing slurry.Ugly, poorly programmed and genuinely frustrating to play, Big Beach Sports 2 is one to be avoided. Its value, if it has any, is solely to serve as an important reminder to games companies everywhere as it sails up the charts: Joe Bloggs will buy anything.
The Disciples series has always had its fans, particularly in Russia where the game was developed. Elsewhere, gamers tend to be divided into two camps; those who say it's not as much fun as Heroes of Might &amp; Magic, and those who retort that it's not as good as Kings Bounty. This latest instalment unlikely to convert either camp.It does have its moments, though. Quality animations add real character to the combat, making this as close to realtime strategy as you can get while still being a resolutely turn-based RPG. Each of the large levels that make up the three main campaigns begins with a host city and a team of four heroes. You can start developing your city immediately, building extra structures that will allow you to upgrade your heroes. However, these cost both gold and resources that must be sought out on the world map – featuring the usual assortment of resources, treasures and quests. Some enemies roam free, while others are rooted to the booty they defend. In a nice touch, there are also defensive positions you can capture which then will actively resist the enemy; lose control of them, however, and you will curse your lack of foresight in not claiming them when you had the chance.Combat features imaginative locations that offer more than the usual bland hexes to stand on. Some offer bonuses to magic users, ranged or melee combat, making battles a satisfyingly tactical affair where both defensive and offensive formations have their merit. However, there are irritating lapses in logic. For instance, archers who can fire through solid rock, or heroes who die despite having an inventory crammed full of healing potions. Even worse, unlike some RPGs, D3R doesn't lay these challenges in a gentle learning curve. Very early on, my band of level 1 heroes found itself up against a level 33 Orc which proceeded to kick seven bells out of them every time.It doesn't help that the game allows you to recruit up to four teams, but the levels are so designed that only one can be involved in battle at the same time. It makes recruiting other armies all but pointless when levelling up should be your main priority – especially as each level boosts your stats by such a tiny amount. D3: Renaissance is a bold effort with plenty of atmosphere but ultimately feels poorly balanced and playtested.
Steve Ballmer, the chief executive of Microsoft, hasannounced at the Worldwide Partner Conferencethat the company is serious about the upcoming Windows 7 slate computers.Despite not mentioning competitors by name, it appears the move is part of Microsoft's counter-offensive against both the latest generation of smartphones and the second wave of tablet computers from Apple, Archos and Fusion Garage. With the iPad selling more than 3m units in the first 80 days on the market, this is a fast-growing market – and Microsoft wants a slice of  it. "This is a terribly important area for us," Ballmer said.Stressing that the upcoming devices will arrive in a variety of shapes, sizes and prices, Ballmer expects the Windows-powered tablets to take a slice of both the home and enterprise environments. The devices will sport tight integration into other Microsoft solutions, which they hope will spur business adoption.This is not Microsoft's first attempt at tablet computing – Windows XP Tablet PC edition was launched in 2001, with the device barely making an impact on the market. The technology was not fully developed and the tablets did not have a target market, making them an expensive anomaly among cheaper laptops and PDAs. The second wave of tablets is aimed purely at the multimedia market, bringing together the internet and digital content in an intermit setting.As an interesting side note, HP is included as one of the hardware partners working with Microsoft on these devices, but afteracquiring Palm back in April, it is assumed thatthe HP Slate will use Palm's WebOSinstead of Windows on the upcomingSlate.The other partners include the usual suspects of Lenovo, Fujitsu, Toshiba, Pansonic and Asus. Will these other partners come through to create devices that can match up to their rivals? How do you think the Windows powered offerings will stack up against the iPad and joojoo? Give us your thoughts below
