It's Friday, LA Noire is out today!
Harry Potter fanatics are in for a busy year. While the final movie in the series, Deathly Hallows Part Two, conjures its way into cinemas this July, winter will see the release of Lego Harry Potter: Years 5-7, the latest in the hugely popular series of Lego tie-in games.Based around the last three Harry Potter books and final four films, the game features an array of new environments including Grimmauld Place, the Ministry of Magic and Godric's Hollow, as well as fresh spells, lessons and enemies. Developer TT Games is also promising a wealth of bonus content.Harry Potter is set to be the third Lego tie-in to be released this year with Lego Star Wars III and Lego Pirates of the Caribbean already released, the latter still high in the UK games charts. The original Lego Harry Potter title shifted over 2.7 million copies in its first two months on sale.The game is due out on (deep breath) PS3, Xbox 360, Wii, PC, DS, 3DS and Sony's forthcoming NGP handheld console. More details will no doubt be revealed at the E3 games event in Los Angeles  next month.
Millions of Britons living in rural areas will be left "isolated and undermined" unless communications regulator Ofcom expands mobile internet access to 98% of the UK, MPs have warned.A cross-party group of MPs urged Ofcom to increase the availability of the 800MHz mobile broadband spectrum available from 95% of the UK to 98% – about an extra 2 million people.The 800MHz spectrum is favoured in rural areas because it works well over long distances and is dedicated to the faster 4G internet speed. Ofcom iscarrying out a consultationinto its plans to auction off the rights to the next generation of mobile wireless networks.Opening the debate in the House of Commons, the Conservative MP for Cumbria, Rory Stewart, said: "This is the last chance we have for a generation to provide good mobile broadband coverage for 6 million people who will not otherwise get it."It is the last chance because at the end of this month the Ofcom consultation closes, which will determine the coverage obligation imposed on mobile telephone companies for the 800MHz spectrum."This is a spectrum on which we all depend for our smartphones, our iPads, our iPhones. This is the spectrum which is ideal for rural areas."However, Stewart claimed that Ofcom had "no intention" to increase its coverage obligation because the regulator was "worried about losing some money" from the auction.He added: "Nobody knows how much money they're going to lose in their auction but what they're worried about is when they sell this radio spectrum, which they own, to the mobile telephone companies and ask them to increase their coverage obligation from 95% to 98%, these companies may pay less for the auction."Indeed they may. It stands to reason they would pay less. But probably not as less as Ofcom feared."An Ofcom spokeswoman said: "We welcome the debate on broadband access. We are currently consulting on the design of the 800MHz and 2.6GHz auction and are listening to views of all interested parties."Our objective is to encourage investment, promote competition and deliver a wide range of services for consumers."Conservative MP Andrew Griffiths said that the long-running issue of mobile broadband in rural areas "continuously, consistently" appeared as an issue among his Burton constituents.
A minority of Xbox 360 and PS3 owners in the US are finding that Rockstar's long-awaited detective game, LA Noire, is causing significant hardware problems. Yesterday, posts began to appear on forums, complaining that consoles running the game would continually freeze up during play.According to industry news source MCV, Rockstar's customer support site originally blamed the PlayStaton 3 hardware suggesting that the latest firmware 3.61 update was causing machines to overheat.Sony, still troubled by continuing issues with PS3 safety following the recent hacking scandal, quickly denied culpability.Speaking to Edge Magazinethis morning, a spokesperson claimed, "Rockstar have now updated their FAQ on the matter, and have admitted that it is a fault with their latest title LA Noire."It later became clear that Xbox 360 owners were having similar issues. Onthe official Xbox forum, a user named ACrules7 wrote, "So far I haven't been able to play for more than 10 minutes w/o the game freezing. It has frozen 4 times now, it took me 3 tries just to get out of the alleyway! I love the game already but this is seriously ruining the immersion for me."The problem, which has yet to be identified but seems to cause consoles to overheat and consequently freeze up, seems to affect older versions of both consoles as well as the new slim models. Rockstar has now posteda workaroundon its LA Noire support site, requiring users to delete the game data, set up an alternate user name and then launch the game again. Rockstar will certainly be working on a downloadable patch for the game, but there's no word on when that will be released.It's a troubling start for the game, which is expected to be one of the year's highest grossing releases. Rockstar, previously responsible for the best-selling Grand Theft Auto and Red Dead Rdemeption titles, has spent millions heavily marketing the title, which has received rave reviews from the specialist press. "Obviously, any reporting about this can lead to concerned consumers," commented Chris Dring of industry newspaper,MCV. "But the problem doesn't appear to be widespread, with millions enjoying L.A. Noire without any problems." The game is being released in the UK tomorrow.Update:Rockstar has released the following statement:We have received a very small number of customer support questions about PS3's overheating or shutting down while playing LA Noire.  At this time, Rockstar Games and Sony can confirm that neither LA Noire or firmware update 3.61 are causing the PS3 hardware to overheat.  We are both committed to working hard to find solutions to this and any issues that may arise.The company is referring users to thecustomer support website,and theTwitter feed. It is also directing PS3 owners toward theUSandEuropeanPlayStation support pages.
LinkedIn, the first major US social network to go public, saw its valuation rocket to $8.5bn (£5.3bn) after its flotation on the New York stock exchange on Thursday – $5bn higher than anticipated.Shares in LinkedIn traded hands at $90 each in the opening minutes of its market debut – almost double what the company expected to earn on Wednesday evening.LinkedIn's stellar NYSE debut is the clearest sign yet that stock markets are in the grip of a new technology and digital media bubble, fuelled by the ever-larger valuations of social media companies.The business networking site, founded by the internet entrepreneur Reid Hoffman in 2002, raised $353m with its initial public offering on Wednesday evening, which valued the firm at $4.3bn. The firm last week said it was looking to raise $175m with the IPO.LinkedIn's flotation makes it easily the highest valuation of a US internet firm since Google went public in 2004.LinkedIn has about 100 million users and turned a profit of $15.4m on revenues of $243m in 2010. At $8.3bn, LinkedIn is valued at 35 times last year's revenues.Though other social networks are far larger, notably Facebook with about 700 million users worldwide, the business orientation of LinkedIn's members make them potentially more valuable to advertisers. The company managed to grow through the recession and turned profitable last year, having made operating losses from 2007 until 2009.LinkedIn offered 7.8m shares at $45 each – well above its previously expected price range of $32-$35. Hoffman, the co-founder and chairman, and the chief executive, Jeffrey Weiner, offered shares equating to less than 0.5% of the company.Some of the firm's backers – Bain Capital Ventures, Goldman Sachs and McGraw-Hill – offered 3m shares in the IPO. LinkedIn offered a further 4.8m shares.Other major investors – Sequoia Capital, Greylock Partners and Bessemer Venture Partners, which together own about two-fifths of the company – did not participate in the offering.LinkedIn's flotation is expected to spark a social media goldrush, with some of the internet's most exciting – if not profit-making – companies going public.Groupon, the online discount business which spurned a $6bn offer from Google in December last year, is expected to float this year, as is Zynga, the maker of popular Facebook games, FarmVille and CityVille.The multibillion dollar flotations will also stoke investor appetite in Facebook, the world's largest social network, which is likely to dwarf the valuations of the internet firms that have recently gone public with its IPO, expected in the next 12 months. The company was valued at $50bn in January but its privately held shares have since traded at prices that suggest it could be worth more than $70bn.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
Namco has had a great idea withAssault Horizon, the latest title in the long-running Ace Combat series. Turn it into a first-person shooter.Of course, it's still about flying billion-dollar jets above intricately detailed cities, taking down bogeys. But now the intricacies of flight control have been slashed, and there's a new emphasis on close-quarters combat. The world has clearly been falling out of love with flight sim shooters for years – so creating Call of Duty in the stratosphere seems like a good idea.At the controls of an F-22 swooping above Miami, it all makes sense. The analogue sticks let me look around and "steer", while I can also use the shoulder buttons if a want to "yaw" it up a bit. I really don't. The triggers handle acceleration and deceleration, while weapons are on the fire buttons. I have a machine gun, a standard missile, and a mere handful of multiple missiles that will target up to four enemy craft simultaneously. A sort of mid-air smart bomb.I don't really know who I'm fighting, something about insurgents developing a powerful bomb as part of a fictional global uprising. There's a Russian pilot named Andrei Markov at the centre of it all. He's a mercenary and he has drawn shark's teeth on the nose of his plane to communicate the fact that he's not to be messed about with. None of this matters. What matters is that the skies above Miami are filled with enemy craft, swooping over the beach, and I have to shoot them down.The key new innovation here is the dogfight (or "close-range assault" mode. When a plane is in your reticule, you can press the two shoulder buttons to go into a sort of iron sight over-the-shoulder view, which also zooms in on your target, making it easier to strafe them with gunfire and missiles.The idea is to get away from that whole "shooting at distant dots" thing that people hate about air combat sims. In this view, the camera shakes, the action is fast and close; it's as if Marcus Fenix has donned a jet pack. Propeller heads will probably find it distracting and inauthentic, and weirdly, it reminds me of Namco's forgotten 1995 footie game, J-League Prime Goal EX, in which the camera would adopt a behind-the-shoulder view for every tackle, allowing players to try to outsmart each other in a quick QTE-style mini-game.Here though, the trick works quite nicely, and adds an exhilarating sense of physical danger to the shoot-outs. Namco has also added zonal damage, so you can take out an enemy craft's tail or landing gear – which of course, mimics the contextual damage employed in most first-person shooters. And when a plane is taken out in this mode there's a mammoth explosion that sprays your screen with black engine oil – the mechanical blood of your nose-diving victim.At the same time, enemies are able to lock on to your craft in the same way, opening up a counter-manoeuvres mini-game requiring you to change speed and direction very quickly. Damage is represented as, yes, a red haze around the edges of the screen, in yet another sly nod to the FPS genre. It's so much more intense than getting a little beeping warning light telling you that a missile is hurtling toward your back-end.The game also looks impressively sharp, with detailed scenery pulled from satellite data. The Dubai map is spectacular, capturing every one of those looming hubristic skyscrapers. Some missions require the player to fly low over the cityscape on bombing runs, and the camera zooms in greedily on particularly impressive explosions.There are also helicopter-based missions, in which ground troops and armoured vehicles need to be taken out. The American military advised on the technical accuracy of all this. I'm sure Ace Combat: Assault Horizon is being installed into every air force recruitment centre in the country.•Ace Combat: Assault Horizon is released on Xbox 360 and PS3 on 14 October. A European limited edition of the game comes with steel case, soundtrack CD, a notebook signed by the development team and a code to download exclusive aircraft
New figures for the mobile phone business show encouraging news for Google's Android and Apple's iPhone but reinforce the bad news for Nokia and its new mobile OS partner Microsoft.Nokia in particular faces a period in which "things are going to get much uglier before they get better", one analyst warned.New data from the research company Gartner shows that Google's Android mobile operating system has conquered the smartphone market, vaulting over Nokia's outgoing Symbian OS to capture 25.1% of the worldwide high-end market in the first quarter of 2011 with a sevenfold growth over last year.The figures show that the smartphone market that grew by 84.9% in volume compared to the first three months of 2010, but that only Apple's iPhone and Google's Android grew sales more quickly than the market, which increased to 100.8m devices. Apple doubled the number of iPhones sold to end users, to 16.9m, says Gartner.Smartphones made up 23.6% of the total 427.8m mobile phones shipped in the quarter, up from 15.1% at the same time last year. While Nokia still dominates in the "feature phone" space, both its number of units and market share fell to their lowest level since 1997.Smartphone mobile OS share 1Q 2007-1Q 2011. Source: Gartner.But the data contain bad news for Nokia and for Microsoft, which saw their shares dwindle substantially. The Symbian smartphone OS, used on devices from Nokia and by Sony Ericsson, collapsed from a dominant 44% share a year ago to second-placed 27% in the first three months of the year.Nokia's chief executive Stephen Elop announced in Februarythat the company will be phasing out Symbian smartphones over the next 18 months or so.Elop said then that Nokia's new smartphone OS supplier will be Microsoft, with its Windows Phone offering - but that made a poor showing as well in its second quarter on sale. Since the launch of Windows Phone 7 from a number of different manufacturers, Microsoft has declined to give figures for the number of users, saying only that 2m have been "shipped". That however only shows how many have gone to carriers and retailers, not how many are being used.Now Gartner calculates that only 1.6m Windows Phone devices were sold to end users in the first quarter, commenting that "devices launched at the end of 2010 failed to grow in consumer preference".In fact Gartner's numbers suggest that Microsoft's previous mobile OS, Windows Mobile, sold more devices -2m - than Windows Phone, on which Microsoft is staking its mobile future.Carolina Milanesi, Gartner's vice-president for research in mobiles, said that even when Nokia releases its first Windows Phone device - expected in autumn this year - it would be wrong to expect it to be a world-beater. "It's going to be a proof-of-concept about where they're going to take the platorm to in 2012," she said. "But if people are expecting that the very first Nokia Windows Phone will be their entire response to the iPhone, that's unrealistic."Nokia's strength will come from its ability to tailor its offerings to local markets, she suggested. But "things are going to get much uglier before they get better. People shouldn't get too excited about that first device." She suggested that Nokia will probably avoid the US initially because that is a "dangerous" market for it where it needs to make a good impression. The Finnish company's market share in the US has dwindled to low single figures.The company has already said that it willcut its workforce by 4,000and shift another 3,000 to Accenture to work on Symbian.Roberta Cozza, smartphone analyst for Gartner, said that Android looks certain to lead in market share at least until 2015.Smartphone share, 1Q 2011Company1Q11 units1Q 11 market share (%)1Q10 units1Q10 market share (%)unit growth %Android36,267.80365,226.609.6593.9Symbian27,598.5027.424,067.7044.214.7iOS16,883.2016.88,359.7015.3102Research In Motion13,004.0012.910,752.5019.720.9Microsoft3,658.703.63,696.206.8-1Other OS3,357.203.32,402.904.439.7Total100,769.3010054,505.5010084.9source: Gartner
The Angry Birds phenomenon shows no sign of slowing up. Developer Rovio Mobile says that the franchise has now generatedmore than 200m downloadsacross all platforms, with its latest incarnation Angry Birds Rio racking up 35m since its launch in March.Depending which report you read, Rovio is nowmaking preparationsfor an IPO sometime in the next two to three years, or planning to launchlocation-based servicesaround the Angry Birds brand. The company's executives also have a fairly transparent strategy of talking Rovio up as a potential Disney.Angry Birds is now a cross-platform success, with a big share of its last 100m  downloads coming from Android devices, thanks to the main Angry Birds game being free and ad-funded on Google-powered smartphones (Amazon also struck a deal with Rovio to offer Angry Birds Rio for free on its new Android app store).However,separate figurespublished by analytics firm Distimo and market research company Newzoo show that Angry Birds is the tip of the iceberg when it comes to smartphone gaming, although their research focuses specifically on Apple's App Store.The headline figures: Distimo and Newzoo have focused their attention on seven countries – the US, plus the UK, France, Germany, Spain, the Netherlands and Belgium. Across those seven countries, they claim there are more than 63 million iOS gamers who download an average of 2.5 games a month each on their iPhones, iPod touches and/or iPads.What's more, the companies say that half of all paid and free downloads on Apple's App Store in these countries are now games, and that depending which country you look at, between 50% and 75% of iPhone owners are playing games on their devices.The research will also fuel Apple's regular pops at the traditional gaming industry, with a claim that more people are playing games on iPads in these countries than on PSP handhelds.Distimo and Newzoo -–who will soon be offering a commercial service tracking game downloads and revenues on the App Store – also claim that in-app purchases now account for 40% of total revenues from the top 300 paid and free games on iOS.All of these figures will hardly dispel the current buzz around mobile gaming, which is a far cry from the pre-App Store days when the industry spent its time at conferences moping about the fact that less than 5% of mobile users were paying for games on their phones.That said, it would be good to see some research on how many games developers and publishers arelosingmoney on the App Store. An iOS hit can be hugely lucrative, and like Angry Birds, can provide the springboard to success on other smartphone and tablet platforms. However, an important part of the story in the months to come will be of the developers and publishers seduced by these success stories, who end up finding that not everyone can find their fortune in the apps world.
Apple appears to have succeeded where rivals Amazon and Google recently failed. The US technology giant hasreportedlysigned two of the four major music labels – EMI and Warner Music – to its long-awaited digital streaming service.Universal Music and Sony Music – home to Take That and Matt Cardle, respectively – are close to agreeing terms for Apple's iTunes upgrade,according to CNet.Both Amazon and Googlelaunched rival US-only music venturesin recent weeks without the major music labels on board after failing to agree terms.On Wednesday, Google executive chairman Eric Schmidt said the disagreement was "obviously" over money."This is an important issue. I've spent months personally talking to the music industry – as have others in the company – and we were unable to come to a proper deal. It's not like we didn't try," he told reporters after his keynote speech at Google's Big Tent conference in London."In order for us to do the next part of the product – where we want to be able to sell music to these customers which we think is extremely lucrative – we need the permission and a deal with the music industry. Obviously, the disagreement is over money."Schmidt added that Google's US-only streaming service, dubbed Music Beta, is "completely legal in American law". Asked whether it would be legal in the UK, he said: "That's a very good question."Neither Google nor Amazon have confirmed when their streaming services could launch internationally. Such an expansion would be further complicated by fresh negotiations with the labels, as well as adhering to local legal jurisdictions.Apple's upgraded music service is expected to allow customers to buy and play songs on a number of mobile devices without the need for storing tracks on each handset.Like the rival offerings from Amazon and Google, Apple is likely to charge a subscription fee for its cloud-based player.Google's Music Beta, which allows users to upload up to 20,000 songs from their existing music library for portable playback, is free while it is invitation-only. Amazon's Cloud Player allows music lovers to upload just over 1,000 songs for free, while those who purchase tracks from the Amazon store will be upgraded to the premium service.Apple, Warner Music and Universal Music declined to comment. EMI and Sony had not responded to a request for comment at the time of publication.
A burst of 11 apps for your considerationAngry HipstersThe title may have some of you rolling your eyes – yes, this IS Angry Birds redone with a cast seemingly plucked from a Shoreditch bar. However, the interesting aspect is its use of music service Hype Machine to stream in music for the soundtrack on the fly, complete with buy buttons for songs that players like. The downside may be the data usage, though.Chaos Rings ΩThe un-SEO friendly Chaos Rings Ω is a game from Square Enix that acts as a prequel to its well-received iOS RPG Chaos Rings. The publisher has also taken the unusual step of pre-announcing the updates to the game – six will come over the next six months with new content and level caps.TGCxELLEgirl Digital MagazineThe Tokyo Girls Collection (TGC) fashion show apparently attracts 20,000 visitors, eager to check out the latest Japanese fashion trends. Now it has an app in partnership with Elle Girl, offering a mixture of photos, videos and music from this year's event.Relict Racer3R Studio's Relict Racer takes the Micro Machines racing genre and adds an augmented reality spin for Android, letting players race across desktops and other real-world objects.TNA Wrestling iMPACTGames publisher Namco Networks gets in the ring with its TNA-branded wrestling game for iPhone and iPad, with beefy characters, online multiplayer and – yes! – Hulk Hogan. Who must be about 83 by now, surely.Mr Shape's TouchCardJapanese creative studio KOO-KI has launched its first app, based on an animated short movie. It's aimed at children, with an array of items to tap and move. We like its characterful animation style. Also, it's free.myPantone Wedding &amp; EventsFeed your inner BrideZilla with the latest Pantone app for iPad, which offers a "wedding styleboard". It aims to help brides-to-be choose the colours, clothing and accessories for their nuptials, based on 200 Pantone colours and products from wedding service Dessy.IntelliVocab for SATIntelliVocab for SAT claims to "personalise English vocabulary learning", and has been launched as a free download for iPhone. Based on research from MIT Computer Science and Web Semantics Lab, it's targeted at Expert or Commitment levels. What, no novices?BT Engage Meeting MobileThis app is the work of BT Conferencing, and offers a robust video conferencing service across iPhone, iPad and Android devices, tying in to the existing BT Engage Meeting Manager web service.CNN App for NokiaCNN has launched a new news app for Nokia's smartphones, offering a mixture of stories, live video and social features. The app also supports CNN's UGC news submission system iReport.BitDefender Mobile SecurityBitDefender Mobile Security is a beta Android version of the company's antivirus software, launching at a time when Android users are seeing a steady flow of stories about security issues on Google's OS. The app also includes a feature to keep track of which apps have what permission requirements and actions.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNielsen: Tablets Are Money Spinners, But Less Than 5% Use Them Today | mocoNews"Despite the huge amount of hype that has surrounded the iPad and the many other tablets hitting the market - they include Android-based devices, the recently-launched Playbook from RIM, and the soon-to-come TouchPad from HP - the researches note that as of Q1 2011, only 4.8% of the roughly 12,000 U.S. consumers surveyed have bought one."That number is likely even smaller in most other markets, even developed ones. Paul Lee, an director of TMT research with Deloitte in the UK, estimates that in the UK the number of tablet users is 1 out of every 60 people - or 1.7%."An untapped market? Oh, the sales people are going to hate that. They just detest wide open fields.Battle of the portables: Netbook vs Apple iPad 2 &gt;&gt; Tim AndersonThoughtful, despite his "semi-serious" warning.Twitter hits 300m registered users &gt;&gt; TwopchartsGood graph.Mac Defender fake antivirus program targets Mac users &gt;&gt; IntegoSeems to have spread rather more quickly than they expected. What's not clear is where any details entered into the program are sent - which would be the quick way to track down those behind it.An AppleCare support rep talks: Mac malware is "getting worse" &gt;&gt; ZDNetTo be precise, Mac *scareware* is worrying a lot of people, and based on this conversation, people at Apple support centres feel obliged to help out.It's malware in the sense that it's malicious, but it's classic social engineering, not the exploitation of a vulnerability.The irony is that all the noise about "Macs are vulnerable, they need antivirus" and the fact that antivirus companies have been offering products has created the market for this scareware. Security exploits that don't require user interaction aren't showing up, though.So the final irony is that people who believe there's no malware for Macs won't be taken in by this. Those who think it's inevitable... will.Motorola Atrix review &gt;&gt; PC Pro"Businesses may be interested to discover that Firefox comes preloaded with the Citrix Connector plugin, allowing access to Citrix's server-driven virtual desktop infrastructure, but this, too, felt sluggish in use. That's disappointing, as there's plenty of raw power: we managed to stream high-quality (non-HD) Flash video via BBC iPlayer and YouTube perfectly smoothly."While the keyboard is reasonably comfortable, the trackpad is so large we constantly found ourselves brushing against it with our thumbs, sending the cursor hopping mad. You can turn it off, but doing so every time you start typing becomes tiresome."But the real killer for the Lapdock is the price: charging £300 for something that runs so sluggishly from its master phone, and doesn't even function at all without it, is patently ridiculous - even more so when you look at current netbook prices."Not seeing this going well unless there's lots of corporations needing it.United States Patent 7945653: tagging photographs in digital mediaPresumably, Yahoo, MySpace and every other social network will be kicking themselves that they didn't file this. Software patents become ever more ludicrous.E-textbooks flunk an early test &gt;&gt; Nick Carr's Rough Type"Because we've come to take printed books for granted, we tend to overlook their enormous flexibility as reading instruments. It's easy to flip through the pages of a physical book, forward and backward. It's easy to jump quickly between widely separated sections, marking your place with your thumb or a stray bit of paper or even a hair plucked from your head (yes, I believe I've done that). You can write anywhere and in any form on any page of a book, using pen or pencil or highlighter or the tip of a burnt match (ditto). You can dog-ear pages or fold them in half or rip them out. You can keep many different books open simultaneously, dipping in and out of them to gather related information. And when you just want to read, the tranquility of a printed book provides a natural shield against distraction."Wonder if there will be an ebook backlash in a couple of years?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Welcome to Thursday's Chatterbox!
When Sony said that its PlayStation Network (PSN) had been hacked in April, potentially releasing the personal details of 77 million people - such as their email address, physical address and date of birth - people understood that restoring the service might be difficult, and that to ensure security they might be asked to change their password.What users hadn't expected was that Sony would bring the service back up and require them to change their password - but that all you'd need to provide would be an email address and date of birth.In other words, exactly the details that the hackers putatively already have.That oversight has forced Sony to take down a website it had set up to help those 77 million access the network, which is still struggling to get back online after weeks out of action.Sony spokesman Dan Race admitted that there was "a security hole" in the system: "If I had your email and your birth date I could get access to your account," he said.But he insisted that no hacking had taken place on the website and that PSN account holders can still change their password on their consoles at home.However, the reaction from web users was obvious: how would Sony know if a hacker had used the details?In fact at least one did:the gaming news site Nylevia.com, which first discovered the flaw, said it was alerted to the problem after someone got in contact and demonstrated how to do it, using just an account email and associated date of birth.The site suggested that people should create a new email address that they would not use anywhere else, and switch their PSN account to use that.The embarrassment comes just a day after Sir Howard Stringer, Sony's chief executive, hit back at critics who said that Sony hadn't moved quickly enough to tell consumers about the security breach in the first place. "This was an unprecedented situation," Stringer told reporters. "Most of these breaches go unreported by companies. 43% [of companies] notify victims within a month. We reported in a week. You're telling me my week wasn't fast enough?"The attack, considered the biggest in internet history, prompted the Japanese electronics giant to shut down its PlayStation Network and other services for close to a month.Critics slammed the company for waiting up to a week before telling its customers of the attack and the possible theft of credit card information, prompting lawmakers and state attorneys general to launch investigations.Two members of the US house of representatives sent a letter to Sony on Tuesday, urging it to respond to questions about its security strategy and reveal more details about the data breach.In the letter, Mary Bono Mack of California and GK Butterfield of North Carolina said they had contacted Sony on 29 April but none of their questions had been answered by the company. The lawmakers asked Sony to respond to questions by 25 May.Sony said it expected to face monetary charges from the break-in but was still assessing the damage. "There's a charge for the system being down … a charge for identity theft insurance," Stringer said. "The charges mount up, but they don't add up to a number we can quantify just yet." One expert suggested that costs from the break-in could reach as high as $2bn.However, Sony executives said there was nothing to support some reports that hackers had used Amazon's servers to launch the attack. Sony has begun restoring parts of the network last weekend in the United States and expects a full recovery in all countries by the end of May.Sony appears to have become the target for hackers because of its practice of clamping down on customers who meddle with its systems. It sued a famed hacker, George Hotz, earlier this year for copyright infringement and circumventing the PlayStation 3 console's protection schemes. The company settled the charges against Hotz on 11 April. About a week later, Sony's systems were hacked. Hotz, who is well known for "jailbreaking", or unlocking Apple iPhones, said on his blog that he was not involved in the PSN break-in.Mark Harding, a Maxim Group analyst, said Sony could have employed less severe methods to protect itself from copyright infringement. "There were probably better ways Sony could have done it without being heavy-handed," he said.Stringer said the attack was likely related to its suit against Hotz but defended Sony's actions. "An act was done that was dangerous to Sony, dangerous to PlayStation and we thought it was a criminal act and we had to protect ourselves."
Google's executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, warned on Wednesday that government plans to block access to illicit filesharing websites could set a "disastrous precedent" for freedom of speech.Speaking to journalists after his keynote speech at Google's Big Tent conference in London, Schmidt said the online search giant would challengeattempts to restrict access to the Pirate Bay and other so-called "cyberlocker" sitesthat encourage illegal downloading – part of government plans to fight online piracy through controversial measures included in the Digital Economy Act."If there is a law that requires DNSs [domain name systems, the protocol that allows users to connect to websites] to do X and it's passed by both houses of congress and signed by the president of the United States and we disagree with it then we would still fight it," he added. "If it's a request the answer is we wouldn't do it, if it's a discussion we wouldn't do it."Schmidt, who became Google's executive chairman last month after a decade as its chief executive, described website blocking as akin to China's restrictive internet regime."I would be very, very careful if I were a government about arbitrarily [implementing] simple solutions to complex problems," he said. "So, 'let's whack off the DNS'. Okay, that seems like an appealing solution but it sets a very bad precedent because now another country will say 'I don't like free speech so I'll whack off all those DNSs' – that country would be China."It doesn't seem right. I would be very, very careful about that stuff. If [the UK government] do it the wrong way it could have disastrous precedent setting in other areas."Speaking at the same conference, the culture minister, Jeremy Hunt, said plans to block access to illicit filesharing websites were on schedule. He admitted that a "challenge" of the controversial measure is deciding which sites get blocked.Ofcom is due to present its report on the practicability of the site-blocking measures included in the DEA to Hunt in the coming weeks.Responding to questions about Facebook secretly hiring the public relations firm Burson-Marsteller to plant scare stories over Google's privacy policies in the US media, Schmidt said he would not comment.However, he added: "A lot of people – not Google employees – have looked at these claims and generally found them to be false."
There is an argument to be made (at least by me, and I could be alone) that Ridge Racer has always worked more like a platformer than a racing simulation. You run along the straights occasionally jumping over enemies (or, if you prefer, "overtaking other drivers") and at the end of each section there's a boss encounter (a corner) with a very specific set of weaknesses that must be assessed and exploited. It's not you against physics, it's you against a highly controlled and malevolent environment.I don't know where drifting fits into this analogy.The point is, Ridge Racer is unique. It's all flash and dash, all style over substance; you swerve through each scene like the Connery-era Bond, directed by Michael Mann. It doesn't work like Burnout or Need for Speed. It is its own universe.It isn't any more.ForRidge Racer Unbounded("It IS a word," shouts producer Jonaas Laakso during our demo of the game at Namco's showcase event in Dubai), the rules have been torn up and atomised.Under development at Finnish studio Bugbear, responsible for the chaotic and thrilling FlatOut titles, the famed Namco "brand" is being transformed into a much more destructive experience. "Namco Bandai wanted us to re-interpret Ridge Racer with our technology and the way we think about games, and to see what comes out," Laakso explains."We figured out the elements of Ridge Racer that we could use and put those into the kind of game worlds WE build: dynamic and destructible. It's not cool and laid-back, it's aggressive and in-your-face."What does this mean in practise? Well, drifting is still present (although the mechanic has apparently been radically remodelled), but here, it powers a meter that eventually gives the player access to a range of destructive features, marked by orange triangle icons.On one track we see, based in the downtown area of the game's fictitious Shatter Bay setting, the car drives straight through the wall of a glass skyscraper, then explodes through the other side in a mass of debris – presumably cutting seconds from the lap times. Later, we see the driver crash into a set of bridge supports, bringing tons of rubble down onto the car behind.Wait, Laakso knows what you are thinking. Split/Second. But Unbounded is different, he says. Whereas Black Rock's game was based around enormous set-piece destructions that played out the same way every time, Unbounded is based around a physics engine that ensures every blown out building collapses differently every time."We're really good at smashing things up," he shrugs. "The dynamic worlds we create are built to be broken down. Where our competition has pre-set destruction, instead of animation, we use physics and we see what happens." As well as the main destructive areas, there are also "collateral" objects littering the roadsides. These can be smashed into rival cars for extra points.In terms of architecture and layout, Shatter Bay is apparently a cross between New York and Chicago, with dense city centre areas flanked by more open suburban roadways. There are intentional hints of Ridge City too, including an extended underpass section lit in orange neon that will be familiar to all fans of the series.Apparently, players will also be able to discover new shortcuts and hazards through exploration, although it's not clear whether this happens through an open-world structure, a la Burnout, or while racing.In the main Crash Race mode, the player becomes a rookie member of the Unbounded street gang, helping to secure areas of the city through illegal racing. There will be other modes, though, including one based much more heavily on pure racing, and conversely another (even) more destruction-based option.As for multiplayer, Namco is saying nothing right now, but intriguingly during the demo, Laakso revealed a map of the entire playing area and it showed that there are "thousands" of other cities in the game as well as Shatter Bay. Could it be that players will be able to create their own urban race zones?It's also likely we'll see a split-screen two-player mode (when questioned on this, there was a long pause and a vague "no comment", from Namco which is tantamount to "yes, but we're saving that for E3"). Expect some kind of social networking mechanic, too."I wouldn't call it Autolog," says Laakso, referencing the innovative feature in the latest Need For Speed titles. "We were talking about something similar before we even saw Hot Pursuit – but a feature like that is becoming a requirement in the racing genre so we think that you should be able to track how your friends are doing in the game …"So this is Ridge Racer, but also not Ridge Racer; a sleek urban racer that also piles on the environmental destruction. There will be dozens of fictitious cars, some of them drawn from the classic Ridge Racer garage, but there will be a more aggressive handling system.Interestingly, Laakso made the point during our interview that Unbounded doesn't necessarily represent the end of the traditional Ridge Racer experience. It could be that we see a more conventional iteration from Namco Bandai in the future.In this way, the publisher may well be looking to create a Need For Speed-style umbrella brand, with a range of offshoots. The granddaddy of the arcade racing genre is not slowing down into retirement, it is accelerating into the evolving universe of the 21st century driving sim. The question is, can it bring its veteran fans along for the ride?•Ridge Racer Unbounded will be released on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 in 2012.
Hewlett-Packard reported a drop in PC shipments in its quarterly results on Tuesday night, following companies like Acer which have also seen a dip. The reason: fewer consumers buying PCs. To quote chief executive Leo Apotheker, "the steepness of our Q2 decline [in consumer PC sales) is greater than we anticipated." (HP's fiscal quarterlies are out of step with the calendar ones:this one ran to the end of April.) Sales of its PCs in total fell by 5%, but for consumer PCs the figure was 23%.So this is thepost-PC era, yes? This is consumers buying tablets instead of PCs, right, and turning away from PCs?Well, not quite.. but also, as we'll see, yes.According to Sarah Rotman, an analyst at Forresters, it's really quite different: "Tablet owners are actually more likely than US online consumers in general to have recently bought a PC: 44% in the past 12 months and 28% in the 12 months before that," she notes in a blog post.That compares to only 34% of the general US consumers having bought a PC in the past 12 months, and 25% in the 12 months before. The difference in the previous 12 months may not be significant, but it certainly is for tablets.So what's going on here? Rotman reckons it's simple:Tablet cannibalization is only a minor contributor to soft PC sales. The bigger factor is the Windows release cycle – so many consumers bought new PCs when Windows 7 came out and without a new version of Windows this year there isn't the same catalyst to buy.(Another argument is that these groups are self-defining: people who haven't bought a PC in the past 24 months probably aren't going to have the money to buy a tablet either. The US is, after all, going through asemi-jobless recovery, with house prices hugely depressed and credit hard to come by.)Rotman doesn't think the PC business is over; in fact she and Forrester are predicting that it will keep growing (though their forecast of last June that US netbook sales will increase from 10.3m in 2010 to 14.2m in 2015 is looking decidedly ropey, given Microsoft saying in last quarter's results that it saw netbook sales drop 40%).But at the same time, she thinks that "the post-PC era is real, and its consequences will revolutionize computing product strategy".In a new Forrester report "What The Post-PC Era Really Means", Rotman suggests that our computing experience is going to change dramatically: today smartphones and tablets, but in the future "wearables, accessories and surfaces".Using computers, she suggests, is moving from formal to informal, from "arms-length to intimate", and from "abstracted" (via a mouse) to physical, via touch. It's also becoming ubiquitous and casual - snatched in spare moments rather than requiring you to sit down.What's driving this? Social networking, the erosion of work-life boundaries, and the fact that we're trying to do computing-related tasks in more places (eg when shopping).Rotman sees possibilities for the iPad, apps on smartphones that use DLNA (effortless home networking) to shift content, and Microsoft's Kinect.And after that? She sees a world of context-aware sensors such as accelerometers, gyroscopes and geolocators (which already figure in smartphones and tablets), plus Near Field Communication (NFC) sensors, plus all sorts of other data-gathering systems (temperature, pressure, air quality) that will tell us more about our environment than ever before.That will also be enhanced by natural user interfaces (touch being only the start: what about facial recognition, perhaps even expression recognition?) and flexible displays.It looks like the post-PC era is only just getting started, in fact. Cue obligatory picture of Minority Report. After all, you don't see any PCs in that do you? (Well, perhaps you do, but ubiquitous computing power is taken as completely understood in it.)• In passing, HP's Personal Systems Group results show just what a cut-throat world the Windows PC business is. HP is the world's largest PC vendor by units and market share. The PSG generated $9.4bn in its past quarter; on that, it made profits of $533m, or 5.6%. In the previous quarter it was 6.4%, and a year ago 4.7%. (Normally, you'd expect a business to make about 10% net profit.)That's on roughly 15m PC shipments (if we assume that HP shipped about as many in the three months of its just-gone quarter as in the first three months of the year, anduse IDC's numbers).Which comes out to an average selling price (ASP) per PC of $627, and per-PC profit of $35. (And the majority of sales by revenue came from laptops - $5bn v $3.6bn from dekstops; there's also workstations and "other", which doesn't include servers, which are in a separate business group entirely.)Contrast to Apple, since we can: in the first three months of this year it sold 3.76m computers, generating $5bn of revenue - one-fifth the sales, just under the half the revenue; the per-computer ASP is $755.Apple doesn't break out the per-division profits as HP does, so one has to guess at the numbers. The best comparison is with 2001, before it launched the iPod (so you only have computer and software sales):Using the net profits and total Mac sales from 2001, the profit comes out to about $75 per computer on ASPs that then were around $650. It's not huge - but selling in volume is what makes the difference. As Apple's selling more laptops now, expect its per-computer profit to be perhaps $10 or even more higher.
Google has enabledencrypted searching using SSL(Secure Sockets Layer) which it says will prevent "employers and internet service providers" from reading what is sent.The possibility that employers and ISPs might be watching peoples' search traffic clearly concerns Google, and it has oftenconcerned employees.Although companies won't be able to see what staff are searching for, it will not give them a passport to view pornography without being monitored, because any connection made via Google to non-secured sites will be visible in the same way as before.The idea may be to allow dissidents and people who are fearful of their employer's policies or their ISP's monitoring to carry out searches in confidence.Update:people have pointed out that connections to the site can be blocked by its URL - but at least you'd know that that was happening and you might be monitored.Google's official blogcarries no mention of the reasoning behind the addition, although in an accompanyingexplanation, the company says this is so:you can have an end-to-end encrypted search solution between your computer and Google. This secured channel helps protect your search terms and your search results pages from being intercepted by a third party. This provides you with a more secure and private search experience.Other Google offerings such as Google Images and Maps aren't available on SSL at the moment, so you don't have a private search experience on those.One interesting wrinkle is that if you click on a link from an encrypted page, the referrer data isn't passed on to the receiving site (unless that also uses HTTPS) – which might mean that some sites aren't going to be able to work out where traffic is coming from. This seems a bit contrary on Google's part, since it's hiding its role in directing traffic. (The expectation is almost certainly that the vast majority of people won't want or need this, so the effect on Google's visibility to "downstream" sites will be minimal.)The connection might also be slower because of the time involved in setting up the SSL link.Googledefaulted to SSL for its Gmail webmail offering in January 2010– a move that makes far more sense and arguably was long overdue.The dangers of connecting to webmail over unsecured links – especially via smartphones – is precisely what Guardian Technology showed in April: the danger is that "sniffers" can capture the passwords and usernames being sent in the clear. And a similar risk exists if you're using a desktop or laptop and a wireless connection, or a compromised setup.Update:Google in factintroduced this feature in June 2010,but now seems to be actively pushing the service: if you go to Google's home page, there's a non-zero chance you'll be presented with the encrypted page even though you didn't directly request it. Clever way to push a product.
It's Wednesday time.
A burst of nine apps for your considerationUEFA Champions League Festival 2011UEFA doesn't just run football tournaments nowadays – it's a fully-fledged app publisher. This iPhone app is the official app of the upcoming Champions League final, and the Hyde Park festival that will surround it from 21-28 May. Users can book to have their photo taken with the trophy, check in via Foursquare, and use augmented reality features when on-site.Patti Smith: Dream of LifePatti Smith's work is the subject of this iPad 'virtual art exhibit', based on a collaboration between Smith and film-maker/photographer Steven Sebring. The app offers photos of Patti taken between 1997 and 2008, 360-degree images of her 'prized possessions', film clips from Sebring's Dream of Life documentary, and Smith's own Polaroid snaps.Bay Bridge ExplorerDriving over a bridge? It doesn't sound like a marvellous game, if we're honest. But that's not what Bay Bridge Explorer is all about. The iOS app uses the Unreal gaming engine, but is more a public information project, enabling people to explore the soon-to-be-revamped Bay bridge in San Francisco in 3D.CreamUS startup Color famously got $41m of venture capital to launch its location photo-sharing app on iPhone. Now Handprint Corporation has launched a direct rival, Cream – "an anonymous public space for posting and voting on photos of the stuff that interests you". It uses hashtag channels (eg #spring_fashion, #celebrity_sightings) to sort photos, with the idea that the best pics rise to the top. Hence the name, presumably.Paris Walking Tour with AudioLonely Planet's latest iPhone app takes a Gallic angle on tourism, offering five audio walking tours around the French capital, with offline maps to show users where they are without spending a packet on data roaming fees. The app taps into audio from the BBC archives for the various points of interest. The release follows the launch of several individual walking tour apps for London earlier this year.Kung Fu Panda 2 Interactive CookbookThe long-awaited crossover between martial-arts-toting animated movies and Asian cuisine is here. This iPad app is pitched as a "digital cookbook for children", showing them how to cook a range of recipes, with animations and video clips from the Kung Fu Panda film.FatBooth HDThe original FatBooth was a bona-fide craze on iPhone that went well beyond the geekerati. Now it's gone HD for iPad, although the content remains the same: turn photos of people into augmented photos of fatter people.NYPL Biblion: World's FairThe New York Public Library has published an iPad app called Biblion, which offers a glimpse into the library's catalogue of items relating to the 1939-40 New York World's Fair, including essays and photographs.Letter to Jane Magazine: Moral IssuesLetter To Jane is a quarterly arts magazine for iPad published out of Portland in the US, blending short films, music and photo galleries with text and social features. It claims to be "the best example of what independent publishing on the iPad can be".
It hasn't been surprising to seeBatman: Arkham Citycrop up on just about every "most anticipated games of E3 2011" list. Arkham Asylum was one of the finest releases of 2009, a suitably dark and brooding action adventure, with a superb story, intuitive controls and a genuine understanding of Batman's appeal.But what are the design processes that lead to such a refined and involving experience? As part of my research for the recentfeature on game design, I spoke to Sefton Hill, game director at Rocksteady Studios, about developing a modern third-person adventure.Here's what he had to say...What do you think are the fundaments of designing a modern action adventure title? What are your design starting blocks?Wow! Let's start with an easy question! I think creating a successful modern action adventure game requires a delicate balance between many critical components with each of these complementing and enhancing each other.You need an engaging storyline created around compelling characters in a beautifully realised world, all built on the bedrock of original and fun core gameplay mechanics. No longer is it sufficient to excel in any one of these areas if you want to stand out.At Rocksteady, working on Batman: Arkham City, we started with two key driving forces: everything we do is built around creating a fun experience and this experience must be completely authentic to Batman and his universe.In terms of what the content is, it's simply about what excites us. I believe the only way to make something that people will feel passionate about is if you feel inspired by the ideas yourself. We don't try and second guess what other people want; we make the game we want to play.Are there any theories of design that your studio subscribes to?There are many different trends, but personally I believe there is no magic bullet design theory that fits all situations. At Rocksteady, we believe the solution is to be flexible. Depending on what area of the game we're designing, different people will be involved and different processes will be used.We have a totally different approach when we design levels, to story, to bosses and to core gameplay mechanics. Some of these processes involve repeated iterations and reviews by a large group over a number of days and some require monthly reviews by just a couple of people over the entire duration of the project.If there's one thing we always strive to do though, it's to keep the design process as inclusive as possible. We have a team full of incredibly talented staff and great ideas come from everyone.But in terms of structure, Hollywood famously has its three-act system – it's easy to spot, but it works. Do narrative-based games have anything similar?What's exciting about game development at this time is that that developers are still experimenting with many different ways to keep players engaged. Because we have an instant feedback loop, we can tailor the experience to exactly what the player is doing. There are things we can do in videogames that simply can't be done in any other medium.The Side Missions in Batman: Arkham City are a good example. We have around 15 hours of story that's off the main path. It's completely down to the player when and how they want to tackle this – there's no right or wrong time. There's no other medium that can offer this kind of flexible experience where the viewer gets to tailor the experience they want themselves.In terms of narrative structure, I think games are much more analogous to an episodic TV series than a film. You have, say, 15 hourly episodes to fill, each requiring its own narrative arc but each plugging into an overarching storyline.  It requires a lot of planning to make sure that every single hour is consistent with each other, is feeding and driving towards a compelling crescendo, while remaining implicitly self-explanatory so players can pick up and play at any time and know what they are doing.How important is the acquisition of new skills and items, in terms of retaining player interest? Do you work hard on ensuring these aspects are spaced correctly throughout the game?It takes over 25 hours to complete the main stories in Batman: Arkham City. To keep players engaged for this length of time, not only do the characters and the story need to progress, but the core mechanics of the game they are playing need to change and adapt as well.The new abilities, upgrades and most importantly, the player's mastery of the character, give this progression, resulting in an experience at the end of the game which is almost unrecognisable from that at the start.We spend months planning out the distribution of the new abilities throughout the game to ensure that players are not overwhelmed at the start, and from this point forward is getting a constantly evolving experience perfectly balanced with their learning curve.What's really rewarding is seeing the change in players by the end of the game. Playing a great, well-balanced, fine-tuned game is almost like learning a musical instrument in fast forward. As players progress, the music they make will surprise even themselves.To see players go from enjoying running around the Arkham City streets and then fast forward 10 hours to see them swooping hundreds of metres through back alleyways and impossibly tight spaces to glide into a group of heavily armed thugs and take them out in a matter of seconds is incredibly rewarding for us to see.In what ways is interface design an important factor? Obviously motion controllers have brought this to the fore recently, but with in-depth action adventures, are there any guidelines on how buttons and analogue sticks should be employed? Or do you just iterate until a game feels right?Creating the perfect interface between the player and the game is critically important. Without this, it doesn't really matter about anything else, as the player is not going to be able to enjoy the content if they are fighting against the controls to do so.There are definitely accepted best practises for this which have been honed over the years – for example, using the left analogue stick to move and the right analogue stick to look around.When designing the controls you need to consider familiarity with accepted best practises because it makes the game instantly accessible if you use a scheme that players have become accustomed to over the years.Where it gets more interesting is that most games then have their own unique requirements on top of these best practises. Taking Batman as an example, he has a wealth of different gadgets and navigational abilities on top of the core movement set that most action adventure games have. As we add these we need to be very mindful not to make the controls so complicated that no one can enjoy the game.Designing the perfect control scene is really a question of balance. As you make certain actions more prominent on the controller, then other actions necessarily become less prominent and easy to access. The perfect control scheme is one where the accessibility of the various controls is directly related to their usage requirement.This also needs to factor in the context of this usage. To give an example, you won't necessarily be using a smoke pellet all the time in Arkhan City but when you're getting shot at by five The Joker thugs, you want that action to be instantly available on one burton press as it's the difference between life and death.For Rocksteady, the control interface design is the most iterative part of the process and we will try out different configurations for the entire development cycle, right up until just before we ship, to get the perfect balance.In what fundamental ways do you think narrative game design has changed over the last five years? What have been the key new aspects?I think for many years now we have had games with rich stories and detailed characterisation. However these were the exception rather than the rule.If I had to choose one element that is precipitating a change it would be the increases in technology that has enabled developers to create much more life-like characters. I think this is having a significant effect on the industry's attitude to telling stories.At Rocksteady, the narrative design has always been a core driving force of our work but improvements in technology are allowing us to breathe even more life into our characters and story.For example, in Batman: Arkham City we are using full facial motion capture for the first time, which gives a full character performance, allowing the player to see even the most subtle emotional responses on the characters' faces, as well as hear them in the dialogue.What do you think are the key emerging influences on game design? Where do you think narrative games like Batman, FEAR, Uncharted, etc are going?The beauty of video game development is that the potential for new ideas is incredible. The industry is so aggressively creative that the parameters of what is even possible changes every few years. It's what makes working in this industry so challenging, competitive and rewarding.So for now, I am just really excited to see what people think when they get to play Batman: Arkham City as we feel this offers something truly original with a narrative structure that balances open-world gameplay while being anchored by a strong core narrative experience.•Batman: Arkham City will be relased for PC, Xbox 360 and PS3 on 21 October
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft's Bill Gates says he advocated Skype takeover &gt;&gt; BBC News"Microsoft's founder, Bill Gates, has said he advocated the company's takeover of Skype, and urged other board members to support the move.&#10;"Last week Microsoft agreed to pay $8.5bn (£5.2bn) for the loss-making internet phone service.&#10;"'I was a strong proponent at the board level for the deal being done,' Mr Gates, Microsoft's chairman told the BBC's Hardtalk programme."This slightly changes the complexion of the takeover. Gates has the vision to know how technology is going to change things. Now it's up to Ballmer, as chief executive, to make the integration happen.Note: "You can see the full interview in the UK on BBC News Channel on Wednesday 18 May at 0430 BST. Outside the UK it will be broadcast on BBC World News on Wednesday at 0330, 0830, 1530, and 2030 GMT."And presumably on iPlayer.FAQ about Reverse Engineering &gt;&gt; Chilling Effects ClearinghouseHere's a question: would it have been legal for Compaq to reverse-engineer IBM's BIOS to create its own PC if IBM had patented the software in the BIOS? (Early responses suggest not.)New iMacs can only use Apple's custom hard drives &gt;&gt; Marco.orgInteresting arguments brewing over the fact that new iMacs have temperature-sensing firmware, so you can't just swap them for anything else. Partly because it's a horrendous job to swap an iMac drive anyway, requiring disassembly of the screen.Did Microsoft pay for the wrong Skype? &gt;&gt; Asymco"Clayton Christensen succinctly defined the value in any company as the sum of three constituent parts: resources, processes or and business models. Market value can be nothing more and nothing less than these three things.&#10;"An acquisition has to be positioned on one of these targets just like a product is positioned on a specific market. The problem with being deliberate about where the value lies is that once positioned a certain way, the integration team will begin to execute on that plan. This means that the thing you decided was worth most (e.g. resources) gets all the attention and the other potential sources of value (processes or profit models) are discarded."Subtle point.Six unexpected uses for the Mac's Application Switcher &gt;&gt; MacworldClever - didn't know of them. What are the equivalent Windows app switcher ones?What app developers need to know about Lodsys and the in-app upgrade button patent problem &gt;&gt; FOSS Patents"In its FAQ, Lodsys points out that these patents were temporarily owned by Intellectual Ventures, which according to Lodsys "then licensed these patents to additional companies."&#10;"In all likelihood, that's how Apple, Google and Microsoft were licensed. They are all investors in Intellectual Ventures and licensees of IV's patents. IV owns about 30,000 patents, and those companies pay for access to the entire portfolio. I doubt that they evaluate each and every one of those patents: they just get a license to the whole package. Most probably, that's how they were licensed, and those licenses are still valid if IV limited the right of later acquirers to assert those patents against IV's licensees."The stakes, as this blog post explains clearly, are very high on all three sides - Apple, indie developers on all platforms, and Lodsys.The Kill Math project &gt;&gt; worrydream"When most people speak of Math, what they have in mind is more its mechanism than its essence. This "Math" consists of assigning meaning to a set of symbols, blindly shuffling around these symbols according to arcane rules, and then interpreting a meaning from the shuffled result. The process is not unlike casting lots.&#10;"This mechanism of math evolved for a reason: it was the most efficient means of modeling quantitative systems given the constraints of pencil and paper. Unfortunately, most people are not comfortable with bundling up meaning into abstract symbols and making them dance. Thus, the power of math beyond arithmetic is generally reserved for a clergy of scientists and engineers (many of whom struggle with symbolic abstractions more than they'll actually admit).&#10;"We are no longer constrained by pencil and paper. The symbolic shuffle should no longer be taken for granted as the fundamental mechanism for understanding quantity and change. Math needs a new interface."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
It's clearly a busy month for the Indie Dozen participants as most of them are currently out of radio contact. Here's the latest update, though, from several of our independent studios…You can find out about the whole Indie Dozen projecthere, and also stay up to date via our dedicatedTwitter feed.Dan Marshall,Zombie CowUK studio Zombie Cow is responsible for the Channel 4-funded sexual health game, Privates, as well as cult comedy adventures, Ben There Done That and Time Gentlemen Please. Marshall is currently working on a top secret project."Production on my next, STILL TOP SECRET project began in earnest this month. With the core gameplay ideas nicely fleshed out, and the character control as tight as can reasonably be expected, I've started putting in the gameplay elements. There's still no actual game to speak of at present, and the graphics are largely placeholder, but it's getting to that exciting point of having something to play with.The biggest headache this month has been art – I've decided to hop back to a one-man project for the next game, which means I'm doing all the code and art myself. My art style's erratic at best, and in the case of my last games, the Dan and Ben adventures, deliberately crappy.This time I'm shooting for something that actually looks really nice and unique, so I'm obsessing over pixels trying to determine the 'look' for the entire game. It's a slow, laborious process crafting an image, loading it into the game to see how it fits in-situ.So far, I'm really pleased with what I've got, but there's a lot of fine-tuning to do. One of the horrors of being full-time indie, I guess: I've got to get this bit right or the screenshots simply won't sell the game. Games that don't sell are bad for my hobbies of 'eating' and 'having a roof over my head'."Mike BithellMike was a games designer at Blitz Games Studios until earlier this year when he moved to London to join a social games company. He also works on his own projects, includingThomas Was Alone."It's been a busy month for me, and the move to London went well. The big story is that Thomas Was Alone has been the switch toUnity. Following a meetup of the newly rebootedLondon Unity Usergroup, I got a taste of what is possible with the software, and got talking to some of its developers. I've been amazed at the versatility and ease with which even a novice can get something going, and have now got a bit of a prototype,here's a video. I've been converted, and I'm not far off the full functionality of the original game. And rain. Lot's of rain.In terms of events, the big one was the Tetsuya Mizuguchi Q&amp;A atBafta. A truly inspirational evening, he talks about Game Design like it's jazz. I left Bafta with a spring in my step, and have been pushing for a higher quality ever since.I've also been working on the story side of things, witha big blog post on story design, which was a fun way to spend some time while I was away for Easter stuff."Jack Nilssen,Dark AcreVancouver film school graduate Jack Nilssen is working on several projects, including an ambitious combination of Star Flight, Star Control and Privateer."Ludum Dare 48 #20was a pretty big success for me, and an excellent barometer of my progress with the Unity3D engine since I went indie. I competed in the previous LD48 and if you compare that entry ('plUNDER') to the most recent one ('the Child'), it's clear the level of improvement with the tools.I was quite astonished at how much work I was able to accomplish given the short time span, and that with sleeping and eating regularly to boot!Now that the competition is out of the way I'm free to embark on the next major project, so that will be occupying the bulk of the production time here. It's the first collaborative effort and my partner is a little leery of releasing information as freely as I have in the past, so we're keeping it tightly under wraps for now. The progress can be charted via the Dark Acre blog andthe project page."Paul HoeyPaul is working on a 2D platforming/fighting game which mixes SNES visuals with modern gaming features."It's been a slow month development wise due to two long weekends and lots of life-related things taking up time. Right now, we're still hammering away on the game – the style of the menus is almost finalised and once that's done all the art will be created and I can get to coding them up properly. This was an interesting part of the process because there are a few ways you can approach the menus. The first is to use the same sort of style and theme as the game, trying to keep everything really consistent. The problem here is that it sometimes leaves you with ugly menus that aren't easy to read or nice to look at. So we went the other way, which is to give the front end of the game it's own style. This works out well sometimes, since it also lends itself towards other parts of the release, such as box art or promotional material.When trying to decide on a theme and style, there were lots of things to look at. At one point, we wanted the menu for selecting levels to be a sort of hub similar to the 3d Mario games. We had plenty of plans for this but eventually abandoned it because it felt like it would give the players false expectations of what the game was – it's a level by level affair and a hub world simply wouldn't work. After that, we were looking at other games and decided on the more traditional menu system with a small world map that lets you select which level you want to play on, but in between there were times where you'd have the levels listed and select one that way. There was lots of iteration and mixing and matching what other games have done before.The box art was also worked on. It's very similar in style to the menus since it actually influenced the final art quite a lot. Comic book covers were certainly a massive influence on the layout. Generally speaking, just about anything is an influence – you never really know what might work for you and often just trying it out is worthwhile.On the more boring side of things, AI continues to be polished, making sure that enemies behave as they should, keeping things fun so that they're not too tough but also not too weak. The boss characters are next on the list of things to finish off, there's the final boss to code and then the mini-bosses to polish. Most of the levels are in place as far as design and enemies go, with some level-specific objectives to be worked on. It's then all about tying some of the extras into the menu system..."Charlie KnightUK coder Charlie Knight has written a range of cult shooters, including Bullet Candy and Space Phallus. He's currently working on Scoregasm."I spent a bit of time looking at cross-platform 3d game engines in the beginning of April. I like working in 3d, and while the engine I have been using up to this point is okay, it's not exactly bursting with cutting edge features (I think it targets OpenGL 1.5, and doesn't support shaders!). I have absolutely no interest in writing my own engine, so when it comes to choosing which one I'm going to use, I need to make sure that it does just what I need, and works well on the platforms I'm targeting. It's the 'just what I need' bit where I came unstuck this time.While all the engines I tried had much better rendering support, with cool stuff like shaders and scene editors or whatever, none of them made it easy to do decent moving 3d rotations. If you're into maths, you might have heard of Gimbal lock. In some cases, I could get around this problem by writing code to convert angles between euler and quaternion, but I really don't think I should have to. In the end I decided to continue on with what I had been using for my little prototype.There's a video here. Although it's not shown in that video, you can click on any of the shapes in the background and move around those too.The prototype is quite fun, but is a little dizzying at times. I can imagine playing for an extended period of time could make some people feel ill. I think the tricky part (if I decide to continue with it) will be getting the camera to move less, so that there isn't as much stuff whizzing around, but not lose any precision with the controls. We'll see...Anyway, once I'd stopped messing around, I got back to working on Scoregasm. Doug has gotten the online API he's written into a state where I can now start to use it properly, so I've been working away adding all the necessary bits to my code so that I can interact with the online server.Scoregasm has two main game modes (normal and expert), and 43 challenge games, all of which have their own online score table, plus there are achievements, medals and the little biscuits that the King gives you that will show against your name in each table. In addition to this, you can tag your profile with keywords, so you can filter only relevant scores, such as those of your friends/forum group/whatever, and also add a secondary date range filter to your search, so you can find out who the best player was in February, or have a competition with your friends. It's actually turning into quite a challenge to design some usable UI bits for all this, that also display the data in a useful way. I'll hopefully have it all finished by the end of next month, so I can show you how it works. Wish me luck!"Other stuffThere are several events on the way that should interest start-up studios and bedroom coders alike. TheGame Horizon conference(June 28-29, Gateshead) always has an excellent array of speakers and is great for networking, especially if you're based in the North East.The Develop conference(July 19-21) is another must-attend, with lots of really good tutorial sessions on games programming essentials. It may also be worth looking at theDigital Sparkconference taking place at the University of Abertay from June 29-30. It's all about protecting your intellectual property, which is one aspect of development that indie studios can easily overlook.
Another patent-owning company has targeted app developers on both Apple and Android platforms, intensifying concerns among developers that smartphones are the new hunting ground for so-called "patent trolls".MacroSolve, a US-based company traded "over the counter", has so far sued 10 app development companies, claiming that they infringe apatent 7,822,816, entitled "system and method for data management", which covers the collection and transmission of data for questionnaires and puts them online.The patent was filed in August 2003 and awarded in October 2010, and the discussion specifically relates to "handheld computers" – a category that has now come to include smartphones.Jim McGill, chairman of MacroSolve, has said that the patent covers "thousands of existing apps" that collect data and send it to a central server. The company has chosen to sue app developers in the "rocket docket" jurisdiction of Texas Eastern District in Tyler – where patent-owning companies frequently file cases in the expectation that the courts will process them quickly, and in their favour.The news will further discomfit app developers, who have already seen Lodsys – a company which bought a small portfolio of four patents from another patent licensing company, Intellectual Ventures –send demands for payment to a number of iPhone app developers.Software patents issued by the US Patent Office have the potential to strangle the burgeoning mobile app business, because they can tie up small developers in court cases that they cannot afford to defend – or where they may be unable, for geographical reasons, to organise a defence.Apple's legal department is understood to be investigating the claims by Lodsys, but it is not known whether it has been alerted to the claims being made by MacroSolve against the 10 developers.If the patent cases are upheld, the app developers could be liable for damages and for royalty payments on the use of the patent.Developers could aim to have the patent invalidated, but that would be a long and expensive legal process.The cases have highlighted a problem with the US Patent Office, which has already been criticised for awarding patents that are too broad, or even coverimpossible inventions such as antigravity vehicles.The patents owned by MacroSolve might be challenged and nullified on the basis of being "obvious", given the time when they were filed, when the mobile web was already being used in a number of countries. But that would involved developers in long drawn-out legal battles which they are ill-equipped to fight.Lodsys and MacroSolve may, if successful, chase hundreds or even thousands of app developers in Apple's iTunes App Store and Google's Android Marketplace, as well as the rapidly-growing Windows Phone Market.Apple, Google and Microsoft have not commented on the latest claims and lawsuits.Since 18 April, MacroSolve is suing:• Canvas Solutions, which makesSmart Business Forms;•Kony Solutions, which generally writes mobile apps;•Widget Pressprovides a "FormEntry Touch Private Label" program to deliver custom forms to iOS users;•Pogo Corporation, which provides apps such as cinema information;• andSWD Interactive, which helps people build iPhone apps.These join four companies it began suing in March:•Blue Shoe Mobile Solutions, which helps people create mobile apps;•Brazos Technology, which provides ticketing system apps for public officers such as police;•On The Spot Systems, which offers survey apps for businesses to offer to customers;• andFormstack, which provides billing apps.Over-the-counter investors are being told that MacroSolve's stock – which hasdropped from $2.50 in late 2009, when it was first listed, to around 25c now– represents a "phenomenal and solid investment".MacroSolve, founded in 1997, itself says it is "a pioneer in delivering mobile apps, technology, and solutions to businesses and government" through its two divisions, Anyware and Illume Mobile, and says it has "long-standing" relationships with companies including Apple, BlackBerry maker RIM, Microsoft and Motorola.It does produce its own apps through its mobile divisions, such asElmer's BBQ "It Be Bad", which shows a menu of smoked meats from a food chain.However, according to details released by the company on 17 May, its sales in the first quarter of 2011 were just $116,000, down from $274,000 in the same period in 2010, with losses widening to $507,000 compared to $446,000.
The poor child got off lightly: she could just as well have been called Status, or even Poke. Instead an Israeli couple has named their daughter Like, inspired by Facebook to choose a name which, they explained, was "modern and innovative".Lior and Vardit Adler, who enjoy cooking, already have daughters named Dvash – Hebrew for honey – and Pie, as in the English apple pie.This time, Adler told the Israeli newspaper Maariv, he was looking for something more original, and had checked that nobody else in Israel had the same name. "In our opinion it's the modern equivalent of the name Ahava [love]," he explained.The joyful arrival of Like Adler was, inevitably,announced on Facebook, where her picture and name immediately received 40 approvals – or "likes" – and when the BBC picked up the story, scores more. Martin Bolanos posted: "Heey Like! what a cute name you have! greetz from Denmark :) I just found an article from a Danish internet newspaper :-) You have made into a Danish newspaper! You are so famous! Wish you a perfect future!"Stefan Schafer added: "Greetings from Germany. Nice baby cool name. Much better idea than that 'dotcom' guy some years ago!"The proud father was delighted. "Considering that I have only a little more than 100 friends on the network that's a lot."Celebrities have led the pack in inflicting gruesome names on their children. David and Victoria Beckham's sons Brooklyn, Romeo and Cruz seem conventional compared with David Bowie's son Zowie Bowie, now a distinguished film director who prefers to be known as Duncan Jones.The singer Donovan fathered Astrella Celeste and Oriole Nebula, and Katie Price (aka Jordan) and her then husband Peter Andre produced Princess Tiaamii. Fifi Trixibelle and Peaches Geldof still bear their names with pride, while Apple, child of Gwyneth Paltrow and Chris Martin, may yet discover that fruit are not the only names.
Until now, mobile augmented reality has been all about smartphones, with the creation of AR content restricted to developers with specific skills. Announcements today from startups Metaio and Layar show how both companies are keen to move beyond this.Metaio thinks that tablets will become increasingly important devices for AR, describing them as "the perfect enabler for augmented reality" as it published a video showcasing its Junaio AR technology running on slate devices.Metaio's bullishness is about more than just the iPad: the company thinks the new wave of tablets running Google's Android 3.0 operating system – starting with the Motorola Xoom – will create new opportunities for innovative AR applications."The extreme light weight, the multiple sensors such as compass or GPS, the large screen and perfectly positioned twin cameras of the new tablets make them fascinating machines," says Metaio in what'sa cross between a press release and a manifesto.It also cites dual-core processors as a key factor enabling tablets to be used for AR applications including instructional guides; product information; e-commerce; entertainment and gaming."If you want to display for example rich media content triggered by printed material like newspapers or magazines, you need to recognize the object, process the image and render the content into the video stream tightly connected to the original image. By capturing the object on one core and by handling tracking (recognition and initialisation) on the other core, performance and user experience will be so much better."Metaio's view is that AR is "more than a marketing gimmick or hype, it's actually an interface revolution". However, there are currently relatively few companies able to take part in this revolution, since creating AR content remains the preserve of developers willing and able to get to grips with the tools.That's something Metaio's rival Layar is hoping to change with its own announcement today of an initiative calledLayar Connect. It's all tools to help more people create content and services around Layar's AR platform, with the help of external companies who build these tools."We're focused on the democratisation of augmented reality and want to make it easier to create and publish AR content for all," says Maarten Lens-FitzGerald, co-founder and general manager of Layar, in a statement."With Layar Connect, we are the first in the industry to move management and publication of AR content to third parties. This creates opportunities for Layar partners to add increased value to their business – a big step in the professionalisation of the AR industry."Augmented reality itself is hardly a young technology by web standards, but the buzz around mobile augmented reality is a more recent phenomenon, thanks to the growing popularity of smartphones (and yes, now tablets) with the grunt to handle AR – not to mention the faster connectivity and GPS sensors.Companies including BuildAR, Poistr, Visar and Poiz – the AR space is thoroughly Web 2.0 in its startup naming conventions – are already using Layar Connect, with more to come.Metaio's point about augmented reality being a new interface with many uses rather than a specific type of app is key, though. Layar's decision to open up the creation of AR content to a wider audience can only reinforce that.Metaio is building its own network of developers and brands using its own technology. The competition between the two, along with Qualcomm, Google and other companies training their sights on augmented reality, should fuel a host of innovative ideas in the months to come.
On this week's Tech Weekly, Aleks Krotoski and Charles Arthur are joined by 28-year-old serial entrepreneur Ruslan Kogan, the founder of Kogan.co.uk, a personalised purchasing service for all your technology needs. Kogan talks about the future of the personalised, consumer-driven ecommerce marketplace, and how the cloud creates efficiencies that translate into economic benefits for customers.The trio also hack into the latest news headlines, including what the influx of cyberattacks on governmental inboxes means for future regulation, what the appointment of the former US government's CTO to the Cabinet Office means for the open data movement in the UK, how the release of the Hargreaves report into intellectual property, commissioned by David Cameron in November 2010, may usher in copyright reform, and what the launch of Google's Chromebooks means for Microsoft's dominance in the commercial and education sectors.It's a busy week with plenty to chew on. Enjoy Tech Weekly from the Guardian.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
In the end, it was a simple process. Getting back on to the PlayStation Network after its enforced two-week break took no time at all.Like most other users, I received an email yesterday informing me that some PSN services were now back online. To access them I would need to download the firmware 3.61 update and then change my password (for some reason, I was directed to do this on my computer rather than on the PS3 itself, but other users haven't found this necessary).This new code would need to include numbers and letters and the system would not allow the consecutive use of the same symbol – it seems Sony is not only improving its own security, it's trying to improve ours too. Then I was back online.Sony has providedan FAQfor PlayStation owners who are having difficulties restoring the service. It has alsolisted all the details of the Welcome Pack, which will become available to all PlayStation gamers when the Store comes back online.Along with 30 days' free access to the enhanced PSN+ option, customers will be able to choose two free PS3 downloads from a selection of five games. This list is different in each territory, but the UK's consists of LittleBigPlanet, Infamous, Wipeout HD/Fury, Ratchet and Clank: Quest for Booty and Dead Nation. Meanwhile, PSP owners are being offered two titles from LittleBigPlanet PSP, ModNation PSP, Pursuit Force and Killzone Liberation.It is a small, somewhat dated, but varied offering – and it's one that Sony has been forced to defend. An early comment under the announcement on Sony's blog states, "really, after all that time, you cant give us something new? From those 5 games i own 4 payed full prize (sic)." To which SCEE's head of communications Nick Caplin replied:I'm really sorry that there is nothing there that you want. We've tried really hard to put together a list of high quality BD games, rather than simply offering cheaper PSN titles. The average metacritic rating for these games is over 84%, so these are high quality games. Unfortunately with a user base of 77m people, it is really hard to offer something for everyone.Elsewhere, gamer responses have varied between wide-eyed gratitude and sceptical dismissal. Some are asking why Sony didn't simply provided PlayStation Store credits allowing users to make their own choices.  "I'm pretty chuffed with the 5 on offer for PS3. I don't have any of them so can't wait," wrote L1ngardbeneath a story on CVG, whileposting on VG247, onlineatron argued, "All the PS3 games have sequels out, or coming out, bar Dead Nation and WipEout (although the latter is rumoured). This is just marketing for Sony. Marketing in the guise of goodwill."Whatever the case, most of the world's PSN users are in a better position than those in Japan, where the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry has blocked the return of the service until its additional security measures have been checked by regulators.And in Australia, "security expert" Bill Caelli is advising that the government there should similarly shut down the network until its own security tests have been carried out.Are you back online? What do you think of Sony's "welcome back" offerings? Let us know in the comments section below.
Your correspondent (Letters, 16 May) argues on the one hand for more investment in scientific research, while criticising a new charitable and public partnership which will do just that. TheCentre for Medical Research and Innovation, being built in London's medical research quarter in Camden, brings together scientists from two existing facilities (one in the centre, one in the suburbs). These occupy out-of-date facilities, no longer well fitted for world-leading research. The central London location makes it ideal for its national role in supporting biomedical research across the country.With the new building will come fresh approaches. The number of scientists will be increased. Through links withUniversity College Londonand other leading universities, the laboratories will connect biologists, chemists, physicists, mathematicians and engineers. They will focus on the fundamental biological processes underlying health and disease – cancer, heart disease and stroke, infections and disorders of the immune and nervous systems. The labs will employ more than 1,200 scientists. Many will eventually move their laboratories to universities, medical schools and companies across the UK.The institute will create laboratories for the next 50 to 60 years and will help accelerate discoveries into treatments for the benefit of patients and to promote wider economic growth. It is strongly supported by charitable backers: Cancer Research UK and the Wellcome Trust, and those largely funded by the taxpayer, Medical Research Council and UCL. It is a registered charity working for the public benefit: a national institute for the national interest.Paul NurseDirector and chief executive, UKCMRI
A burst of 9 apps for your consideration.HitlantisHitlantis is the work of Finnish startup Cognitive Maps, and is the latest music discovery app for iPhone and iPad, following in the footsteps of Discovr, Aweditorium and Music Hunter, among others. It shows artists as colourful bubbles, each of which can be tapped on to reveal more details, play a sample and sign up as a fan. The app also includes a streaming radio feature, zooming around the bubbles as it plays.Telegraph GoWe're intrigued by Android app Telegraph Go, which has been released by a company called Digital Space – which says it helps newspapers, magazines and books "optimise the relationship between traditional and digital platform". This app involves placing watermarks in newspapers or other print media, which can then be detected by the app to serve up "movie clips, audio content, up to the minute news updates, booking forms, shopping, local and time specific information and of course your favourite social networks". The app has the Daily Telegraph's logo, and the newspaper is listed as one of Digital Space's clients on the company's website. Like we said, intriguing.Amen BreakMusic buffs may know that the "Amen Break" drum solo originally appeared on a 1969 funk track called Amen, Brother, but more recently found fame as the bedrock for many a hip-hop, jungle and drum'n'bass tune. Now there's an app for that – Amen Break lets users trigger different slices of the break by tapping their iPhone screen, while changing the pitch by tilting it.Hoops ARHoops AR is an Android app designed to show the potential for augmented reality on sports tickets. Using Qualcomm's AR platform, when pointed at a sample ticket, it pops up a 3D basketball game to play on-screen. The app is the work of startup Big PlayAR.The Belly Fat Cure Sugar and Carb CounterOceanhouse Media is the developer behind the popular Dr Seuss apps for iOS and Android. Now it's turned its attention to slimming, via a deal with fitness author Jorge Cruise. Based on the book of the same name, the app helps people track their calorie intake and weight.BradyGames Official LA NoirePlayguide books are an established part of the console industry now – most big console games launch with at least one strategy guide on the shelves. BradyGames has opted to also launch its LA Noire guide as an Android app, charging $2.99 for a scrollable and zoomable street map of the in-game Los Angeles showing locations for every collectible, with text and screenshots.Food Finder SWOn the hunt for food and drink in the West Country? Food Finder SW aims to help. Developed by Createanet, it enables people to browse suppliers in Cornwall, Devon and Somerset for dairy products, seafood, organic grub and bakeries – among other categories – with maps to show the way to get to them. The app also includes details of food-related festivals and events, and the opportunity to post reviews.How's My Mom?Android app How's My Mom? is developed by ContactLiving, and is aimed at staff working in assisted-living centres and nursing homes. The idea: they keep mobile diaries for residents, with checklists of activities, health updates and photographs, which can then be sent to family members every day.
The 'Best of' chatterbox posts usually celebrates one single week in the life of the Gamesblog 'forum'. Sometimes there may be two consecutive weeks in one post. But today, we have two Chatterbox chunks separated by a week. "Due to crazy holidays, etc, this is very late," explained Tjvs while handing in the text for April 4-8. A few days earlier, Cripsycrumb got the week of April 18-22 to me. But he didn't put dates on his, and Tjvs had mistakingly labelled his March, not April.But somehow, I figure it all out, and now here is the whole thing, painstakingly pieced together for your nostalgic reverie...Monday, February 28Break-ups, bust-ups and golfing game talk-ups...Monday kicked off the week with a bang: Seren announced the end of any more free ideas for the lurking writer of a very surreal office based sitcom. It seemed her reaction to getting a new job had lead to a venture out of the wrong side of the bed. The 2010 nicest blogger was going on the offensive because, in her words: "It's the start of the purge." The 'purge' lasted all of about 15 minutes before the officially recognised niceness won out, leading to... make-ups.Talk of who's going in for Olympics tickets in the ballot followed. Strangely absent from the chatter was which session of beach volleyball Tim put his name down for. So I'm assuming all of them.Uncle3en maintained his recent record for unbiased and objective views on matters relating to something called FootSport or something. With discussions of (delete as appropriate) some silly/not silly man having either done something silly/not silly, by consciously aiming his face down camera/reacting to having a camera thrust in his face, swearing loudly and there being a bit of a hoo-ha about it. Swearing? We don't go in for that sort of thing here. Good lord no.Murderous fish-impaling fishermen with their own harpoons, animal accents, seaweed-eating bears, Butter island, The Dude. These were the topics of discussion as the blog died a long slow death, fading away into nonsense and nonce-sense... but just as the Garbage disposal team of time was about to heave the wheelie-bin of destiny into the waste collection truck of fate MrBrow popped up to relay an epic tale of his Blood Bowel final with Worv. Stories of daring-do and elegant displays of the beautiful game in action... were sadly lacking and we were told of Worv bashing and killing his way to the cup. Surprised? Shirley not.TuesdayThe fifth. Five hundred and fifty five comments. The fifth post from RowLarry is a misquote of Dolly Parton, who is five foot five. Also five foot five is Uncle3en, who was wittering on about brown shoes. Must be something to do with his new job at the train station.Brown shoes with a black suit? Tan shoes with a grey suit? The blog descended into sartorial boasting blog, and the sartorialist, sartorialiser, the winner of best dressed at the awards, AngryMan13, had this to say: "Never trust a man with a beard or brown shoes."And as much as Treble asks for advice about his 'friend's' powder blue suit, we all know who he is talking about!Kirsty Young popped into the blog, to raise the question, along with the Bible and the Complete Works of Shakespeare, what game would you bring to a desert island? Rather a good topic for the blog – allows for an element of intellectual thought, the opportunity for travel boasting (there was this one time, on my gap year, I was travelling from desert island to desert island…) and pedantry blog.Fegbarr started us off with Shogun 2, Morrowind and Resi Evil 4, all games with depth and re-playability. Questions were raised as to whether this was a well wired, high bandwidth island and if there was somewhere to actually plug your console in.Timthemonkey came up with something appropriate – Monkey Island 2 – which I suppose is his way of marking his territory. Do I need additional controllers? Does sand counting count? Are there enough snails for Snail Racing. What if there was a hatch on the island? Sheep solves the problem of choice by bringing "Civilisation 2, with two extra copies" that sand can play havoc with a disc drive.Wednesday 6th March 2011In these uncertain times, with Chatterboxes appearing at all hours of the day (or not at all) the emergence of a shiny and minty fresh box at just after 7am was a welcome sight for those unfortunate enough to be cognisant enough at such an hour to post a message. To the 13 of you that partook, you have my sympathy.The collage of the day's chat started to take shape throughout the morning once the normal (that's definitely not the right word) people had arrived and inhaled their morning caffeine-laced beverages.Newcomer BlueAndWhiteBoy delurked mid-morning, revealing himself to be something of a long time blog-fan:  "I have a confession… I have been reading the box for years on and off without contributing (or understanding) anything.... I am the proud owner of a nice new PS3... I now feel qualified to submit my application to formally join the box. Now all I need are a few games..."Games? I take it he hasn't been paying too much attention over the years if that's the sort of talk he expects around here, especially with Chubster off on his Honeymoon.Then, in a shocking turn of events, GWX reappeared on the blog, and entered into massive argument with AndyC, resulting in him live streaming a re-enactment of his latest wrestling game victory on his pet cat. Well OK, that didn't happen but I had a feeling that your attention was waning. It's OK, I don't blame you, but let's focus shall we? The second half of the week awaits…As the day continued the box got sucked vortex-like into the dangerous waters of oft-circled topics, like an unwitting female poster to Cunning's patio. The relative merits of Band of Brothers and the Pacific were weighed (BoB is better, both still brilliant TV) as well as discussion of completing games and Platinum trophies, a topic to which EnglishRed declared: "You haven't beaten a game until you take a photo of the end credits and post it on an internet blog."Winner of best (and worst) Thai-based blogger 2010, EasilyLead, emerged in the afternoon much to the confusion of Makar: "Hello. Someone thought you might have died last week. Can you confirm or deny this?" As it emerged, he was very much alive, and had a distinctly unique take on the recent Tsunami, one that the major news outlets had so far missed: "It was sort of fun, actually. We played 'Thailand's got talent'. I didn't win."The day ended with a good old-fashioned Listblog, this time for best sports film, and in a nice piece of symmetry, the last comment was posted just after seven, wrapping up another thrilling entry into the Chatterbox archives.ThursdayA slow day, rather dull in general,The most interesting topic of the morning was a can of RedBull,CatZilla's 'demented' expression, probably proved consequential,as he was refused purchase of said drink, driving him quite hysterical.Then came lists of caffeine restrictive operators, in order categorical,Local shops with strict energy drink rules, to countries international,MilknCheese pointed out, a complete ban in France was operational,Somehow this then linked to talk, of Canada being liberal.The rest of the blog could well have been written in cuneiform,Except Keef's request that we have a Guardian Gaming night brainstorm,Suggestions flew in thick and fast: KZ3, MAG, BlOps and Motorstorm,But PS3, Xbox or PC? No consensus came on platform,And somewhere in all this, Jaykelly was lost in a Near-Eastern sandstorm.Friday April 8thFirstly a thank you: 739 comments and no 'All' button is like the Rorschach test from hell. All I keep seeing is page numbers. It's sunny outside, I don't think I'm going to make it… I'll just execute the autosummarise.exe file and head out. See you all on the other side.Autosummarise active.Checks complete.Straw to Gold settings initialised.Vernacular: Historical (text mismatch warning)Verily the day begins with the erstwhile merits of a variety of fermented yeast-infused beverages being assessed. For there is a much rambunctiousness amongst the civilians as they each present their case, UncleBen however is vexed at the discussion's timing: "Beerblog doth cramp mine eyes, being positioned at such an early hour on a Friday."Twixt mid-morning the conversation approaches seemingly magical "games", struggles of good versus evil, a Killing Zone was entered and survived by a brave troop, SerenVikity did cast aspersions on the gentlemanly upkeep of some participants. The moral code hath no place in war though, and the accused is unrepentant. There is also discussion of backstreet card games, and a Bowl seemingly entrenched in Blood, it appears to be a good luck charm to those who have partaken though, and much banter is exchanged.The discourse is subsequently turned to that of the theatre, albeit one which seems to be employed within one's abode. The merits of older performances versus new are raised by Jo5ephkn1ght in baffling terminology, seemingly involving wizardry of an almost certainly evil nature. He is gruffly rebuked by Artiefufkin however: "I wish Briggsy was here to go ballistic at your claim that old films won't be close to 1080p. Basically, it would be several paragraphs of bile, decrying you for your fundamental misunderstanding of the relationship between film and digital resolution." [translation unavailable]The phrase 'reference quality' is frequently cited, seemingly this is a spell of some nature to ensure the highest possible standards are met.A late afternoon revelation that Fantomex is distantly related to the throne of England steers the conversation in a refreshingly monarchistic direction. Shouldst 200 individuals suffer fatal accidents, he would ascend to the highest position, a thought which doth leave McBegbie in a treasonable mood: "A compelling argument for a republic if ever there was one".The day draweth to a close with a lively discussion regarding people's preferred comedic performer, such jesters as Will Ferell, Steve Carell, Tina Fey, Steve Coogan are discussed without much consensus being reached, a conclusion which appears to be the norm here regardless of topic.Quotes of the day"Where would the world be without people who moan about how other people play games?"CountGinula makes the case for games forums everywhere."It was 'Action News 6' and I played a functioning illiterate on-the-scene reporter called Rusty Manstache. I ended up in a shootout with my fake cousin and my co-anchor who I fought in Vietnam, Roger Fightmann"ElQuesoDiablo has some sort of breakdown.Quote of the week"Fish probably look at us using phones and stuff and think, 'what on earth are those people doing?'"Treble's animal philosophy lesson 417aTV:Game of Thrones, Friday Night Dinner, Twenty Twelve, Band of Brothers, Planet Earth.Newcomers:BlueAndWhiteBoyApril 18-22Day AAnd so begins another week. Although, thanks to the royals and the religious types, it's the beginning of three short weeks and two long weekends for most of the blog. Reason enough to celebrate the impending regal nuptials.As the weekend's activities were discussed, following a comment from 'style icon' Liam Gallagher, Smellavision questioned the blog's fashion gurus on the acceptable etiquette when wearing a shirt: "How can I pull this look off in the office and still be presentable? Can you wear a tie and not tuck your shirt in?  A cravat? Can I wear a suit and not tuck my shirt in? I presume that a tailored shirt is the way to go. Need the blog's help?"Tips were shared and although the general consensus was that a shirt should be tucked in for a professional look, there was some disagreement on the question of the top button. Never let it be said that the regulars of the chatterbox shy away from the important issues of the day.In games-related chat the usual suspects featured heavily – Tiger Woods 2012, Killzone 3, PES and Blood Bowl. Limni also extolled the virtues of his new obsession, World of Tanks. Rather than being a one-stop shop for all your tanking needs this is a free MMO based around, well, tanks.Postulation was rife during the afternoon as worldsworst put forward the suggestion, "If the blog were ever to be recorded for distribution as a podcast, who would you like to do your voice?"  Limni's suggestion of Patrick Stewart prompted a somewhat critical response from SirGigiddy: "Upon hearing that he'd been cast as you in the podcast, Stewart has come out in favour of assisted suicide. Coincidence?"The afternoon degenerated as always into the usual mire of quotes, potential libel and our foreign contributors coming late to the party.Quotes of the day"Camping seems to be the way forward though, I spent hours sitting in a bush sniping"Limni attempts to goad the COD and BFBC2 players in to a state of apoplexy."I fear for you, poor, starving, lying in the gutter, cast aside like a human piece of garbage."Simian wonders whatever happened to Greg Howson.Day BTuesday. An uncharacteristically early Chatterbox. That's not a dig at Keef, I think he does a hell of a job over there. I'm just saying."I think there is only one thing to talk about today, and that is science of the aperture type."If only that were the case, piscario. If only.A short week, and spirits were up. Volume was up. From the painstakingly precise greetings of the oddball early crowd to the mid-morning 'just up' boasting of the long-term unemployed, people were posting a lot. One of the best things about the Chatterbox is hearing, in some considerable detail, just exactly what everyone did the night before. Tuesday didn't disappoint. I couldn't tell if Amipal's recap really actually happened to him, or if it was from a film or something, but I liked it: "I invisibly snuck into the spy's lair in Bravil. Boy were they surprised when I summoned a Daedroth in their midst."  I'd imagine they were.People kept banging on about 'Game of Thrones', which, I believe, is a PC game set in some kind of high fantasy world. Some thought it was okay, and some thought it was pretty bad. Whatever. Nerds.Goody's new avatar was... breathtaking. But what did it mean? I don't know.  Yet I couldn't look away. That kind of thing is hard to un-see. Not that you'd want to.Politics. Now we're talking. Issues. Heavyweight stuff. Pseudo-intellectual sparring. AV chat. Electoral systems. What are they? Who knows. We'll probably never know. But let's at least attempt to thrash it out. Isn't that why we're here? Just thrash it all out by typing lots and lots of big, complicated words. The opinionated 'stepping' to the ignorant ('stepping', in this sense, being street talk, which you probably wouldn't know). Demoralising stuff. And as with basically every other topic on here, it invariably led into sex chat. A good two or three hours worth of it. Most of that part of Tuesday can't actually be printed. Nor should it ever be printed.  Or even ever said, really, in words, on the internet. Milkncheese was one of the few that was actually mature enough to be adult about the whole thing: "That's what ski-masks are for."  Good point. Seriously, though, what's sexier than a ski-mask? What is?  Very little, is what.Piracy. Copyright. Infringement on or upon that copyright. Theft. Crime... Terrorism. What, wait, terrorism? Are you serious? The al-Qaeda? All important things. All big important words. Big ideas. I think R042 put it best, when he said, "Would a vegetarian be entitled to take a bunch of steaks from a supermarket?" Indeed. Just think on that for a second. Personally speaking, I don't think vegetarians should be allowed into supermarkets. But you try telling that to the PC Brigade.Almost five. Home time. Is running blog, 'worst blog'? Worse than general exercise blog? Could be.  It's not really for me to say. It's definitely up there.  It's just so... specific.Question: Is posting unusual text symbols on the internet inherently racist, or just plain old magic? Are they both actually the same thing? Certainly something to think about. Everyone went home.Quotes of the Day"I smoked an old fashion pipe. Quite frankly, it was horrible"HumOfEvil. I personally enjoy an old fashioned pipe, I enjoy it very much. And quite frankly, I find this comment horrible."The older generations just love to drop the occasional racial epithet in conversation." -Sheep2. It was a more innocent time, the 90s.Day CWhere do all the missing Chatterboxers end up? Some say Charles Arthur has a special place for them in Hell. One 'boxer managed to escape his vile clutches, he's not dead but he's only got One Life Left. Yep, veteran blogger Lazybones has become a Digital DJ. Surely it's just a matter of time before he ends up on Newsnight Review, joyously hooting it up in HD?RowLarry spent the previous evening watching Suzy Perry, the Geeks' sweetheart, on The Gadget Show. They were focusing on gaming tournaments. The presenter had a brief interview with a 'Professional Gamer' who was apparently part of a clan called Team Dignitas. Is Horst resorting to headshots to meet with demand or just trying to drum up a bit of business through sponsorship?AV, FPTP, ER, RV, L/T/LD, PCP and NWA. It took me a while to work out that this was Politics talk rather than people chatting about games. Needless to say, some half-thought-out ramblings by the bloggers didn't do much in the way of illuminating things. The general gist of it all seemed to be whatever system kept out the Tories was best. BeCool had a useful method of forming an opinion: 'Are the Daily Mail for or against this?' That rule can be applied to pretty much any situation in fairness.World of Tanks. Has it really come to this? The War Historians and those more serious about their hobby seem to be warming to this one. Give it a few weeks and there will be drawn out arguments in tedious detail over whether the M1 Abrams (1980) is actually superior to the Merkava MK3 (1990). Can't wait.The post-lunch lull was spent by a few justifying why it was OK to download copyrighted material off the internet without paying for it. Some terribly unconvincing reasons combined with arguments which defied all logic were put to poor use. Predictably no one from either side changed their opinion.The rest of the day; well, I guess you had to be there really. I wasn't.Quote of the Day"Pedestrian and lacklustre. Textbook stuff."SockpuppetPseudonym sums the chat up.Day DThe second half of the four day week kicked off in textbook fashion. Discobox took advantage of an early start to reveal that, "I had an interesting experience sat on my toilet once. It's one of those suspended jobbies. I heard a sort of creaking sound, and before I knew it, the toilet had given way, and both ceramic and human dropped six inches, p*ss slowly spreading across the bathroom floor. Luckily I hadn't yet managed to pinch a loaf." Unsurprisingly this led to the sharing of everyone's favourite scatological euphemisms, which won't be reprinted here.Discussions eventually moved on to topics more suited to a left-leaning newspaper, such as the 'Republican' parties taking place on the same day as the royal wedding. Was anyone planning on popping along?  Amipal wasn't:  "No. If they love France and America so much, they should go and live there".Next up was the perennial favourite of chatterboxers' other halves and their... unpredictability?  Alimantado told us "An ex was p*ssed off with me for weeks and I was clueless as to why. Turned out she'd had a dream that I'd made her pregnant and then left her to bring up baby on her own. The clincher? When I pointed out it was unfair to be annoyed with me for something she'd dreamt, she replied: 'It shows you're not committed to this relationship if that's what I think you'd do.'"There was some disbelief as to why people would put up with this sort of behaviour, and luckily Sheep2 was on hand to enlighten us:  "Low self esteem and lack of judgement"In spite of Keef trying to encourage talk of Portal 2, games chatter hadn't really got off the ground. Limni stepped up as chief cheerleader forWorld of TANKS!!!  MendozaLives had his interest piqued:  "If I were more serious about my hobby, or a sinister war enthusiast hermit, I would consider that tank game"Worldsworst shifted gears:  "I'm posting from home today. The kids are watching one of those Beethoven films. In the past five minutes, Beethoven has knocked over an entire house (he was tied to some sort of structural support) AND has won a cheeseburger-eating contest. Fantastic stuff.  Is there a better movie dog than Beethoven?"The blog was all over this, with Hooch, Cujo, and Digby making strong showings. Mention of Hooch brought us to alcopops blog with fond reminiscences of alcoholic ginger beer, lemonade and turbo shandies.  HereComesTreble was unimpressed though:  "Is a well made gin and tonic not good enough anymore?  Not cool enough?"The afternoon slid onwards, with warm and fuzzy forays into both wine and cheese blog, with the general consensus being anything apart from "Yank muck" for both. This irked the blog's camping American, OpinionatedMike, who felt that this should be the place to talk about games:"To summarize Wednesday Blog: Portal 2 comments - 5; Games comments - 15; Other - 539 (Cheese - 80)"Business as usual then?  Lovely.Quote of the Day"I have already resigned myself to seeing discobox's toilet story in the 'Best Of' for today"Keef proves himself to be the most eerily prescient of the Guardian's games journalists.[Yes! Quote of the day! I've done it at last! – Keef]Games:KZ3, TW 2012, PES, Blood Bowl, Portal 2, World of TANKS!!!TV &amp; Film:Dr Who, Game of Thrones, Your Highness, films about Gladiators.End gameJoin theofficial Gamesblog spotify listand share your own favourite tunes. Last addition – 'Revolutionary Generation' by Public Enemy.Check theGamesblog wikifor everyone's game tags and more!This 'Best of' compilation was written by Crispycrumb, Smellavision, Onedave, Seren, McBegbie, HereComesTreble and RustyJames. It was edited by Tvjs and crispycrumb.
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFacebook's Own (Smaller) "OAuthpocalypse": Devs Have 48 Hours To Secure Apps &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"Last night and into today, Facebook has been sending out notices to developers they believe have apps in violation of their policy against sending authentication data to third parties. Those developers have 48 hours to fix their apps or they risk being "subject to one of the enforcement actions" -- read: being booted."Bing Facebook Friends Now Fueling Faster Decisions on Bing &gt;&gt; Bing CommunityBig move: "Starting today, you can receive personalized search results based on the opinions of your friends by simply signing into Facebook. New features make it easier to see what your Facebook friends "like" across the Web, incorporate the collective know-how of the Web into your search results, and begin adding a more conversational aspect to your searches. Decisions can now be made with more than facts, now the opinions of your trusted friends and the collective wisdom of the Web."Nvidia CEO: Why Android tablets aren't selling |&gt;&gt; CNET News"During an earnings conference call, Sanjay Jha, CEO of Motorola Mobility, articulated part of the problem, saying, 'Consumers want more apps for Android tablets.'That's not the whole story, according to Nvidia CEO Jen-Hsun Huang, who I chatted with on Thursday..."''It's a point of sales problem. It's an expertise at retail problem. It's a marketing problem to consumers. It is a price point problem,' he said, for starters.Though Huang didn't mention the $499 starting price for the iPad, it was clear that this was a reference point. 'The baseline configuration included 3G when it shouldn't have,'he said. 'Tablets should have a Wi-Fi configuration and be more affordable. And those are the ones that were selling more rapidly than the 3G and fully configured ones,' he said.He didn't stop there. 'And it's a software richness of content problem,' he added, echoing Jha's comments."3G's there because Android is a phone OS.Speech by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Rt Hon George Osborne MP, at Google Zeitgeist 2011 &gt;&gt; HM TreasuryIt didn't sound that content-ful when he read it out, either - open data hirings and cyberattacks apart.Honeycomb has a fighting chance against the iPad &gt;&gt; Techcrunch"Don't get me wrong: Honeycomb 3.0 on the Galaxy Tab is still buggy as hell. Sometimes I feel like the browser is a game -- tap the wrong thing, and you'll suddenly jump to the bottom of a webpage, or all animations will get sluggish. Even the 3.1 update, which I just tried out on my Xoom and will be available for the Galaxy Tab in a few weeks, doesn't seem to have fixed all the performance kinks. And Android Market still appears to have fewer than 100 applications optimized for the tablet form factor."But I think that will change soon."This must be some strange new meaning of the word "soon" that we're not familiar with. Then again, they handed out tablets to everyone at Google I/O. Didn't they do that with Google TV? And look how that's turned out. Oh.Top 10 awesome Android features that the iPhone doesn't have &gt;&gt; LifehackerNumbers 7-10 are unequivocally good, though the top 3 - "control your phone from your computer" (uh?), Flash (hmm) and "App integration" (leads to annoying modal dialogs) we're less sure about.The evolution of Nokia and Ovi &gt;&gt; Official Nokia Blog"Starting with first services on some of the new Nokia devices in July and August, Ovi services will be rebranded as Nokia services in a transition expected to continue into 2012. Each of the services under the Ovi umbrella will simply be rebranded as Nokia, with no planned disruption to the service roadmaps."Nokia's EVP and Chief Marketing Officer, Jerri DeVard explains the shift: 'We have made the decision to change our service branding from Ovi to Nokia. By centralizing our services identity under one brand, not two, we will reinforce the powerful master brand of Nokia and unify our brand architecture..'"So why was "Ovi" ever chosen if there's this powerful master brand? The whole situation should become a case study in a book on marketing.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
This week, I finally got my newLenovo ThinkPad X220, the latest and skinniest in the Lenovo X-series of fast, skinny, rugged, all-black, no-nonsense machines. This – my third X-series ThinkPad – is shaping up to be everything I expected from the line and more: it is slim, 2.5cm (1in), configured with its smallest battery and very light – 1.5kg (3lbs 4oz) or so; size up to the biggest battery and you get eight or nine hours of work at a mere 1.8kg; snap on the "Slice" battery, which snugly fits underneath the machine, fattening it up to 4cm, and the weight goes to 2.5 kg – but the Slice delivers about24 hoursof continuous operation without plugging in.I haven't yet taken the machine on the road, but 24 hours' worth of battery means that I'll be able to leave my mains adapter at home for the next all-day conference or travel day, which saves weight overall. It's got a 64-bit, 2.7GHz Sandy Bridge processor, 8GB of RAM, and I'm about to slap in a 600GB Intel solid-state drive that'll increase its speed and battery life even more.I had some snags getting this machine in, partly because of supply-chain problems with Japanese components from factories affected by the tsunami and earthquake, and partly attributable to Lenovo's less-than-stellar ordering system, which stands in sharp contrast to the quality of its machines.I switched to ThinkPads full time in 2006, after owning practically every model of Apple PowerBook released to that date, starting with a PowerBook 145 in 1992 or so. They were generally good machines, design-y, and they ran the Mac OS, which was the only operating system I used on my desktop. I'd administered various flavours of Unix before then – some Silicon Graphics Irix machines, a couple Apple A/UX machines, and then a series of GNU/Linux servers – but by the time I bought my first ThinkPad, I hadn't done anything Unix-y in years and couldn't do much of anything without intense search-engine assistance.My ThinkPad switch was inspired by a desire to try out the Ubuntu flavour of GNU/Linux, which I'd heard great things about. So I downloaded the latest version of Ubuntu –Canonical, the company that oversees Ubuntu, does two releases per year – burned it to a CD and stuck it in the computer, and, a few minutes later, I was up and running. At the time, I promised to document my joys and frustrations with GNU/Linux, but a few months later, once I'd been soaking in the OS for a while, I went back over my notes and discovered that there was practically nothing to report on that score.For a week or two I did a lot of mis-mousing and mis-typing as I learned where Ubuntu's equivalents to MacOS commands were. A few years later, I experienced the exact same sensation after we redid our kitchen and the builders insisted that regulations required us to move our cutlery and dishes to new places and I spent two weeks opening the cutlery drawer and finding myself looking at a load of pots and pans.One day, I woke up and I just knew where everything was, which is exactly what happened with my Ubuntu switch.The problem with writing about switching to Ubuntu is that there'svery littleto report on, because it is just about theleastdramatic operating system I've used, especially when paired with the extended warranties Lenovo sells for its ThinkPads. By this I mean that Ubuntu, basically, just works as well as or better than any other OS I've ever used, and what's more, it fails with incredible grace.This graceful failure is wonderful stuff, and after a lifetime of using computers I've decided that it's the thing I value most in my technology. Ubuntu is free – free as in beer, costing nothing; free as in speech, in that anyone can modify or improve it. That means that on those occasions where I've had a bad disk or some other problem, I could simply download a new copy of the OS, stick it on a USB drive and restart from the drive to troubleshoot and repair the OS. I don't have to take a rescue disk on the road with me, don't have to try to run out to the Apple store at 8:55PM to try to buy another copy of the OS before the shop closes. Anywhere I've got a working computer and an internet connection, I've got everything I need to fail gracefully.Ubuntu is a GNU/Linux "distribution" – that is, a carefully curated collection of free tools, gathered together, tested and packaged so as to provide an elegant, coherent computing experience. In this regard, it's not so different from any other OS. There is a committee of design-oriented, thoughtful people who make aesthetic and technical decisions about what I should be doing with my computer and put them all together – this committee includes passionate users, developers and Canonical employees. Ubuntu has its own version of an App Store, though Ubuntu's version, derived from a GNU/Linux project called Debian, has been around for years longer than the Apple, Android and Microsoft versions. Practically everything in it is free – and it's been tested and reviewed and described to a nicety, so that whenever you have a need you can just search the Ubuntu Software Centre for something to solve your problem, evaluate the small list of returned options, find the app you want, click and install. If you don't like it, you can install another.But this free business has serious knock-on effects in the graceful failure department. Ubuntu's Software Centre can be instructed to spit out a simple list of all the apps ("packages" in Ubuntu-speak) you've installed. Any time you need to set up a new machine or recover an old one, you simply feed the list to the package manager and it will fetch all your apps and install and configure them without any further intervention. This is nothing short of miraculous when compared with the clumsy, desperate fumbling with original disks and serial numbers from the commercial software world. That's what free-as-in-beer gets you.But free-as-in-speech also delivers benefits to the failing computer and its user: any time you want to do something with your computer that Canonical hasn't countenanced (or has rejected), it's pretty trivial to do so. You don't have to jailbreak Ubuntu to get it to run unapproved software. In fact, Ubuntu allows you to add programs from unapproved third parties with the same Software Centre, and hooks those programs up to its automatic updater. For example, I subscribe directly to the updates to Banshee, an excellent, powerful, free, open replacement for iTunes. These updates tend to be a little ahead of the official Ubuntu releases, where each revision is tested before it is packaged and updated.This is "curated computing" at it absolute best: you get all the benefits of obsessive, bold design from a closely coordinated team that shares a coherent vision for the way the computer works. But youalsoget to disagree with them as much or as little as you want. You can sit down and use Ubuntu and it will get out of your way and just let you do whatever you want your computer to do for you, with no drama. But when you find the need to tinker, Ubuntu reveals as much configurability as you could care for, starting with installing unapproved programs and drilling all the way down to rewriting parts of the OS if you have the ability and desire to do so. It's a system you can trust, but not a system that youmusttrust.I must disclose that Ubuntu's founder,Mark Shuttleworth, once made a donation to my former employer, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which helped fund my position at the time – there were no conditions attached to this funding – and that he subsequently personally commissioned a short story from me. Neither of these interactions had any bearing on my decision to try and continue using Ubuntu – I tried the OS on advice from Google's Chris DiBona, and continued to use it due to my overall great experiences with the technology.Speaking of great experiences, I mentioned the Lenovo hardware warranty above. This as graceful as failure gets. For £127.44, I get three years' worth of on-site, next-day, hardware replacement service. I used to keep two Powerbooks on the go at a time so that when one suffered a technical disaster I could switch to the other one while I waited one to three weeks for Apple to fix it. With my ThinkPad, I just call a toll-free number and the next day, or sometimes the day after, a technician comes to my office or hotel room practically anywhere in the world and fixes my computer. This warranty is provided through IBM Global Services –IBM flogged its ThinkPad business to Lenovo years ago, but held on to the services division – and it has been almost impeccable in the three or four times I've used it.Nine years ago, I quit smoking. My doctor asked me what I planned to think about when I craved a cigarette. I told him I would concentrate on the health benefits, and he shook his head. "You're 31 years old. The major health benefit you're going to get from quitting smoking is that you're not going to get cancer in 20 or 30 years. That's not going to shore up your willpower when you crave a cigarette tomorrow." So I thought about it and realised that I was spending one or two laptops' worth of money on cigarettesevery year. And from then on, whenever I got a cig craving I just thought about all the lovely laptops I'd be able to buy in the years to come by not giving my money to the death merchants whose products were killing me. Every time I get a new lappie now, I get a real thrill, a funny phantom association with good health.I was once a computer hobbyist. I loved to geek out about computers. I can still really get into the subject, but for the most part, I just want to Get Stuff Done with my computer. I am pleased as punch to have arrived at such an undramatic place in my computing life.
It's Tuesday, and in case you missed this on Sunday (because for some reason, it hasn't been posted on Gamesblog, have a look at my Observer feature on the'secret seduction techniques of game designers'. No, it's not about how Cliff Bleszinski pulls.
The US has given the broadest hint yet that a cyber-attack on one Nato country will be regarded as an attack on all.It is a potentially dangerous development, as cyber-attacks are increasingly common, with the Pentagon reporting millions of probes a day and actions by more than 100 foreign intelligence agencies.In 2007, Estonia was almost crippled by a cyber-attack thought to originate in Russia. At the time, Estonia, a member of Nato, said it did not know if the alliance covered cyber-attacks, and the US, Britain and others danced round the issue.The development is contained in a report by the Obama administration, International Strategy for Cyberspace, in which the US for the first time sets out a strategy for dealing with the expansion of the internet and what it describes as "arbitrary and malicious disruption". It notes the growing threats by individual hackers, companies and hostile states, and offers broad proposals on how to tackle these.It suggests that existing US treaties such as the one that set up Nato, which requires an attack on one member state to be treated as an attack on all, also cover cyber-attacks. But it stops short of saying so categorically. "All states possess an inherent right to self-defence, and we recognise that certain hostile acts conducted through cyberspace could compel actions under the commitments we have with our military treaty partners," it says.The thrust of the report is on how to reconcile the US championing of internet freedom in places such as China and Iran with protection of privacy in the US. The report is thin on how to achieve this.The Obama administration sets out a broad objective: "The US will work internationally to promote an open, inter-operable, secure, and reliable information and communications infrastructure that supports international trade and commerce, strengthens international security, and fosters free expression and innovation."But the report continues: "The world must collectively recognise the challenges posed by malevolent actors' entry into cyberspace, and update and strengthen our national and international policies accordingly. Activities undertaken in cyberspace have consequences for our lives in physical space, and we must work towards building the rule of law, to prevent the risks of logging on from outweighing its benefits."At present, international law largely does not cover the internet, nor do international treaties.But WikiLeaks, though responsible for the biggest security breach in US history, is not mentioned and was not raised by any of the speakers at the launch of the report, including secretary of state Hillary Clinton. Instead, she spoke of a need for consensus: "There is no one-size-fits-all, straightforward route to this goal. We have to build a global consensus about a shared vision for cyberspace."But what Clinton, who has underscored the centrality of internet freedom to US foreign policy, did highlight was the internet's role in grassroots mobilisation and attempts by governments to stop this: "While the internet offers new ways for people to exercise their political rights, it also, as we have seen very clearly in the last months, gives governments new tools for clamping down on dissent."Commerce secretary, Gary Locke, nominated as next US ambassador to China, said he intended to keep pressing "to advance these goals and the broader set of cyberspace issues with our Chinese counterparts".WikiLeaks was able to obtain a quarter of a million secret US state department files last year, published in the Guardian and other papers. Such a breach would not have been possible without the internet.The report wants states to work together to give better protection. "When cybersecurity incidents demand government action, officials can detect those threats early and share data in real-time to mitigate the spread of malware or minimise the impact of a major disruption – all while preserving the broader free flow of information. When a crime is committed internationally, law enforcement agencies are able to collaborate to safeguard and share evidence and bring individuals to justice," the report says.While condemning cyber-attacks, at the same time the US, along with Israel, is widely believed to have been responsible for the Stuxnet virus that Iran claims disrupted its nuclear programme.The administration last week sent proposals to Congress to put pressure on companies to improve security.The US funds schemes to develop new technologies and train activists to evade government controls. But activists accuse it of hypocrisy for insisting the internet must also have "rule of law": a signal that unauthorised breaches such as WikiLeaks will not be tolerated.
Cole Phelps is many things. He is a decorated second world war veteran and a clean cop in a dirty town. He is also, and to a quite uncanny degree, actor Aaron Staton, who you probably already know as Ken Cosgrove onMad Men.Which is to say thatLA Noiredoesn't merely boast some of the finest voice acting ever to grace a computer game, it has created an entirely new gaming concept: face acting. This is thanks to Rockstar's much touted and shiny new MotionScan technology, which captures a truly staggering amount of facial expression and makes the sundry creeps, crooks and occasional upstanding citizen of 1947 Los Angeles eerily lifelike. Each and every character is utterly believable, even when they're lying, which they do with surprisingly subtle expressions and glances. This is no mere gimmick; figuring out who is telling the truth and who is making a chump of Detective Phelps is the meat and drink of the game.That's right – although he carries a pistol with unlimited ammo, and keeps a shotgun in the boot of his police cruiser, Phelps's most important weapons are his notebook and pencil.LA Noireis first and foremost a detective game, in which finding clues, collating evidence and questioning suspects is the only way forward. Not only is this vastly more exciting than it sounds, it also works extraordinarily well. Piecing together evidence and reading witnesses correctly earns Phelps intuition points, which can be cashed in to reveal clues and remove dead ends in interrogations.This really keeps things moving and means you will never get completely stuck, especially as you can always ask your current partner for advice. And if you really want to, replaying the current scene is easy, as the autosave, forgivingly, only kicks in when Phelps leaves the area.This sleuthing and being on the right side of the law for once conspire to makeNoiresomething more thanGrand Theft Auto: The 1947 Edition. Phelps has a job to do and he wants to get on with it. To be fair, when that job is finding a sick serial killer, cornering a sleazy movie producer or just getting to the bottom of a hit-and-run that doesn't quite add up, so will you.There are still chases, punch-ups and gunfights aplenty to be had all over the exquisitely rendered city, it's just that there are rather more clues to be found and suspects to be quizzed. Find every clue and ask all the right questions and Phelps's path to another case closed, and promotion, will be short and sweet. From starting as a lowly officer on patrol (a very neat in-game tutorial) he works the traffic, homicide, vice and arson desks, gradually piecing together a picture of just how dark LA really is. This isChinatownmeetsThe Big Sleep, and it's as cool, gritty, cinematic, and, in due course, classic as both. Believe it.
Rumour No.2 of the day: the iPhone 5 won't be called the iPhone 5 (actually, we've been saying that for months): instead, according to a note from Jefferies &amp; Co. analyst Peter Mise, it's going to be called the "iPhone 4S".Hmm, well, we'd been hearing "iPhone 4G". But you can see the etymology: there was the first iPhone, and then the iPhone 3G (because it had, aha, 3G capability) and then the iPhone 3GS (because it wasspeedy) and then the iPhone 4, because it really looked very different from either of the iPhone 3 siblings.Word that's filtering out is that the iPhone 4G/S won't look much different from its immediate predecessor, and that it won't either have a number of other features: no LTE (Long-Term Evolution, otherwise known as 4G connectivity), no NFC (Near Field Communications), though it will have better cameras, a faster processor and HSPA+ (a faster 3G) support.Misek also suggests that the next iPhone will be launched on US carriers Sprint and T-Mobile, to add to the AT&amp;T and Verizon deals it already has. That makes sense in that now Apple can offer a CDMA version, it can cover all the US carriers. Plus Misek suggests it will be sold on China Telecom (a CDMA carrier). Those two countries together constitute two of the biggest smartphone markets in the world.Plus one other thing: why are all these rumours about forthcoming iPhones filtering out now, in May, a few weeks ahead of Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference where it is expected to talk about the next version of iOS, if there's not going to be anything to see? The rumour mill being what it is, the feeling is growing that there is, after all, going to be an iPhone hardware refresh in the next couple of months. That's the sort of conclusion you would draw anyway on seeing people such as Orange offering iPhone 3GS phones "free for just £25 per month for a limited time" - the sort of tactic that one expects to see when a company (Apple) is emptying out the sales channel and preparing to put something new in.Remember the adage of Tim Cook, Apple's chief operating officer, presently in day-to-day charge of the company: stock is like milk - if it takes too long to reach the customer, it goes off. Is it time for a fresh delivery... at the Worldwide Developers Conference on 6 June?
A notable rumour going around: Microsoft is going to bid for Nokia, the world's most prolific maker of mobile handsets, although passed now by Apple for revenue from mobile phones.The rumour comes courtesy of Russian blogger Eldar Mutazin, who has form: he suggested last year that there were talks going on between Nokia and Microsoft over Windows Phone, at a time when everybody thought Nokia was going to stick rigidly to Symbian - since ditched. He has also beensued by Nokiain July 2010 over the fact that he got some hands-on time with some new Nokia kit - something they were unhappy about. (The lawsuit is a clue.) So clearly he has contacts inside the Finnish company.He also forecast that Nokia would kill off the Ovi brand (for its online store) - something that the company thenwent ahead and did on Monday.Then again, he has also suggested that current chief executive Stephen Elop (ex-Microsoft, if you needed a reminder) will resign at the end of 2012. That stretches our credulity, to be honest, because Elop doesn't strike us as the sort of person who would leave a job half-finished. And even if he did oversee the sale to Microsoft, to become the new Mobile division, that wouldn't be the time to give it up.Nokia's UK director of communications Mark Squirestweetedthat "We typically don't comment on rumours. But we have to say that Eldar's rumours are getting obviously less accurate with every passing moment." This is what you might call a non-denial denial. He's not saying it's untrue. He's just commenting on the general shape of Eldar's rumours.So if we assume that this rumour is true, what sort of price might Microsoft be obliged to pay?Nokia's current market cap is $32bn (£19.7bn), and it has fallen from around $44bn in the days before the Microsoft-Nokia tieup.Here's how it looks since the start of the year:Nokia market capitalisation Jan-May 2011. source: WolframAlphaAnd here's how it's fared since 2009:Nokia market capitalisation Jan 2006 - May 2011. source: WolframAlphaAnd here's the longer view, since 2006:Nokia market capitalisation Jan 2006-May 2011. source: WolframAlphaMicrosoft's cash pile? After that $8bn Skype acquisition, just $32bn. Hey, look, same number!But there would surely be a premium for the mobile division, which is profit-making, unlike the other Nokia divisions - maps business Navteq, which bumps along making small losses (-€62m on €262m revenue in the first quarter, total loss of €225m on revenues of €1bn last year), and phone networks business Nokia Siemens Networks, which makes really quite large losses (-€142m on €3.1bn last quarter, loss of €602m on revenues of €12.6bn last year).So Navteq makes roughly a -25% return, while NSN makes a -5% return on revenues. But NSN loses bigger.If Microsoft buys the mobile division, it will have to find a tremendous dowry to pacify the shareholders at Nokia who will be left with two pretty worthless companies - Navteq's business model is being undercut by Google, which offers maps for free on handsets, and NSN is being chewed up by Huawei and Ericsson. They might try to sell them off, but the reality is that Navteq and NSN are arguably depressing the value of the mobile division, not inflating it. Without them, Nokia could be worth rather more, because at least the mobile division is profit-making and cash-generating.You'd have to expect therefore that it would be a cash-and-shares deal. But that would require Microsoft to issue more shares, and that will depress its share price even more than it already has, and leads toMicrosoft'sshareholders - already used to pain, since they've watched the shares go sideways for the best part of a decade - howling even louder. If Steve Ballmer were perceived to make even the slightest misstep, they would be calling it the final straw. Well, you'd hope they would.Yes, it would make a lot of sense strategically: adding Skype to the largest purveyor of smartphones in the world (24m v Apple's 18m, though Apple makes more revenue from phones - and so is the world's biggest phone maker by revenue, though not volume) would be a powerful combination.What it would also be is a dramatic about-turn from the practice that Microsoft has more-or-less followed since its inception: make software, let others build thesoftwarehardware. But it diverted from those with the Xbox (at the urging of J Allard) with success, and then the Zune music player (less successful; interestingly also Allard's suggestion).Microsoft as a hardware company? Stranger things have happened - such as Apple coming back from the dead. If it goes ahead, we'll be watching with fascination. Will the US government let it happen? (Probably.) Would the Finnish government? (Difficult.) The Finnish staff of Nokia? (Very difficult.)And of course the other thing about this rumour: it'll never get stale. The Stephens Elop and Ballmer are going to spend a lot of time denying this and having their comments picked over minutely. Just watch.
Apple's legal department is understood to be "actively investigating"claims by Lodsys, a patent holding company based in Texas, to have a claim against iPhone and iPad developers who use in-apppurchase systems.So far Lodsys has served papers on about a dozen iOS developers who it says are infringing itspatent 10/732,102, which it bought in 2004 from the inventor, who filed it in the 1990s, covering user interaction over a network.Apple is not expected to respond to the claims, which have been passed to it by affected developers, until later this week.Lodsys is asking for 0.575% of US revenue for in-app purchase. Although that may not be substantial for individual developers, one told the Guardian: "0.575% of the in-app purchase market across all platforms would be a very nice figure to have indeed. And, of course, it's 0.575% for this patent today. Tomorrow it's another 1% from some other company, and so on."Lodsys says that Apple has licensed the patent covering in-app purchasing – but adds that it can still claim for payments that use the technology in developers' own apps. "The scope of [Apple's] licences does not enable them to provide 'pixie dust' to bless another third-party business applications [sic]. The value of the customer relationship is between the Application vendor of record and the paying customer," notesthe blog's author, believed to be Lodsys's chief executive, Mark Small. "The operating system is acting as an enabler and the retailers are acting as a conduit to connect that value."In aseries of blog posts, the company notes that Google and Microsoft have taken out licences, but notes that "so far no one has asked" whether apps written on those platforms might be liable for licence fees.A number of iOS developers received couriered documents last week from Lodsys claiming payments were due following their use of in-app purchases.The move has worried app developers, who see it as a dangerous and slippery slope where they become liable for payments to third parties after using the in-system APIs that they are required to by the mobile OS company. Apple does not allow apps that use other systems for purchasing to be sold through its app store, and Google is also tightening its rules on app APIs.Lodsys is also suing a number of larger companies including Samsung, Brother, HP and Motorola Mobility.Lodsys comments on its blog that:"There are lots of bills in life that it would be preferable to not pay if one didn't have to. Lodsys is just trying to get value for assets that it owns, just like each and every company selling products or services is, trying to do business and make a profit. It's odd that some of the companies that received notices had such a visceral reaction. Some of these companies have our favorite apps, for which we paid the asking price. We realise you have to get paid for your work and so do we."One developer told the Guardian: "They do imply they've have a horrible weekend, but then again, I seem to be the one who hasn't slept properly since Friday, and I'm pretty sure I'm not the one who sent the letters in the first place! It feels very hypocritical for them to paint themselves as the victim here."Florian Mueller, who has tracked patent disputes in the US and EU,suggests on his blog: "Lodsys is trying to abuse the patent system in a way that could ultimately destroy the entire mobile apps economy, which is not only thriving on its own but has been and continues to be a key factor in making new mobile devices so useful and popular."He says: "It's actually questionable whether Lodsys's patents would survive a well-funded effort to have them declared invalid," adding: "Even if they could be upheld under the system as it stands, there's no way that those patents represent a fair deal between society and" Lodsys, which bought them from the inventor.Mueller fears that if Lodsys prevails it will buy more patents and use them against small app developers who would be unable to defend themselves; and other companies would follow its business model, "shaking trees for money that you just can't lose because your opponents can't even defend themselves".The risk to the mobile app economy is huge, says Mueller, and this move by a small, relatively unknown company might be the final straw needed to get the mobile companies, including Apple – which is the largest mobile phone vendor in the world by revenue – to lobby the US administration finally to do something positive about software patents. The problem is, what?
Ever since it first worked out how to assemble pixels so that they resembled something more recognisable than aliens, the games industry has dreamed of creating one thing above all else – a game that is indistinguishable from a film, except that you can control the lead character. With LA Noire, it just might, finally, have found the embodiment of that particular holy grail.From start to finish, LA Noire feels like a film – LA Confidential, in fact, along with any similarly hard-boiled example of film noir adapted from stories by the likes of Chandler and Hammett. Set in a gloriously convincing depiction of Los Angeles in 1947 (which is much more attractive than today's LA), it casts you as Cole Phelps, returning war hero turned cop.Instantly, you plunge deeply and satisfyingly into his working life, solving a vast number of cases as he becomes the LAPD's poster-boy, first in Homicide, then in Vice. And your immersion in Phelps' affairs ratchets up even further when he is hung out to dry by his dubious superiors.There have been plenty of games with cinematic pretensions in the past, so what is it that enables LA Noire to make a transcendental leap? Inevitably, technology is involved: the new MotionScan system used to capture actors' performances simply produces more convincing facial animation than we have ever seen in a game.Couple that with the obsessive attention to detail for which Rockstar's existing games such as Grand Theft Auto and Red Dead Redemption are famed, and the end result rings true to a greater extent than anything that has gone before. The familiar need to suspend disbelief has been all but eliminated.Real-life gameplayLA Noire's gameplay capitalises cleverly on this breakthrough technology. Essentially, it sees you playing through Phelps's working life, doing what you imagine a real-life LAPD detective would have done in 1947. Thus, you have to drive to crime scenes, root around for clues and examine bodies, then follow the resulting leads.It's when you question suspects and witnesses that things get interesting. You have to analyse facial responses and bodily tics like a poker-player seeking tells, then choose one of three tones to adopt for each question. These are marked Truth, Doubt and Lying, but Sympathetic, Dubious and Accusatory would perhaps be more rigorous.If you accuse a suspect of lying, you must back that up by producing evidence (all accessed, along with along with your records of each case and details of suspects from your standard cop's notebook). If you don't adopt the correct tone, the character you're quizzing will, at the very least, take longer to give you the crucial information you seek.As you rise through the ranks, you earn Intuition points, which can be cashed in to eliminate one wrong question-tone (or reveal the location of all the clues at a location). Luckily, LA Noire is pretty forgiving, so if your body language-assessment skills aren't up to CSI standards, you should still get the right result in the end, although you risk a chewing-out from your boss for shoddy police work, which is genuinely mortifying.Beautiful pacingThe game's pacing and narrative arc impress as much as its believability. The bog-standard detective work, fun though it is, is punctuated judiciously by action sequences including car chases, pursuing suspects on foot, climbing around inaccessible areas, puzzle-solving and, of course, shoot-outs.Between cases, you either get a flashback to Phelps' war experiences in Japan or a glimpse into his off-duty life; both those elements end up feeding back into the overarching storyline. The oeuvres of Shelley and even anarchist author Piotr Kropotkin are fed into the mix. Newspapers that you find when hunting for clues trigger yet another backstory (this time involving ongoing LA skullduggery), which yet again intersects with the main storyline in the game's later stages.A fascinating snapshot of an America struggling to readjust to everyday life in the aftermath of the second world war emerges, reinforced by the attitudes of your fellow cops (many of whom would be ejected from the Sweeney for political incorrectness, although Phelps's keen sense of morality keeps them sufficiently in check to appease modern moral arbiters seeking outrage).Since you're at the centre of proceedings, participating in and dictating the action, the overall effect is powerfully immersive. Cleverly, Rockstar has ensured that LA Noire is a thoroughly inclusive game, too. The control system is sufficiently simplified that even the most determined non-gamers shouldn't find it intimidating.Indeed, the more hardcore gamers may carp that it isn't sufficiently action-packed or precise. The one criticism that could be levelled at the game is that the shooting system has been over-simplified so that it feels clunky compared to thelikes of Grand Theft Auto.Depth and meatinessLA Noire largely does away with the free-roaming that enhanced the appeal of Grand Theft Auto and Red Dead Redemption. As you drive around, you do occasionally hear of street crimes to which you can respond, and there are hidden vehicles and LA landmarks that completists can collect and visit, but the overwhelming focus is on the main story.So it's a good job that, bucking the modern trend for short single-player games, LA Noire is satisfyingly meaty. Rockstar reckons it's roughly equivalent in length to two seasons of a TV series, a claim that feels roughly accurate.Perhaps, then, it would be more accurate to argue that LA Noire more closely approximates a television show than a film – it beats any film hands down in terms of the sheer amount of entertainment on offer, which of course is an advantage games have always had over films.It has all the period charm of Boardwalk Empire or Mad Men – indeed, the role of Phelps is played by Mad Men's Aaron Staton and other digitised Mad Men actors crop up sporadically – and it seasons the gameplay with a healthy dash of CSI.In the past, games with such overwhelming ambitions have floundered on odd, usually peripheral, aspects that jarred – such as unrealistic animation (and especially facial animation), clunky dialogue, poor virtual camerawork or facile characterisation. LA Noire is the first game to lack any such element which naggingly reminds you that you're playing a video game, rather than strolling through a film or TV series.That's why it marks a breakthrough for games as a whole – and we can't wait to see what Rockstar does with LA Noire's technology in its other blockbuster franchises.• Game reviewed on PlayStation 3
The British software groupAutonomyon Monday confirmed its long-awaited acquisition of digital archiving businesses fromIron Mountainin a $350m (£216m) cash deal.Autonomy, the Cambridge-based search software group, confirmed the deal to buy Iron Mountain's digital archiving,eDiscoveryand online backup businesses in a bid to boost its cloud data management presence.Autonomy's share price rose following the announcement and was up just over 3% to £17.88 at about 3pm on Monday.The deal marks the first significant acquisition since Autonomy unveiled its $1.1bn war chest in February last year. The group disappointed investors in the second half of last year by putting off a big-money deal.Mike Lynch, the group's chief executive, said on Monday it was an acquisition the company "had been looking at for a long time". It leaves Autonomy with a $700m cash pile for further deals."This acquisition makes Autonomy the cloud platform of choice, processing and understanding 25 petabytes of customer information," added Lynch.Autonomy said it expected to save about $40m a year from cost synergies on the Iron Mountain deal over the first year from sharing server technology, administration, data centers and marketing programmes.
Former US vice-president Al Gore has used various media to make his climate change arguments in recent years, starting with a live presentation, which evolved into a book and then Oscar-winning film, An Inconvenient Truth. His latest platform is Apple's iOS, with book-appOur Choice.It was developed by San Francisco startupPush Pop Press, working with book publisher Rodale, production company Melcher Media and Gore himself. "We think that the app is probably one of the richest, most interactive forms of storytelling that exist," Push Pop Press co-founder Kimon Tsinteris tells Apps Blog. "One of our founding premises is to re-imagine the book."Tsinteris and co-founder Mike Matas used to work at Apple – Tsinteris as a binary mixologist working most recently on maps and location-based services for the iPhone, and Matas as a human interface designer.The Our Choice app was released in late April 2011 as a paid app, costing £2.99 and running across all iOS devices. "We weren't really sure how it was going to be received," says Tsinteris. "There are a lot of naysayers around digital publishing, but people have been very appreciative of the level of detail that has gone into it."That includes more than 250 images, an hour of documentary footage and more than 30 infographics and animations, along with text from the original Our Choice book and an audio commentary from Gore. However, Push Pop Press wasn't set up to create just one app."It really is a platform," says Tsinteris. "When we started this project, the app was going to be just for iPhone, but when the iPad came out, Mr Gore also wanted a version for that. We sat down and built the tools needed to create a book once for both devices. We have an editor, a publishing/hosting solution and a document format. The app is really just a viewer of content."At some point, Push Pop Press may open up this platform for more book publishers to work with, bringing their existing print titles to the apps world. However, Tsinteris says, for now the developer is more interested in working on a project-by-project basis with authors and publishers who want to properly take advantage of the new multimedia tools, as opposed to simply slapping some videos on top of a printed text.In that sense, Push Pop Press can be compared with other book-app developers working on their own platforms, such as New Zealand startup Trade Mobile, which worked with historian David Starkey on the recentKings and QueensiPad app, or Touch Press, which is behind the critically acclaimedThe Elements,Solar System for iPadandGems and Jewelsapplications.It's notable that all these developers are focusing on iOS first. That might not be a surprise in Push Pop Press's case given its co-founders' backgrounds, but Tsinteris says his company's choice is purely pragmatic."Right now, iOS has the lead in terms of being the most mature platform for both smartphone and tablet," he says. "Other people will make progress though: you'll see some of the technologies in iOS come back to the Mac, then there's PC, clearly Android, BlackBerry PlayBook … We're happy to go where the market is, but right now, the successful store – the one where people are willing to purchase content – is the App Store. You can publish with a price tag."For now, many of these book-apps are relatively solitary experiences: someone produces the content, and people read/watch/use it. Is there a role for more social features in these kind of publishing platforms going forward though?"There is definitely potential, but the thing we really focused on is the relationship between the viewer and the content," says Tsinteris. "After that, social is a great way to let those viewers share the content with their friends. We see social as the next step on top of a great interactive consumer experience. Also, doing social right is tricky, and we don't really want to interrupt that experience."That said, social brings Tsinteris back to where he started: the power of apps as a medium for storytelling."There's a primordial instinct: people gather round the fire and tell stories," says Tsinteris. "It used to be travelling bards, now it's people tweeting or uploading Facebook pictures. Everybody is a storyteller at heart."
Foreign intelligence agencies are carrying out sustained cyberattacks on the UK Treasury, targeting it with malicious emails and programs designed to steal information, the Chancellor, George Osborne, has revealed.He said that government systems are the target of up to 20,000 malicious emails every month, and said that in 2010 "hostile intelligence agencies made hundreds of serious and pre-planned attempts to break into the Treasury's computer system". In fact, Obsborne said, "it averaged out as more than one attempt per day".Speaking to an invited audience at Google's Zeitgeist conference being held near Watford, Osborne said that the Treasury was the "most targeted" organisation in Whitehall by malicious software.He cited an example where a "perfectly legitimate" email related to the G20 summit was sent to the Treasury and some other international partners – and then appeared again within minutes, sent to the same distribution list but with the attachment on the email swapped to one that contained malicious code that could infect machines running Windows. "To the recipient it would have looked like the attachment had been sent twice," Osborne said. "Fortunately, our systems identified this attack and stopped it."A similar attack targeting the French Finance Ministry and the European Council last year succeeded in breaking into 150 computers ahead of the G20 summit.Osborne did not specifiy the countries thought to be behind the attacks, or how it was known that they came from intelligence agencies rather than opportunist hackers. ButRik Ferguson, a security consultant at Trend Micro, said "our security services could analyse the code used in the attacks to figure out how sophisticated it is. But in all honesty the biggest issue with online criminality is the problem of online attribution – knowing where the control server for an attack is based doesn't necessarily tell you who is behind it."Some analysts have suggested that the French attacks were done by Chinese hackers seeking an advantage in upcoming trade negotiations during the G20 summit.The government said during the Spending Review last year that it would invest £650m in a national cyber security programme to enhance online security. That may be too late for some government departments.In February the foreign secretary, William Hague, revealed at an international conference on security thatForeign Office computers were hit by data-stealing malware.That in turn followed the determination by security specialists thatUS and Israeli security services collaborated to create the Stuxnet computer wormto disable Iran's nuclear fuel processing facility, and thatChinese government-backed hackers broke into Google's email systemin 2009 to dig into email accounts of dissidents.But Osborne insisted: "We are determined to get the security question right, so that we can maximise the opportunities that the internet age presents." He said that government could make significant saving by offering public services online rather than in paper form, and that ministers in future would have to justify why any aspect of a public service needed to be delivered through "traditional office channels".
As you might expect from Peter Molyneux's Lionhead, Fable 3 was always going to be a polished but flawed gem. It received generally positive reviews (including a four-star one from Greg) when released on the consoles last Autumn and now it's here for PC.It tells the story of a Prince trying to liberate his kingdom from an evil brother and is basically a game of two parts. The first and longest part involves building a team of heroes capable of staging the rebellion. This is achieved by slowly building your wealth and powers, solving fetch &amp; carry quests and interacting with the local townspeople.In play, it's like a combination of Dungeon Siege and the Sega Dreamcast's Shen Mue. So, although there's plenty of repetitive hack-and-slash action, there's also the ability to earn money or invest in property to keep your coffers constantly ticking over.Complete the main quests and the game switches dramatically to being one of moral or world-shaping choices rather than questing. It's a shift you will either love or feel strangely annoyed about – something fairly typical of Molyneux's maverick, slightly twisted approach to game design.Some of the puzzles are intriguing. Early on, for instance, you have to act out a lost play before its ghostly author will release you and the treasure they hold. It's highly inventive stuff which makes the more formulaic quests (retrieve an item, beat a monster, etc) seem increasingly lazy.In fact, Fable's greatest problem is that it sets such high standards in some areas that the gaps elsewhere seem all the more noticeable. The social interactions start off promisingly, but soon pale when you realise that you must belch, dance or whistle your way through almost every encounter. It's also a shame that your three main trades (blacksmith, pie-making or lute-playing) are basically the same mini-game with different animations.Other niggles seem to have been ported over from previous console versions. Having to hold a key down until a little green circle fills up may be fine for Kinect users trying to avoid making accidental choices, but PC owners will find it an annoying two-second delay between almost every interaction. It's also irritating that you need to click to confirm adding any treasure to your infinite inventory – surely having to dig the damn thing up is confirmation enough.Despite all this, Fable 3 aspires to greatness and finds it surprisingly often. There's a superb music score, deep (if formulaic) gameplay and literally hours of inventive storytelling played out by likes of John Cleese and Stephen Fry. If the series continues to develop at this pace, it will one day rival the mighty Final Fantasy ... just not quite yet.• Game reviewed on PC
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy Microsoft bought Skype &gt;&gt; I, Cringely"Microsoft bought Skype to keep Google from buying Skype."Notice I didn't mention Apple.... Apple is not the next anything because the role it aspires to transcends anything imaginable by Microsoft, ever. Google is the next Microsoft, so Google is seen by Ballmer as the immediate threat -- the one he has a hope in hell of actually doing something about..."Were Google to buy Skype they'd convert those 663m Skype subscriptions to Google Voice and Gmail and in a swoop make parts of Yahoo and MSN irrelevant. They'd build a brilliant Skype client right into the DNA of Android, draining telco revenue and maybe killing smaller players like Windows Phone. They'd cut deals with equipment makers like Cisco (Linksys) and NetGear and steal voice revenue from telcos and cable companies alike. That's all Redmondesque behavior and if anyone is going to be behaving that way, Ballmer feels, it had darned well better be Redmond."RIM recalls at least 900 faulty BlackBerry PlayBooks - here are the serial numbers &gt;&gt; EngadgetNo, really, write your own punchline.Access To iPad App Flipboard Compromised In China &gt;&gt; Techcrunch"As of today certain aspects of the Flipboard experience have been blocked for Chinese users, at the very least access to Facebook and Twitter according to Flipboard CEO Mike McCue. While direct access to Facebook and Twitter is routinely blocked in China, the Flipboard app talked to its own US-based servers, which in turn talked to Twitter and Facebook so this block is particularly interesting."Where "particularly interesting" means "the sort of censorship that the Chinese government does reflexively".The Future of Skype &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comDavid Pogue: "Every time some big clumsy corporate behemoth buys a popular consumer-tech product, I cringe. It almost never works out. The purchased company's executives take a huge payday; promises are made all around that they'll be allowed to continue operating independently; and then, within a couple of years, the product disappears altogether. A little star of the tech sky is snuffed out, for absolutely no good reason."Yahoo bought GeoCities, Broadcast.com, HotJobs.com, MusicMatch, Konfabulator and Upcoming. AOL bought CompuServe, Netscape and Xdrive--all gone or irrelevant now. Cisco bought the Flip camcorder, and then killed it last month."He's not hopeful for Skype.Confessions of a computer repairman &gt;&gt; PC ProConfessions as in scams, not nudge-nudge. Such as: "Although the repairmen we spoke to stressed the importance of setting an upfront price with customers, they also explained that rogue outfits are more than happy to zealously undertake costly repair work, even if the final price outweighs the value of the computer."The result, when the customer goes back to collect the computer, is chronic "bill shock". Since the work has been done as per agreement, the cowboys claim they can withhold the machine until payment has been made."We hear about it a lot, mostly with motherboards or laptop screens that are installed at an inflated price - perhaps up to £180 instead of about £100," said Finlay. "As the work has been done, the customer effectively has to pay for it, even if it costs more than the laptop is worth. People should agree a price upfront and get in touch if there are any high charges, but not everyone does."And those aren't even the worst scams.Find London Buses Quickly and Easily &gt;&gt; BusMapper.co.uk"Can't figure out which bus to take in London? Click on 2 points on the map and we'll tell you!"Really we need to have these for all cities.LG responds to Optimus 2X 'black screen of death' claims &gt;&gt; TechRadar UK"LG has moved swiftly to release a patch for a problem that caused seemingly hundreds of Optimus 2X handsets to freeze and reboot."The issue was first noticed two months ago and posted on XDA Developer Forums, where users began noticing the phone was rebooting randomly, freezing on a blank screen while still being turned on and getting very warm with the supplied charger."This forum post is currently running at 106 pages of angry users who have tried everything from custom ROMs to even starting an online petition to get LG to acknowledge the problem."So much for dual-core and super-speediness. The patch is now up. Mac users are SOL, though, as the patch is a .exe - which of course will only run on a Windows machine. (Google Chromebook users? Err..)Fun With Charts: Making the Rich Look Poor &gt;&gt; Mother JonesA really subtle example of lying with graphs - by changing the amounts that each subdivision includes. The graph used by the Wall Street Journal uses different sizes of division for the lower-paid (sub $100,000, it's $5-10K; above, you get a $500K-$1M division).Because it's tilted, you don't read it, except to note that the biggest bar is at the $100K-200K division. So the middle classes must have all the cash, right? Wrong.Cisco's layoffs could be its biggest ever &gt;&gt; VentureBeat"Faced with slowing growth, Cisco chief executive John Chambers has set a goal of cutting $1bn in costs. Analysts contacted by Reuters predicted that Cisco will lay off 4,000 workers in the coming months, or about 4 percent of Cisco's worldwide work force of 73,000. Cisco also employs an undisclosed number of temps. The layoffs show that even in an industry upturn, there are still winners and losers. Cisco is like the sick man of Silicon Valley."The last time Cisco had such big layoffs was 2002, when the company had to take a multibillion-dollar write-off after the dotcom crash and cut 2,000 jobs."That's not counting the 650 people who went when Chambers knifed the Flip division because everyone kept buying the damn things.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 14 MayPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Brink(16+)Xbox 360 (69)PS3 (23)PC (8)12 (–)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Xbox 360 (37)PS3 (24)Wii (23)DS (10)13 (1)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (88)Xbox 360 (9)PS3 (3)74 (2)Portal 2(12+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (33)PC (10)45 (4)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (71)PS3 (21)Wii (4)PC (3)266 (3)Mortal Kombat(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)47 (5)Lego Star Wars Iii: The Clone Wars(7+)Xbox 360 (29)Wii (27)PS3 (18)DS (15)88 (6)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (20)DS (8)Wii (8)339 (16)Crysis 2(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (31)PC (14)810 (–)Mx Vs Atv Alive (12+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (34)1UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A burst of 8 apps for your considerationSuperSonicThis is the third music discovery app from We Are Hunted, which uses APIs from The Echo Nest and 7digital to help iPhone users find new artists to listen to. It's based on your existing iPod library, getting you to tap on an artist to see several more you might like, listen to 30-second samples and then buy from Apple's iTunes store.ebookers ExplorerThinking of going on holiday? ebookers Explorer aims to bring a social element to your research, sucking down photos, videos, blogs and tweets about specific destinations to provide a different kind of travel brochure – the layout may bring comparisons with Flipboard and similar apps.Man In SpaceSky At Night Magazine is behind this iPad book-app, which celebrates the 50th anniversary of Yuri Gagarin's 1961 space flight. Produced by BBC Magazines Bristol, the app offers a mix of videos, 360-degree panoramic photos and interactive animations from the last 50 years of space exploration.AlphaTotsThis iPad-only educational app is the work of Spinlight Studio, and offers 26 mini-games and activities – one per letter of the alphabet – with more than 100 lines of dialogue to help children work their way through the series.CastleramaCastlerama isn't a game, as such. Instead it's a tech demo showing off what's possible with the Unreal Engine on iOS devices. You stroll round a 3D castle, apparently based on the Italian town of Assisi. Best of all (if you're not that good at first-person shooters) there are no enemies to kill you.Britannica Kids: SnakesThe latest edutainment app for iPhone and iPad from Encyclopaedia Britannica focuses on snakes, with a target audience of 8-12 year-olds. Photos, maps, mini-games and trivia quizzes aim to make curriculum-based learning fun.UniTEAThe right-wing US Tea Party? There's a social location app for that! No, really. UniTEA wants to take "the first step toward unifying the American Tea Party movement and helping to get our country back on track", providing chat, forums and the ability to find nearby Tea Partiers.Kick Ass – Destroy the WebThis started life as a web bookmarklet, but has now made the leap to iOS. The idea: play an Asteroids-style game destroying mobile web pages. "Annoyed by your boss? Destroy his Facebook-page. Your competitors stealing your customers? Obliterate their webpage..."You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Block 1Key facts from the speech:• Treasury coming under sustained cyberattack by foreign intelligence agencies• key hire: Beth Noveck, former White House adviser on open data• all future public services will have to start off being delivered digitally unless ministers can provide persuasive reasons why not• many more data sets to be made open in coming year• citizens nowadays have access to more information than entire governments did a generation ago9.08am:Osborne speaks, happy to anwer questions about economy at end...Change isn't a threat it's an opportunity.Block 29.10am:"fundamental change to access to information. Today billions of people can access more information than entire governments just a generation ago. Access increasing every day, eroding power imbalances.... brilliant example during PM's trip to India"...Google Hack day in Bangalore to see what people could built - they created new tool to make Indian police more accountable: used dial-and-drop missed call so people can send it to a number to report bad experience with police, plugged into heatmap to show where people aren't happy with police, which could be used by civil society or government to follow up.Block 39.12am:"think it says a lot about Tony Blair that the thing he says he regretted most was the FOI Act. Maybe he should have regretted more...""Until this time last year British public couldn't access data on spending... procurement tender documents.. salaries of senior government oficials... crime on a street-by-street basis... now 6,000 in total.."In the next 12 months going to unlock some of the more valuable data currently locked up in government servers.. a year from now websites and services will help people find 'which is the right GP for your family', how well are hospital departments faring, was the person who broke into my car ever apprehended..."become the world leader in open data... benefits are enormous, not just in identifying waste..."Block 49.16am:"financial data market value perhaps $20bn, health data could be $300bn.. with smart meters embedded the amount of data is increasing rapidly... I want the UK to be at the forefront of this... our growth policies will focus on open data in the forthcoming months..."Imperial and UCL in unrecedented partnership to focus on how to best use the massive amount of data being generated in the world's biggest cities... transport, energy, health..."As part of the Tech City initiative the centre will be based in Shoreditch."Has changed policymaking, he says... changing the "asymmetries of wisdom". "Think it works best when we open ourselves up to the wisdom of the crowd."Block 59.19am:Ah: Glen Shoesmith last November pointed out problem to PM last year about finding tendering documents to sell idea to government. "Lat month we launched open procurement competition..."[No mention though of whether Shoesmith got his problem solved. - CA]"We're calling it the Red Tape Challenge: sector by sector, almost every piece of regulation on the books to feed in their coments, what should be scrapped or done easily, every single suggestion will be looked at... we are forcing government to look at what it does..."Here's the top-line news: "We have recruited Beth Novek who used to work at the White House to do this... she literally wrote the book on this.. will work alongside Martha Lane Fox on this [with Tom Steinberg, Tim Kelsely, Martha Lane Fox]."[That's a team which can get something done, for sure. - CA]"All our public service reforms will be digital by default and ministers will have to justify why anything can't be digital by default and has to be done through conventional channels.""Treasury has moved to online-only corporation tax returns... will move to the same for all the major business taxes..."Namecheck too foralpha.gov.uk, which if you havent seen is worth a look.Block 69.24am:"This creates challenges as well as opportunities..." Namecheck for the PSN hack ... "high-profile of the need for robust online"20,000 emails sent every month to government with malicious intent...We have seen hostile intelligence agencies make prepplanned attempts to break into the Treasury's systems... makes Treasury most targeted in Whitehall... G20 email sent and then resent where attachment had been swapped for malicious code... "[Interesting - though wasn't that the one admitted recently by William Hague? - CA]Block 79.27am:"9m adults in Britain haven't been online.. Hutchison doing maths... BlackBerry doing apps for schools.. YouGov sponsoring summer startup program to encourage students to set up internet companies.""Internet is forcing us to rethink government from the bottom up.""Reshape government... and build a brighter tomorrow."(Speech ends.)Block 89.29am:Comment: not very much that's new there - though making government services digital by default is interesting. It's self-interested: difference in cost between applying on paper v online is £10 v £2.Q: "How do you rate your performance?"Osborne: "The nice thing is that everybody else rates my performance...lots of reform..health reform which we're in the process of improving..  We've shown that we're a strong government taking difficult decisions."And he's off to a meeting of European finance ministers. "Not everyone is going to be there...." Osborne adds. Laughter.Block 99.33am:Q: "have you been as good as you could have been at getting the message out about how good we are at attracting inward investment?"Osborne: "think lots of focus has been on the deficit.. but on business we are taking aggressive approach to making UK more attractive place for business... corporation tax... entrepreneurial tax breaks.. this whole agenda, there's a whole team in the heart of Downing St, the people involved in this are in the next-door office to the Prime Minister. We're trying to be the first major economy that embraces the potential of the internet and the information opportunities that exist."Block 109.35am:Osborne: "NHS employs 1,4m people directly .... making things less hierarchical is difficult but technology offers opportunity. And truth is that although there is debate about pace of deficit reduction in the UK, truth is tha everyone has to understand there is going to be reduction in deficit over the next few years and public services aren't going to have the resources they once did which is going to force them to think about how you provide education or health care more efficiently. There is a great focus and that is forcing people to think about it."And he's off to catch that train. Let's hope he's not going to have to stay in a hotel with a shower.Block 119.38am:Signing off now - we'll have more analysis later.
Monday again!
There is no one page where web denizens can go to experience the definitive online British experience. I've tried to find one, but I get lost down the rabbit hole of the satiricalTVGoHome.com, or obsessed with the icons on the BBC's weather forecast page. I wanted to make sure I wasn't overlooking something obvious, such as ilovebritain.com or wearethebritish.co.uk, and so I conducted a straw poll of my Twitter followers, looking specifically for websites that would give an alien from outer space the definitive experience of "Britishness". I got a list back that includes everything fromnicecupofteaandasitdown.com, "the premier web site for tea drinkers who are keen on sitting down and biscuits", toTwicket.com, "a live internet video broadcast of a village cricket match", tomanutd.com, the official website for the football team. Hardly conclusive.The problem is that the very notion of national identity is complex. Being British is a late addition to our panoply of identities; our personal sense of who we are as individuals evolves early through experience – boy/girl, child/parent, et cetera – but our national identity is the bit that's learned later and is often thrust upon us. As Raphael Samuel describes in his bookPatriotism: The Making and Unmaking of British National Identity: "It is an occasional rather than a constant presence." In other words, the sense of being British isn't always there – it's ignited in our consciousness only in particular circumstances. A recent wedding springs to mind. The World Cup. Threats to our borders and security.The web offers a platform for multiplicity rather than unity. Before it gave us all a global voice, we were united by the narrowcast media of television, newspapers and radio; these mass communication platforms transmitted a Britishness that was determined by gatekeepers – the editors, commissioners and money people. Now, however, we all have access to what Hugh Mackay of the Open University describes as a stage where anyone can perform nuanced aspects of "the nation", and its core cultural attributes. Where this becomes particularly interesting is in the diaspora communities: the web now offers a place where people who have left a physical location can gather to experience a sense of national belonging. They can access the same cultural touchpoints as people in residence, from local news to comedy, and can engage in the same debates.Although McKay and other web idealists believe this allows for a more democratised definition of who "we" are, I'd say it simply offers a fertile ground for pedantry. We express what it means to each of us to be who we are, and if we don't agree with another person's interpretation, we can find people who do think like us and perform our version of Britishness with them instead.Yet there is some common ground across the online understanding of what Britishness is. Our empirical understanding of this has evolved through reverse logic: researchers have studied British identity in forums,&nbsp;social networks and other virtual gathering spots by looking at how we decide what we are not. And despite the very prominent multiculturalism in the UK, the unfortunate thread that runs through the results of research studies published as recently as 2008 is that Britishness is "white" – seen as the most common marker of what is perceived to be British and what is not.But it isn't the end of the story. There are countless examples of sites that celebrate our obsession with the weather, our penchant for satire, our co-dependent relationship with the pub and other elements of national heritage. The web allows for the expression of the diversity of the UK and the nuanced representation of the people united under the union flag does still inform how we negotiate and define who we are online.Historian Peter Furtado argues that&nbsp;the 17th century inspired the evolution of a national identity because Britain had to negotiate who she was within the global scene; we are experiencing a similar self-awareness now, via the conversations we are having across the web. Now, however, the conversation is global, rather than within the physical boundaries of the&nbsp;UK.Citizenship is a political demarcation; the sense of identifying with one's nation is a profoundly personal thing. We're not becoming more or less British because of the web, just as Americans aren't becoming more or less American or Iranians aren't becoming more or less Iranian. Technology allows each of us the opportunity to publish our versions of what it means to be whatever we are.If you don't agree with it, you can build your own version. So there.
As a standalone, multiplayer-focused, first-person shooter,Brinkis something of a success. Set aboard a floating metropolis housing the survivors of a worldwide flood, players fight for either the city's security or a resistance movement trying to escape their overpopulated home.Objective-based missions such as escorting VIPs or stealing items from the opposition occur in attractively stylised, open levels with multiple routes to finishing each task. Both sides have self-contained storylines that require rounded teams of upgradable soldiers, medics, spies and engineers to complete them. This can be done in the AI-assisted single-player, but plays best in online multiplayer, the unpredictability of human foes adding tension to the free-running firefights. Any level can also be played outside of the nebulous campaign narratives.Depending on your opinion of the ongoing industry shift towards online multiplayer, it makes for either an attractive disappointment played alone or, alternatively, another must-own step in the social videogaming revolution.
