PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (2)Grand Theft Auto V (18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (44)42 (1)Fifa 14 (3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (42)Wii (1)33 (–)Pokemon X (7+)3DS (100)14 (–)Pokemon Y (7+)3DS (100)15 (–)Beyond Two Souls (16+)PS3 (100)16 (3)F1 2013 (3+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (45)27 (9)Just Dance 2014 (3+)Wii (88)Xbox 360 (8)Wii U (4)PS3 (1)28 (5)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition (7+)Xbox 360 (100)169 (6)Disney Infinity (7+)Xbox 360 (43)Wii (31)PS3 (18)Wii U (5)810 (4)The Legend Of Zelda: The Wind Waker (7+)Wii U (99)811 (11)Saints Row Iv (18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (36)812 (13)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes (7+)Xbox 360 (36)PS3 (21)Wii (15)3DS (14)6613 (7)Nba 2k14 (3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)PC (0)214 (14)Max Payne 3 (18+)PS3 (53)Xbox 360 (47)PC (0)2915 (10)Pro Evolution Soccer 2014 (3+)PS3 (59)Xbox 360 (36)PC (5)416 (8)Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Blacklist (18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (36)817 (19)Tomb Raider (18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (34)PC (1)3018 (18)Animal Crossing: New Leaf (3+)3DS (100)1619 (–)Dragon's Crown (12+)PS3 (59)VITA (41)120 (12)The Last Of Us (18+)PS3 (100)17UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Rockstar has just the thing for gamers frustrated by the stuttering debut of its Grand Theft Auto Online mode: $500,000 of in-game cash. The companyannounced on its Newswireblog on Friday that the 'special stimulus package' would be dropped into the world perhaps as early as this week.The cash injection will be provided to any purchaser of Grand Theft Auto V who has attempted to play the Online mode during October. Launched at the beginning of the month, the service has been plagued by technical problems, including disappearing player-characters, and unreliable server access. Many gamers have lost thousands of in-game dollars, during the opening weeks."In order to keep the current worldwide in-game economy balanced, we will be providing this GTA$ to players via two deposits of $250,000," explained Rockstar on its website. "We will announce specific dates as soon as possible, but are currently hoping to be able to make the first deposit by the end of next week (after we've confirmed that issues causing game progress loss have been fixed) with the second installment to happen by the end of the month. For players who experienced cloud server errors, connection issues, and lost game progress and characters in these first days of GTA Online, we hope this GTA$ helps to facilitate a fresh start or makes your continued life in Los Santos and Blaine County extra sweet."There has been controversy over Rockstar's decision to include microtransactions in the Online mode, allowing participants to pay real money for packages of in-game cash. The company insists it has balanced the experience to allow players to quickly earn money through in-game activities such as missions and car thefts. This stimulus package will at least allow microtransaction-adverse players to quickly access some of the upper end purchases, such as apartments and multi-car garages (although players will still have to rank up to unlock fancy-pants guns and vehicle upgrades).Reactions have, as ever, been mixed. "Great news," wrote one reader of the Rockstar site. "I've stuck with the game even thou (sic) there have been issues but this just shows rock star have listened and shows respect to us gamers. Cheers Rockstar". However, one comment onTime's coverage of the news, complained, "I hate the fact they are giving everybody 500K. this is because i worked for a long time dragging myself through missions to earn enough to buy a 150K apartment and a 155K car... and now everybody even the people still on level 5 and such will be able to buy this stuff and they don't deserve it."It just goes to show that money can't always buy happiness. But itcanbuy a desirable residence in Rockford Hills and a new spoiler for your Pfister Comet super car.
Google&apos;s highlyanticipated Nexus 5flagship Android smartphone has apparentlyappeared in a videothat shows off an alleged leaked prototype device in full.The phone appears to be a working model, lacking Nexus branding and displaying rough edges around the cameras lens.The about screen also states that the phone is running the latest version of Android &quot;KeyLimePie&quot;, which was recentlyrenamed to Android &quot;KitKat&quot;.The device design matches previoussupposed leaksof therumoured Nexus 5from a quickly-pulled Google promotional video.Google is anticipated to unveil its successor tothe popular Nexus 4ahead of the Christmas sales period.• Why didGoogle rent 200 goatsin 2009?
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Microsoft Hints At Cross-Platform Opportunities Between Xbox One And PC | ForbesPhil Spencer has beenchatting with AusGamersabout the possibility of cross platform gaming between PC and Xbox One:"This connected ecosystem across all the different devices is definitely where I think the future of gaming is going," he went on. "You don't have to do it as a developer, but you have the capability and I think a system like Xbox Live across all those screens where you know who someone is and who their friends are, what their Achievements are and their progression is really critical to that."Can't see it working with first-person shooters (unless perhaps in a co-op capacity), but strategy games certainly...Nintendo green lights cross-play with other consolesOoh and it seems Microsoft isn't alone in this whole cross-platform thing:According to Knytt Underground developer Ripstone, Nintendo has given permission for cross-platform play between the Wii U and other consoles.The news comes via a feature published on Eurogamer about the state of indie gaming; in it, Ripstone creative director and co-founder Phil Gaskell said Nintendo was quick to agree to its request to implement cross-play."We're launching Pure Chess and Knytt Underground later this year, and on Pure Chess we asked whether we could do cross-platform multiplayer, expecting it to be the typical closed console platform I've been used to working with for 20 years," he said."Within a couple of days they said, 'yep, no problem. You can have other console players playing against Wii U players. You can have smartphone players play against them. No problem.'"Wii U UK sales spike 685% on Zelda launch | MCVCould things be looking up for the Wii U, thanks to Link and co?Wii U UK sales rose by more than 685 per cent last week, Nintendo has told MCV.The sudden improvement in sales follows the debut of The Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker HD, which debuted at No.4 in the Chart-Track All-Formats Charts lastweek.All this machine ever really needed was great games and some good marketing. Finally, could both be happening?Rapper Daz Dillinger - Grand Theft Auto V Stole My Beats, Now Recall the Game!! | TMZ.comUh-oh, Rockstar has received an unwelcome note from rapper Daz Dilinger:In the letter to Take-Two Interactive Software and Rockstar Games, Daz and his attorney say "C-Walk" and "Nothin' But the Cavi Hit" are used in the record-setting game, even though Daz turned down the company's "offensively low offer of $4,271.00 for both songs."Now, the ex-member of the legendary Dogg Pound is demanding they make him a better offer or -- and this is a biggie -- recall and destroy ALL unsold copies of the game.Rockstar has been given 14 days to reply. This could be expensive.Amnesia dev reveals new horror game 'Soma' for PC, PS4 | CVG UKGood news for fans of truly unsettling horror:Frictional Games, the developer behind horror title Amnesia: The Dark Decent, has revealed its new project, 'Soma'.Billed as a first-person sci-fi horror, the game is headed to PC and PS4 in 2015, and the first footage has been released via a new trailer and screenshots."For the last three years, we have been working on a game called SOMA," said creative director Thomas Grip. "All that time, this project has remained a secret - it's a great relief to finally be able to talk about it. This game is by far the most ambitious and thrilling project we have ever undertaken."And Grip explains, Soma "is a sci-fi horror game played from a first person perspective. You are not a space marine though; you're a normal, very exposed person trapped in a nightmarish world."SOMA is a game about exploration, survival and immersing you inside an interactive narrative."Here's that trailer:Gah, it's horrible!You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
The problem withGoogle Glasses, says Takahito Iguchi, is that they're not cool. He has a point. There's already a website dedicated tosightings of "Glassholes"– people wearing them looking either ridiculous or smug or, more often, both.And, whileSergey Brinmanagesa hint of Robert Downey Jnr as Iron Man, it possibly wasn't Google's smartest move to release the first 10,000 pairs to software developers rather than, say, supermodels or Scarlett Johansson.Search Google images and one of the first hits is a picture of a large, naked ginger man wearing them in the shower. And it's this that Iguchi, a Japanese entrepreneur, hopes may be Google's Achilles heel. He is launching a competitor that is a bit more stylised. A bit moreBlade Runner. A bit more Japanese.Iguchi's augmented reality glasses, which aren't really glasses so much as a single piece of metal with a camera and a micro-projector, are calledTelepathy Oneand, after unveiling them at South by South West in Austin, Texas, earlier this year, they have attracted $5m of venture capital. Like Glass, Telepathy One is due to launch next year.It's a stripped down, simplified version of Google Glass. Whereas Glass is, he says, "an egotistical device" with a range of uses – you can surf the net, read emails, take photographs, do unspecified things with as yet unspecified apps, Telepathy will be "more of a communication device". Connected via Bluetooth to your phone, it will focus on real-time visual and audio sharing. You'll be able to post photos and videos from your line of vision on Facebook or send them as an email. Or see and speak to a floating video image of a friend."It will help bring you close to your friends and family. We are very focused on the communication and sharing possibilities," says Iguchi, who has worked in the Japanese tech industry for 20 years, most recently developing a location-based phone app called Sekai camera.Of course, not everyone wants to get closer to the man in the futuristic headset, I point out. Iguchi shakes his head."I'm a visionary. I have a dream that people will understand other people. When I go to London, I am a stranger. Sometimes I feel fear. But I believe that everyone wants to be understood and to understand each other. And with this device, you can know more information about people before you even speak to them."It's possibly not everybody's dream that they will be filmed and streamed on to someone else's website before they've even said hello, but such is the hype surrounding Google Glass that, before launch, it has spawned half a dozen or so competitors. FromMeta Space Glassesthat have the retro sci-fi styling ofRoboCopto GlassUp , which look like the kind of protective eyewear you got to wear with a lab coat in GCSE chemistry, to theRecon Jet, which seems to have taken the sensible approach of targeting the sorts of people inclined to spend a lot of money on flashy tech gear and who already have a track record of wearing ridiculous outfits: cyclists and other athletes. The Recon, too, has attracted $5m in venture capital and is already available at $599.There are rumours ofMicrosoft Glass, Olympus smartglasses and even an Apple iGlass(a journalist on a tech website combed through thousands of US patents and found one that Apple had filed for a "head-mounted display apparatus for a user" but then noted that "Apple has a patent for just about everything").But then "wearable technology" is one of those buzzwords that tech people love, that are endlessly written about, and hyped, but haven't made the big breakthrough. It seems unlikely thatVibease, "the world's first wearable smart vibrator", unveiled in San Francisco this month, will change that. It can be controlled by you or your partner or, you know, some random hacker, via smartphone, bringing the prospect of "long distance intimacy closer".Google co-founder Sergey Brin demonstrates a Google Glass headset. Photograph: Seth Wenig/APCompared to the likes of Google, of course, Telepathy is a minnow. Not that this seems to daunt Takahito Iguchi. In his shared office space in San Francisco – a cool, converted warehouse in the heart of startup land, filled with twentysomethings – he quotes Sun Tzu'sThe Art of Warand points out that even tiny armies can sometimes beat mighty forces.When he was growing up, Japanese technology ruled the world: the Sony Walkman was the iPhone of its day. Now, to compete, he's had to quit Tokyo for Silicon Valley."Tokyo is very rich in fashion and culture but it's still an island. It's isolated. There is not any way to expand. Whereas in Silicon Valley everyone is from everywhere. It's where you come to connect globally." The hardware will be made in Japan, while he is putting together a team of software engineers in the US to develop its applications. On the day I meet him, he's being shadowed by a news crew from Japan who are interested in the new wave of Japanese entrepreneurs being forced to leave their homeland."We are losing our confidence," the correspondent, Takashi Yanagisawa, tells me. "And we need to find a way to regain our power. Iguchi is kind of like the new frontier. We hope he might be a new solution."Building the prototype of Telepathy One was easy, Iguchi says. "We have every sort of technology in Tokyo. It is presenting it to the world that is the challenge." The leading manufacturers are lining up to work with him, he says, because they have the technology, they just struggle to sell it. "There needs to be a story to the product. Like Apple did with the iPod – 1,000 songs in your pocket. And the way they positioned themselves against Microsoft and IBM, it was like the story of David and Goliath. And Steve Jobs was inspired byAkio Morita, the co-founder of Sony, and he inspired me, so maybe it will come in a circle."Maybe. He certainly has the confidence of Jobs, although with a thick Japanese accent he sometimes struggles to make himself understood, a fact that may have contributed to Telepathy One's conception. When he went to London to present the headset at the prestigiousFounders Forum, he stayed in anAirbnb."He [the house owner] was not my friend but I talked with him for three hours, and now he is my friend. That is how long it takes to understand each other, to share our feelings, and background, and career. Maybe Telepathy makes that shorter. If you are getting info from the crowd and social networks, that will happen more easily. And this man is involved in getting investment from UK to Africa, and he was very excited about Telepathy. That it would be a way of educating people about Africa, of showing them other people's point of view."This is Iguchi's fondest hope. That seeing somebody else's literal point of view will help you to see their metaphorical point of view. As a student, he explains, he studied philosophy by day and taught himself how to code by night."And one day I opened the door of my apartment and I suddenly realised that everything is code. That was my enlightenment. Everything is coded and is shareable between humans. And everything can be encoded and decoded. And if code is exchangeable between humans, that will end all war against each other."What philosophy were you reading at the time, I ask."Nietzsche."Ah: So Telepathy glasses are a way of becomingSuperman?"That is my dream. That everyone can understand each other. Each other's moods, ideas, everything." In this, perhaps, Iguchi is an heir to early computer pioneers such asDouglas Engelbartwho believed that computers could augment human intellect. That they would one day enhance our humanity. Or, you know, enable us to look a little bit like Iron Man.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTrustmarque takes Windows 8 tablets to Scottish government &gt;&gt; CRN UK NewsThe deal with Trustmarque will initially be for 100 devices, but if the pilot is successful it will be vastly extended in an attempt to reduce the Scottish government's laptop and desktop estate over time. The tablets are being deployed across the Scottish government's internal IT division which provides services to 10,000 users at 130 sites across the country.Trying out the Samsung Series 7 Slate, Dell Latitude 10 and Samsung ATIV tablets. Hasn't the latterbeen withdrawn from general sale?Identity Finder discovers Google Chrome users are vulnerable to sensitive data theft &gt;&gt; Identity Finder BlogLast week, Identity Finder security researchers performed in-depth scans on several employee computers using the latest version of Sensitive Data Manager (SDM). During the scan, SDM pinpointed several Chrome SQLite and protocol buffers storing a range of information including names, email addresses, mailing addresses, phone numbers, bank account numbers, social security numbers and credit card numbers.  SDM found similar data among all employees who consistently use Chrome as their primary browser.We confirmed with each employee that sensitive data, such as social security and bank account numbers, were only entered on secure, reputable websites. Despite employees having entered this information on secure websites, Chrome saved copies of this data in the History Provider Cache. Other SQLite databases of interest include "Web Data" and "History."  On Windows machines, these files are located at %localappdata%\Google\Chrome\User Data\Default\.Chrome browser data is unprotected, and can be read by anyone with physical access to the hard drive, access to the file system, or simple malware.As with itspasswords-easily-available flaw, Google says the answer is to not let people get at your machine, and to encrypt your whole hard drive. For a browser that's hard to crack remotely, Chrome is surprisingly vulnerable to some head-on attacks.Disney develops 'feel-around' touchscreens &gt;&gt; ComputerworldThe Disney Co. on Wednesday announced a new touch-screen technology that offers users tactile sensations that mimic real surfaces.In aresearch paper, scientists at Disney Research in Pittsburgh proposed a tactile rendering algorithm for simulating 3D geometric features on touch screens.Using electrical impulses, the touch screen technology offers the sensation of ridges, edges, protrusions and bumps and any combination of those textures.The researchers presented the technology at the ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology in St Andrews, Scotland.Sounds familiar, somehow.MacPhone Air: Mark Shuttleworth predicts Apple will merge Mac and iPhone &gt;&gt; ExtremeTechAnyone that has been paying attention to the evolution of OS X and iOS will have at some point noticed that the two operating systems are slowly acting more like each other. Mark Shuttleworth, founder of Canonical who recently attempted to crowdfund the Ubuntu Edge phone that would double as a desktop PC, has certainly noticed Apple's seemingly slow merger of its desktop and mobile OS. He predicts Apple will merge Mac and iPhone hardware one day soon, creating a device similar to the Ubuntu Edge.Then again, he reckoned people would crowdfund the Ubuntu Edge project to the tune of $32m.Byte Size. An Interactive Visualisation of Data &gt;&gt; InTechnologyGood fun.BBC iPlayer Video Downloads for Android &gt;&gt; BBC Internet blogFrom September, lists the devices which are enabled for iPlayer video downloads. Notable: Amazon (one tablet; two were removed at the last minute), both versions of the Google Nexus, the HTC one, LG Nexus 4, five Samsung devices, and one Sony phone.Nokia Lumia 520 cannibalizes the market share of big brothers &gt;&gt; InferseAccording to AdDuplex stats for September 2013, Nokia Lumia 520 still continues to dominate Windows Phone market. The model has secured 31.6% out of total Windows Phone 8 market.And Nokia overall had 88.4% of the installed base (HTC 8.5%; Samsung 1.9%; Huawei 1.2%). The headline is wrong - it is talking about installed base, not market share, because it's analysing data from apps (and talks about versions of Windows Phone which aren't on sale any longer). Shows too that it's the low-end phones which are selling. And, too, why Microsoft bought Nokia: none of the other manufacturers was making any impact.Why a (former) Apple hater thinks all BYOD devices should be iOS &gt;&gt; IBM Endpoint Management blogSo, why does someone, who obviously has no love for Apple, think they are the best platform for BYOD? Because Apple has embraced the enterprise. Plain and simple. They have provided great APIs for MDM vendors to leverage so we can help enable an incredibly secure platform for mobile computing.  In my opinion, the best platform. Their data segregation between apps and the managed app capability are great for BYOD management. I know Blackberry fanboys will argue that, but bottom line, who wants to use a Blackberry?  Their BB10 devices are cool, but there aren't any apps. If Candy Crush and Fruit Ninja aren't there, what good are they?  And since those apps aren't there, no one will buy them. And since no one buys them, no one develops for the platform.  More on that in another blog.And just wait till iOS 7 comes out.  It gets even better!In iOS 7, Apple adds some great new features to make a very secure platform even more secure.In ways which are listed. (Although he doesn't use an iPhone...)Toshiba: 99 percent of our business sales are Windows 7 &gt;&gt; ZDNetToshiba's business-to-business product marketing manager Cindy Zwerling:"Windows 7 is clearly the enterprise operating system at this time," she said. "But there are pockets of the corporate population that use [detachable] tablets, and might be running Windows 8.""But for your standard clamshell notebook? It's Windows 7," she added."From a business perspective, I would say 99% of our sales are Windows 7," she explained, noting that it was "clearly" the best operating system at the moment for the business market, and was why Toshiba loaded it on its new systems."At this point, there are few exceptions in corporate America in the enterprise space for Windows 8," she added.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The letter to Twitter, the US company preparing for a $15bn stock market flotation, sounded reasonable enough - if cheeky. &quot;We would like to partner with you to engineer acceptable, non-intrusive advertising,&quot; saidthe blogpost from Adblock Plus.But the sentence’s continuation seemed to carry a veiled threat: “We want you to do it responsibly, by adhering to ourAcceptable Ads guidelines.” And if Twitter doesn’t? Then it would remain on the list of sites where adverts are blocked by the browser add-on, which its developer - a Cologne-based company called Eyeo - claims has 30 million daily users, and has been downloaded 200m times.Adblock Plus’s model is straightforward: unless a site is on its “whitelist”, then it blocks all the ads shown there. And, as it makes clear, even big websites whose advertising methods (text only, no flashy gimmicks) it finds acceptable must hand over a share of their advertising revenue for the reward of being on the “whitelist” and showing their ads to visitors. “Small” sites - the precise definition of “small” isn’t given - don’t have to pay if their ads are deemed acceptable.Twitter declined to comment for this article on its thinking about Adblock Plus’s offer. But for the many sites which rely on advertising - not only Twitter, but Facebook, Yahoo and many media organisations (including the Guardian) - the idea of millions of desktop users not seeing the ads that pay a significant part of their bills is a problem. Yet the idea of paying the company which creates the problem to make the problem go away might not seem palatable either.&quot;First it blocks your ads, and then asks for money to unblock them&quot;“‘Shakedown’, ‘racketeering’ and ‘extortion’ are common terms publishers we&apos;ve spoken with have used in relation to [Adblock Plus’s] ‘acceptable ads’,” says Sean Blanchfield ofPageFair. His company provides analytical services for websites looking to find out how much they are losing to users of ad blockers. “We think this is very unfortunate, as acceptable ads are the only way to avoid more people choosing to install Adblock. The mafia comparisons are not helped by a lack of transparency around the financial terms of being on the whitelist.”Even some users of Adblock Plus agree. “I think the ‘Acceptable Ads’ idea will only work out if there is no money involved,”wrote a user called “freakinvibe” on the plugin’s message board when the idea of the whitelist was first announced. “If you were a website owner, would you share the ad income with ABP? I don&apos;t think so. First, ABP blocks your ads (without asking) and then asks for money to unblock them. Isn&apos;t that extortion?”Eyeo responds that “publishers and websites only participate by their own volition; those that have have been pleased with the results of non-intrusive advertising.” The company does concede that it has “initiated conversations” rather than just waiting for partners to approach it, but emphasises that “the order of approach is secondary to the process”.Google's "acceptable ads". Photograph: Ad screenshotSo powerful is Adblock Plus that even the mighty Google, which relies on showing advertising for 90% of its revenues, has been forced to make a deal with the company to bypass its blockers. But in Marchit kicked Adblock Plus out of its Google Play store for Android phones, stating that it “interferes with or accesses another service or product in an unauthorized manner”.A spokesman for Eyeo says it “can&apos;t speak publicly about specific contracts”, but that “the service we offer paying websites gives them the opportunity to gain more revenue by producing better ads.” He said the fee, which is paid by less than 10% of applicants, “is the main part&quot; of the company&apos;s revenue stream.Currently there are just 148 sites on the whitelist out of 777 which applied, according toa blogpost from Adblock Plus. For those which have to pay - which includes Google, Amazon and Yandex, Russia’s largest search engine - the fee for not having their ads blocked isreportedlythe cash equivalent of 30% of the revenue generated by showing ads.PageFair’s datashows that use of ad blocking software – of which there are a number of developers other than Adblock Plus, including Adblock and Adblock Edge – is increasing rapidly. In some particularly tech-savvy sectors, more than a quarter of site visitors block ads, but even general interest sites see between 15% and 20% of visitors using it.&quot;An ad that is displayed but ignored doesn’t provide value&quot;In March 2010, technology news site Ars Technica experimented with an outright ban on users who blocked ads. For 12 hours, they were redirected to a blank page, until Ars relented, with editor-in-chief Ken Fisher posting an explanation titled “why Ad Blocking is devastating to the sites you love”, saying: “Imagine running a restaurant where 40% of the people who came and ate didn&apos;t pay. In a way, that&apos;s what ad blocking is doing to us.”Adblock Plus developer Wladimir Palant respondedthat Adblock Plus users were unlikely to click on adverts anyway. “An ad that is displayed but ignored doesn’t provide value.”But sites are rarely paid “per click”. Instead, the standard metric for selling web display ads is “CPM”, or “cost per mille” - the cost for a thousand views. Even if users think that they are ignoring adverts, advertisers perceive a value in putting brands in front of them.“In dollar terms, it would be typical to see a general-interest website lose 10%-15% of its revenue,” says Blanchard. “For a site that serves 10 million page views per day, with three ads per page, sold at a rate of $5 CPM, this could translate into daily losses of about $20,000.”"Purging bad ads is just a start to a better internet." Photograph: Ad screenshotThe one thing all sides agree on is that the current state of online advertising is deplorable.“I&apos;d put it like this,” says Patrick Smith, ofTheMediaBriefing. “The TV adverts in between the action at the Superbowl in America are the most talked-about things in the country for a day or so after the event. People genuinely like them because they&apos;re funny, interesting, cute or just generally interesting. In fashion magazines, the advertising is part of the content - there&apos;s almost no distinction.“But with web advertising we don&apos;t yet have this commitment to quality: we have irrelevant, out-of-context flashing banners and low value ad network gifs about losing weight in one easy trick. We have rollovers that go &apos;over&apos; without being &apos;rolled&apos;. There are autoplay video ads, and much else, to disrupt the experience.”The debate isn’t about the aims of Adblock Plus, but the tactics. “I do think there&apos;s something slightly sanctimonious about Adblock,” says Smith. “I wonder if they&apos;d be more successful as a pressure group campaigning to make the web better, rather than a tollbooth for online content.”“Ironically… Adblock Plus is itself funded by advertising, via the whitelisted publishers,” adds Blanchard. “Overall, I think it would be best for the Acceptable Advertising movement if an alternative business model could be found.”But the plugin also has some unlikely allies. “I think they are doing a good thing blocking those ads. It’s for the good of advertisers,” says Princely Bibi, a research specialist at ad agency Coast Digital. “People should be able to choose whether they are served ads. Advertising is about providing a service, so I should have a choice about what ads are shown to me and what ads aren’t shown to me.”Adblock Plus’s spokesperson says: “It’s likely a long way off, but the logical outcome of Acceptable Ads is a day with only marginal adblocking use – because advertisers would have finally realized that they do not need to annoy users. So in that sense you could say that if our initiative is successful it will lessen the desirability of using ABP or other adblockers – that’s part of the reason that we want to develop additional products with [parent company] Eyeo. As we say, purging bad ads is just a start to a better internet.”
Hey, it's Monday! What the heck did you get up to at the weekend?
What's the story?Having inherited a farm in the run-down Echo Village, the task is to turn it into a thriving pastoral powerhouse and rejuvenate the town along the way. The agricultural industry starts small - planting turnip seeds - but soon you're turning over a profit and hand-rearing prizewinning livestock, while uncovering gently supernatural goings-on in the nearby forests.GameplayAlthough daily farm chores may not seem the most thrilling way to spend gaming time, it's surprisingly compelling. There's an RPG-like sense of progression to everything. A busy social calendar, encouraging enjoyment of local festivals, going on dates or travelling makes the world feel that much more real.Highs and LowsReturningHarvest Moonplayers will appreciate the new deep customisation of both the player character and Echo Village, while a shift to 3D visuals from traditional 2D sprites makes the series feel less dated. However, this also has one of the most crushingly arduous tutorials in gaming history.The verdictDespite the painfully slow intro,Harvest Moonproves exceedingly engaging once revealing its secrets. It may be still be overshadowed by Nintendo's own ever-popularAnimal Crossing, which offers a similar experience, but there's both nuance and depth here that makes it stand firmly on its own. A rewarding, little-life SIM.
What's the story?Fifais a title so omnipresent that developer EA is still, amazingly, pushing out PlayStation 2, PSP and Wii editions. Coming on the heels of the excellentPro Evolution Soccer 2014, can the big name monolith out-play its rival?GameplayThis year's outing boasts considerable improvements to AI in solo play, benefiting both teammates and rivals. The squad is far more responsive to your actions on the pitch, countered by opposition movements capitalising on the smallest error.Highs and LowsFor real footie aficionados, the Ultimate Team mode will be both a blessing and a curse. Virtual cards bought via microtransactions feature random players, allowing you to build a custom squad and trade duplicates. The perfect team may be the armchair commentator's dream come true, but reaching into your wallet for each pack will sting.The verdictFifa, likeCall of Duty, is a title that simply sells. While this year'sPro Evolution Soccerhas provided the more technical game with its emphasis on ball physics and fine control,Fifahas the branding and legacy to attract players without even trying. Thankfully, it has made the effort, andFifa 14is a fine, if predictable result.
What's the story?Indie developer Jasper Byrne released this retro-styled 2D survival horror game for the PC last year, but Curve Studios has now brought it to the PS3 and Vita. This director's cut adds new interactions, additional possible endings, trophies and more.GameplayYou play as a man who awakens in a post-apocalyptic world with some memory loss and confusion as to whether there's anyone left besides him and the monsters. The goal is to keep him alive for long enough to work out what's going on, which involves taking time out from solving adventure-game puzzles to find food and make him sleep.Highs and LowsObjectives appear on a map, but trying to match that with the 2D view is tricky. Combat is fiddly, but fortunately optional, and it's better – if slower – to sneak past. And these struggles just combine with the clever pacing and sound design to increase the tension.The verdictThe fact that neither player nor protagonist knows what's real and what is just the man's imagination is the key to this story, keeping you on edge and hinting that care for his physical and mental health may have an effect on how it ends. Needless to say, you'll have a reason to play through again.
What's the story?Three hardened crooks – veteran Michael, on-the-rise Franklin, criminally insane Trevor – conspire in a series of increasingly elaborate heists in Rockstar's latest opus. There's a surprising level of emotion between the characters, with Michael taking on Franklin as a protege and surrogate son, while Trevor deals with feelings of betrayal and his own mental health.GameplayDrive, shoot, play tennis, raise a dog – there's not much you can't do inGTA V's varied missions and hobbies. Open-world freedom has always been the greatest asset and remains so here, although being unable to interact with anything unless prompted leaves a sense of detachment.Highs and LowsThe meticulously realised city of Los Santos is by far the game's greatest achievement. Simply driving around, exploring the murky downtown streets or beautiful wilderness of the hills and farmlands can entertain for hours. The dialogue and performances are of rare quality.The verdictFive years in the making,Grand Theft Auto Vdoesn't quite live up to expectations. The central story boasts wonderful character moments but is narratively uninspired, while action scenes require little skill. Despite its flaws, this is a remarkable title with a wealth of content that puts most competitors to shame.
What's the story?This pair marks the start of the sixth generation of core role-playing games in the Pokemon series, and the biggest change is the use of polygonal 3D graphics throughout. They also introduce a new region to explore, new Pokémon to collect, and new characters.GameplayYou are the customisable son or daughter of a Rhyhorn racer who has just moved to a region based heavily on France, when you and some friends are given the task of researching Mega-Evolution. Naturally, you'll also want to fill your Pokedex and defeat all of the gym leaders along the way.Highs and LowsSome players may despair at the increasing catalogue of Pokémon to remember, but there are plenty of familiar faces too, including a choice of one of the original starter Pokémon from Red/Blue. With the new 3D aesthetic, all of those Pokémon look more impressive, and speeding through European-style towns on rollerblades is an absolute joy.The verdictThe core Pokémon games have such a winning formula that it must be hard to strike the balance between keeping it fresh and familiar. Some of the new features – like O-powers and training mini-games – may overwhelm at first but, combined with the striking new look, they help the game to take a big and positive step away from its predecessors.
What's the story?This artistic adventure game came out of PlayStation C.A.M.P., which lets budding developers audition their ideas for new and interesting games for PlayStation consoles. It comes at a time when indie hits such asJourneyhave roused interest in shorter, more experimental experiences.GameplayA feverish young boy spies the rainy outline of a girl fleeing a monster, and follows her into an alternate version of their European town, where he too becomes only visible in the rain. To find her, he must hide from the monsters under cover or distract them with noise, and solve puzzles that require moving obstacles or finding keys.Highs and LowsMoments of invisibility and changes in camera angle make it occasionally difficult to control the boy, but the game is so simple and checkpoints so frequent that frustration isn't an issue. The value lies not in challenge but in the emotional tale.The verdictOne for people who love fairytales, with the story conveyed in text that appears in different places to a backdrop of classical music. It's a decent length and encourages a second play as you unlock the ability to find poetic memories hidden in the town.
1Metal Gear Solid(1998, above)When the originalMetal Geardebuted on the MSX2 home computer, it was by no means a failure, enjoying much praise and spawning two initial sequels. But whenMetal Gear Solidarrived in 1998, such was the noir tech-thriller's impact that its predecessors are to this day largely overlooked.Metal Gear Solidalso kickstarted a new gameplay trend that would, fittingly, infiltrate genres of every kind and proved the ability for 3D graphics to deliver truly cinematic experiences.2Grand Theft Auto III(2001)The early history of theGrand Theft Autogames included much of what still defines the series, from its open playgrounds to the cutting parodies of popular culture. But until 2001 the series was rooted firmly in two dimensions and viewed from above.Grand Theft Auto IIImay have since been bettered, but the day it thrust GTA into three dimensions changed big budget games forever and setRockstar North's creation on course to become a true phenomenon.3Street Fighter II(1991)Depending on who you believe, the release of the originalStreet Fighter IIeither set the arcade industry back on course after its financially crippling crash during the late-1980s, or established a standard that eventually stifled the coin-operated gaming business. Either way, what it absolutely did was vastly better the originalStreet Fighterwith its depth and balance while simultaneously inspiring numerous sequels, clones, films and TV shows and in doing so, also established a new icon of arcade gaming.4Portal 2(2011)The firstPortal demonstrated that developer Valve was a true titan of game design. It introduced the idea of a sci-fi horror first-person puzzle game and was bursting with sharp level design and nuanced character performances. Many may still consider the originalPortalthe more important entry in gaming's canon historically, butPortal 2took its forebear's radical template and, with a delicate polish, introduced increased variety, superior style and a great deal more to do.5DoDonPachi(1997)WhileDoDonPachimay not rival the mainstream status of the other titles on this list, the arcade release is to this day an icon of cult gaming. A space-themed 2D shooter in the classic form, it exaggerated and refined everything about the originalDonPachi, resulting in a hellishly hard, frantically paced release that challenged players like few other games. It also shares much of the credit for spawning the 'bullet hell' category of game; still one of the medium's most respected fringe genres.6System Shock 2(1999)The first-person shooter is one of gaming's biggest and most popular varieties, counting among its ranks heavyweights such asCall of Duty. While the FPS form long predates survival horror titleSystem Shock 2, the game's influence over contemporary 3D shooters is significant. Starting life as an original game, and later reworked to serve as a sequel, it improved upon what was already superb predecessor. Created by Ken Levine,System Shock 2went on to spiritually spawn the designer's other great work, theBioShockseries.
It was a family Christmas, almost 10 years ago, and my sister was angry that I'd forgotten to buy a smoke alarm for her house. She died in a fire. Just my luck. And I ended up moving in with her husband and children. I didn't mean for that to happen. Love strikes when you're not paying attention. She didn't believe that, of course. We didn't speak much on Christmas day.That was actually because I spent a lot of the holiday designing an exact replica of my family in the world ofSims 2and ignoring my real one. Occasionally one of them would look over my shoulder and ask how their life was going. That's how my sister discovered her death and my subsequent betrayal. ButSimsisn't often that exciting. Like life, it's mostly a continuous cycle of eating, washing, working, maintaining relationships and going to the loo. Yet it's the bestselling franchise in PC history. So how mundane can a game be and still be enjoyable? In fact, are these even opposing ideas?"Mundane" is from the French, meaning, "of this world". And certainly there are games whose aim is to stay planted in reality. Atplayspent.orgyou can explore for free what it's like to live on the poverty line by facing a series of choices about how to spend earnings of $1,000 a month. When given options such as asking a friend for money, the game cleverly takes you directly to your Facebook account to experience the actual ignominy of that choice, rather than divorcing it from reality.Farming Simulatoris a charmingly awful game in which you plough up and down a field, apparently simulating an agricultural lifestyle, in a sort of hypnotic acceptance of your life being slowly scythed away. It's truly mundane but Ed Byrne admitted to being addicted to it onMock the Weekrecently, and many others must feel the same as it's topped global sales charts in the past.More complicated is the eerie, old-schoolPapers, Pleaseby Lucas Pope. In this, you play a border control officer, deciding who can enter the country by examining their passports, papers and comparing them to a rulebook you've been issued. It's essentially a 70s Eastern bloc desk job. The sound and graphics of the game are excellent at conjuring up the tense, Stasi atmosphere, and the stakes are high when your failures see innocents killed, your pay docked and your family punished. But as I cross-referenced yet another seal to see if it matched its issuing city, I did wonder whether I was a villain for becoming the callous immigration guard the game encouraged, or an idiot for doing all this admin work for no real pay. Especially since I have piles of filing to do in my actual office.But games like this, which embrace a certain truth, do tend to be the most emotionally involving. For the first third ofThe Last of Us, I was frustrated by its weapons system insisting on taking an inordinately long time to change guns. We've become used to accessing immediately a range of brilliantly designed arms from some time-pausing wheeland any challenge to that can initially feel like a step backwards. But play on and this seems like a deliberate choice to make more realistic one's responses to enemy encounters.When faced with two assailants, my reaction in real life would be to panic and hide andThe Last of Usencourages that sort of response, drawing the player deeper into an imagining of the actual situation. This meant that by the time I was ending the game I was properly embroiled rather than just impressively tooled up.So what about the other end of the spectrum? Well,Saints Row IVseems to have decided to make mundanity its enemy. A whirling, sugary pastiche of a game, you play the president trapped inside a simulation, killing and jumping with fictitious abandon and a dubstep rifle. The effect of this is boundless fun but little engagement of the heart. At its core though is a rather clever premise, because just as I began to wonder why I should care about mowing down innocent pedestrians, since they are only deleted avatars, I realised that of course that is all you're ever doing anyway, and the creators ofSaints Rowwere making that point deliberately by playing up the game within a game.Of the open worlds out there,Saints Row IVseems like the Scrappy-Doo to its gluttonous uncle,Grand Theft Auto V. The crime inGrand Theft Auto Visn't just theft, or even casual sexism (though it's full of both), it's also how dull it can be. It's a sumptuous, technical marvel, lit like a Rembrandt. But there's only so long you can gaze at the perfectly rendered fairground games before you realise you can't actually play them. For all the furious machismo around the release, a lot of GTA is driving back and forth like the tired parent of school-age children, running empty errands and giving lifts, wondering what happened to your own ambitions.But what's attractive is spending time in that beautifully realised landscape. And that's where mundanity ceases to matter and can even be a reassuring salve. I like games that keep one foot in this world; it reminds me to do that myself. And now I'm off to ring my sister and get her to check the batteries in her smoke alarm.
Becoming a video games designer was really an accident. As a child there were no video games – I was 10 years old when I came across my first computer. My dreams then were like so many others – to become an astronaut and then, when I first joined Sony, I wanted to make films.I used to make my own movies between junior high and high school but the department I was placed in was developing the PlayStation and they told me to make video games. I had no idea then that I could make a living from them; all of a sudden what had been just a hobby became a job.My very first proposal was forGran Turismoand it was turned down. So I had to think of something else that would be approved, which wasMotor Toon Grand Prix– a kart racer likeMario Kart. ButGran Turismowas the first game I wanted to make – I had first imagined it when I was 15 simply because it was the type of game I wanted to play – and so I decided that, although on the surface we were making this kart racer, on the inside we were developing a physics simulator.After it went on sale, Sony realised it was safe to invest in my projects and I was given the freedom to developGran Turismo, which really we had already been working on simultaneously withMotor Toon.Racing was one of the things that humanity came up with to replace wars. Being involved in racing [Yamauchi has competed three times at the Nürburgring 24 hours, twice winning his class]  made me realise the core fundamentals of what makes a race a race. You make your car, which is like your weapon, you make your team, which is like your army, and you set your supply lines and you have your battles. I realised then that that was going to be really difficult to represent in a video game and that set the objectives and the targets forGran Turismomuch further than they had originally been - motor racing is like war itself.I meet Sir Stirling Moss a couple of times a year and he never stops enjoying cars. And it is the same for me; one thing I can say is you never tire of cars. The thing aboutGran Turismois that we turn fun into a product and although we have 170 people working with us now, that part hasn't changed – we've never stopped having fun and that's the most important thing.When I started, I hadn't expected there to be a lot of people that the game would appeal to but I was sure there would a small number like myself that would want to play.Its wide and then enduring appeal was a surprise then and remains so.Gran Turismo 6 is released in December.
In an unjustly dark and dusty corner of YouTube is a badly compiled video slideshow of Alan Rickman in various stages of monochrome moodiness. It has the look of something slapped together late one night by a distracted student who should have been revising and YouTube is hardly the most salubrious home for Shakespeare's Sonnet 130.But Rickman's reading is heavenly – he oozes through it:"My mistress' eyes are nothing likethe sun,Coral is far more red than her lips'red;If snow be white, why then herbreasts are dun;If hairs be wires, black wires grow onher head … "I found it by following some piece of internet flotsam or other – one of those things you end up doing online when you're almost certainly on deadline. But it came to mind again when the female voice of Siri – the voice control feature on Apple's more recent iPhones – was tracked down recently in the US. It's a woman calledSusan Bennett, who has variously voiced a cash machine, phone systems and help messages for Delta Airlines.In the UK, we are more familiar with Jon Briggs, who started as a technology journalist before ending up doing voiceovers. Both endured lengthy recording sessions of more than 5,000 sentences several years ago, with no idea it would all be deconstructed to populate a voice control system that upwards of 100 million people would use.Which rather led me to think … couldn't Rickman be the voice of my iPhone? If Han Solo can voice the TomTom satnav, why not? Siri is certainly faster now it has graduated from its two-year beta, and connects to properly useful stuff, including Twitter. (Useful being subjective, I appreciate.)All the merry punchlines planted by Apple engineers are still there. Imagine Rickman's audible nectar: "I love your voice." "Thank you. It's too soon to try out forX Factor, but some day, Jemima.""Talk dirty to me, Siri." "I can't. I'm as clean as the driven snow.""Are you hot?" "We were talking about you, not me."Alan is more than mildly diverting of course, but Siri is an infant in the world of artificial intelligence. Spend any serious amount of time with it and it clearly doesn't do what a personal assistant needs to do – it doesn't learn. Siri is unlikely to be quicker than Googling the information yourself. Learning and then predicting behaviour is where these technologies really start to make a difference.The research team that came up with Siri, and sold the product to Apple in 2010, have another project brewing. SRI, based at Stanford Research Institute, has created Bright for stressful, highly computerised environments such as disaster response or cyber security, where fast and accurate response is critical. Various cameras and interfaces analyse touch, gesture and facial movements and learn the user's behaviour – which programmes are used, which emails are read, which mechanical processes  are repeated regularly – and then starts to create shortcuts. That might be highlighting an email that it knows multiple other users in the organisation are also grappling with, or making the most frequently used piece of software easier to access.If you typically pick up a bottle of water and switch to Spotify for a break, it might open Spotify when it sees you pick up a bottle of water. It's not creepy; it's automated. It's a mirror, but one that can pre-empt what you need.Bright is designed for emotionally pressurised environments more demanding than those most of us work in, but the technology, and certainly the benefits, will filter down into consumer technology just as Siri did. Siri itself started as a digital assistant for soldiers in the field.The issue is "last meter bandwidth", which describes how we, the user, become the bottleneck between the processing power of the computer and what it is capable of outputting. We spend cumulative minutes, even hours, completing repetitive tasks when machines are capable of taking the strain.From a computer science perspective, learning the behaviour of a single user is tough. This is the small data problem; unlike big data, where patterns and trends easily emerge, individual human beings can be unpredictable and can change behaviour, which is not helpful for pattern-hunting algorithms.That inconvenient human unpredictability was what caused the "inaccuracy" in a separate statistical project called Far Out, led by two researchers from Google and Microsoft, which could predict our future location. Even years down the line, and taking house moves, marriages and new jobs into account, our behaviour is usually predictable enough that it can be learnt, and then statistically modelled. If that's one tiny project by two researchers, we can only begin to imagine the kind of behaviour and location modelling being developed and deployed by the military.The promise has always been that technology can relieve us of the mundane, repetitive chores, yet our experience is usually that those are replaced with new repetitive tasks that ensure the more mundane ones can happen by themselves. And if we do free up some time, we stuff it pointlessly with more "productivity" rather than reclaiming any real life.Perhaps by the time true artificial intelligence filters down, we will be a little more sophisticated in the limits we set ourselves and let the machine take up the slack. Not only could it pick up the grunt work, but our own domestic Bright will be able to surprise us too. It will build in the delight and relief of serendipity and surface some of the flotsam of the web that we enjoy. A little of Sonnet 130, possibly.
Leave it to Justin Timberlake to utter the most important phrase inThe Social Network, a film that charted the tumultuous rise of the Facebook founders. It was about money. "A million dollars isn't cool," he quipped in his role as Napster founder and early Facebook backer Sean Parker. "You know what's cool?"The answer was of course: "A billion."In 2010, Mark Zuckerberg joined the billionaires' club as a result of theFacebook IPO,the latest in a line of hardcore geek entrepreneurs who had come to Silicon Valley to chase dreams of changing the world with lines of software code.The same rapid elevation of wealth happened in 2004 to Google founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page, and will happen again to Ev Williams, one of the co-founders of Twitter who has a 12% stake in the company and is almost guaranteed to become a paper billionaire when the seven-year old microblogging service goes public. Other top shareholders include co-founder Jack Dorsey, whose 4.9% stake could be worth $470m, and CEO Dick Costolo, whose shares could be valued at $150m when Twitter is listed on the Nasdaq.Companies typically float on the stock market so they have more money to grow and the windfall for early shareholders is always a nice bonus. So what do the Valley's geek engineers do with their new, often eye-watering wealth?The answer is a little different from, say, the investment banking and hedge-fund superstars in London and New York, characterised by silk ties and tailored suits, champagne on yachts, country clubs and TED-conference hopping.It's true that on the day of Facebook's IPO, at least a couple of sports cars were seen driving out of the company's car park with new stickers still fresh on their windshields. Yet on the whole, the Valley's "millionerds" tend not to flaunt or even play with their wealth as they might in other parts of the world. They'd rather spend their money building more technology. While London's wealthy bankers head to exclusive nightclubs, Silicon Valley's tech titans sit in at demo days for the startup incubatorY Combinator, watching young entrepreneurs take the stage to talk about the next billion-dollar idea and picking their next investment. They'll trade suits for sandals and shorts, charity work for startup board seats, opera tickets for 24-hour hackathons."You can only buy so many shiny objects," says Scott Hassan, one of the first software engineers at Google who became a multi-millionaire when the internet giant went public in 2004. "The majority of the people at these companies are engineers and the engineering mentality is all about building stuff. In the grand scheme of things, a fancy car is actually quite cheap. Houses? You need only one or two. After you buy one, you may buy another for your mum, and then you think, 'Is this it? Is this all there is?' And then your mind turns to, 'How can I make a difference?'"Hassan argues that because so many startup founders in Silicon Valley are engineers at heart, they simply can't shake off the drive to keep building something even after they've made enough money to retire.He says he attended plenty of parties after the Google IPO, but the general atmosphere became anticlimactic. Partly this was because there had been an inevitability to Google going public. It was something that all companies in Silicon Valley did even though, arguably, Google didn't truly need the extra investment at that point. It had revenue and (unlike Twitter today) was profitable. The result was increased liquidity and more wealth. Facebook's IPO was expected to create 1,000 millionaires out of its staff of 3,000 and that event alone drove house prices up by double-digit percentages in the certain parts of the Valley.Yet many of the newly minted went on to start new companies too. Facebook's early backer Peter Thiel incubates companies through hisFounders Fund. After Google, Hassan started a robotics incubator called Willow Garage, hosting engineers who specialised in making telepresence robots. These devices are essentially Skype on wheels; you can drive them around an office from any location to talk to others, so that someone who lives on a mountain can still virtually attend meetings in the city.Hassan used his Google windfall to fund some of the robotics startups that were part ofWillow Garage, and started his own telepresence robotics company, Suitable Technologies in Santa Clara, funded almost entirely from his own pocket."You start building companies as a way to make something that really affects the world," Hassan says.  While investment bankers typically make money by taking a cut, the prevailing mentality among successful startup founders here is to build something from nothing. "It's a very different concept and a different type of person who wants to do that."Part of this also boils down to the very blurred lines between work and play in Silicon Valley. Startup founders who come here to grow their companies find that meetings can be held at all hours of the day, night and weekends. Software engineers can easily work 80 hours a week to finish a project at Facebook or Apple, and do so as a badge of honour. One startup that was recently incubated by YCombinator is based in a house in the Los Altos hills, its founders sharing a king-sized bed and programmers crashing on the couch while they code through the night. The gadget they're making could change the face of computing and one of the first customers of their early prototypes is none other than Steve Wozniak, the billionaire who co-founded Apple with Steve Jobs nearly 40 years ago. Woz, like many others, would rather tinker on new technology than flat out retire.Technology here is work and play, quite literally in the DNA for some people whose parents and grandparents have worked in venture capital or at one of the early semiconductor foundries.So goes the Silicon Valley bubble, where startups vie to get funding from the top five venture capital firms, have connections to the founders of internet giants such as Facebook, Google or eBay, or come from top incubators such as Y Combinator or 500 Startups. The region touts itself as a meritocracy where the smartest engineers rise to the top, but building relationships with key people like the recipients to previous IPOs is also vital for success."Sure, there's going to be some more car sales," says Hassan of the Twitter IPO. "But that'll be tiny compared to the amount of money that's going to be distributed, creating jobs, and creating more companies."Parmy Olson is a technology writer forForbesmagazine in San Francisco. She is the author ofWe Are Anonymous(Little Brown, 2012)
Last month, on a bright morning in Chinatown, New York,Voguephotographer Michael O'Neal stood in the middle of the street with his phone outstretched. He needed to reframe the shot so he could see the detail on his model's Calvin Klein pumps. And then, with the sharp-fingered care of an artist, he pressed his screen and hashtagged it on Instagram. September's #VogueInstaFashion series, using only an iPhone, was thefirst high fashion shoot on the photo-sharing appand the latest commercial nod to Instagram's place in the industry. As a tool, a gallery, a community and a muse. And as the most important thing to happen to fashion this year.This season I followed London fashion week through 612-pixel squares. From the 205 bus, I studied the Christopher Kane show, his slippery gowns and spray-painted dresses detailed on theInstagram stream of style blogger Susie Bubble. Two hundred miles away from Paris, in bed with a book, I admired the splashy colours of Celine's spring/summer collection through the front-row feed ofVoguefashion editor Francesca Burns, seconds after the m odels had passed her.There is emotional sincerity in a photo taken fast. With Instagram I choose my editors. I choose the people on the ground with eyes I admire and it's this, their cut – their single photo of one key look that will sum up a collection for their followers.In the two months after launching in October 2010 (two years before Facebook bought it for $1bn), Instagram had amassed a million registered users. Today, it has more 150 times that, a proportion of whom (includingIsabel Marant, with 58,000 followers, andCara Delevingne, with more than 2.5 million) make up the fashion elite.Maureen Mullen of L2, the digital thinktank, reports that Instagram registers 25 times higher engagement than any other social platform. She explains how fashion dominates the app. Oscar de la Renta debuted his new campaign advertorial tohis PR's 229,000 Instagram followers, weeks before it ran inVogueorElle's September issues, but, despite not having an account, it's Chanel which wins in hashtag mentions. Its Paris show was "a playground for the Instagram generation", with bloggers lining up to take selfies beside a huge Chanel robot and quilted sumo wrestler. Much of Instagram's success in this fast-moving visual industry, explains Mullen, is because it is "mobile-native". It lives in our pocket.This year, style blogger Susie Lau started noticing images from her Instagram pinned up as inspiration on designers' mood boards. She wasn't surprised. She started Style Bubble in 2006 to publish her fashion photos, but since Instagram launched, her followers no longer have to visit her blog to see the pictures. The photos come to them. "For an industry that has a very short attention span and undergoes changes every day," she says, "it's perfect for capturing people's attention for a split second."Derek Blasberg launches a stationery line with Alexa Chung. Photograph: @derekblasberg"Instagram is a barometer of opinion. It's a visual diary. It's escapism," agrees Francesca Burns, whoseInstagram feedis a ribbon of patterns and hilarity, along with images of her favourite pieces by young British designers, or, say, a puppy in a hat. "It connects you to the industry, to your friends, to strangers ... I love it."When we speak, Burns is in Paris between shows, uploading catwalk pictures every two hours into the swell of the 55 million photos Instagram exhibits every day. She is not alone – rather than sketching the looks, the front row is taking photos. Instagram, for the first time this year, is so ubiquitous that it's become the fifth fashion city. Which means that those posting pictures are still learning."Everyone gets annoyed when you have to crane your neck past someone taking a phone photo in front of you," Burns says, " but we all do it. I think we are all adjusting and learning." Fashion editors are now the photographers, as well as reporters. As well as (in the case ofHarper's Bazaar'sDerek Blasberg) celebrities, pouting alongside supermodels in high glamour situations. "Technology is evolving so fast," adds Burns, "we're all just figuring it out as we go along."Victoria Beckham poses in ‘dressing gown and Manolo’s in Vegas’. Photograph: @victoriabeckhamInside our phoneswe are curating moodboards for the way we'd like to live. An archive of images that are funny, odd, interesting or inspiring. Are we all becoming fashion editors? Stylists of our own micro-magazines? Instagram co-founder Kevin Systrom agrees that social media has democratised fashion. "It's no longer one person picking exactly what goes on what page," he points out. "All of us can participate." On Instagram, he says, "Up-and-coming designers are finding a platform to get their looks out into the world. We never really set out to create a platform for commerce, but in some ways Instagram is becoming that platform for folks in fashion."Last month Systrom was given a front-row seat at his first fashion show, Burberry, one of the top 10 fashion brands on Instagram with more than a million followers. There's a picture of him sitting next to Alexa Chung while Cara Delevingne struts past in dusky, bubblegum pink. While Chung andVogueeditor Alexandra Shulman are looking to the right, Systrom is gazing off to the left. He's watching the people Instagramming the show. "There was a big tripod with a tiny iPhone on the top," he said later at the National Portrait Gallery, where blown-up Instagram pictures were hanging like old masters. "I walked over and there was a celebrity sitting next to the camera. I took out my phone. They thought I was coming over to take a picture of them but I took a picture of that iPhone. It was one of the most interesting things I'd ever seen… Social media and our devices are changing fashion."And it's changing fashion not just in ways that are instantly quantifiable – in follower numbers or clicks – but in ways that are ambiguous and sly. See, for example, Cara Delevingne's bubblegum-pink suit. Kay Barron, fashion features director at Net-a-Porter, says she looked up at the Burberry catwalk and was struck by the familiarity of the colours. "When I saw all the faded pastels, and Burberry's spring/summer 14 palette," she recalls, "I was reminded of Instagram."Pink is the colour of the season. Simone Rocha's runway was a stream of pink dresses, coats and brogues. Mulberry, Miu Miu, Celine, Jonathan Saunders – all their autumn collections were soaked in the same rosy, milkshake tones. These are tones reminiscent of the filters Instagram has become famous for, filters that saturate your photos with nostalgia for a pre-digital age, when the light was more flattering and everything appeared Vaseline-smudged. This season the Instagram palette has spilled on to the catwalk, drenching everything in a Californian summer.  Instagram is training our eyes.This is how we see fashion now – on palm-sized screens, double-clicking with thumbs. We see the details on couture gowns the second they're presented, the shoe of the season before the season even starts. Fashion today is designed to be seen on screen – colours that will pop, make you pause. Accessories that look unusual and kitsch enough to be regrammed across phones, cities, countries. Instagram has refocused our gaze. And tinted it rose.
So here we go again: another "free" web service with a silly name, some revenues (but still not enough to cover its operating costs), and a business model that seems, well, a bit sketchy, heading for astock market flotation.Accompanying this we have the usual hoopla: frenzied speculation about "valuations"; serious looking bankers in suits touting spreadsheets which purport to give a rational basis for numbers plucked out of the air; gossip columnists speculating on how much the company's founders will be "worth "after the first day's trading.And there are also legions of "normal" people shaking their heads and wondering how a company with a few employees and no physical product can be worth more than an enterprise that makes real things and sells them to customers.The obvious comparison is with Facebook. After all, they're both "social networking services", aren't they? But Facebook is much bigger – with 1.15 billion users, compared with Twitter's paltry 215 million has grown faster, and earns waymore revenue per user. Twitter is hoping to raise $1bn from its initial public offering (IPO), which is closer to the $1.6bn that Google raised in 2004 than to the $16bn that Facebook aimed at in 2012. And Twitter and Facebook are alike in that all of their business models appear, ultimately, to depend on advertising. Or, to put it more crudely, on "monetising" their users.But while it's obvious what Facebook is – a social-networking service – a root definition of Twitter is much more elusive. In itsS-1 Filing(the document a company has to file with the US Securities and Exchange Commission in order to get the stock market flotation), the company's owners describe it as "a global platform for public self-expression and conversation in real time". By developing "a fundamentally new way for people to create, distribute and discover content", they claim to "have democratised content creation and distribution, enabling any voice to echo around the world instantly and unfiltered". That sounds about right but it covers a multitude. And what it means is that Twitter is different things to different people.For some, it is a way to plug into the thought-stream of people whose work they value or admire. For others, it's an ego-trip amplifier. For celebs, it's just another publicity tool. For their unfortunate fans it's a way of kidding themselves that they are, somehow, gaining admittance to an inner circle.For bloggers, it's a way of giving their posts a chance of gaining some traction or attention. For non-bloggers, it's a channel for sharing interesting links and gossip. For sports fans, it's a channel for complaining about the referee.For millions, it's a way of having your own broadcasting station for transmitting your exasperated rants about the coalition, Obamacare, theTodayprogramme, call-centre music, Ryanair or whatever is getting under your skin.And so on and so on, ad infinitum. And all in what has come to be known, quaintly, as real time. Put all those (and more) into a blender, whizz gently and what do you get? Answer: a strange combination of wire service and coffee shop.Tweet sent by @jkrums.One of the seminal moments in Twitter's evolution came on 15 January 2009, when US Airways flight 1549 ran into a flock of birds and crash-landed in the Hudson river. A Twitter user namedJanis Krumstweeted a photograph of the stricken aircraft together with the text: "There's a plane in the Hudson. I'm on the ferry going to pick up the people. Crazy."Which is how the world got to know about the accident a full 15 minutes before the "professional" news organisations were able to get the word out. And how the rest of us woke up to the fact that we had accidentally acquired the kind of wire service that once was the exclusive prerogative of those aforementioned organisations.As for the coffee shop dimension, one didn't have to look further than what happened during the television debates between the British party leaders in the 2010 general election when Twitter became an astonishing back-channel for live, second-by-second commentary on the debate which was far more entertaining, and enlightening, than anything the official participants said. And one realised that, here, finally, was a medium that could cut broadcast television down to size.Despite Facebook's size and reach, and its much-vaunted role in the short-livedArab spring, there are reasons for thinking that Twitter may be the more important service for the future of the public sphere – that is, the space in which democracies conduct public discussion. The fact that Twitter has fewer users and that they might not bedemographically representativemight, paradoxically, make them more influential in shaping opinion for the simple reason that they are more likely than the average Joe to express or articulate political views.And there is some evidence to suggest that tweeted sentiment on some ideological issues actually tracks more rigorous methods of opinion polling.In a less abstruse way, Twitter has already shown itself to be a useful conduit for circumventing legal or governmental censorship. In the UK, for example, it provided the means for circumventing the intricate web of legal injunctions and super-injunctions which had kept theTrafigura caseout of the public domain.When WikiLeaks was deprived of DNS services during the "Cablegate" controversy – which had the effect of making the site unfindable for a time – Twitter provided the channel by which information on the current URL was disseminated until normal service was  restored.To date, the owners of Twitter have been alert to the sensitive role that their system plays in our information ecosystem. They seem to have been slightly better, for example, than some other online providers at pushing back on government demands for personal informationabout their users.All of which means that the metamorphosis of Twitter from a privately held company to a public one is more significant than most stock-market flotations.Public corporations are like nation states in one respect, namely that while they may bleat (or boast) about their "values", in the end they are driven only by their national or corporate interests – which in practice means the interests of shareholders. Standing up to governments on ethical grounds is not something of which shareholders generally approve, especially if doing so might incur legal or financial penalties.And here we see the biggest weakness of so-called "free" services such as Facebook and Twitter. In order to prosper commercially they have to invent ways of monetising their users. To date, that seems to have been mostly achieved by intruding on their privacy in order to target them with advertisements.The trick is to be able to do this without irritating them so much that they eventually pack up and leave. Facebook is now careering down this slippery slope, and every ingenious, manipulative twist of the algorithms it uses to determine what is displayed in a user's timeline seems to increase its downward velocity.In contrast, Twitter's monetising drive has been relatively discreet up to now. Its "promoted tweet" service, for example, didn't launch until 2010 (four years after the company's foundation), and the frequency of promoted tweets – and of other new services such as "promoted trends" – has been fairly unobtrusive up to now.The big  question is whether this self-denying ordinance will survive the transition to Wall Street. Personally, I hope it does. I could easily live without Facebook; but Twitter  is something I would really miss.
1	Google's driverless carsSince the internet giant announced its ambition to create a driverless car within the decade, its fleet of 10 converted Toyota Priuses have led the way in self-driving robotic vehicles. So far they have covered more than 300,000 miles on California's roads without incident. The cars have roof-mounted cameras and sensors that constantly scan their surroundings, building up a 3D map of each route. Last year, a blind man named Steve Mahan was able "drive" one of the cars in Morgan Hill, California.2	The Mercedes-Benz laser-controlled carMercedes has fitted a radar system to the front, rear and all four corners of one of its S-Class saloons. Along with cameras concealed in the front and rear windscreens the car collects information and compares it to a 3D digital map created by Nokia. In August, the car drove 62 miles at speed along a prepared route. The great advantage it has over the Google car is that the control equipment is all hidden within the body of the car. Mercedes isn't the only one snapping at Google's heels. Nissan, Volvo, Audi, GM, Ford and Toyota are all working on prototypes.3	Dynamic cruise controlCruise control was one of the first great steps towards the self-driving car, but active cruise control takes the system to the next level. You set your desired speed and let the car do the rest. It uses forward-facing lasers to "see" traffic. When it detects a vehicle in front, it reduces your speed. When that car moves over, it resumes the original speed.4	Collision mitigation systemsImagine a "digital aunt" sitting in the back seat and keeping a constant watch on the road. If the car ahead brakes suddenly she will alert you. And that's what these systems do. If the distance between you and the car ahead starts to reduce rapidly, it will pre-tense the seatbelts, turn on the hazard lights and, in the most sophisticated systems apply full brakes. Volvo's City safety system will react to pedestrians, cyclists and even animals as well as cars.5	Parking sensorsReversing until you feel your bumper pressing on the car behind helps you squeeze into the smallest spaces, but won't impress the neighbours. Sensors now beep and flash as you near an object. Many cars now feature these both at the back and front and occasionally at the side. Using cameras, these images can be viewed on the dashboard. The most advanced models create a bird's eye graphic of your exact position. They'll even watch out for pedestrian crossing behind you.6	Park assistFor domestic harmony alone, an intelligent parking system is worth its weight in gold. Ultrasonic sensors in the front bumpers scan each space to see whether it is big enough. When it finds one, you select reverse and let go of the steering wheel. The car does everything else. All you have to do is apply the handbrake at the end. Unless, of course, you have an electronic handbrake in which case you don't even have to do that.7	GPS-controlled gear changeUsing GPS to scan the topography ahead, predictive satellite-aided transmission monitors your driving behaviour and matches it to the road conditions. Essentially, it knows there is a big hill around the next bend and so selects the appropriate gear. This improves your drive and saves fuel. Rolls-Royce uses this system to create its so-called "magic-carpet" ride.8	Attention warning systemNodding off at the wheel is of huge safety concern. Using a system of in-cabin sensors and driving monitors, your car is watching you for signs of drowsiness. If your driving becomes erratic or your head movements are abrupt, the car will create an unpleasant high-pitched sound and flash a warning at you which states "You are dangerously tired! Stop as soon as it is safe to do so!"9	Lane departure controlCameras monitor where your car is in its lane. When you veer near the white line it will make your steering wheel or your seat vibrate. The more advanced systems will also apply "bias braking" to straighten you up, others will even override the steering wheel to keep you safely in the middle of your lane.10	Dynamic headlightsLights that turn on and off on their own, point in the right direction and dip when another car is near.
You represent a new generation of sports presenters. Are you expected to be more tech-savvy?A lot of people were uneasy when I became the new F1 presenter, and I think technology saved me there, because I was able to use it to bring the audience closer to the race. I wrote a detailed blog of everything I did, which was my way of saying: "I'm lucky to have this job; let me take you with me."How often do you Google yourself?Probably once a week. I don't trust presenters who claim to ignore what people say about them – it's their job to provide a service for the viewers at home; they're not there for their own titillation.Could F1 become too technologically advanced?If you try to stop F1 from pushing the boundaries of technology, you will kill the sport. F1 is the Nasa of the car world: they invented modern seatbelts and energy-saving brakes. And not only in motoring: the technology developed by F1 teams to monitor racing performance is now being used to monitor patients in hospital.Which is the most advanced studio, BBC Sport, Sky Sports or BT Sport?It's BT, hands-down; they have the largest L-shaped studio in the world and a glass floor that can light up to simulate any part of any sports pitch. That race is never over, though.What's the most expensive piece of technology you own?The multi-room audio in my house, which I love. I can play a lullaby in [my daughter] Florence's bedroom and Snoop Dogg in the kitchen at the same time. I just have to make sure I don't get it the wrong way round.What social media do you use?Twitter. It's a good way of being better at my job, because I can find out what people want and ask the questions people want answered.Is technology isolating or connecting?It can be both. During my time presenting F1 I saw my wife more over Skype than in the flesh, so in a way technology saved our relationship, but Skype almost makes you long for human contact even more.Alarm clock or mobile phone?I wake up, snooze my alarm, check my emails and have a little look at Twitter, all on my phone in the space of two minutes. It's probably the most unhealthy thing for the human brain to do, but that's the way it is.You have a five month-old daughter. Do you use any new parenting technology?There are apps to help you with everything from conception to breastfeeding. Florence's nickname is Raspberry, because at one point during pregnancy my wife's app told her: "At this stage your baby is the size of a raspberry."What's your favourite ever computer game?Championship Manager. When I was a bachelor, I'd fall asleep playing it, then wake up at 2am to check how my team was doing.Do you keep your phone on the table at dinner?I would if I were allowed to.When Google Glass is released, what would you like it to do?I don't like the look of Google Glass, but if it brought a new perspective to broadcasting maybe I'd change my mind. We could convince John Terry to wear one before a match, coming out of the tunnel and warming up. That would be a great new insight.Three favourite websites?BBC Sport, Wikipedia and Hotmail. I haven't moved on.If you had to use a biometric security system (fingerprint recognition, retinal scanners etc.) which would it be?What's wrong with a good old four-digit code?What if it gets hacked?What if your finger gets hacked off?What's your favourite app?I have one that checks my heart rate. If you're a hypochondriac, technology is very bad. You'll find a little lump on your kneecap. Then you'll check the internet and find out it's terminal cancer, so you lie awake all night and in the morning you remember you had too much to drink and bumped into a table.How important is technology to sport?It's vital, but the human element will always be where the interest comes from. You and I can't relate to a new 1.6 litre V6 turbocharged F1 engine. The wonderful thing about sport is that, fundamentally, it's completely technology-less.
Samsung's in trouble over benchmarks. Early in September, the team at the technology website Ars Technicaran some benchmark apps on the Galaxy Note 3– a "phablet" (giant screened) phone – and discovered that they ran 20% faster than those run on an LG phone with exactly the same processor.Benchmarks are programs, or apps, that repeat a single task or set of tasks to stress-test a system, and might be just a single complex calculation that repeats again and again; in general, you'd hardly ever do what they do. They're meant to highlight key performance differences between similar devices. But, in fact, they're not useful.How could that be? Commendably, Ars Technicadug into the Note 3's system files and discovered one called "DVFSHelper.java", which contains a list of benchmarking apps.If the system detects that one of a hard-coded list of apps is running, it turbo-charges the graphics processing unit (GPU), yielding that 20% boost. Then when the test is over, it scales it right back, because turbo-charging uses up the battery.To prove this, the Ars team took the code from a benchmark called Geekbench and tweaked how it would present itself to the system. "Stealthbench", as they christened it, was the same benchmarking code, yet the Note 3's GPU didn't turbo-charge. No 20% boost – just the same performance as the LG.Samsung has pulled this trick before with built-in lists of benchmark apps for its Galaxy S4, which yielded similar 20% speedups.When queried, the company insisted: "It is not true that Samsung did benchmark boost. The Galaxy Note 3 maximises its CPU/GPU frequencies when running features that demand substantial performance and it was not an attempt to exaggerate particular benchmarking results."So how, I asked, did it explain the difference in performance between Geekbench and Stealthbench? This provoked a very long silence (so long it's still unbroken, days later, as I write).Unsurprising, really. The obvious interpretation is that Samsung is gaming benchmarks to rank highly on sites that use them.Not that it's the only company doing this; Anandtech, a site where you could get the (wrong) impression that benchmarks are the only reason to own a gadget,showed that lots of Android companies do this; Samsung just happens to have a bigger list of benchmarks for which it ramps up the GPU or central processor to give a "better" result.What a lot of pointless effort. For the average user – most all of us – benchmarks are essentially useless, because they don't tell you about the actual experience of using the device. Android handset CPUs used to benchmark ahead of Apple's iPhones. Yet reviewers kept reporting that scrolling and screen operations on Android was "laggy" or "jerky" — and smooth on the iPhone.Why? Because Apple's software prioritised reacting to user input (the finger "pushing" a list). The processor might run slower, but the software prioritised the user – not other processes. And aren't we usually the most important process around a gadget?Eventually,Google began Project Butter to deal with the problemof jerky list scrolling – though it took until June 2012 to release it (andmore than half of Android devices in use still don't run the Android versionthat introduced Butter).Benchmarks are easily fooled – and unreliable. Don't trust them. Ask what the device is like to use instead.Charles Arthur is technology editor of the Guardian
Q I have been reading your blog, and I think that you may be able to help me with a problem. I love Apple, always have, and buy everything they make (even the MacBook Air). However after therecent upgrade to iOS 7, I have really struggled to cope with the new additions and changes. Do you have any idea how to change it back to the previous versions?Sarah Yates, via emailA Yes, the MacBook Air is an excellent machine – I recently began using one as my own daily and work computer. As for iPhones and iPads, iOS 7 has brought with it a wealth of changes, and I know you are not alone when it comes to struggling to adapt.However, you cannot backdate to iOS 6 as Apple stops "signing" installs of old releases when it launches new ones, mainly to prevent people from reverting to older, "jailbreakable" versions of the OS (this is why some people save something called SHSH blobs from each iOS version, allowing you to use an old version of the OS).There are, however, some great guides to explain some of the changes and new features and actions, and these can be found ontechradar.com,forbes.comandtechcrunch.com.Best of luck with the transition!Q I need to print documents occasionally but not every day or week. However my printer cartridges quickly run out. I presume they are just drying up. Cartridges are expensive, a bit of a rip-off. Do you have a strategy or some advice for the infrequent printer like myself?Thomas North, via emailA As a student I've felt this many times in the past, often going months without printing, to find cartridges are dried out on that morning when I need to hand in several assignments. Fortunately, there are a few methods of getting around this, including:a) Doing a regular print-head cleaning (using your printer's test page). I suggest once a fortnight.b) If your cartridge does dry out, you can restore it by placing the ink cartridge in a bowl of warm water (to reduce the risk of an accident happening and staining your sink or bath) then drying it with a paper towel or lint-free cloth, then running the printer's head-cleaning program.Q Why should I buy a digital camera when the latest smartphones have lots of megapixels, optical zoom lenses and wide apertures – and they are connected for easy uploading to Instagram, Flickr etc?Bethan Firth, via emailA good question, and it isn't one with a simple answer, as it depends on multiple factors. For example: where will the images be used? What environment will you be shooting in? How much control do you want over the final image?It also depends what you mean by a digital camera – a simple point-and-shoot, or a DSLR? I would argue that we can discount the former, as it offers no significant advantage over a smartphone, other than optical zoom.However, if you are pushing the boundaries of what can be achieved with a phone camera, or wish to shoot professional photos and video, then you need to move into DSLR territory, where the flexibility of lenses, attachments and larger sensors provide many, many advantages over a phone, and allow photographers to alter things such as the depth of field, aperture and shutter speed.I would also like to dispel the myth that megapixels are what make a good quality image – more important is the sensor size and lens. One of the best mobile cameras, HTC One, only has a four megapixel camera but has a large sensor that allows more light into the image, improving colour reproduction and low-light quality.This isn't to say that the resolution of the image means nothing, but it is not the most important factor.As for being socially connected, some newer DSLR's also have built-in Wi-Fi and sharing features, such as the Canon 6D, and others such as the Nikon D3200 can be Wi-Fi ready with the addition of an accessory, although you will probably find yourself editing photos on a computer before uploading them to 500Px or Flickr.Q Is it truly viable to get rid of laptops/computers completely and just use iPhones, iPads and the "cloud" for everything? For instance, is there a way of running and managing a large iTunes music library saved on a portable hard drive and listened to on an iPhone without having to use a desktop computer or laptop?Amelia Drummond, via emailA This is a tricky question as it depends on your individual use. If you mostly use a computer for social networking and content consumption, and maybe editing the odd document – then yes, it is perfectly possible to move over to a post-PC world, and experience its benefits, such as increased battery life, less power consumption, and being able to remove the typically ugly computers, desks and monitors from the corner of the living room/kitchen.However, if you create and edit lots of documents or images, then although you could get by with an iPad, a NAS (Network Attached Storage) device and a bluetooth keyboard, you'd be better off with a full-blown desktop or laptop.A large music/video collection could be tricky, however. You could use something like the Seagate Wireless Plus, allowing you to store hundreds of gigabytes of data and access it from multiple devices. It even has an iOS and Android app to manage content. However, you would need to initially load your collection from your computer – so you may want to keep one around for a little while longer.Streaming services such as Spotify, Rdio and Netflix are getting better and better, potentially replacing the need for most stored media. Spotify and Rdio also allow you to create offline playlists – downloading a local copy for when you don't have a net connection – making a post-PC world even more reachable.Daniel is a freelance programmer for iOS and the web. He is a student and has been coding since he was eight. He is an ambassador forYoung Rewired Stateand can be found on Twitter @DanToml. If you have a tech problem for Daniel, email tech.questions@observer.co.uk
At a remarkable conference held at theAspen Institute in 2011, General Michael Hayden, a former head of both the NSA and the CIA, said something very interesting. In a discussion of how to secure the "critical infrastructure" of the United States he described the phenomenon of compromised computer hardware – namely, chips that have hidden "back doors" inserted into them at the design or manufacturing stage – as "the problem from hell". And, he went on, "frankly, it's not a problem that can be solved".Now General Hayden is an engaging, voluble, likable fellow. He's popular with the hacking crowd because he doesn't talk like a government suit. But sometimes one wonders if his agreeable persona is actually a front for something a bit more disingenuous.  Earlier in the Aspen discussion, for example, he talked about theStuxnet worm– which was used to destroy centrifuges in the Iranian nuclear programme – as something that was obviously created by a nation-state, but affected not to know that the US was one of the nation-states involved.Given Hayden's background and level of security clearance, it seems inconceivable that he didn't know who built Stuxnet. So already one had begun to take his contributions with a modicum of salt. Nevertheless, his observation about the intractability of the problem of compromised hardware seemed incontrovertible. This is because covertly modified hardware is hard to detect – much more so than dodgy software. The hardware in a computer can do things like access data in ways that are completely invisible even to the machine's security software. At the Black Hat security conference in August last year, for example, a researcher named Jonathan Brossarddemonstrated software that can be burned into the hardware of a PC, creating a back door that would allow secret remote access over the internet. And – here's the really scary bit – the secret entrance couldn't even be closed by switching off the computer's hard disk or reinstalling its operating system.The reason this is so scary is because virtually every bit of kit that runs the internet – the machine on which you compose your emails, the tablet or smartphone with which you browse the net, the routers that pass on the data packets that comprise your email or your web search, everything – is a computer. So the thought that all this stuff might covertly be compromised in ways that are impossible to detect is terrifying.  It's this fear that underpinsAmerican (and British) reservationsabout network products made by the Chinese companyHuawei– the suspicions (vehemently denied by Huawei, of course) that the kit has secret back doors installed in it to facilitate the Chinese's cyber-army's penetration of western networks.So Hayden was right: it is a problem from hell. If the hardware that runs the internet has been polluted or infiltrated then we're all screwed, because there's no bit of cyberspace you can trust. And I know, I know: it sounds like paranoia – until you discover that Darpa, the research arm of the US department of defence (DoD), has launched a massive research project into compromised hardware.The department's growing dependence on the global supply chain,it says, "makes device, software and firmware security an imperative. Back doors, malicious software and other vulnerabilities unknown to the user could enable an adversary to use a device to accomplish a variety of harmful objectives, including the exfiltration [extraction] of sensitive data and the sabotage of critical operations. Determining the security of every device DoD uses in a timely fashion is beyond current capabilities."At this point we enter a Kafkaesque world of smoke and mirrors. Because one of the most obvious inferences from the Snowden revelations published by theGuardian,New York TimesandProPublica recentlyis that the NSA has indeed been up to the business of inserting covert back doors in networking and other computing kit.The reports say that, in addition to undermining all of the mainstream cryptographic software used to protect online commerce, the NSA has been "collaborating with technology companies in the United States and abroad to build entry points into their products".These reports have, needless to say, been strenuously denied by the companies, such asCisco, that make this networking kit. Perhaps the NSA omitted to tell Darpa what it was up to?  In the meantime, I hear that some governments have decided that their embassies should no longer use electronic communications at all, and are returning to employing couriers who travel the world handcuffed to locked dispatch cases. We're back to the future, again.
The latest incarnation of Codemasters'F1series is a natural progression from what has gone before; it's slicker, shinier and an all-round improvement on something that was already very good. There are more options for those with less time on their hands, yet the game retains the core "career" structure that can take the player from a "young driver test" in Abu Dhabi to the championship of the world if they are good enough, and that is by no means a given. The real treat ofF1 2013lies in the "classic" mode where you can sample cars and tracks from the 1980s. This is a challenge, as keeping everything straight at Brands Hatch in a 1986 Lotus when 1,000hp of turbo power kicks can only be mastered by skipping at least five lectures. Retro racing could catch on for the console generation. The future of this franchise might just lie in the past.
Beyond: Two Soulssometimes feels like its developers would rather be film-makers than game designers, with a main character portrayed by Ellen Page and a major supporting role for Willem Dafoe. And while both are genuinely superb throughout, there's still something lacking.The stellar acting cast is aided by some impressive motion-capture technology, which translates their performances into the game with startling realism.Beyondgoes further by eschewing traditional game mechanics; it's basically an interactive drama, filled with conversation choices, mini-games and "quicktime" button presses in response to on-screen prompts. It doesn't even trust the player to cross the road without a cutscene. There's not much skill involved; the interactive features are really just there to keep players engaged with the narrative.Unfortunately, the problem with making a game all about the story is that it has to have a really good one, which is whereBeyondfalls down. For instance, one subplot about a haunted Navajo tribe is uncannily reminiscent of a plot inWalker, Texas Ranger.It may look great, and the acting talent combined with the mo-cap is an exciting glimpse of things to come, but it's hard to get away from the sense thatBeyond: Two Soulswould be greatly enhanced by having more of an actual game in among the story.
Nintendo again causes consternation with an unexpected new hardware format. As one might imagine, the2DS(£109.99) is a more robust, cheaper version of its 3DS handheld. Less predictable, however, is the hinge-less wedge design and the lack of 3D – the previous console's USP. Controls are moved upwards, contributing to a retro Fisher-Price feel.As with the Wii and original DS, initial scepticism evaporates when you get the 2DS in your hands. It's a surprisingly comfortable object to hold; the tapered body fits well into the palms, while fingers reach round for the trigger buttons.It matches the original 3DS for features (apart from 3D), offering the same battery life and screen real estate, while upping storage from 2GB to 4GB. It is well suited to its target audience, offering a more accessible way to play all the 3DS and DS cartridge games, along with the wide range of downloadable eShop titles.Its biggest handicap is the confusing nomenclature that muddies the 3DS product line, but that shouldn't prevent it becoming a huge success come Christmas.
This car reminds me a&nbsp;little bit of me. It's&nbsp;undeniably handsome, sharp, modern and purposeful, and looks like it means business. I like its striking angular egg-timer grille and the slanting slashes that descend down the flanks from the tail lights. No, I don't have them. I'm not saying I look like this car; I'm saying I&nbsp;resemble it, character-wise, all right?Inside? Yeah, classy. (Again, just like me.) The sporty seats are nice and huggy-from-behind. There are loads of buttons and switches, even a mouse thing that operates the audio, satnav, etc. It's absolutely brilliant if you've got a one-and-a-half-year-old who needs to be kept occupied for a while. The only thing I'm not sure about is the little square silver clock: old skool analogue, with hands and everything. There's just a hint of Alan Partridge about it. Alan, of course, is almost certainly the most famous lover of Lexi.And to drive? Well, it glides along silently in electric mode, then you hardly notice when the petrol engine kicks in. Lexus does hybrid very well. Plus reliability, service, things like that. It will be a pleasure to buy (though, to be honest, it's more likely to be whoever manages the fleet of company cars at the large accountancy firm you work for who does the deal). And if anything ever goes wrong, you can double-click on&nbsp;that mouse and a smiley man in&nbsp;a&nbsp;suit will deploy like a genie air bag and put it right again.Right, the feds are on my tail. Not really: the feds are never on the tail of a Lexus, unlike its German executive rivals. Lexi are so un-badass they're actually goodass. But let's pretend, right? So I flick it deftly into "sport" mode, and floor it. And there is plenty of power: 219 bhp, in fact, when you add together the 2.5-litre petrol engine and the electric motor. But I&nbsp;feel oddly disconnected from all my horses because of the slow throttle response, and the continuously variable transmission. (Sorry, getting a bit technical here: basically, it doesn't have conventional gears but an infinite number of ratios that it can change steplessly between.) Also strange is the unmanly whirring noise it makes. You can opt to have a&nbsp;more conventional, but fake, engine noise piped into the cabin, but arguably that's even stranger. Suddenly I'm less excited by shaking off the feds. I'll probably pull over and hand myself in politely.To recap, then: devilishly good-looking, refined, cool; accomplished, too. But get to know it better and you'll find it harder to fall in love with. Because underneath all the poise and polish, it's a teeny bit gutless. Also unexciting, whiny, goody two-shoes, fake even. See what I mean about it being like me?Lexus IS300h F SportPrice£33,495Top speed125mphAcceleration0-60mph in 8.3 secondsCombined fuel consumption60.1mpgCO2 emissions109g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating5/10
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewYou create a character and choose some idiosyncrasies before watching him or her arrive in Los Santos at the very bottom of the gangster food chain. The rest of GTA Online is no less novel; with a maximum of 16 players in any one session, there are more than enough races and deathmatches to get involved in, with team heists and player-created missions coming soon. There's also a world of chaos to plunge into as other players get up to no good on a scale the single-player game never even approaches.
Games out this week includeBeyond: Two Souls(PS3) a fascinating, tear-jerking interactive drama that leans perhaps a touch too far towards film rather than playable game;Borderlands 2(Xbox, PS3, PC, Mac) gets aGame Of The Year Edition;Pokémon X &amp; Y(3DS) delivers more highly addictive monster collecting;Dragon's Crown(PS3, Vita) is a sort of Diablo-lite, its huge-bosomed protagonists mindlessly battering their way through endless foes; merchandise-friendlyMoshi Monsters: Katsuma Unleashed(DS, 3DS) targets younger players with its pet creatures; andTurbo: Super Stunt Squad(Xbox, PS3, Wii, Wii U, 3DS) is a lazily produced clone of Tony Hawk's Pro Skater that has almost nothing to do with the snail-racing film from which it's licensed.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to view3D isn't recommended for children under seven and £145 games consoles aren't recommended for parents' financial security. These two pieces of information gave rise to the 2DS, Nintendo's robust new handheld that abandons the white elephant of 3D gaming. It looks a bit blocky in the pictures, but it's actually more comfortable than the 3DS to play, and its buttons and analogue stick sit perfectly under your thumbs.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewIf F1 didn't involve driving glamorous cars at high speed through Monaco, its religiously enforced rulesets and fetishising of technology would give it the same demographic as trainspotting. The problem for F1 game-makers is how to maintain its appeal once all the champagne has been taken away. The answer is to give you as much sense of speed and control as possible, but apart from the ability to drive even louder and more dangerous 80s and 90s cars, this hasn't changed much since F1 2012. It remains good-looking and blisteringly fast.
He made his fortune by persuading over a billion people to share their lives online, but when it comes to protecting his own privacy Mark Zuckerberg appears to spare no expense: the Facebook founder has reportedly spent $30m (£18.8m) buying four houses that surround his own home in California.Zuckerberg acted after hearing that a developer planned to buy an adjoining property and market it as an opportunity to become neighbours with him. "The developer was going to build a huge house and market the property as being next door to Mark Zuckerberg,"a source told the San Jose Mercury News.The buying spree began in December, several months after Facebook's flotation elevated Zuckerberg into the ranks of America's super-rich, and culminated this week with the sale of a property immediately next to the home he shares with his wife, Priscilla Chan.The transactions suggest the multi-billionaire has spent many times the $7m cost of his own home, bought two years ago in a leafy neighbourhood of Palo Alto in the heart of California's Silicon Valley.In an effort to keep the purchases under the radar, the party named on the deeds is not Zuckerberg himself, but companies affiliated to Iconiq Capital, a wealth management firm that represents the Facebook chief executive and a number of other tycoons.Rather than being knocked down to extend the digital entrepreneur's own estate, the homes are apparently being leased back to the families that live there – with the interested parties required to sign non-disclosure agreements.Despite a fortune estimated at $19bn, the 29-year old is known for living modestly, having rented for years before taking the plunge into northern California's overheated property market. But the size of Zuckerberg's reported land grab brings him into line with Silicon Valley's flashier inhabitants."It's 10 times more than a typical house,"local estate agent Alex Comsa told the Silicon Valley Business Journal. "It's unheard of."Zuckerberg's neighbours in Palo Alto include Yahoo's chief executive, Marissa Mayer, and Google co-founder Larry Page, who drew attention to his own real estate ambitions a few years ago after buying up adjoining properties, and who has been building a 6,000 square foot eco-friendly dwelling on the land, which is right next to his original home.Facebook's chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg has invested her takings from Facebook's $100bn stockmarket debut in a purpose-built mansion minutes from the firm's headquarters, spending £11m on a modernist structure with a living roof, solar panels, a waterfall and a cinema in the basement.Records show late last year $4.8m was paid for a 3,200 square foot home near Zuckerberg's. After that, prices began to escalate. In September a second adjoining home of a similar size sold for $10.5m. On 1 October a third went under the hammer for $14.5m, and this week a fourth property was sold.According to a spokeswoman for the local authority, no building permits have been filed for any of the properties in question in recent years. Zuckerberg's intention appears to be to prevent them falling into the wrong hands or being used as a perch for the long lenses of the paparazzi, rather than initiating a major building project. A spokesperson for Facebook declined to comment.
Marco Arment, who had been Tumblr&apos;s employee number two, first publishedThe Magazineon 11 October 2012.He had spun the publication out of his work developing the Instapaper app for iOS, trying to perfect the experience of reading short articles on iPhones and iPads.But Instapaper was designed for reading other people&apos;s content, scraped from the web and presented in a far more legible format than the typical browser could manage. It provided Arment,an accomplished and popular technology bloggeras well as programmer, no outlet for his own work, or that of other writers he enjoyed.Announcing the launch of the app, he wrote that &quot;I want this publication to exist as a reader and a writer.&quot;Technologically, The Magazine was elegant. Apple had launched its Newsstand app the year before, allowing publishers to sell subscriptions to magazines which would auto-renew periodically and download automatically while users slept. But few titles had taken advantage of the feature, and many of those that did were packaged in clunky, outdated apps.Vogue&apos;s April 2012 issue was more than 400MB, and the user experience left much to be desired.The first issue of the Magazine weighed in at around 1% of that, and was built on far simpler technologies. But it also presented a very different value proposition: $1.99 a month bought users access to a bi-weekly publication of just four to six articles.It was immediately different enough to spark a discussion about a whole new genre of publication, &quot;subcompact publishing&quot;, a termcoined by writer Craig Modin analogy to the effect subcompact cars had on the American auto market.&quot;The clarity of The Magazine is exciting,&quot; Mod wrote. &quot;It’s doubly exciting because it’s precisely the sort of app at which incumbent publishers balk… We are the new customers: The new readers, the new writers, the new publishers. The Magazine is indeed cheaper, simpler, smaller, and more convenient than most other publishing apps.&quot;The 13th and 16th issues of the Magazine. Photograph: The MagazineSimple-looking doesn&apos;t necessarily mean simple to run, however, and the Magazine didn&apos;t stay the same for long.For the second issue, Arment brought on Glenn Fleishman, a technology journalist who writes the Economist&apos;s Babbage blog, as executive editor. From then on, Arment took a back seat on the editorial side, and Fleishman, himself a perl and PHP programmer, was able to do a bit more on the web side of the publication.Then, in May, Armentsold The Magazine to Fleishman in its entirety. The move came as a surprise, particularly since it came just a month after he hadsold Instapaper, still his primary occupation, to app incubatorBetaworks.Fleishman promised that the publication would be &quot;committed to the same schedule of five features every two weeks, designed to appeal to folks with a broad curiosity (and an interest in technology) who want to learn things they don’t already know and to hear points of view they may not routinely encounter.&quot; And he brought a new managing editor,Brittany Shoot, to help out.At the end of its first year, Fleishman appreciates the start Arment gave the publication. &quot;Marco used his own labor and expertise to create what I would estimate was a $200,000 to $300,000 app if one were to hire a firm to create it. It might cost much more, too, counting the time it would require to supervise an outside firm. That was a large financial advantage. It&apos;s our key challenge for the future: adding new features to the app and making it more flexible to deal with the number of issues and articles published so far.&quot;All the same, &quot;having more control is definitely easier in many ways. For Marco this was an interesting and successful experiment, but the production cycle wasn&apos;t of tremendous interest to him, and he handed over about 99% of the editorial tasks starting at issue 2. He and I had worked out an editorial approach within a few issues, and that&apos;s more or less what I&apos;ve continued to pursue today: strong narrative non-fiction mostly, rather than descriptive or newsy features.&quot;Print would actually produce a return, rather than the other way aroundWhile still the poster child for subcompact publishing, The Magazine expanded on to the web shortly after its inception, and has offered downloads for e-readers since March. On Thursday,Fleishman announced a further expansion, syndicating one feature a week onto the blogBoing Boing.“I&apos;ve written for them for years,” he says, “and have been great supports of their work… They don&apos;t have an app, and they are sorting out what a ‘blog’ is while they have slowly bumped up their longer, commissioned features.“So linking ourselves together loosely is an attempt to see where people are willing to pay for good reads. We think there&apos;s an increasing interest in that, and having a ‘magazine’ bundle every two weeks of ‘good stuff to read’ is an alternative to the flowing river at Boing Boing that they&apos;re sorting out as well.”The Magazine is going back to the future, with a print edition forthcoming. “We&apos;re testing the waters with an upcoming crowdfunded collection of our first year&apos;s work, and I hope to roll that into a quarterly print publication. Because we already pay all the costs of editorial out of the electronic version, print would actually produce a nice return above costs, rather than the other way around, and bring in some of the funds necessary to make the software side better. Ironic, that!”The success of the publication has sparked imitators. Using services likeTypeEngine, would-be publishers can very quickly produce something similar to The Magazine without needing the talents of their own Marco Arment. Some, likeThe Loop, show potential. Others don’t.But asArment wrotein response to suggestions that TypeEngine had taken a little too much inspiration from his app, “there aren’t any startups promising a turn-key supply of great content that attracts enough paying subscribers to fund it. You’re on your own for that.”• In August,Barack Obama announced that the US intelligence agencieswould be making information on security surveillance directly available to the public - on its Tumblr
Supermodel Naomi Campbell has announced she is to make her south east Asian runway debut atDigital Fashion Week(DFW) in Singapore – further strengthening ties between the fashion and technology industries.DFW, now in its second year, has scooped the international supermodel for their opening show which will be her only stop in Asia for the spring/summer 2014 showcase.This is a significant development for the tech-friendly fashion event, which brought in an audience of more than 2.7m last year and which has partnered with big name tech companies such as Google, Youtube and Twitter for their latest event in early November.Following in the footsteps of brands such as Topshop, DFW will allow style fans from across the world to shop the looks straight off the catwalk – an invaluable source of data for designers wanting to see what will sell in the seasons to come.Fashion worth £21bn annually to the UKTechnology is playing an increasingly sophisticated role in analysing the trends and picking out the insights for the fashion industry – a sector worth £21bn a year in the UK alone.Editd, a London-based big data analyticscompany for the fashion industry, whose range of global clients include buyers for the likes of Asos and Gap, have been quick to translate the online buzz from the ‘fashion influential’ into key trends for next year.Itsspring/summer 2014roundup, which aims to “cut through the hype” goes as far as informing clients and fashion devotees as to who the most talked about designers were in each of the four cities – New York, London, Milan and Paris – as well as what colours shoppers will be after come spring.Editd's Spring Summer 2014 trend wheel Photograph: /PR“A lot of major industries have embraced data in decision making,” said Julia Fowler, co-founder of Editd. “ But it&apos;s been slower to come to the apparel industry, because it&apos;s fundamentally a difficult industry to turn into hard facts.”In a market that has come under scrutiny for being “scared of digital”, translating mountains of data into bite-size information is, Fowler said, the “secret” behind the company and is, she stresses, “critical to grow and maintain this important industry in the UK.”The verdict from 68m fashion-related tweetsBy combining a range of highlights from fashion week which would otherwise be lost in streams of data with the opinions of the very customers the clients of Editd are aiming at, the company is able to lend a unique voice to an industry that has long been the domain of fashion insiders.“Data means you can structure decisions, avoid waste, price products better, and build your business and your profits faster,” said Fowler.Using software that sifted through 68m tweets over fashion month, Editd were able to spot key trends for spring/summer 2014 ahead of the pack.According to their analysis, Gucci beat Chanel to become the most talked about designer across social media platforms, with the Italian brand’s “intoxicating blend of Eastern promise and sports luxe” bringing in 30% more online mentions than any other brand over the month.Red is the new blackRed came out top as the most talked-about colour with electric and pale blue, orange and pink receiving substantial mentions also. Looking at the insights in finer detail by individual fashion week, style fans are able to discern that whilst pink was the talk of London, a riot of vibrant colours ruled the Milan catwalks with Dolce &amp; Gabbana showcasing a palette ranging from lime to gold and red in a single show.The colour wheel created by Editd, pictured above, showcases every shade used by every designer during fashion month with the colours in the inner circle representing the key spring/summer 2014 palette.Sport luxe – 76% more mentions than any other trendAnd while the Olympic Games may be a distant memory, fashion’s affair with sports wear has lived on– sports luxe received 76% more online mentions than any other trend picked up on the catwalks, whilst checks came out top as the most mentioned print over the month.High-impact embellishments, metallic finishes, safari, floral prints and flat shoes were just some of the top ten insights that Editd highlighted in their spring/summer 2014 roundup.The data analysis which looked at the conversation around fashion week and the individual collections across Twitter and blogs of those considerd to be ‘fashion influential’ also pinpointed street style as a trend to watch, claiming that shoppers rapid consumption of blogger imagery is changing the way fashion fans purchase items.“The clothes seen off the runway during fashion weeks have become just as influential as the designer looks,” said Katie Smith, a retail analyst at Editd.“Shoppers consume blogger imagery at rapid pace, creating a demand that can&apos;t be met by the seasonal delay of catwalk clothing.”• HowEditd is carving up the numbersfor the fashion sector
James Forshaw, a British security researcher,was paid a $100,000 bounty by Microsoftfor finding a major security flaw within Windows 8.1.The bounty for finding such a crucial flaw was $100,000, &quot;probably one of the biggest made available,&quot; explained Forshaw. Unfortunately he&apos;s barely going to get any of it.&quot;When it comes to the bounties given for finding security flaws like this, most of it goes to the company you work for, and even if it didn&apos;t, once the taxman has taken his cut it&apos;s certainly not a life changing monetary sum - we&apos;re not talking retirement money here,&quot; said Forshaw.Working for information security firmContext,Forshawfound a &quot;mitigation bypass&quot; within the Windows 8.1 security system. The bug is more than a simple vulnerability – it&apos;s an entire class of attack on the system. Essentially, a mitigation bypass circumvents the protection systems built into the operating system, and therefore potentially allows hackers widespread access.Many companies, includingGoogleand Microsoft,offer bounty schemesfor finding bugs in their software, outsourcing vulnerability discovery to specialist firms.While that may seem troubling that Microsoft or Google would trust the security of software millions of people use to outsiders, it&apos;s because of the scale of the task involved, according to Forshaw.A finite pool of bug-finding talent&quot;Microsoft and Google have fairly extensive security departments that are actively looking at finding software flaws in their own products and fixing them, making their products even more secure than what they already are,&quot; said Forshaw.&quot;However, sometimes it&apos;s a case of being too close to the product. When you&apos;ve got access to the source code, the people that coded it, or maybe you were actually part of the team writing these products, you simply can&apos;t see the wood for the trees.&quot;You may look at very specific parts of your product for vulnerabilities, but actually you need to step back and look at the entire product and its interactions to find the higher-level vulnerabilities, like this mitigation bypass.&quot;It&apos;s also a case of cost versus reward for companies like Microsoft as the talent pool when you get to this top level of security research just isn&apos;t that big.&quot;You couldn&apos;t dedicate enough resources to find everything – it&apos;s cheaper to pay external researchers bounties over the level of security staff they&apos;d need to cover every angle,&quot; he said. &quot;There&apos;s only a finite pool of talented people who can find vulnerabilities in these products and presumably they&apos;re not going to be concentrated in any one place.&quot;You can&apos;t write perfect codeThe process of farming out bug hunting isn&apos;t a random one from the perspective of Microsoft and other large companies, who reach out to the experts they know once their internal teams have had an initial attempt.&quot;Humans are fallible and you can&apos;t write perfect code. The people who are trying to find the bugs are also fallible, so they&apos;re not going to find all the bugs either, said Forshaw, who said Microsoft went directly to him for this problem.&quot;I have a good relationship with the people at Microsoft, having submitted numerous bugs to them before. They specifically asked me and other researchers they knew to have a look at the task.&quot;Sometimes internally we choose a product in which to look for vulnerabilities, and almost give it out to the general consultants within the company for a &apos;have a go&apos; incentivised by a prize.The eureka moment happened at homeVulnerability research is not a way to get rich quick, and the work is intense. Forshaw ended up putting in much of the work in his own time.In fact, the nugget of thought that turned out to be the eureka moment originated from the peace and quiet of the home.&quot;I think I originally came up with the winning idea sitting at home, pondering what I could do. I came up with a few ideas, which ultimately didn&apos;t work out as viable techniques.&quot;But I thought, what if I took this one particular approach? At that point it was, &quot;OK, maybe that&apos;s something.&quot; I had a quick look at it, and it seemed like it had potential, so at that point I could proceed and test it.&quot;When it comes to vulnerability testing, though, the eureka moment is more about the final working proof of concept because there are so many stumbling blocks that can trip you up along the way. You just can&apos;t get too excited too quickly.&quot;• In August, a security flaw was found inGoogle&apos;s Chrome browserthat offered unrestricted password access to hackers, including logon details for email, social networks and company systems.
Several years ago, Davey Wreden started to wonder to himself about the overly didactic nature of game narratives. Why did so many story-led titles act like glorified movies, pinning the player to a linear path and then providing each participant with the same experience, governed by the central plot and the inescapable game logic? Games don't have to behave in that way.So he taught himself how to use Valve's Source engine, and he createdThe Stanley Parable, a first-person exploration game in which the eponymous character turns up at the office one day to find himself in a surreal vortex of possibility. To say more would be to ruin the possibility, but the game is a sort of battle of the wills between the player and the narrator; with gaming conventions applied, analysed and twisted and with multiple layered paths open to each participant.Now Wreden has developed an updated and expanded version of the game for Steam, and there's a free demo on the service right now. It is like no other demo you'll play this weekend, showing no content from the final product, but hinting at its mischievous, subverisive nature. It's sort of Portal, re-imagined and scripted by Douglas Adams and Flann O'Brien. It's... oh just, if you haven't already, justgive it a go over the weekend. That's it, that's your homework.
Since Space Invaders arrived in arcades in the 70s, videogames have been good at soliciting human emotions: namely frustration and joy, usually in that order. You feed in cash, and you get repeatedly killed until your hard-won skill finally leads to victory. As technology has evolved, games have also been able to engender feelings of camaraderie and deliver real suspense along with good old-fashioned bloodlust. But taking advantage of the fact that playing a game makes you a willing accessory to onscreen events, developers are now stirring up more sophisticated  emotions in players. Electronic entertainment is provoking responses that music, books and films can't. Here, we've picked out six of the best emotional videogames. And it turns out there's more to it than shooting strangers in the face after all.BEYOND: TWO SOULS PlayStation 3David Cage, the garrulous and delightfully opinionated French auteur behind Beyond: Two Souls and its predecessor Heavy Rain, wants to create games that make you think and feel. You suspect what he really wants, though, is to make you cry. He also doesn't care whether you've never played a game before, meaning nice, simple interactions, no difficult bits, and the ability to play it with one finger on a smartphone. It doesn't always work, but then most games don't tackle homelessness, bereavement, un-anaesthetised childbirth and the immutable ties of parental love.GONE HOME PC, Mac &amp; LinuxSet in a 90s world of VHS tapes and Ansaphone messages, you're 20-year-old Kaitlin Greenbriar, flying home from backpacking around Europe. The plan is to visit the new house your parents and younger sister have moved into, but when you arrive, in the midst of a thunderstorm, the house is deserted. Trying to piece together what's happened, you listen to your sister's spoken diary entries, read notes left around the house and rifle through drawers for ephemera. Touching and occasionally spooky, its exploration of life as a teenager provides a rare and beautifully written set of insights that are as much about the experience as resolving the plot.THE LAST OF US PlayStation 3The apocalypse was never going to be a happy time, but for parents, the opening 20 minutes of The Last Of Us will be about as emotionally traumatic as anything available in any medium, as you are involved in a desperate attempt to save your daughter's life. After such a sledgehammer beginning, the rest of the game conjures a more subtle emotional dilemma on which to impale yourself, with an ending that continues to haunt long after you've forgotten all the seemingly hopeless near-unarmed fights against survivors and the infected.SHADOW OF THE COLOSSUS PlayStation 2 &amp; 3With the vaguest of introductions you're let loose in a mystical land populated by 16 office-block-sized colossi; some stony and architectural-looking, some that fly or swim, but all inhuman in scale. Your task is to track them down, clamber on to them, and destroy them. Each colossus is its own discrete puzzle and none goes down without a struggle that frequently results in your character's death. The peculiar thing about Shadow Of The Colossus is that you start to feel uneasy about killing these eerie giants. It's a sense of melancholy that's heightened by your participation: to finish the game, you have to kill every last one of them.PORTAL 2 Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, Mac &amp; PCFor a first-person puzzle game set in a huge laboratory, Portal 2's trenchant emotional resonance might come as a surprise. With only three characters to work with, two of which aren't human and one of whom is you, Portal 2 creates an interactive fiction with a touch so light you don't even realise you care until it's all too late. The best case in point is the Weighted Companion Cubes, the objects you need to solve many of the game's devious puzzles. Only after you carelessly vaporise dozens are you granted an unnerving impression of their sentience.PAPERS PLEASE PC &amp; MacCasting you as a border guard for a fictitious eastern European republic, your job is to decide whether a succession of would-be immigrants have the right paperwork to get through. Presented in charming 8-bit style, it's all good fun to start with, but the longer you play, the more the pleading of those you should be detaining or turning away starts to worry at you, especially when failure to meet daily quotas means the decline and eventual death of family members when you can't afford food, heating and medicine. A game that makes you feel truly guilty.
Swedish police have been alerted to a fraudulent press release which claimed Samsung had paid $650m (£407m) to buy a company developing fingerprint scanning technology.Shares inFingerprint Cards, a Stockholm based group developing similar capacitive touch sensors to those found in Apple's latest iPhones, were suspended after rising 50% during morning trading on Friday.The company is developing scanners which can be embedded in smartphones and tablets and are already on trial with Microsoft. There have been suggestions its technology could appear in Samsung's next flagship phone, the Galaxy S5, when it is released next year.At 10.30am on Friday, a press release with the headline "Samsung Electronics to acquire Fingerprint Cards AB" waswidely circulated by the public relations news distribution company Cision.The release quoted the Samsung's co-chief executive Kwon Oh-hyun, and Johan Carlström, who heads Fingerprint Cards. It claimed the company had been acquired for $650m in cash and would become a business division within Samsung.The firm's shares rose from 26.50 (£2.60) Swedish Krona to 79.25 before being suspended. At 10.55am Cisionrushed out a statementto the investors claiming responsibility for distributing the release, but saying its contents were "incorrect", and apologising to Fingerprint Cards and other stakeholders.By 11.30am, Calström had put out his own statement, denying his company had been acquired by Samsung. "The previous press release was not sent by Fingerprint Cards AB," he stated. "What has happened will be reported to the police and to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority". A representative for the company declined to comment further.Samsung described the story as "market rumour", suggesting Fingerprint Cards may have been the victim of a sting designed to ramp the value of its shares.The Gothenburg based company was believed to be close to a breakthrough that could transform its fortunes. Active since 1997, according to CrunchBase, it has had moderate success selling scanners to Chinese banks, which their employees use before major transactions.While its current scanners are separate pieces of equipment that plug into computers, it was thought to be close to developing a reader that could be embedded behind glass on a smartphone or tablet.With Apple having successfully pioneered the fingerprint as a biometric authentication in smartphones, Microsoft and Samsung are determined to use the technology in their own devices, and Fingerprint Cards has already been named as a Microsoft partner company.Apple's scanner was developed by a small firm called AuthenTec, which it bought in 2012 for $356m, and the technology has so far proved more reliable than many similar products on the market.Microsoft senior product manager Chris Hallum demonstrated a Fingerprint Cards scanner while showing off an early version of Windows 8.1, the next iteration of Microsoft's new touch-screen software."In windows 8.1, modernised access control is the big hero, that's where the biggest investment is, and biometrics is probably one of the first areas we're investing in," said Hallum. "With windows 8.1 we're going all in on fingerprint-based biometrics."Like Apple's scanner, its technology does not require swiping, only responds to living fingers and, according, to Hallum "works every single time, right away".
Lavabit’s founderhas filed the opening brief in his appealagainst a court order forcing him to turn over the keys to his secure email service’s encryption.Ladar Levison, who set up Lavabit in 2004, was commanded to turn over the encryption keys in electronic format by the district court for the eastern district of Virginia. When he refused, the court found him in contempt, and instituted a fine of $5,000 a day until he complied.Levison handed over the data, but closed his business to protect his customers’ information. “The government would still be able to use Lavabit&apos;s private keys to decrypt and access data that it had already intercepted (including customers&apos; usernames, passwords, and the contents of their emails),” the appeal details, “but Lavabit was forbidden from communicating this security breach to its customers or business partners.”The appeal which followed rests on three arguments. “First, the government is bereft of any statutory authority to command the production of Lavabit&apos;s private keys … Second, the Fourth Amendment independently prohibited what the government did here … Finally, the grand jury subpoena was oppressive, unduly burdensome, and ought to have been quashed.”Speaking before the appeal was filed, Levison said “I just think it’s important … to understand that even though this investigation was over one person, [the government was] doing two things: it was [not only] demanding information which belonged to the user, but [also information which] belonged to the business.“It’s not like they were asking for a photocopy of my tax return: this was highly sensitive information which belonged to my business, and it was going to provide access to everyone and everything going over my network.“From a security standard, that’s just game over. How can you protect a network if they’re able to see everything that comes over it?”Although he is unable to specify who the targets of the investigation were, Levison said &quot;I only know about a small number, but it was more than one. What the press is focusing on is one particular investigation. But they had more than one investigation simultaneously.&quot; Edward Snowden, the NSA leaker, used the Lavabit service, and is believed to be the principal focus of the investigation.On Wednesday, Levison revealed thathe had attempted to forestall the government’s requestfor his private keys by offering to log metadata himself.
Google’s Malaysian site has been hacked by a Pakistani group calling itself “Team Madleets”. The search service was replaced with a splash screen crediting the group before it was taken completely offline.The group hacked into the Malaysia Network Information Centre (MYNIC), an agency under the Malaysian ministry of communications and multimedia, and conducted a DNS redirect attack altering Google’s Malaysian DNS records to redirect visitors to hacker-controlled servers on Thursday. The site was later taken completely offline.Google Malaysia has been taken offline following a DNS redirect attackMYNIC is the sole administrator for web addresses that end with .my in Malaysia.Astatementon the MYNIC site confirmed the attack and that it had been resolved pending propagation across the internet:We can confirm there was unauthorised redirection of www.google.com.my and www.google.my to another IP address by a group which called themselves TeaM MADLEETS.The problem was alerted in the early morning and MYNIC Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT) immediately started to resolve the issue. The domain name www.google.com.my has been restored to their correct information at 7.10 am today and www.google.my is still resolving.DNS records provide a routing lookup for the internet, telling computers where to find servers or other computers. Altering the DNS record can misdirect all the traffic that relies on it. Because changes in DNS records propagate around the internet between servers, their effects can last for days even after the original change has been undone.Google results showing the DNS redirect attackA Google Malaysia spokesperson said: “For a short period, some users visitinggoogle.com.mywere redirected to a different website; Google services for thegoogle.com.mydomain were not hacked. We&apos;ve been in contact with the organisation responsible for managing this domain name and the issue should be resolved.&quot;&apos;We are anti-hackers&apos;A statement on thehacking group’s Facebook pageclaiming responsibility for the hack suggested the attack was random:We feel we need to alert anyone, that we don’t hack any country tlds for example google.com.my as a result of any kind of hate, We don’t hate anyone, We love all humanity, there is no obvious reason for stamping the tlds.Least the reason is not any kind of hate.Whatever the reason is we can’t explain except we love all of you.MadLeets is a Ethical and 1337 White Hat Hackers Community. We are Anti Hackers , we teach how to protect yourself from getting hacked.The hacker group claims to be attacking sites for non-political reasons, simply because it can, and to educate users about lack of security. In a statement released to thetechnology blog TechCrunch, the hackers said:There’s not much reason behind it, only to prove that security is just an illusion. It does not exist.We have no political intentions whatsoever.Google Malaysia wastargeted in Julyalong with other high-profile Malaysian sites for Skype, Bing, Kaspersky, Dell and MSN by hackers protesting against the treatment of Bangladeshi workers.AVG, Avira and WhatsApp were the subject of a similarDNS attack on 8 Octoberby a pro-Palestinian hacker group.• In June 2012, Googlewarned users of “state-sponsored” hackingof the company’s email service.• Explainer:what is DNS, why does it matter and how does it work?
Skype is being investigated by Luxembourg's data protection commissioner over concerns about its secret involvement with the US National Security Agency (NSA) spy programme Prism, the Guardian has learned.The Microsoft-owned internet chat company could potentially face criminal and administrative sanctions, including a ban on passing users' communications covertly to the US signals intelliigence agency.Skype itself is headquartered in the European country, and could also be fined if an investigation concludes that the data sharing is found in violation of the country's data-protection laws.The Guardian understands that Luxembourg's data-protection commissioner initiated a probe into Skype's privacy policies following revelations in June about its ties to the NSA.The country's data-protection chief, Gerard Lommel, declined to comment for this story, citing an ongoing investigation. Microsoft also declined to comment on the issue.Luxembourg has attracted several large corporations, including Amazon and Netflix, due to itstax structure.Its constitution enshrines the right to privacy and states that secrecy of correspondence is inviolable unless the law provides otherwise. Surveillance of communications in Luxembourg can only occur with judicial approval or by authorisation of a tribunal selected by the prime minister.However, it is unclear whether Skype's transfer of communications to the NSA have been sanctioned by Luxembourg through a secret legal assistance or data transfer agreement that would not be known to the data protection commissioner at the start of their inquiry.Microsoft'sacquisition of Skype tripled some types of data flow to the NSA, according to top-secret documents seen by the Guardian.Microsoftbought Skypefor $8.5bn (£5.6bn) in 2011.The US software giant was the first technology group to be brought within the NSA initative known asPrism, a scheme involving some of the internet's biggest consumer companies passing data on targeted users to the US under secret court orders.Having once been considered a secure chat tool beyond the reach of government eavesdropping, Skype is now facing a backlash in the wake of the Prism revelations."The only people who lose are users," says Eric King, head of research at human rights groupPrivacy International. "Skype promoted itself as a fantastic tool for secure communications around the world, but quickly caved to government pressure and can no longer be trusted to protect user privacy."Skype's legacy of encryption and securityFounded in Scandinavia in 2003, Skype was designed to connect callers through an encrypted peer-to-peer internet connection, meaning audio conversations between Skype users are not routed over a centralised network like conventional phone calls. Video and chat connections arealso encrypted.Attracting millions of users worldwide – 12.9 million people had registered to use the service by 2004, and by 2011 that figure had reached more than 600 million – Skype's reputation for privacy and security led to it being adopted by journalists and activists as a tool to evade government surveillance. But some criminals, too, turned to the tool to dodge law enforcement agencies – frustrating police, who had previously been able to eavesdrop on suspects' conversations by 'wiretapping' phone lines.A turning point came in 2005, when US company eBay purchased Skype for $2.6bn (£1.6bn). The same year, Skype formed a joint venture with Hong Kong-based internet company Tom Online to launch a Chinese version of Skype, which was tweaked to be compliant with dragnet surveillance.Skype China customised for monitoringA former Skype engineer, who declined to be named because of the sensitive nature of the issue, told the Guardian that the company worked to build in a "listening element" to help Chinese authorities monitor users' communications for keywords, triggering a warning to alert the government when certain phrases get typed into its chat interface.In response to questions about suspected monitoring of Skype chats in China, Skype haspreviously statedthat its software is made available in the country "through a joint venture with Tom Online. As majority partner in the joint venture, Tom has established procedures to meet its obligations under local laws."While publicly insisting it was unable to help law enforcement agencieseavesdrop on calls, Skype set up a secretive internal initiative called "Project Chess" to explore how it could make calls available to authorities, according to aNew York Times reportpublished in June.A year later, Skype waspurchased from eBay by an investor groupincluding US private equity firms Silver Lake and Andreessen Horowitz. During this period, work began on integrating Skype into the NSA's Prism program,documents leaked by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowdenhave revealed.The first 'eavesdropped' Skype callIn February 2011, according to the NSA files, Skype was served with a directive to comply with NSA surveillance signed by the US attorney general. Within days, the spy agency reported that it had successfully eavesdropped on a Skype call. And when Microsoft acquired Skype in May 2011, the relationship with the NSA appears to have intensified.Caspar Bowden, who served as Microsoft's chief privacy adviser between 2002 and 2011 and left shortly before the completion of its Skype takeover, says he was not surprised to learn the company had complied with the NSA's surveillance of the chat tool.While working for Microsoft, Bowden says he was not privy to details of secret data-collection programs – but fully briefed the company on the dangers of US spy law the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) for the privacy of its international cloud customers. He was met with a "wall of silence," he says.A letter obtained by the Guardian, sent by Skype's corporate vice president Mark Gillett to Privacy International in September 2012, suggested that group video calls and instant messages could be obtained by law enforcement because they are routed through its central servers and "may be temporarily stored."But Gillett also said in the letter that audio and one-to-one video calls made using Skype's "full client" on computers were encrypted and did not pass through central servers – implying that the company could not help authorities intercept them.Separately, in July 2012, Skype contributed to UK parliamentary committee hearings on the government's proposed expansion of surveillance powers under the controversial communications data bill. Skype representative Stephen Collins claimed in testimony to the committee that "there are no keys held by Skype to decrypt communications."Microsoft calls for more government transparencySkype told the Guardian that it would not answer technical questions about how it turns over calls to the authorities or comment on the extent of its compliance with US surveillance. The company insisted the information it provided the UK parliament was accurate, though would not explain apparent discrepancies between its public statements and access to Skype calls claimed by the NSA.In a statement, Skype said it believed that the world needed "a more open and public discussion" about the balance between privacy and security but accused the US government of stifling the conversation."Microsoft believes the US constitution guarantees our freedom to share more information with the public, yet the government is stopping us," a spokesperson for Skype said, referring to anongoing legal casein which Microsoft is seeking permission to disclose more information about the number of surveillance requests it receives.However, the law that underpins the Prism program – FISA – allows the NSA to target not only suspected terrorists and spies, but also "foreign-based political organisations," which could encompass an array of advocacy groups and potentially news organisations, too.'Journalists should avoid Skype'Grégoire Pouget, an information security expert atReporters Without Borders, believes that journalists should not underestimate the risks posed by NSA Skype surveillance."It is what many of us feared, and now we know for sure," Pouget says. "If you are a journalist working on issues that could interest the US government or some of their allies, you should not use Skype."Although the NSA has access to at least some Skype calls, it remains unclear whether police and security agencies outside the US enjoy a similar level of access.Hacking Team, an Italian company, sells surveillance software to law enforcement and intelligence agencies in 30 countries that allows authorities to covertly infiltrate computers with spyware that records communications before they are encrypted. The Milan-based firm explicitly markets the Trojan tool as a means to get access to Skype conversations – and says authorities still frequently complain about a lack of ability to eavesdrop on Skype calls."When you talk to law enforcement about what their concerns are, they'll right away mention Skype," says Eric Rabe, Hacking Team's spokesman.Rabe declines to name customers, citing confidentiality agreements, but says Hacking Team's business has been "growing very nicely" in recent years. The company's public accounts show that its revenue more than doubled from $5.3m in 2010 to a projected $11.8m in 2012.The new wave of encrypted servicesAt the opposite end of the spectrum, new companies are now emerging in response to fears about surveillance of Skype, promising users access to encrypted chat tools that do not have secret 'backdoors' for NSA surveillance.Washington DC-based Silent Circle is one such company, going to extraordinary lengths to shield customers against spying. With founders including Phil Zimmermann, who devised the Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) email encryption product, and a former Navy Seal, Silent Circle offers a series of encrypted phone apps and a Skype-style internet chat platform.It is registered as an offshore company and uses computer servers outside the US in a bid to evade government coercion. Itrecently closedits own encrypted email service because it could not guarantee security, and said it would focus instead on chat and telephony.The FBI has already held meetings with Silent Circle, according to CEO Mike Janke, accusing it of being a "ghost provider" that could cause harm to the US because it stores virtually no information about its users' communications.But Janke, a 45-year-old former Navy Seal sniper, says his company will not cede to government pressure to secretly comply with surveillance. "I feel that we can use Skype as a template," Janke says, "for what we don't want to do."
In 1996, the world entered a new Mesozoic Era. One hundred and fifty one bizarre species (everything from foot-high mammals to licking, looming reptiles) emerged from the primordial digital soup to take up residence in our cultural landscape. These pocket monsters, a term contracted for brevity and ease of copyright to Pokémon, were found scurrying about in the tall grass. If captured, they could be disciplined and trained to fight, forming a complicated bond of trust and companionship with their trainer, usually a child, who perhaps for the first time in their life is able to master the monsters, rather than flee them.Soon enough Pokémon begat Pokémania – spin-off television series and films, trading-card games (to date more than 20bn cards have been sold in 74 countries), websites (pokémon.com, which contains detailed 'Pokéarcana' on more than 640 breeds, offering secrets and techniques necessary to find the rarest creatures, has 2.5 million unique visitors a month), toys – Hasbro paid $325m (£203m) to market these – and even a bricks-and-mortar 'training centre' in New York's moneyed Rockefeller Center.As of March this year, Pokémon games have combined sales of more than 245m units – a figure set to rise yet further on the release of Pokémon X&amp;Y for Nintendo's 3DS handheld system this week. The young of our species have evidently taken the game's motto to heart; when it comes to Pokémon, humans Gotta Catch/Buy/Love/Obsess Over 'Em All.Despite the years of acclaim, testified in ever-multiplying billions of dollars of revenue, Junichi Masuda, director of the Pokémon games and co-founder of the franchise's originating video game studio, Game Freak, has an air of bewilderment about him. "I never imagined I'd be in a room like this, speaking to a journalist," he says, as we meet in a merchandise-decorated chamber in the pristine Gore Hotel (which sounds an awful lot like a trainer's curt directive to his Pokémon) in South Kensington, London. Video games came later. As a child, Masuda was an "outdoors" type. He grew up in Osaka, Japan, but spent most of his time outside, on his bicycle, catching insects. "I was almost never at home," he says.It's a similar picture of childhood to that of his Game Freak founding partner, Satoshi Tajiri, who was also obsessed with catching insects in his youth (Tajiri would explore the fields near his home on the outskirts of Tokyo in search of mini-beasts, carefully studying each one that he caught, before cataloguing it in a notepad bought for him by his parents).The game of lifeAlso like Tajiri, Masuda had a deep interest in technology. "Even though I was outside most of the time, I loved playing video games as I grew older, visiting the local arcades and messing around with computers." That interest turned into a hobby when, at middle school, Masuda took apart a synthesiser to see how the musical instrument worked. "That kick-started something in me," he says. "When I was older I'd visit Tokyo's electronics district, Akihabara, and buy parts to make my own effects. I also started dabbling in programming at that time."This unusual concoction of interests made it difficult for Masuda to find his professional place. After college he worked as a programmer at a computer software firm for 12 months, but this only held a small part of his interest. Around that time, Tajiri (a man who once spent so much money on the arcade game Space Invaders that the owner gave him a cabinet to take home) had become something of a spokesperson for video games in the Japanese national media, defending arcades against a distrusting older generation. Tajiri, who originally wanted to become an entomologist as a way to formalise his fascination with insects, was a moderately successfully writer on video games. In 1982, he had launched a video game magazine called Game Freak with his friend Ken Sugimori, the artist who would eventually draw the Pokémon.Tajiri and Masuda had a mutual friend and, when he introduced the pair, they became close friends. Writing about games inspired Tajiri to explore making them, and he bought and dismantled Nintendo's Famicom games machine to see if he could work out how to develop for it. When Masuda met Tajiri, he'd already started developing his first game, an action adventure called Mendel's Palace. Tajiri, trusting Masuda, invited his new friend to write the soundtrack to the game. "Every day after work we'd meet up to work on the music, often through the night," he says. "When we finished the game, we decided we should probably set up an actual company. That's how Game Freak started."Toughing it outWhen Nintendo released its Game Boy system, Taijiri imagined digital insects walking along the link cable that could be used to connect two systems. He took the idea to Nintendo who, impressed at his previous game development efforts, offered him a contract. Masuda and Tajiri's shared interest in electronics and insects inspired the initial Pokémon game's design, but while Tajiri was placed under the tutelage of Nintendo's master designer Shigeru Miyamoto, development was difficult. In the six years it took to finish the game, Game Freak nearly went bankrupt on multiple occasions. Five staff quit when the bosses admitted the severity of Game Freak's financial situation."It was a difficult time but I never thought about giving up, or throwing it all away," says Masuda, who describes himself as the more practical and logical counterweight to the emotionally driven Tajiri. "You know, when we started work on the game our motivation was never to make money. We just wanted to make the games we were interested in." While the pair missed a number of staff pay cheques, Tajiri would take on writing jobs on the side to help pay the staff. Even so, it was a gruelling time. "We were at the office the entire time," says Masuda. I remember thinking how dumb it was for me to be renting an apartment because I spent so little time there. I was always at the office. We lived in that place."Between 1990 and 1996, Masuda worked on a number of smaller games alongside Pokémon to help keep the company afloat. By the time Pokémon was ready for release (in two editions, Red and Blue, each with Pokémon unique to the version), the Game Boy was nearing the end of its life cycle. Indeed, the handheld was so outdated by this point, that no magazines would cover the game, and, initially, no toy manufacturer would consider marketing spin-off toys.But, as with so many of Nintendo's greatest successes, sales continued at a consistent rate, building over a period of months as word of mouth spread. When Tajiri leaked the fact that he had hidden a secret 151st Pokémon in the game, Mew, a character one could only acquire through trading, the rumours streaked across playgrounds and sales doubled.The sky's the limitAs Pokémon began to sell in significant numbers Nintendo decided to commission an animated television series and, almost overnight, the game turned into a phenomenon. Children would be introduced to the franchise through cartoons, before progressing to trading cards when they were a little older, before, finally, arriving at the video games, which are deep enough to attract not only the young, but also the young at heart, for whom the keen thrill of exploration and collection remains.For Masuda, the game's ongoing, seemingly limitless appeal is down to the game design itself. "I think the appeal of the characters and the joy of raising creatures, as well as the competitive aspect in the battling, are all key factors in the game's success," he says. "But ultimately the core focus on gameplay is what the franchise is built upon."Each core Pokémon game casts the player in the role of a young trainer (in the early Japanese versions of the game, the protagonist is called Satoshi), setting out from his parent's house on an adventure. Despite the team's focus on gameplay, the storyline is also a serious consideration, not least because of the vast and impressionable audience."Morality in the story is one of the core things I think about when making these games," says Masuda. "I think anyone who has the capacity to play the game will inherently be in a privileged position; they are above a certain level of poverty to even own video games. This means they might be in a more favourable position to change the world when they grow up. In Pokémon, we present an idealistic world. That is there deliberately, in the hope that it inspires our players to be positive influence on their own world."After all these years working on iteration after iteration, Masuda's enthusiasm for the series has not dimmed. "Usually whenever we near the end of a project I feel like I've done all I can," he says. "I'm out of ideas and I think: 'this could be my last game'. But when the game is released and I start to see how people play, I find new ideas for game features and challenges. It's a cycle: running out of energy towards the end of a project, resting and recuperating and then feeling energised to get back into a new game."In this sense, Masuda and Tajiri's work is never done. Their great accomplishment is in celebrating the joy of discovery, of offering children, many of whom were born into urban environments, the opportunity to experience the thrill of finding and cataloguing creatures and sharing their experiences with their peers. The visual simplicity belies the game's overarching complexity, whereby a strong Pokémon team consists of tens of thousands of thoughtful decisions, each unique to the player. At this point, however, the series' slogan appears to have been inverted. Now Masuda and Tajiri's directive is aimed outwards, from the designers towards the players as, heart by heart, mind by mind and sale by sale, Pokémon works to catch us all.• Pokemon X&amp;Y is released on Nintendo 3DS on Saturday
It looks like at least 600,000 PC gamers are going to be happy today. That's how many have signedan online petitionasking Rockstar to bring its multimillion-selling hit Grand Theft Auto V to the platform. On Thursday,specialist news site Eurogamer claimedto have heard encouraging news from multiple sources: a release date is apparently planned for the first quarter of 2014.Although Rockstar is yet to confirm anything (and it won't until it's good and ready), the rumours come at an interesting time. On Monday, Chris R Silva, director of marketing for Intel's premium notebooks, controversially told PC Gamer: "I don't think it'll be console exclusive very long. But that's what happens when you have a brand new launch with two companies that have lots of money trying to make sure they have content. Somebody paid a lot of money to make sure that title was exclusive."However, Rockstar has a history of releasing its GTA titles on console first, before announcing a PC edition months later. GTA: San Andreas launched on PlayStation 2 in October 2004, but didn't arrive on PC until the following June, while GTA IV hit consoles in April 2008, with the PC version arriving in December. And if/when it does show up, it should be worth the wait: the PC version of GTA IV featured a number of improvements, including doubling the number of players in online games to 32 and adding customisable radio stations.Meanwhile, back on console, Rockstar has released new patches for the PS3 and Xbox 360 versions of GTA V, designed to rid the Online mode of its major bugs. In a statement released on Thursday the company said:This title update will resolve the cause of players losing their gameplay progress except for some specific instances where players purchase a vehicle and the save does not occur due to a cloud save failure. A fix for that particular issue is being worked on and we will provide an update as soon as we know when this will be resolved.Various other bugs and glitches have also apparently been resolved, and Rockstar is reminding players that if they want to ensure progress is saved, they should always end their Online sessions by hitting pause and selecting to leave – rather than, say, rage quitting in the last five seconds of a Crooked Cop mission because you've accidentally driven your car into a river.
A decade on from its launch, EVE Online remains one of the most engrossing persistent game worlds ever produced. A space-faring epic set in the deep future, players can traverse thousands of star systems, build (and work for) interstellar corporations, and eke out an existence by mining and managing resources. The game is unusual for allowing users increasing freedom to govern the fictional reality themselves."The core element is that EVE, in so many ways, is made by the players of the game," says Hilmar Petursson, CEO of Icelandic developer CCP Games. "So much of the experience is what the players are doing, how they're interacting with each other, the trust and relationships that are built and broken, and all those stories coming up all over the world as they occur."The broken trust Petursson speaks of is part of what makes EVE fascinating to observe, even for non-players. A 2005 assassination of a high-level in-game CEO lead to a theft of 30bn ISK – EVE's currency – and considerable assets, such as rare starships. The plan required months to set up, with real players infiltrating the target corporation to launch the devastating co-ordinated assault. A year later, a single player set up the EVE Investment Bank, eventually defrauding his investors to the tune of 700bn ISK.CCP's backdrop is one that gives rise to true human ingenuity, greed, collaboration and callousness in ways the team never imagined."Initially, we were more hands on, and more of the game was controlled by us or non-player characters, with an NPC economy. Then we systematically unwound those controls, gave them over to players in some way," says Petursson. "Players elect a Council of Stellar Management that comes to Reykjavik twice a year and discusses with our development team and designers on where to focus our efforts and what needs to improve. That helps a lot, that there is this collaboration between the dev team, the community, and the core design of the game."Now, EVE is only a few steps removed from complete player autonomy, with Petursson's team taking on a janitorial role – "maintaining the operating system of the universe," he says. Internally, focus has shifted to expanding that universe. The free-to-play first-person shooter Dust 514 launched for PlayStation 3 in May this year, offering a more action-oriented experience set on planets throughout EVE's universe, where events in one game will affect the other. It feels relatively safe though – a sci-fi shooter in a medium awash with them. CCP's next release will be anything but safe.Stars in your eyesEVE Valkyrie seems alluringly dangerous on two fronts. One, it's a 3D space shooter, a genre all but abandoned by developers in recent years. Two, and more importantly, it will be released for Oculus Rift, the upcoming virtual reality headset offering players complete audio-visual immersion into their games. Valkyrie places gamers into some of EVE's signature space fighters, with a 360-degree view of the cockpit and the great void surrounding them. It looks thrilling, serving as a showcase for the flexibility of EVE's universe and the potential of the Oculus Rift hardware. Turning to a long-ignored genre on an unreleased piece of hardware may seem risky at best, but Petursson is excited by the potential."It started when the Kickstarter for Oculus Rift came about. CCP became one of the first backers, along with a lot of people at the company who backed it on their own time," he says. "People were trying out games and there was a group who wanted to do something using EVE assets to do a demo of something related."I tried it for the first time when we had a demonstration in the kitchen at CCP. I sort of imagined what it would be, [but then] I put it on and was like 'Wow! This is pretty damn cool!' You look at your own avatar in the cockpit and it was such a 'whoa' moment. It's more compelling than I thought, to feel this connected to it. That's obviously what we want to do, we want to immerse people even more in the universe we're creating, to have people expand what they can do in a truly open world."Although little has been shown of the in-progress Valkyrie as yet, the creative team forming around it is promising. Most prominently, Owen O'Brien has taken on a producer role, who should know a thing or two about first-person immersion from his work on cult hit Mirror's Edge. Valkyrie has also shifted development from Reykjavik to CCP's Newcastle studios, where Petursson is pushing for bold ideas."We try to cultivate an environment for innovation. I think we can improve a lot on that. We've experimented with 20% time for staff's own projects and in-company game jams. How we can further foster creativity, whether it's its own project, inside EVE Online, or inside our current games, is absolutely something we're thinking about."It's unknown whether Valkyrie will integrate with EVE Online and Dust 514, or similarly reflect player democracy in the shared universe, though such connections are likely to feature eventually. Petursson adds: "We very much have the opportunity, we have the technology and infrastructure for it. It's just not the focus right now."Comparing Valkyrie's potential to the game that started it all, Petursson reflects "We were much more interested in creating a playground, which would be self-reinforcing. But it became much bigger and has lived on for much longer than we ever thought, or even dared think. Now when we look at it, and think of the fundamentals of it, EVE in all its forms is going to outlive us all."
