If you're in the market for a sports saloon but don't want to go down the BMW road, I have the very car for you - the new Saab 9-3 Viggen. The name means "thunderbolt" in Swedish and refers to Saab's fighter aircraft - and for once the name is well earned: this new 9-3 is a blisteringly fast family car.Under the bonnet is a modest sounding 2.3 litre four-cylinder engine, but a dirty great turbo-charger helps the Viggen produce 225bhp, which means it will do 0-60mph in 6.5 seconds. However, it's this car's mid-range acceleration that really impresses: floor the throttle at 40mph in third gear and   things will happen so fast that you won't even be able to glance down at the speedo again until you're miles into licence-losing territory.Of course if turbochargers were such a great idea everyone would use them, but they don't because turbo engines usually slurp down petrol and suffer from a phenomenon known as "turbo lag", an unpleasant delay between the time your foot hits the accelerator and when the power actually arrives. But Saab have got both problems licked.The Viggen do a scarcely credible 30mpg in mixed driving and is also largely lag-free - in fact it occasionally displays a characteristic which I can only describe as "inverse lag". As you press the throttle the car accelerates a bit harder and faster than you would expect, because Saab's engineers have decided to amplify your first acceleration input in order to minimise turbo-lag. It's odd at first, but you soon get used to it.However the level of fight and feedback from the steering when you accelerate hard in lower gears ("torque steer") is something that you'll just have to learn to live with. I'm not convinced that it's reasonable to expect any pair of front tyres to lay down 225bhp and steer at the same time, but since Saab only make front wheel drive cars they don't have a choice in the matter.   
There's no traction control either, which might help matters in some situations, although Saab  does offer a revealing reason for its exclusion. "We have left a trace of torque steer to allow the driver to gauge exactly what is happening at the front wheels," says chassis engineer Sven Wernstahl, "because it's important for the driver to feel the challenge of the power."That's a fair point, but I can't help feeling that Sven wouldn't  have to make it if the Viggen's front wheels only had to do the steering - as is the case with the rear drive BMW 3 and 5 Series cars. But when you do get the Viggen into higher gears and set off through some sweeping bends the &#163;31,000 Coupe model proves that it's an outstand ing performance saloon car nonetheless. The seats are fantastic, the upgraded suspension, tyres and brakes all work well, while the body kit is purposeful but discrete. And go-faster posers will love the &#163;36,000 convertible model.The Saab 9-3 Viggen will also be a rare bird, because Saab only expect to sell around 500 of them each year in Britain. But if you crave a bit of exclusivity and are hooked on the idea of a towering mid-range performance vehicle you'll find this new Saab extremely hard to beat.
Forget the Dow Jones or house prices in the Hamptons, the true barometer of the global economy is the supercar market, currently flourishing as never before. As well as the perennial, Rollers and Ferraris there are over a dozen manufacturers competing in the rarefied &#163;100,000-and-above market, with many more on the way.Bugatti is expected to relaunch in 2003 with an awesome Rolls-trouncing super-saloon (put aside at least &#163;200,000); Mercedes will complete its monster V24 Maybach and Bentley are rumoured to be preparing a luxury 4X4.The &#163;1.1m Mercedes CLK-GTR is the daddy of them all, and is currently the most expensive production car in the world. Only 25 will be made and there are 200 people on the waiting list.So if you aren't one of them, or a million is a little rich for your blood, here are a few alternatives. (Then again, for the same price you could fill your drive with 255 examples of Britain's cheapest car, the Perodua Nippa EX2 - below - yours for &#163;4,599 on the road.)Bristol Blenheim II&#163;118,953Why you simply must have one:Bristols have long been the choice of the knowledgeable eccentric, boasting aircraft-standard engineering and build quality in a compact, wieldy package.Why you'll want to sell it:Rather like Barbara Cartland, Bristol cars exist in blissful, anachronistic isolation and are still hand-built with a separate chassis, live rear axle and prosaic Chrysler V8 power. Hardly objects of beauty, they also depreciate alarmingly.Owners:Tina Turner, Bono, Liam Gallagher, and Richard BransonJankel Range Rover 6x6 Hunting&#163;150,000Why you simply must have one:Just try to track your hawks across the dunes without one. Used exclusively for hunting in the deserts of the Middle East and north Africa, usually in pursuit of birds of prey.Why you'll want to sell it:Despite Surrey-based specialist Jankel's best efforts these heavily adapted Range Rover HSEs tend not to have a life expectancy beyond five years. The second-hand market isn't exactly buoyant either.Owners:Exclusively the preserve of Middle Eastern royalty.Lister Storm GTL&#163;450,000Why you simply must have one:The (so far) 23 buyers of the all-new Storm have bought one of the most exclusive sports cars in the world, each a member of the schoolboy Valhalla - the 200mph club.Why you'll want to sell it:It may have a 7 litre, 600bhp V12 engine but at speed the Storm is said to handle like a shopping trolley and looks like something from a cheap BBC sci-fi.Owners:As driven by Top Gear's Tiff Needell in the British GT championship.Bentley Continental SC&#163;245,000Why you simply must have one:Take my word for it, if any hunk of metal and glass can be worth a quarter of a million this is it. No car imbues its owner with quite such a sense of well being and superiority, while 400bhp ensures that it'll put a grin on your face the size of Cheddar Gorge.Why you'll want to sell it:The SC has two removable glass roof panels. Rolls Royce say this makes it an old fashioned Sedanca Coupe, but it's more like a Toyota MR2 if you ask me. Why not go for the full blown Azure convertible (&#163;230,000), and buy a BMW with the change?Owners:Oil sheikhs and scrap metal merchants.Aston Martin Vantage 600&#163;233,682Why you simply must have one:Though recently upstaged by the new DB7 Vantage (yours for a piffling &#163;92,500), the 200mph 600 is an old-school Aston with more grunt than a Danish pig farm cour tesy of an engine with more horses than the New Forest (a World of Leather interior completes the ranch metaphor). Superexclusive, superprofligate, a super car in every sense.Why you'll want to sell it:Aston don't disclose mpg, because you'd laugh.Owners:Toffs with bicepsBMW 750i High Security&#163;181,000Why you simply must have one:This is the SS Bismarck of cars, capable of stopping bullets, bombs and the most determined hijacker. It is built to special order only, but if you are of a nervous disposition and still   feel the need to visit Harvey Nicks in person, this is the car for you.Why you'll want to sell it:Armouring inevitably takes its toll and this is slower, heavier and thirstier than the standard car. Again, the second hand market isn't great.Owners:Eurocrats, business leaders and Russian mafia.Ferrari 456M GTA&#163;173,589Why you simply must have one:What with every Giggs, Beckham and Harry owning 550 Maranellos, the 456 is Ferrari's more mature grand tourer with four seats, reasonable luggage space and 185mph top whack.Why you'll want to sell it:Some find the looks bland.Owners:Rowan AtkinsonRolls Royce Silver Seraph&#163;155,000Why you simply must have one:Epochs come and go but for many the Roller will always top the tree in the desirability stakes. Silent, serene and sybaritic, when you get behind the wheel of a Roller all your worries disappear.Why you'll want to sell it:Remove the cigar lighter and it says "Made In Germany" - with its sale abroad has the Silver Lady lost some of her allure?Owners:Most of Jersey.Mercedes CLK-GTR&#163;1,175,000Why you simply must have one:The ultimate road racer, but forget 199mph, Le Mans looks and 0-60 in 3.8secs, when you buy a CLK you are buying a price tag.Why you'll want to sell it:You may have seen the track version make like a plane at Le Mans this year when it flipped at 200mph (which makes you wonder about the aerodynamics). And there's no rear view mirror, because there's no rear view.Owners:Anyone with a Grand Prix circuit in their back yard.Lamborghini Diablo Roadster&#163;186,556Why you simply must have one:The 208mph Diablo has inherited the Countach's crown as the apogee of the absurdist hypercar genre.Why you'll want to sell it:Lambos tend to have all the build integrity of a Kinder Egg toy, are deeply unpleasant to drive anywhere other than a race track, and are as reliable as Cornish sunshine.Owners:Jay Kay of Jamiroquai - and yes, that should put you off.
How do you get around?In a first class train carriage, whenever I can. In the smoking compartment.So when did this begin? When the money was rolling in?I used to go first class with everything when I had a lot of money. When I came out of prison I went in the lowest class everywhere. I kept that up until I got a laptop. It's really good to write in first class compartments.Is that because there's so much stimulation whizzing by outside?It just happens to work out. It's the only form of transport in which I can actually do something. I can't read in a car. I can't write longhand on the train. They've stopped us using laptops on most flights now.Totalitarians aren't they. Aren't the people you sit next to in first class pretty awful though?Well, you don't get the highfalutin ones in smoking. It's usually just some little leper colony at the end of the carriage - men with pipes and yellow hair meet kids skinning up and bond with each other.Dare I ask the idiot's question, what are you smoking Howard?Usually marijuana, sometimes hash.How much does it cost - the ticket, I mean.It's a lot more expensive than going by car. But in Britain, if you arrange it on weekends, you can get an upgrade to first class for a fiver.Is the food any better?No, the food's shite. Except in Europe.Are the sandwiches easier to open?They open them for you.So, have you ever driven a car then?Lots and lots. I like driving cars, but you can't do anything else at the same time. I bought a red Mercedes 280 estate. That was in the early 80s. It was pictured in many observation reports.What attraction does that have. It's a bit of a vulgar 80s red Freudian displacement nightmare, isn't it?Yes. All of those things.What kind of driver were you?Good.What about road rage?No. I have absolutely no idea what that must feel like.
Mention the phrase "millennium bug" to colleagues who breeze into the office with that holiday glow, and you may see them heading back out the door. But Action 2000, the government-approved company that advises on the bug, urges that now is the perfect time to act if you've been burying your head in the sand. Fail to do so and your company could be in for major glitches, or worse, lawsuits.The State of the Nation, a report released this month by Action 2000, reveals that, since no one knows exactly what's going to happen next January, many companies have reacted by adopting a potentially disastrous "wait and see" attitude. And small and medium-sized companies are particularly ill-prepared: four out of five businesses with between 10 and 249 staff, have still not put bug plans into action, while two-thirds of very small companies, with fewer than 10 employees, have no plans at all."Small companies are slacking behind for financial reasons," says Sarah O'Connor, administrator with a web design company employing five people. "It can cost &#163;100 to get a professional to fix each computer, so companies are saying, 'we'll take the risk'." O'Connor decided to act, however, and signed up for a government-funded course. She now knows how to check equipment, run fix-it disks, and liaise with suppliers about their millennium preparations.Secretaries have a key role to play in de-bugging the office, especially in smaller businesses. "They can help companies look at sub-contractors and payment systems, and ask contractors if they've done a millennium check," says Brian Harrison from South East London TEC, which allocates government funding to bug course providers.But secretaries will be in a better position to help if they receive training or support. Mike Schorfield, managing director of Kent Computer Products, says that administrators who have done their Assessment and Management for the Year 2000 courses, have returned to tackle the bug with "zeal and determination".If you can't find a suitable course in your area, Schorfield advises doing a mini business review: ask how your business functions, and what can be done if any chip-based system fails. You should then relay this information back to suppliers and customers. Schorfield stresses that anyone dealing with the bug is dealing with a problem that "could potentially wreck a business", so secretaries should work alongside a company director or owner. They should also keep detailed documents about the role they have played. "Be careful that any advice you give to clients or colleagues is informal," adds Ellen Bishop, who works as an administrator for a financial company. "Otherwise you could be held liable if things go wrong".Some secretaries have found bug-busting has given them confidence and enhanced their skills. PA Adrienne Burton works for an accountancy firm which has just 10 employees, and has enjoyed managing the problem single-handedly... "I originally thought the bug-affected computers and not burglar alarms, bank accounts, franking machine or photocopiers. My checklist soon became huge."She learned that sorting out computers was the easy part of the job: running a fix disk to change the date takes just half an hour. But checking whether suppliers were compliant took her a couple of months. She is currently talking to the company's suppliers, from gas and electricity boards to stationery firms, to request written confirmation of equipment checks.The next step is to make sure you have contingency plans in place. It's not possible to have alternatives for everything, so identify what's vital for your business to function and carry out a full business audit. Burton, for instance, has made two or three back-up copies of all customer accounts on the computer database. She has also made plans should basic services go wrong: if phone lines go down, there are mobile phones. The company also has manual typewriters in case computers crash.What happens if you realise how much time, effort and money needs to be spent on the bug, but your boss doesn't? "Stress there is a legal responsibility in the face of non-performance in the year 2000 and that it might cost more money in the long run," advises Schorfield. If everything goes smoothly once Big Ben chimes in the new year, it will be secretaries who can take a lot of the credit.Timely tips&#149; Ask suppliers for written evidence of action they've taken. Many won't know how compliant they are but should be able to tell you how much equipment they've checked, and when they will check the rest.&#149; Larger companies should have websites detailing their millennium compliance. See the 116-page disclaimer on Microsoft's web site.&#149; Talk to your local TEC to see if it can help, and government-funded courses are still on offer: contact Action 2000 for details, orwww.bug2000.co.uk&#149; Circulate a letter to colleagues explaining what your office still needs to do. If you want to win friends, remind them of risks in the home.
Bill Gates is a man whose grasp of technology and business borders on genius. Yet the Microsoft anti-trust trial has proved close to a PR disaster for a company that is fanatical about controlling its image and tthat of its all-powerful chief executive.In an article in this week's New Yorker magazine, influential media writer Ken Auletta describes Microsoft's performance in the courtroom as 'more childlike than mob-like', and asks: 'How could such a smart man give such a wobbly deposition?'A picture was painted of Gates as a man who can as easily fly into a petulant tantrum when being beaten at charades as he can be defensive and uncooperative in the courtroom. In particular, Gates is indignant about the damaging suggestion that there had allegedly been an exchange of emails suggesting Microsoft wanted to cut off rival Internet company Netscape's 'oxygen'.In an interview with Auletta, Gates describes the existence of the Netscape email as 'A great lie! An unbelievable lie! Did anyone utter those words? Our email, every piece of it, has been searched... I wish we had found somebody who had said it. Then we could take him out and hang the guy, then we'd say "OK mea culpa. we found him the guy who said "I'll cut off your oxygen." Every piece of email I have sent for the last 10 years has been read and read and if there is any way that people can misconstrue every statement I've ever made, it's been done'.He rails: 'This is a company where, during the time they sue us to try and put us out of business, who was developing more software for the Macintosh than anybody else? They're discriminating against us. They're doing joint marketing with all our competitors. Just mistreating us every single step of the way.' Gates says that his company deserves none of the negative press it has attracted.With the trial approaching its conclusion, Gates' insistence that the company has done nothing wrong does not alter the fact that the anti-trust trial, orchestrated by Joel Klein, has inflicted a deep wound on Microsoft's image, which will encourage competitors to be bolder about attacking the leviathan. This Gates is taking swift steps to redress.Microsoft insiders worry that the company will end up second-guessing whether deals will fall foul of the anti-trust lawyers and that the entire software industry will become highly defensive. Gates has stepped up political contributions to both Republican and Democrat parties and has hired Washington lobbyists as well as appearing on the  Martha Stewart television show, talking about his daughter to display the human side of Bill.As Auletta observes, while prosecutors have made a case for Microsoft having mugged its customers, 'in the end Microsoft has mugged itself'.
All British users of Windows software - and that's almost everyone with a PC - could be in for a payment from Microsoft as a result of the US government's case against it for monopolising the market for operating systems.In an exclusive interview with The Observer, David Boies, the US Department of Justice's chief trial lawyer in the case, said British and other non-American purchasers of Windows or Windows equipment have been overcharged for the software and, and under US law, may collect triple the excess as compensation.But first the federal court must rule Microsoft a monopoly as charged by the US government. Few doubt this will be done by the end of the year. Then the overcharge resulting will be determined in separate class-action suits brought by private lawyers.Boies, America's top anti-trust lawyer, said that while rarely used, US law permits anyone outside the US harmed by a US-based pricing conspiracy to receive the same recovery as US citizens.This would require British citizens to contact a US lawyer in private practice to represent them.Even though the alleged Windows monopoly may have resulted in overcharges of as little as &#163;10 per consumer, it is feasible and lucrative for lawyers to prosecute the cases as US courts are likely to consolidate the millions of complaints into a single class-action trial.Each of the several million British users of Windows need not apply for compensation so long as a handful come forward to represent their class of victim. It would become Microsoft's costly job, if found liable, to locate each UK buyer of Windows or Windows computers.Boies would not estimate the Microsoft overcharge but he noted that Microsoft takes about 65 per cent of the amount it charges for the operating software as profit, a portion of which he would identify as the result of illegal anti-competitive conduct.But even at &#163;10 per consumer, British buyers might expect payment of up to &#163;300 million.For its part, Microsoft claims to have taken 95 per cent of the operating systems market by producing the better mousetrap at a low price.
The bespectacled man reportedly spotted on his 199-foot yacht in the South of France with ex-Mrs Mick Jagger Jerry Hall may be less well-known than Bill Gates. He may also be less well off than his former partner and Microsoft co-founder - his 7 per cent in the company is valued at around $22 billion. But Paul Allen is still America's third-richest man, and to many the more intriguing of the two.Indeed, it is hard to find another cyber-billionaire who has indulged his interests in music, sports, conservation, development, education, philanthropy, business, and technology quite as passionately as this 46-year-old bachelor.The art gallery at his Puget Sound home in Seattle is packed with Impressionist paintings and his abiding passion for Jimi Hendrix is such that he commissioned Frank Gehry to build a $100 million-plus interactive museum modelled on the guitarist's psychedelic dream of a Sky Church where musicians could play freely. He also owns the Seattle Seahawks NFL team and Portland Trailblazers basketball team. But Allen is by nature a futurist.Though not given to self-publicity, he has, over the past decade, established himself as one of the foremost visionaries and major investors in the IT revolution. Where Gates remains responsible for Microsoft, Allen has sought a different role since leaving the company as head of research in 1983. In recent years, he has sold his shares and raised billions of dollars to buy stakes in more than 100 companies, set up foundations and pursue his interests.Scarcely a week goes by without news that his investment arm, Vulcan Ventures, has made a new purchase to add to what Paul Allen likes to call his 'wired world'. As perplexingly diverse and apparently random as the pieces of his empire have sometimes seemed, a pattern has recently emerged that suggests they will give him a leading position in the converging worlds of technology and entertainment.Allen's vision amounts to an extension of the PC revolution ushered in by Microsoft, one that connects consumers to networks using two-way 'fat pipes' that will make the Web as it is now seem impossibly primitive. Among his holdings are Charter Communications, the fourth-largest cable TV operator in the US; a number of high-speed Internet access and telecom firms; stakes in entertainment companies including Barry Diller's USA Networks; $100m in Oxygen Media, Geraldine Laybourne's new women's cable channel and Internet site; and a $500m investment in Hollywood studio Dreamworks. He also has substantial interests in online brokerage, e-commerce, and portal sites such as Go2Net.'The enabling technologies are falling into place. We can already see a future where high-bandwidth access to information is cheap, where there is plenty of computing power to manipulate that information, and where most of us are connected,' he said recently. 'I think the most exciting things happening have to do with content. We have only begun to invent what will be possible.'Investigating those possibilities is the work of Interval Research, a Silicon Valley company Allen has funded to the tune of $100m and where 120 professionals of varied disciplines work behind closed doors searching for the next technological breakthrough.As he said in a rare interview recently, Allen is 'an ideas person'. And though he still retains a seat on Microsoft's board, it hasn't prevented him from employing Linus Torvalds, architect of the rival Linux operating system.'Paul's gift is his ability to assimilate information and draw conclusions,' says Steve Wood, one of Microsoft's first employees. 'He just consumes it.'In many ways Allen's business is aiming to create for consumers what he already enjoys. In his basement, for instance, are rows of giant robotic jukeboxes that hold more than 2,000 movie titles and 1,400 compact discs. This hardware allows him instant access to his collection from any of the buildings on the estate.'I've built myself the equivalent of what will be available to everyone in the near future,' he told the  Seattle Times. 'Not everyone will have all this stuff on their own, of course, but it will be available through cable service or satellite.'His passions are broader than those of an overgrown   teenager, however. In the past three years he has become a significant philanthropist in the Pacific Northwest. To save endangered forests in Washington State he established a foundation with the largest single conservation donation in state history; he has donated $10m to build a library at his alma mater, Washington State University, and is helping restore the city's Union Station.Allen is often referred to as a recluse, but it seems more probable that, like any billionaire, he doesn't need publicity. Last year he wrote an anonymous article for  Vanity Fair on the joys of his Gulfstream jet, but he's also been known to jam with his band, The Grown Men, at run-down Seattle clubs. He maintains a personal website (paulallen.com) offering insights into his interests, his business strategy and inviting ideas for business plans.His star-studded parties at Cannes are legendary, and over the past three years he has held masked balls in Venice and flown hundreds of his friends to a week-long party in Alaska. A committed pop-culture junkie, he counts among his friends British rock stars Dave Stewart and Peter Gabriel.Allen's ascent began in 1975 when he was working as a programmer at Honeywell. He saw an article in  Popular Electronics that described an early microcomputer and called his childhood friend Bill Gates to tell him to drop out of Harvard. The pair   landed in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and started what was then called Micro-Soft. With Allen at the keyboard writing MS-DOS and Gates handling the business end of things, the company achieved sales of $1m by 1978. But the stress of sudden success may have contributed to Allen contracting Hodgkin's disease.In 1983 he left the company, recovered, and spent years living with his mother, scuba diving, playing the guitar, and reading Dickens and sci-fi novels. It was not until the mid-Nineties that Allen emerged as the Pied Piper of IT. Commentators still question the business acumen of a man who is as likely to be found obsessing over one of Hendrix's wah-wah pedals or funding the search for alien intelligence as formulating the future of IT.Had he held all his Microsoft shares he would now be worth in the region of $36bn, and had he not sold his 25 per cent stake in AOL in 1994 for a profit of $70m, it would now be worth more than $10bn. Many have also judged that he has paid too much for his growing stake in the cable business. But Allen is more interested in the benefits of converging technology than in the technology itself.'Here is where the artists take over from the scientists. Content, be it persuasive, informative or inspirational, has always depended on creative talent,' he says. 'Science has opened the door, but artistry and imagination will take us through it.'
Six of the bestFor the new soccer seasonInternational statisticswww.soccerstats.comNorth of the borderwww.scottishfootball.comFootie searchhttp://twie.lochnet.co.uk/fsearchOfficial voicewww.fa-premier.comTerracevoicewww.wsc.co.uk/wscand The Guardian'swww.footballunlimited.co.uk
Chickens will be able to run between Bristol, London and Los Angeles thanks to a collaboration between business and academics.The fowls are not real but creations of Aardman Animations, producers of Wallace and Gromit, and star in its first feature film Chicken Run. The film is backed by Steven Spielberg's DreamWorks company and Aardman, based in Bristol, faced the problem of working with a London digital effects firm and DreamWorks in Los Angeles.Now, says David Sproxton, Aardman's director, this work will be carried out online using an experimental high-speed computer network which goes live this week.The experiment has been    set up by the Bristol Creative Technology Networkwww.bctn.net, jointly owned by Bristol University, cable firm Telewest and a group of private media companies, including Aardman.Bristol hosts the UK's largest concentration of media companies after London. Among the 17 partners are BBC Digital Production, the sound effects firm Sardis International, and digital archive specialist Broadcast Film and Video.For a &#163;10,000 basic fee companies get unlimited use of a 155-622Mbit local network, with an option to add scalable high-capacity links to London, Europe, the US and worldwide, alongside high-bandwidth internet connection. Smaller firms can connect at lower costs, and any profits will be reinvested in the network.Members will also be able to use a &#163;2m virtual studio at the university featuring broadcast standard online digital equipment, a semi-immersive wide-screen display for virtual backdrops, and a 3D positional sound environment.Commercial activity will run alongside experimental research on a range of topics from how to control network traffic to how "virtual" media companies may be able to form temporarily over the network to carry out one-off projects.In theory, virtual companies could be assembled from elements of a range of existing companies, carry out media production contracts for commissioners anywhere in the world, and be disbanded, all in the space of just a few days. The BCTN   research will examine models of how such entities could be structured and the legal implications.Other projects will involve:&#149; Developing the use of virtual production environments in which companies in different locations could collaborate to create films or games;&#149; "Enhanced television", including interactive programmes;&#149; The use of multiple sound channels for immersive sound.Jan Dobson, the network's research director, says media firms are wary of investing in broadband facilities because they are faced with a wide range of platforms and high costs. The BCTN's collaborative approach should spread the costs, ensuring both that the academic research has a practical edge and that the British film industry remains competitive.Ultimately the network could become a framework for other local networks across the UK which could eventually link together, says Dobson.A key partner in the project is Telewest, one of the two remaining UK cable    companies, which supplies cable TV and internet services to more than 1.4m homes. Alongside Broadcast Film and Videowww.bfv.co.uk, which will provide facilities to archive, store, retrieve and manipulate digital films, Telewest will explore how films or interactive television could be supplied direct from producer to consumer.This is an entirely new independent distribution model that could bypass traditional broadcasters such as the main television channels to offer "media on demand" into people's homes.Anne Scorer, director of independent documentary and wildlife programme    maker Scorer Associates atwww.scorer.co.uk, says that the network offers her company the chance to experiment with interactive television."The challenge for documentary makers is to create a new kind of programme which allows the audience more avenues to access layers of information without losing the quality of narrative experience that gives the best TV programmes their emotional and intellectual power."The internet generation will expect their TV programmes to offer choices - to dig deeper and explore a virtual reality version of a building or experience David Attenborough's viewpoint from the back of an elephant."Technology just becomes a means to an end - allowing access to all the information which is usually built up painstakingly in research for documentaries - most of which gets eliminated before filming or during post-production. This huge amount of waste in our existing production process will turn into archives of digitally stored metadata."
On a pleasant weekday afternoon in Nottingham, the dark side of gambling seems a million miles away.Chris Maskill, manager of the Stakis Regency Casino in Nottingham and proponent of responsible gambling, looks over his domain with pride. "You see those ladies?" He points to two pensioners sipping tea. "They met here. Now they pop in most days. Not to gamble, particularly, but for the company, the social life."For Chris - who has worked in the gaming industry for 22 years - gambling is a legitimate and rapidly growing form of entertainment, part of a worldwide trend. The popularity of the National Lottery has dissolved much of the stigma once attached to betting in the UK. Now, 91% of adults and 75% of adolescents enjoy the occasional flutter, regular betting or even serious gambling. But, in the murkier corners of the web, a more threatening world is developing.Statistically, 3% of adults, and double that number of   teenagers who gamble, slip into compulsive or problem gambling. And the most dangerous, totally unregulated, utterly accessible, wonderfully enticing form of gambling is waiting for you and your family in your living room, on your computer screen.The punters at Mr Maskill's casino must become members 24 hours before they start gambling, provide proof of age and set up an acceptable form of payment guaranteed by their bank or use cash. Gambling on credit or by credit cards is illegal, as is drinking alcohol while betting. Inebriated or disturbed guests are asked to leave, as are those whose banks have notified Mr Maskill that they are in financial difficulty. But if you switch on your computer and access the Altavista home page, you'll find a charming advert for the Casino On The Net. In 20 minutes, you can download their software, click on an agreement promising you are over 18 years of age, resident in a country or state where gambling is legal, make a financial arrange ment with your credit card and start gambling.Everything, except the validity of your credit card number, will be taken at face value. Sports and event betting, horse racing, lotteries, bingo, and scratch cards are available, 24 hours a day, everyday of the year from over 5,000 sites, which grossed approximately $631m in 1998, double that of 1997.If internet auctions and stock trading, particularly day trading, are considered gambling, the total rises to well over a billion dollars and will continue to rise.Dr Mark Griffiths, reader   in Psychology at Nottingham Trent University, specialises in gambling and technological addictions. He believes unregulated gaming on the net has enormous potential for harm to vulnerable sections of the community, particularly underage gamblers, individuals with alcohol or drug problems and those whose psychological makeup predisposes them to various forms of addiction."When you increase access, you increase uptake; the number of problem users automatically rises as uptake rises. Las Vegas has the highest number of problem gamblers in the world, 7-8%. Most gambling is well regulated but the internet has no boundaries and no way of stopping unsuitable users."There have already been several cases of school children stealing their parents' credit cards and gambling on school computers. Furthermore, gambling on credit produces suspension of judgement about money. E-cash seems unreal, so bettors overspend, raising their limits when they should not do so."Add on the social isolation, the continuous availability and it's a natural fit for the compulsive gambler."His concerns are echoed by Gamcare, the gambling research and education organisation, and other specialists in the field, such as Gamblers Anonymous ( Info@gambleranonymous.co.uk) . Because of our high telephone rates, internet use in the UK lags behind much of the technologically developed world and internet gambling isn't a major problem so far.But Gamcarewww.gamcare.org.ukalready has experience of casualties, particularly in the area of spread betting, betting on the points scored in an athletic or sporting contest.Other countries, such as the USA and Australia, have far more experience of the internet and are confronting   the problem head on, in totally different ways.Australia has legitimised and regulated internet betting, adopting a federalist approach with a regulatory control model on a national level allowing each state to licence the appropriate premises and games, with tax going to the player's state.In the United States, attempts are being made to ban all forms of internet gambling.Campaigners are backed by the religious right and the conventional gambling estab lishments, but have had little success.Senator Jon Kyl introduced a bill in 1997 prohibiting online betting, which passed the senate by a 90-10 margin. Several factors prevented its second appearance but another, less inclusive bill will go before the legislature in early autumn.Betting of all kinds is illegal in some states and federal law prohibits the acceptance of wagers placed over interstate telephone wires. Because of this and similar laws in other countries, including Britain,   most gambling sites are located offshore, on Caribbean islands or in South American countries which license the sites for a fee, generally $100,000 - far less than it would cost to set up and license a similar business on American soil.The US government has successfully prosecuted one site - the Antigua-based "The World Sports Exchange" - and has sequestered $800,000 of its assets. But it has been unable to arrest members of the syndicate living outside the US.A second case was brought by the attorney-general in 1997 against the native American Coeur d'Alene tribe of Idaho claiming their online lottery violated Mississippi law. The case continues, with the native Americans maintaining their territory is a sovereign entity and not subject to federal law. If they win, many other tribes will also open online sites.Although public opinion in the US tends to support the ban, these and other cases show the difficulty, even the impossibility, of stopping internet gambling on sites which originate outside the US, especially since the   Millennium Act releases the internet service providers from liability.To enforce prohibition, the government would have to criminalise and prosecute bettors, a legal task of immense proportions.In Britain, most informed opinion favours legitimisation and regulation of internet gambling, seeing it as an unstoppable force. This would need an act of parliament, and the Gaming Board of Great Britain has issued a position paper outlining the situation. Camelot and other   companies regard this as an important issue."We're a technological company," said a Camelot spokesperson, "and we're always looking at new options, but they must be approved by the government and protect the vulnerable."Paul Wools, media partner for Manches, a firm of solicitors specialising in IT and internet lawwww.manches.co.uk, believes that the internet can be a magnet for the dishonest, because of the ease and cheapness of setting up a site anywhere in the world which   can disappear with the customer's money, leaving no legal redress."Some way has to be found to make e-commerce safe, to provide consumer satisfaction and create confidence," he says, "whether it's for gambling or buying or a computer."If governments can't collaborate to do this, if the internet doesn't regulate itself, then it cannot flourish."Gambling responsibly1.Keep in mind you are buying entertainment2.Before you gamble, set strict limits on the amount of time and money you are going to spend and stick to those limits. When the money is gone, quit.3.Keep a running total of money won and lost.4.Only gamble with money you can afford to lose. Never try to recoup losses.On the internet:1.Only gamble with an organisation you know to be genuine. Australian and New   Zealand sites are probably the safest.2.If in doubt about a gambling site, send it an email asking: Who's backing the organisation? Where is it licensed? What jurisdiction is it under?3.Before giving your credit card number, look for the small "lock" symbol in the margin of your screen, proving this is a secure site.4.Parents should always keep an eye on what sites their children are visiting. A regular look at the history will keep you informed.Thomas HarperThomas Harper, an intelligent man in his thirties, a fan of computers and computer games, became interested in internet auctions and sports betting. At first an entertainment, they became more important, and he began spending large amounts of time online trying to recoup his losses.He went deep into debt, using multiple credit cards, going over the limits and borrowing from every possible source. Finally, he was   blackballed by the auctions and attempted suicide.In hospital, he was cared for by a multidisciplinary team and began to pay off his debts. He became euphoric on the day he cleared them but when his mood dropped, wrote some dud checks and began gambling on the internet again. He is still in treatment.Case studiesJess AndersonJess Anderson is in her fifties with a history of alcohol abuse but had been in recovery for many years and enjoying a   successful career in business management. She began playing scratch cards and lotteries, then discovered the internet lotteries and casinos which she played on her office computer for "relaxation".She became obsessed, despite growing financial problems, and was ignoring her work. When her line manager checked her computer's history and discovered the extent of her gambling, she was fired. She has had debt counselling and was referred to Gamblers Anonymous.
As some of the internet's biggest names have discovered to their cost, success has its dangers. Latest to be enrolled to this school of hard knocks is online bookseller BOL.com which last week offered 20,000 free books , during one hour of a weekday afternoon. It wanted attention and got it, if partly for the wrong reasons.Netizens love something free and flocked to the site. But those who got in reported snail's-pace progress, and frustration as they tried to place an order. Others didn't get in at all, seeing only a collection of error messages.As IT newsletter Need to Know acidly pointed out: "The pain of thousands of new users being introduced to    BOL via the 404 page &#91;an error message&#93; certainly made a splash." NTK's coverage atwww.ntk.net/boldohshows a perfect example of a PR stunt gone horribly wrong.To be fair to BOL, its site appears fast and stable under normal conditions. The same cannot be said for US site eBay, which last weekend suffered two more outages lasting a total of 21 hours.It is the latest in a series of serious faults to hit the online auctioneer. With a recent crash thought to have cost it up to $5m in revenue, the problems are hardly helping stabilise its yo-yoing stock price.But as Hotmail and AOL - two companies who have both had reliability problems - will testify, the long-term harm that crashes cause to an online reputation is much, much harder to put right.Online gadgets, giveaways and PR stunts might be the glamorous side of internet marketing, but perhaps dull old-fashioned reliability matters more to surfers already irritated by the world wide wait.
Arty gamesCracking the Mazehttp://switch.sjsu.edu/CrackingtheMazeis a new site for games aspiring to be taken as art. The finest example is Natalie Bookchin's The Intruder atwww.calarts.edu/%7Ebookchin/intruder. A 'tale told in ten games', The Intruder is an interactive narrative based on a story by Jorge Luis Borges. The viewer must compete in some rudimentary games to hear, read and see the story. Thoroughly well-observed, and compelling, The Intruder takes about 15 minutes to navigate. The games are not difficult but act as an aid to the narrative and introduce levels of addiction to the telling of the story.Web sightsThe microcinema movement is a term used in America to describe a network of tiny, independent cinemas showing cheap, often amateur films that are being likened to the French New Wave. Most have websites with good links like the one in a converted chapel in Austin, Texas atwww.aurorapictureshow.org. Microcinema's major festival, D.Film, begins a tour this month. It won't be visiting the UK but details of European stops are atwww.dfilm.com.ShockingTo enter the flourishing culture of web-specific games tryShockrave. its site of the day feature has included contemporary classics like the King Of The Hill Crazy Golf. Also worth a round or three is Blix atwww.stationblix.comwhich requires Shockwave 7. Despite tight time limits and the tricky concept, it is nearly as addictive as Tetris.Science questPirelli, has launched its fourth INTERNETional Award atwww.PirelliAward.com. A top prize of 15,000 Euros (just shy of &#163;10, 000) is on offer for sites that promote scientific culture . For a corporate site, the INTERNETional awards makes some surprisingly noble claims and asserts that greater scientific understanding "guarantees the real assertion of democratic rights". Any work available via the internet that deals with science and technology is admissible although it must be produced for DOS, Windows or Macintosh.Quit witFor a funnier take on corporate culture go towww.i-resign.comwhich offers some spoof resignation letters (artist resigning from project over aesthetic differences: "Dear M, No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no...."). Also included are some classic resignation letters from recent history, (Peter Mandelson, Lawrence Dallaglio, Chris Evans et al) and some tips on real resigna tion etiquette. Laugh, I nearly jacked my job in.BorderCrossing The Border is an ambitious site that attempts to revive the international optimism that used to thrive on the web. Committed to an international news agenda which encourages peaceful web-activism it can be found atwww.contrast.org/bordersBookmarkThe august edition of the New York Review of Books appears atwww.nybooks.com/nyrev/index.html. Despite some great content the NWRB is still establishing an online presence and much of the site is still stuck in shovel-ware mode. But there is an archive searching back to 1995 and it's both free and more freely available than its paper sibling.Good turnsOne of the more bizarre websites to emerge in recent weeks has to be the one atwww.generosity.org. The Generosity Game attempts to set up a system that promotes "random acts of kindness" both online, through a mailing list, and in the flesh via a catalogue on downloadable cards. Once you have downloaded and printed the cards, you are encouraged to    carry out spontaneous and anonymous acts of kindness for complete strangers. Then you leave the card which suggests that the recipient carries out another act of kindness to another stranger and leaves them the card. The site is a more complex version ofwww.tablet.orgwhich allows you to send anonymous thank you messages via email.Cutting edgeApparently the old rock, paper, scissors game all boils down to how well you know the person, which is why so many of the games end up in a draw. Add two variables - the sign of a lizard and that funny thing Spock does with his hands and you have a much more unpredictable game. Full instructions atwww.vtiscan.com/~samkass/theories/RPSSL.htmlSix of the best:For the new soccer seasonInternational statisticswww.soccerstats.comNorth of the borderwww.scottishfootball.comFootie searchhttp://twie.lochnet.co.uk/fsearchOfficial voicewww.fa-premier.comTerracevoicewww.wsc.co.uk/wscand The Guardian'swww.footballunlimited.co.uk
Listening to radio over the internet brings back some fond memories. As the speakers crackle into life, I'm taken back to childhood nights when high-tech was a compact mono transistor radio, and a gadget was my bright yellow Ever Ready torch, and the radio station in question was Radio Luxembourg.The signal, by the time it had travelled all the way up to my corner of western Scotland, crackled, hissed and faded in and out, seemingly at random. Yet the magic - the feeling that I was listening to something new, different and rather continental - remained. At least, until FM stereo came along and Luxembourg went the way of the dinosaurs.Now, sat at my desk where high-tech is a G3 processor and the gadget is a Psion organiser, it seems one thing hasn't moved on; the sound quality of the radio. It's crackly, distorting, stopping and starting, but the old feeling - that this is something new and a bit foreign - remains. There is also the suspicion that, despite its limitations now, internet radio is something which will become very popular.Radio use has increased hand-in-hand with internet use. The web remains largely a visual and solitary medium, so radio can ease the loneliness of the long-term web addict without getting in the way of the pictures.There is also the attraction of a vast range of programming coming from all the corners of the world. Want some country music? Go to Texas to get it,    from K-STAR Country Radio, on 103.7 FM in Houston, orwww.broadcast.com/radio/country/KVSTHow about jazz live from New Orleans? Trywww.gumbopages.com/relay-to-wwoz.ramWant to hear the news? The BBC has it on demand - just click on theNews in Audio icon.Catch some counter culture - and occasionally larger doses of pretentiousness than is healthy - atStreetsound, where you'll find an eclectic mix of dance genres, from British jungle to US rock, via "Desi" South Asian dance.What technology will you need to access this rich audio world? Mac users using a Power PC should be fine, although they might want stereo speakers. PC users will need a sound card as well as the speakers.For both machines, the better the modem, the better the sound quality. Things will sound very scratchy indeed, if they work at all, on a 14,400 modem, but a lot clearer if you're on a dedicated ISDN line (although bottlenecks in the internet could still interrupt your listening).On the software front,    Apple, Microsoft and Real Networks offer rival technologies. The runaway market leader, and the platform on which most net stations run, is RealAudio from Real Networks. Download a RealPlayer fromwww.real.com, or get a copy from one of the free CD-Roms attached to PC and internet magazines.Installation is usually straightforward, but a word of warning: if you are downloading the software from real.com , you may be confused by RealPlayer G2, and RealPlayer Plus G2. Put simply, the "plus" means you pay.For newbies to the world of net radio, the plain vanilla RealPlayer G2 does an adequate job, and you can always buy later should you want to spend around &#163;19 on a fancy-dan version, with graphic equalisers to tweak the sound quality.Other software is available. Apple has revealed lofty ambitions for its well-established Quicktime technology, lining up a host of broadcasters - including the BBC and Virgin Radio - to pump their offerings across the net using the Mac and PC browser plug-in. Find out more atwww.apple.com/quicktimeMicrosoft has launched a controversial bid to dominate the streaming media world with its Windows Media Playerwww.microsoft.com.The software is free, plays a variety of audio and video formats, and there's also a version for Mac users, although the number of sites catering specifically for the MS media player is still comparatively small.But if all this high technology leaves you yearning for those simpler days of the 80s, under the duvet with Radio Luxembourg, you can pop over to the inevitable internet tribute page to the late, but great, 208; point your browser atwww.pjede.de, and wallow in the nostalgia as you view the DJs' pictures, read their profiles, learn of the station's history and - of course - listen to the jingles as they stream across the net.
Sega has announced the Dreamcast games which will be available on launch day and in the following weeks. On September 23, 10 titles will be available, comprising such Sega luminaries as Sonic the Hedgehog and Virtua Fighter.They are joined by third-party offerings such as the 3D action adventure Blue Stinger, the futuristic skateboarding of Trick Style and the innovative beat-em-up Powerstone. Others include the ported PC blaster Incoming and Ubisoft's snappily titled Monaco Grand Prix Racing Simulation 2.Not too many surprises then but Sonic, in particular, is noticeably improved from its Japanese incarnation with a steadier camera and less glitches.A strong first day line-up is bolstered by subsequent releases like the gun toting   House of the Dead 2 and the Micro-Machines in the loft surreality of Toy Commander.A total of 25 games are due by the end of October and, while the initial titles are heavily arcade based, appealing to reflex rather than brain, the relative ease of porting PC games (Dreamcast uses Windows CE) looks likely to increase variety in the future.The Dreamcast is the first console with a modem and by early next year will offer browsing and email, via a deal with BT, as well as online gaming.With superlative graphics and a decent line-up Dreamcast deserves to succeed. But you feel that the real key to success is the online capability.Fulfil the potential here and Sega could fight off the threat from another four-lettered company beginning with S.
Net mobileOne of the unexpected attractions of the Edinburgh fringe festival this week was a sneak preview of what is claimed to be the world's first mobile media phone - the first of a new generation that could bring the internet to the mass market. The phone - a Nokia 7110e using the Orange network - will be able to access the internet at high speeds using WAP (Wireless Application Protocol) technology.At the moment it is being used only to browse through the fringe festival's website but production models in October will have fuller internet access (although limited by screen size).Orange plans to offer a range of services including online access to news, sport, listings, holiday and theatre booking (with Lastminute.com), paying bills, traffic news, plus online banking with NatWest. It is the start of a campaign by manufacturers to move the internet away from the desktop and into people's hands so they can use the worldwide web and other facilities from wherever they happen to be - from a sunny beach to a murky train station.The 7110e is a well-designed lightweight phone with a screen taking five or six lines of text and a keyboard cover which slides open at the click of a button (as previewed by Keanu Reeves in his latest film, The Matrix). A control button in the middle acts as a type of mouse so the user can scroll through menus.The model I briefly handled this week made relatively easy contact with the festival's fringe website (from London), although at   a much slower speed than the 28.8 kbs/s to 64 kb/s promised for production models - which is up to six times current access rate for mobile phones.Orange claimed that its 20 assistants in Edinburgh fielded 8,000 inquiries on the first day. I'm not surprised. Even from a brief preview it is easy to see the huge potential of devices like this to change the way we communicate with each other - as long as the software provides fast, uncomplicated access. The price of the 7110e is promised to be "under &#163;200" but the new generation of wireless phones will eventually have to be much cheaper than that if they are to bring the internet to the mass of the population.The new phone will also have facilities for messaging (including Orange's Wildfire voice recognition tech  nology) and for infra-red transmission. (VC)E-bank opensEurope's first online-only bank has unexpectedly opened its doors to savers ahead of its full launch in September.First-e atwww.first-e.comis allowing surfers to open savings accounts with an introductory interest rate of 5.65%, weeks before the full site is unveiled. The bank says it has been swamped with interested inquiries, and will eventually offer a full portfolio of products and functions, including a current account and investment and trading account facilitiesThe bank, whose shareholders include Intel, Apax Partners, Invision AG and Vertex, aims to become a major brand and, through the lower costs of online banking, offer preferential rates to customers. Interest will be paid monthly, without deduction of tax.First-e spokesman Xavier Azalbert said the bank's systems had been "rigorously tested, analysed and scrutinised internally for some time using real money and real accounts. "Our technology and systems are well prepared."(NM)
Hooray for McRaeThe heady mix of mud and testosterone that was Colin McRae Rally has earned a second outing. Once again you'll be trying to skid and bounce your way to victory, although the Subaru from the original game will make way for McRae's new Ford. While the polygon count and detail level are getting an overhaul, the emphasis, says Codemasters, will be on improved structure and content. The sequel will be available for PC and PlayStation next year.May George be with youImpressed by what he has seen of the forthcoming PlayStation 2, George Lucas has signalled his interest in developing a Star Wars: Episode 2 title for it.Lucas waxed lyrical over the console   in a recent interview with a Japanese magazine, after delivering a similar panegyric in the Chicago Sun Times. Perhaps the PSX2 is a force to be reckoned with after all.Chef cooks new dishAcclaim has announced a new South Park title. Chef's Luv Shack, a multiplayer game for PlayStation and Nintendo 64, concerns a contest wherein attractive models in swimsuits compete to win a romantic weekend with the Isaac Hayes-voiced gourmet. Stan, Kyle, Kenny and Cartman will feature strongly, as not enough models prove willing to take part.Virtual carnageEver wondered what it would be like to get into a fight to the death with a capacity crowd at Old Trafford? Well now you can find out. According to the Virginia-based developer Kesmai, the 3-D world of BattleTech 3025 can support up to 50,000 players at once. The perfect solution for those who balk at the cost of online gaming - you'll last five minutes if you're lucky.Barbie.wireNot content with releasing enough Barbie-themed games to keep parents in hock till retirement, Mattel has   recently announced plans to produce a PC themed around the 40-something anorexic doll. The machines will come in silver with pink and purple floral patterns, plus Barbie digital camera and flowery mouse. Roll over iMac.Fantasy isleBlack Isle, maker of the formidable Baldur's Gate, has revealed its next project. Neverwinter Nights will be a point-and-click role-playing game (RPG), based on the MDK2 engine and set in the Dungeons &amp; Dragons universe. It will feature movable viewpoints, 64-player multiplayer support and a powerful in-game editor that lets you to build your own scenarios.Role playersColumbia pictures has somehow procured a top-notch roster for Final Fantasy - The Movie, a cartoon based on the best-selling RPG series. This "thrilling, futuristic action adventure story" will apparently feature the voices of, among others, Steve Buscemi, Alec Baldwin, Donald Sutherland, Ving Rhames, Frasier's Peri Gilpin, and James Woods. Clearly, the chance of working with Besrodio Bunanza is not one to turn down lightly.
Phone costsLike Richard Hornby (Feedback, July 29), I too am disturbed by the high phone bills caused by internet usage. Although BT has announced technology to make access via a normal line up to 40 times faster, it seems less enthusiastic about telling us how much this wonderful technology will cost and, surprisingly, there is a sizeable price tag.It seems unlikely BT will be willing to give up its profits, so local call charges will be with us for quite a while.But how about a cheaper rate for internet users? Is it fair that virtually all of Britain should lag behind in one of the most important mediums of the 21st century?Viral ThakerarHarrowIt is utterly naive of Richard   Hornby to imagine that the end of BT's monopoly on the provision of local calls will lead to massive reductions in his phone bills.This could only happen if other telecoms providers were to establish their own, completely separate networks. Instead, they will have to rent line space from BT, which will charge them for the privilege - in turn ensuring that any savings made are marginal at best.Neither BT nor any other telecoms provider has any commitment to the internet per se, or could give a damn about what's actually carried over their lines: all they care about is the money to be made.If charging existing users by the minute brings in just as much as charging lots more people a flat-rate access fee, why change?Joseph Nicholasjosephn@globalnet.co.ukiBookA query about Jack Schofield's report on Apple's iBook (Apple does it by the book, July 29): what does he mean by "no ports for a printer or external mouse"?Is he referring to PC-style parallel printer and PS/2 mouse ports? No Mac in the   past 15 years has had these.These days mice use USB - a cross-platform standard found in every currently shipping PC and Mac. The slow, chunky parallel port is on the way out.PS. Jack forgot to point out that the iBook doesn't have a 5 1/4 inch floppy drive or a punch-card reader.Steve WestEdinburghMy main criticism of the iMac would be its lack of infra-red port, for communicating with mobile phones, PDAs, etc.Mark EtheringtonLondonIt was strange that Jack Schofield failed to mention the "Pentium toasting" performance of the new iMac in a book.As he must know, the speed of the Mac G3 is around double that of Windows Pentium machines. Hence even the slower G3 266 MHz Power Macs score 9.0 on the independent BYTEmark index, while the 333 MHz standard Windows PC scores just 4.7.So why did Jack Schofield compare just the numbers - iBook (300 MHz G3) and the Gateway Solo Windows PC (333MHz Intel Celeron) without explaining that the G3 outperforms the PC processor by a factor of two?Alastair NisbetDorchester DorsetGood guessIn Games Watch you suggest the new playstation is to be called the Playstation2000. The Network Solutions Whois database reveals that Sony owns playstation2000.com. Probably a pretty good bet you got it right then.David Sargeantd.sargeant@ickle.com
Blame us "early adopters". We're the ones who enjoy using new technologies before they hit the mainstream. But, in doing so, we end up turning something fun into something mandatory. And then it just isn't any fun anymore. In fact, it's downright debilitating.Take Moviephone. Great idea. In return for listening to a brief advertisement, Americans could use their phones to find out when and where any movie might be playing. When it started, Moviephone was an information-only technology. Eventually, it was extended to include a ticket-buying feature: for a buck or two per person, callers could buy their tickets in advance with a Touchtone phone.At the time, buying one's seats in advance made very    little sense. It locked moviegoers into their decisions, and cost more money. The airlines    give  reduced fare prices to those who purchase their tickets far in advance. Why should movies cost us  more ?But, mostly out of a sense of ego rather than convenience, early adopters proudly spent the money to impress their dates by circumventing the ticker buyers' line at the movie. (Of course the real line at a movie theatre is never the ticket buyers' line, it's the ticket  holders ' line. But it's not true convenience the service offers - just an illusion.)What happened next is a classic example of the laws of "network externalities" that the techno-utopian new economists love to talk about. As more and more people began to use the Moviephone service, those who refused to use it began to miss out. Know what it feels like to show up at a movie with a date, perhaps over an hour   before show time, only to learn that it is sold out? This embarrassing experience, courtesy of Moviephone.As a result, today it is a sorry New Yorker who waits until he gets to a movie theatre to buy his tickets. We already pay $9.50 to see a movie in Manhattan - now we now pay another $1.50 each on top of that to guarantee getting in at all.This is not because Moviephone provides a more democratic method of ticket distribution, or even because movies are so crowded. It's because we have succumbed to an expensive and automated ticket-selling system that favours the rich and unspontaneous. Movies are now more expensive and less available. What a treat! And all thanks to technology.(Let's not even get into the social cost. We won't consider   the way these developments change the urban landscape, sacrifice the luxury of an evening stroll, and reduce a "date" to a budgeted set of reservations and computer-assisted negotiations. I got my tickets and dinner reservations for Eyes Wide Shut almost a week in advance.)The Moviephone Syndrome is the process by which a fun, interesting, or convenient technology - once adopted by a critical mass of customers - becomes mandatory and imprisoning, ultimately reducing the quality of the experience it was designed to enhance. The reason I call Moviephone and its online brethren "coercive" is because this process is a calculated assault, well-evidenced by the business plans of the companies involved.The internet only exacerbates the problem. As plane   tickets, recorded music, restaurant reservations and other "luxury" items are brokered online instead of in physical space, only those with internet connections and the proper browsers will be able to purchase them - at least at the best price. Those who haven't spent the money on the latest Java-equipped-secure-transaction browser will have to trek to the nearest ticket counter, bookstore, or bodega, and purchase their vacation, novel, and even milk, at a greater cost.Why? Because those who want the "convenience" of simply walking into a store and getting what they want, when they want it, will be the ones paying for the luxury of  not  doing their transactions online. Unfortunately, it will most likely be the poorest and thus latest adopters among us who bear this cost.
Conquered by march of timeCommand &amp; ConquerN64 &#163;44.99  NintendoUnlike fine wine, games rarely improve with age. Although there is an undeniable nostalgic thrill when faced with say, WipEout or Tomb Raider, the sequels and the others that followed their original blueprints are usually preferable both in looks and gameplay.So it is with Command &amp; Conquer. Revered by PC owners en masse, this was the title that conceived the real time strategy (RTS) genre and led to numerous clones and variations on its theme. And now, four years later, N64 owners finally get the chance to see what the fuss is all about.Those used to the gaudy 3D environments of Nintendo-land will be instantly alienated by the indistinct units and poorly drawn vehicles present here.The slothful high-  resolution mode doesn't improve things and although the quasi-3D landscape is convincing, it's clear that looks were not top priority.The game is set in the near future and you must take control of either the terrorist bad guys or the Nato-like Global Defence Initiative.The familiar gameplay is standard-setting RTS stuff involving base building, Tiberium harvesting and tactical attacks.Anyone accustomed to PC games will feel instantly at home but this is a first for the Nintendo 64.Purists will mourn the lack of mouse control and although the analogue   controller is used well it still struggles under pressure.With plenty of missions to complete, including four N64 specific ones, there is enough going on, although the lack of multiplayer is a real threat to long term use.The biggest problem is the yawn factor with little to inspire any veterans to man the breaches once more.As retrogames go Command &amp; Conquer is of excellent vintage . But while RTS virgins will enjoy the strategic shenanigans, the rest of us should simply nod respectfully in its direction before going off to complete Goldeneye once again.
Bill Gates, the world's richest man and chairman of Microsoft, has accused the United States government of conducting a show trial against his software company in its landmark monopoly case, which is due to re-open in Washington today.In an extraordinary email exchange with the New Yorker magazine Mr Gates said that the government had turned the case into "a show trial with the primary goal of embarrassing us every day". The trial, which is investigating claims of Microsoft's abuse of its monopoly position, is to resume after 15 months of hearings.The New Yorker paints a picture of a petulant, often childish man who realised that the government was winning the publicity relations war last December and set about trying to change his company's image.Some time after Mr Gates had ordered his lawyers to become more accessible to reporters a senior executive allegedly drafted a set of "image attributes" to be pedalled.Among these were "Microsoft cares about making a difference in my community", "charitable giving improves the lives of many people" and "Microsoft is honest".A crucial email, setting out Mr Gate's preferred public image for Microsoft and under stood to have been sent in late February, coincided with a frenetic publicity push by the William H Gates charitable foundation which hinted that the Microsoft founder's fortune would be used to rid the third world of disease.But such an account is unlikely to diminish Microsoft's reputation as an organisation which likes to maintain a vice-like grip on the industry. It details the compilation of dossiers on journalists and a "hardcore" mentality among the 31,000 employees of the company in Redmond, Seattle.Microsoft and the department of justice are to start presenting their "findings of fact" to Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson in Washington today.Microsoft is expected to argue that it constantly faces new forms of competition in the fast-changing world of new technology, while the government is likely to say it believes Microsoft's behaviour has represented an abuse of its monopoly position.This stage of the trial is set to last until September 10, when each side can argue against the other's findings. The judge is not expected to announce his verdict until later in the year.Although confident that Microsoft's behaviour was normal business practice Mr Gates regrets that the company was unable to settle with the government before it launched its case in May 1998. "I wish we could have settled," he said. "I wished that at the time ... We've always wanted to settle this thing."Mr Gates is understood to believe that any settlement talks were defeated by the government's desire for Microsoft to seek permission for any new development. In a rapidly changing world such demands could not be acceptable, he said. "You have to have a business left when you settle."One of the options open to the judge is to break up the company. Chris Shilakes, Microsoft analyst at Merrill Lynch, said last week that the company "could be more dangerous if split into smaller bits".Mr Gates' latest New Yorker profile offers illuminating insights into the life of the man who dropped out of Harvard to write software, including modelling his engagement party on the Great Gatsby and appearing himself as the decadent central character.But the notoriously badly coiffed, scruffy multibillionaire can also irritate fellow executives, barking at them: "That's the stupidest thing I ever heard." A man worth $100bn raises eyebrows with behaviour, which allegedly includes "rocking, volatile outbursts and jumping", but also handwrites cards to friends, says the magazine.Citizen MicrosoftBill Gates has clearly woken up to the fact that some in the outside world view Microsoft as arrogant and overly sure of itself. He appears to have ordered a fresh set of "image attributes" which have been promptly leaked:"Microsoft cares about making a difference in my community.""Its charitable giving improves the lives of many people.""Microsoft is honest.""Microsoft is a leader in good corporate citizenship.""Microsoft is a company I trust.""Microsoft is a generous and supportive corporate citizen."
Driven by desireBritish men spend more money pampering their cars than they do pampering their partners finds a new survey by tyre people Continental. And if you're thinking, "that couldn't possibly be me" then you're wrong. The average spent by Guardian-reading men on their cars each year is &#163;667.80 compared to &#163;491.12 on their partners.As if that wasn't enough, twice as many British men prefer to spend time with their cars than with their family, and five times as many men prefer spending time with their cars to shopping for clothes.Quote of the Week"Some parents say drugs are the biggest threat to youngsters today but I disagree. Every weekend, everyone under the age of 25 takes crack, smack and E and very few are harmed as a result. &#91;Motor&#93; Bikes are far more dangerous. So, to put my kids off, I take them into the garden on peaceful Sundays and we watch them hurtle by. 'See that man, kids,' I say. 'He likes looking at pictures of other men's bottoms. And by tonight he'll be all dead.' " - Jeremy Clarkson, Sunday Times
If you habitually drive with one eye on the speedo and the other checking the verge for Gatso speed cameras then I have some bad news for you - your speeding days may be over. A new kind of camera called the Speedcheck Specs has just been introduced and is likely to prove far more effective than conventional speed traps.The new equipment is totally automated; its number-plate recognition system can identify almost every speeder, irrespective of time of day or weather conditions. The details of cars can be dispatched electronically to the DVLA in Swansea, with your ticket being issued faster than you can say "is that a camera up ahead?"Braking hard when you see a Speedcheck camera won't save you from a ticket either, because the system uses two cameras that can be miles apart; your speed is calculated when you pass the second one. And since there's no radar involved those "radar detector" devices won't work either.The highways agency confirms that the &#163;100,000 first live installation of Speedcheck may well be on a section of roadworks on the M2 in Kent, where work begins on September 6.Both the highways agency and the association of chief police officers support the use of speed cameras, arguing that lower speeds do result in a reduction in the number of accidents, and the Lancashire constabulary is now planning an experiment that could greatly increase the number of enforcement cameras on the county's roads.That won't come cheap, because even a conventional GATSO camera costs around &#163;25,000 to install, but Superintendent Alf Hitchcock is convinced that if his Lancashire road safety project receives the necessary government funding he will be able to cut road-accident deaths by 25%.Supt Hitchcock is so confident because the Lancashire plan is modelled on a successful Australian initiative: "In the late 1980s there were large numbers of road accident fatalities in Victoria," he explains, "and so equally high levels of enforcement were introduced. Now two-thirds of all the vehicles in the state have their speed checked every month. At the start of the programme 28% of vehicles were exceeding the speed limit, but now it's down to just 1%. And because of that there's been a 51% reduction in fatal accidents."But rigorous enforcement wasn't the only strategy adopted by the Victorian police, and Supt Hitchcock emphasises that driver education is vital in achieving the shift in attitude that causes permanent changes in speeding behaviour. And surprisingly even David Robertson, a director of Speedcheck, agrees that there's more to speed control than computerised ticket-issue: "Our system is targeted at speed management rather than enforcement, and we don't think it's right or practical to prosecute every time. In the Speedcheck's trials we showed that simply displaying the speed and registration number of a speeding driver is enough to reduce speeding by 30%.'The Association of British Drivers (ABD)is convinced that Speedcheck will actually be used for enforcement rather than driver education, and in fairness it's clear that the system's paperwork-free speeding ticket production is a major selling-point.But whatever happens in the future there's one other thing that you should know about Speedcheck right now: the system can also be used to check if you're driving a car with an out-of-date tax disc. And I rather doubt that the computer will settle for a hand-written note reading "tax disc applied for."
Summer temperatures are up to sauna level and, being British, it's obvious that the ideal place to be is in a small metal box with a big heater in the front. It is no surprise that tempers are starting to fray on the roads.According to Edmund King, executive director of the RAC Foundation (the research arm of the RAC), hot weather can seriously damage your health: "The prevalence of road rage increases considerably in the summer months; people literally get hot under the collar."And while we all tend to get a little steamed up now and then, there are certain motorists who really drive us insane, sometimes with good reason, sometimes not: "Take prejudice in society, put it in a car and it's magnified ten-fold," says Matthew Joint, psychologist and head of driver behaviour at the AA. "When people are at home they tend to drop a lot of the social graces, and this seems to be carried into the car to a certain degree. So they can be miles away interacting with strangers but carrying those home territory values with them - a dangerous combination."Everyone has a favourite driver they love to hate. For Edmund King it's "any motorist in a hat." Matthew Joint admits his own personal prejudice is Porsche drivers: "They seem to think that they have another set of road traffic laws that apply to them."But there are certain categories of driver that come up when you ask people who annoys them most. Here are ten of the most common, along with with Joint's psychological assessment.1. White van manWhite van man's crimes and misdemeanors include driving within a few millimetres of the car in front, honking at the sight of bare legs (particularly female ones) and not waiting before turning right at traffic lights.Psychology:"Tend to be young, male, self-employed and subject to time pressures."2. Taxi driverSince Roman times, it is said, you've been able to judge a civilisation by its taxi drivers. The cabbie is the result of 200 years of British imperialism - devious to the point of genius, tenacious and dull as dishwater but, unfortunately, loquacious with it. As drivers they act as if they own the road, which engenders admiration and annoyance in about equal measure.Psychology:"Think they are experts and to some degree they can justify their self-belief, but there is a tendency towards complacency."3. Motorbike courierWhen a macho sales executive tells his boss he'll get the monthly figures to a crucial off-site meeting in time, it's the motorbike courier who puts his balls on the line. They take an obvious pleasure in taking risks.Psychology:"There does seem to be a culture of pride in being the quickest and sometimes they forget that they need the same breaking distance as cars."4. Sunday driversThese tend to be middle-aged men or little old ladies who can only just see above the dashboard. They always stop at mini roundabouts. Not restricted to Sunday outings.Psychology:"May already have died out, but traditionally someone who is not trying to get from A to B as quickly as possible - many people have perhaps lost sight of the fact that driving can be quite a pleasurable activity. Rarely a problem, and on the whole are happy to pull over and let the traffic go by."5. Boy racerWith built-up wheel arches and spoilers, the boy racer must be first in the traffic-light grand prix, but can drive very slowly to show off the car. Stuff of legend.Psychology:"Younger male drivers are far-and-away the biggest problem on the roads. A 17-year-old male driver is nine times more likely to be killed on the road than his middle-aged father. If there is a justified prejudice, that's where it is."6. Corporate vixenFemale executive with 6-inch stilettos who will never willingly let someone in front of her. Generally wears an over-application of rouge.Psychology:"The higher the mileage a woman drives each year, the closer her attitudes become to those of men behind the wheel. However, it never gets quite as bad - men in similar positions still tend to drive slightly worse."7. Pizza delivery boyThese late-night wobblers are generally lost - plus, depending on the size of the order, the box on the back can mean they're almost as wide as a car. Specialty is driving on the wrong side of the road for half a mile before parking.Psychology:"They are trying to deliver to very strict deadlines and got a particularly bad press in the early days before compulsory basic training."8. Volvo driversThe only thing worse than the typical Volvo owning accountant driving at 70mph in the middle lane of the motorway is the guy who's got a family but desperately wants to recapture his youth so gets a Volvo T5.Psychology:"It's that feeling of 'I am invulnerable, I am in this thumping great tanker of a thing and I will steer this ship wherever I fancy'. Can also tend to be sticklers for the rules."9. Scooter girlWorks in PR, probably on her way back to her flat in Notting Hill, she bought her scooter with money from the allowance she gets from daddy. Enjoys nipping around, particularly as there never seems to be anyone else on the roads in London - or at least that's what you'd think, judging by the way she drives it.Psychology:"They usually move at different speeds to much of the traffic, and don't have the same time pressures. Environmentally friendly, and haven't yet been taken over by young, male drivers."10. Porsche manNuff said.Psychology:"Normally driven by people who have worked their way up through the ranks. And if your car is capable of 180mph, you have to be a pretty strong person to resist putting your foot down."
Lego landsCalling all Lego MindStorms robot fanatics and other digital tinkerers - MIT's New Media Lab is hosting MindFest, "a festival of designing, inventing and learning" for inventors of all ages, on October 23 and 24 in Boston. Go if you're a kid, an educator, a hobbyist or a researcher, and they're looking for people interested in leading or organising informal sessions. More information is available atwww.media.mit.edu/mindfest/. Even if you can't make it, the site has a fascinating set of links for "playful inventors.Blue for girlsPowerPCs for boys; iBooks for girls? US columnist John Dvorak created an entertaining uproar when he suggested that Apple's iBook is too "girly". Janelle Brown ofSalontook him on.. Dave Winer replied    in a column atelderlyWhiteMalePundits.Take a tourIf you're new to the web or an old timer who likes advice on where to surf, subscribe to the free twice-weekly internet Tourbus atwww.tourbus.com. You'll need to scroll past a few advertisements but this email list fills you in on odd, useful and interesting sites, updates you on the latest annoying Net hoaxes and rumours, and offers tips on using the Net effectively. Past editions of the Tourbus are archived on the site so you can check to see if this m&eacute;lange of information suits your taste before you subscribe.Trilo bite meThe problem with creatures that became extinct millions of years ago is that we will never know what they tasted like. For example, trilobites "may or may not have tasted like chicken", says Professor George Hart, but it doesn't matter because you can make his trilobite cookies instead. Detailed, illustrated instructions,www.li.net/~george/trilobites/trilobite.html, will guide you and he says, once made, they'll soon become extinct once more.Dirty workThere are people who collect dirt, and to prove it, there's a gathering of samples for your pleasure at the Museum of    Dirt,www.planet.com/dirtweb/dirt.html. You can examine soil from Alcatraz Prison, Buddhist shrines, the Liberace Museum, film director John Waters's back lawn in Baltimore, Juliet's balcony in Verona (above), OJ Simpson's house, and a host of other thrilling places - even the bungalow where the writers of The Simpsons meet to hash out scripts. Search the site for samples sorted by colour, texture, elevation, contents and region. Trouble is, all those vials look pretty much the same.Free sheetGeeks all over the Net will sigh with pleasure to find that Dan Bricklin, creator of VisiCalc, a spreadsheet that pioneered the early home computer software market, has put the original app - all 27 kilobytes of it! - online atwww.bricklin.com/history/vcexecutable.htm. Still works.Sorry affairSo what do you regret? Air yours or read what others are sorry they did or didn't do atwww.regretsonly.com. The site is part of a writer's project to publish a book of regrets, and he promises not to reveal yours until the book comes out. He features some historical names on regret, as well. Try Oscar Wilde: "Nowadays most people die of a sort of creeping, common sense, and discover when it is too late that the only things one never regrets are one's mistakes."Bomb 'emMaybe the service was appalling at a restaurant in Memphis or you endured a grumpy cab driver in St Louis. If there's an American city you really don't like, you can detonate a one megaton hydrogen bomb there then view the damage online atwww.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/amex/bomb/sfeature/mapablast.html(The effect on New York is shown below) . It's a chillingly educational site, but the suggestion that "You may want to select a large city or some other possible target near your home" seems a bit too chirpily helpful, given the subject.Losers.comFor those who have heard just one too many stories about youthful internet millionaires and who feel the whole galaxy suddenly seems to end in dot com, Forbes magazine takes a wry look at the companies that didn't end up splashed all over the news. The article "Bomb.com",www.forbes.com/Forbes/99/0809/6403072a.htm, examines how not to go about setting up a web business by offering some excruciating examples of net stupidity.Microsoft shockIf you like your technopundits unpredictable, have a look at a piece by meisterprogrammer Eric Raymond inLinux Today,  in which he argues that - gasp - Microsoft is right, in the messaging battle raging with AOL.HammeredThe problem with auction site eBay - well, one of the problems - is that you know perfectly well that all sorts of bizarre items are on offer at any given moment but you don't know how to find them. Now the eBay Weirdness Mailing List will bring them straight to your desktop every week, complete with links in case you want to bid. Sign up atwww.grrl.com/ebay.htmland view some of the oddities one eBay fan has purchased.
Can't make it to Edinburgh for the festival this month? You can still catch it live at a screen near you.Festival Revue, one of the most ambitious projects of last year's Edinburgh Festival, is again broadcasting live performances from a stage in Princes Street Gardens, simultaneously onto the Web, a dedicated cable television channel, and two huge video screens in Edinburgh.In a further development, between August 19 and 29, with the support of BT Scotland, it will be piping footage down to a video screen in London's Covent Garden, a move expected to boost the festival audience by 1m."The whole ethos of what we're trying to do is to give the arts a platform to expose them in places where people wouldn't normally see them   and perhaps inspire them to go and see a live act or a performance," says Paul Blyth, the man running Festival Revue.Each day will consist of a nine- to 12-hour rolling program of around 40 live acts (mostly from the Fringe), video art, music videos and archive footage gathered from around the festival."It is the longest live broadcast in the world. It's like 23 telethons one after another," says Blyth. While the giant video screen in Covent Garden will shut down at 9pm (and a little later in Edinburgh), overnight viewers will have a second chance to catch the day's program on cable (Telewest's Channel 90) and the web (using Microsoft's Media Player).Concerts by techno maestros, Orbital (August 13) and Nick Cave (27), scheduled in conjunction with the Flux Music Festival   atwww.fluxfestival.com, will have the telephone wires buzzing with activity, particularly since Festival Revue will be globally publicised through the Microsoft Network (MSN) chain of portals. The increased popularity is likely to negate the advances made in web video since last year -namely greater bandwidth and smarter video software that automatically adjusts to changes in your connection speed. However, as Blyth points out, you can always come back later.The event is free but there will be advertising. "We don't have a huge amount of advertising. There's only a maximum of two minutes per 16 minutes," says Blyth. "To fill those advertising slots has not been easy because the concept is so new. Global advertising is not really something that a lot of companies and media buyers have got their heads   around, but that will come."Other developments are a bigger Edinburgh stage ("three times the size"), and higher resolution video screens. The Pixelite video screens, measuring 12 square metres, are a higher definition 10mm pixel pitch compared with the 40mm pixel pitch of last year.Festival Revue has also recruited 28 presenters to steer the show, compared to last year's three.Fringe companies have warmed to the project. "I think it's brilliant," says   artistic director of the Assembly Rooms, William Burdett-Coutts. "In the future I don't see why there couldn't be a channel on the internet where people could plug in to what's going on at the festival."The Assembly Rooms own site atwww.observer-assembly.com, is one of a number that have sprung up this year around the festival. Burdett-Coutts, a confessed internet enthusiast, hopes to reach a wider audience for the current fund-raising campaign, as well as providing program information and an online gallery.    "We're aiming to run reviews of shows and snippets of interviews with people each day of the festival," says Burdett-Coutts. Many of the sites for the official festivals likewww.edinburghfestivals.co.ukhave also had welcome makeovers this year reflecting the boom in internet use.Even if you are not trying to find the Edinburgh Festival online, a small part of it may still find you. As part of their production, The Truth, theatre company Tall Stories sent out hundreds of emails from the fictitious character of the play, Emily Smith."The message we sent out said, 'If you forward it, good luck and true love will come to you'," says writer-director Toby Mitchell. "There's no nasty threat."A copy of the message appears also on theirwebsite, "Please cut and paste the text below into an email and send it to everyone you know," it urges. Since it is only a month or so since the web site was built and the e-mails sent off, this is one that could wend its way to your mailbox long after the Edinburgh Festival has passed.&#149;  Robert Alstead runs the Edinburgh-basedwww.insideout.co.uk
Tracing your ancestry is hardly a new hobby, but it's boomed since the net made it easier. When North American "seniors" - the keenest of all amateur genealogists - started getting on line in their thousands in the mid-90s, they realised they could do some of the heavy leg-work associated with ancestor-seeking while sitting in their slippers in front of the PC.Why on earth schlepp round the States, or Europe, in great-grandmother's footsteps, when you could get a headstart with the information that you had hunted down on the net?Now, according to professional genealogist Tim Cooper of British Ancestral Researchwww.brit-a-r.demon.co.ukwe're catching up fast here . "More and more of our clients come from the UK," he says. "The majority are still North American, but the gap's closing as an increasing number of Britons discover the internet and what it can do for genealogy."The amount of information on the web is increasing month by month. The Mormons have put their International Genealogical Index on the web atwww.familysearch.org, with ever-improving search facilities. For British searchers, it's most useful for getting hold of information on births, marriages and deaths held in parish registers before 1837 (the year national civil records began).The other major source of online information is the    Commonwealth War Graves Commission atwww.cwgc.orgwhich records the deaths of 1.7m soldiers from the Commonwealth in both world wars. This is helpful for searchers filling in details of times and places - so many families' oral history amounts to no more than "Great-uncle Billy died in the war".Census returns will come online over time. The 1881 census is on CD-Rom, and the 1901 census is scheduled for release onto the web in 2002 - whether you'll have to pay somehow is not yet known.But the web can tell you vital things like where your public records offices are, their opening hours, and what information is stored there (for the national Public Records Office, go towww.pro.gov.uk). There are hundreds of genealogy websites full of information on international searching:www.rootsweb.comis an excellent starting point, and while it's mainly North American, it has lots for the UK searcher.More than anything, the internet has taken away the loneliness of the long-distance digger. Hundreds, probably thousands of newsgroups and emailing lists, plus forums and bulletin boards, put searchers in touch with each other.Some groups are very earnest; some are light-hearted; some are specific to one area, or one or two    surnames; some are much more general. Try agenealogychat ( agenealogychat-subscribe@onelist.com ) for a mainly North American/UK general list, or alt.genealogy for a newsgroup. Searchers new to the subject, as well as the internet, can get friendly advice from Gen-Newbie (send a subscribe message to gen-newbie-l-request@ rootsweb.com . For a pretty comprehensive account of groups availableand a ton of resources and other info, go towww.cyndislist.comMost groups appear founded on the principle of mutual help. Genealogy has to be the least competitive of sports. Information is happily shared. If you're researching a line of Petherington-Willoughbys in early 19th century Wiltshire, there'll be a mailing list where you can merrily pick someone else's brains who's happy to fill in some of the twigs and leaves on your tree.The genealogist's stumbling block is known as "the brick wall" when you can find no documentation whatsoever of a person you're certain existed. Fellow searchers can give you tips about just where to go next and the great thing about the net is that it makes it possible to go anywhere, or to at least suss out the likelihood of success, before you book the plane tickets.Huge numbers of family historians now have their own websites, to showcase their stories and document their lineage. Choose from several popular software packages to keep your findings under control (many are compared atwww.globalgenealogy.com); ask what's right for you at one of the forums atGenForum. Search "family tree" on any search engine for dozens of examples, or visit Scotsman Walter Hampson's website atwww.craigshill.demon.co.ukwhich takes a look at the slightly different path you need to take if you're seeking Scottish records.
BT pushes up the paceBT finally gave details last week of how it plans to bring high-speed internet access and multimedia to the home.By March 2000, 400 telephone exchanges around Britain will be able to offer new ADSL lines, which run over conventional copper telephone wires.This makes possible a host of new features, including videoconferencing and video on demand, and will make existing internet connections between 10 and 40 times faster than the top modem speed available now.BT will charge service providers from &#163;40 per user per month, rising to &#163;150 for the fastest lines capable of supplying video on demand. The charge to the public will be down to the service providers - who, BT hopes, may choose to subsidise the technology.BT had been accused of dragging its feet over launching the technology, which it has been testing since 1994. Earlier this year, in a response to Oftel's Access to Bandwidth white paper, it voiced fears about the technology and said demand for faster services was being met by existing offerings, including its ISDN-based Highway services.Their turnaround appears to be justified by predictions this week of market dominance for ADSL. The Online Research Agency said that 2% of British internet users - 140,000 subscribers - would snap up the service by the time the first phase of the rollout is completed next year, when central London, Cardiff, Belfast, Coventry, Birmingham, Manchester, Leeds, Newcastle, Edinburgh and Glasgow will have the service.The agency predicted that 500,000 subscribers would be enjoying ADSL by November 2000.Money for nothingGiveaway fever is gripping the net, with a rash of companies effectively offering to pay you to surf.The trend was sparked off by Themutual.net, whose arrival was announced in these columns some weeks ago. It went live last week, and claims the first 10,000 customers will be given shares worth &#163;520. A further 100,000 will get shares worth &#163;52 each.The free offer from Totalise plc atwww.totalise.netis &#163;50 of shares, tradeable on the OFEX facility, to those who use the ISP for three months, with more to be "earned" through logging on and using services.Finally,www.freemoney.fmFreemoneylaunched last week too, offering consumers a daily chance to win &#163;1,000, and get a host of money-off e-vouchers.The IT factorThere is a close relationship between IT strategies and British companies' bottom lines, claims a survey released this week. IT consultancy Orb found that 55% of boards do not see IT as a "top three agenda issue". Companies who do see it as being that important,   however, have a P/E ratio on average six points higher.Less of a surprise is that half of IT staff say their departments are over-stretched to do their current job. For over a third of IT personnel, that job is described as "firefighting".Linux PCComputer retailer PC World is claiming to be the first vendor in the UK to offer a desktop PC pre-loaded with Open Source operating system Linux. The Advent 8707 Linux PC uses a 450MHz Pentium III processor, and is pre-installed with Linux Mandrake v6.0.The software is already available free on the web, but PC World says it is allowing users to avoid an installation which "can be troublesome, even for experienced users".Space saverSony has unveiled a space-saving 18.1 inch LCD monitor, the Multiscan CPD-L181. The new screen is so compact it can even be mounted on a wall - good news for users short on desk space and struggling with the chunky dimensions of traditional large-screen monitors. But while you won't need a deep desk for your new screen, you will need deep pockets; the L181 costs a cool &#163;2461.62, including VAT.
I am flying through a vast open space, my red wings beating majestically with a slow steady rhythm. Ahead of me in the distance I see an iridescent green structure, vaguely recalling a church, hanging in the void. I veer to the right and head toward it. As I approach, I see a forest of luminescent columns suspended in the air beside the main structure and I swing round to fly through them. Suddenly I am surrounded by these vast pillars, soaring between them like an eagle. It's a thrilling experience and for a moment I feel as if I am really there in that immense imaginary space.Actually, its not me that's there, but my "avatar" - a stylized red bird with a yellow tail, named Squawk, that is my proxy in this online three-dimensional world. This is a bold experiment being conducted by Michael Heim and his students at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, California.ACCD is famous as one of the few American art colleges that trains car designers - the stylish new Volkswagen Beetle was the work of an ACCD alumni. Now Heim is pioneering a new kind of "industrial" design - virtual worlds. The courses he offers - one in the theory of virtual world design, an actual world-building course, where students get down to crunching code and making virtual structures - are the first of their kind in the US.The "world-on-the-desktop" that I have been playing in is formally known as "accd world." It is the work of   around two dozen students, plus Heim and his fellow teacher Tom Mancuso, who have been gradually constructing it over the past three years.What is immediately striking about accd world is how unreal it is. Over the past few months a series of films from the Hollywood blockbuster The Matrix to The Thirteenth Floor and eXistenZ have each presented a super realistic vision of virtual reality - so good that characters in the films cannot distinguish it from physical reality. It is just this tendency toward realism that Heim wishes to eschew and which he is training his students to avoid.He is going against the grain of most current virtual world design. And in fact designing virtual worlds is a fast-growing hobby. The major arena for virtual world construction today is the online realm, Active Worlds atwww.activeworlds.com. At present 631 separate worlds are residing in this virtual "universe" (At least there were last night when I logged in). Two weeks ago there were only 580. This digital universe is going through its own inflationary phase. When Heim started accd world there were just a few dozen worlds, and he tells me that back then "we all thought   that was a lot". Now, new worlds are being added every day. It costs just $399 a year to have a world of your own - but there are companies who have the price down to less than $100 which must be the best bargain I've come across this year.According to the Active Worlds web site, this "scaleable universe boasts hundreds of thousands of users and thousands of kilometres of virtual territory". Just how they measure distance in this virtual space is never explained, but you get the point - the place is growing fast. One cute barometer of that growth is the site's "satellite" images of AlphaWorld, the oldest of these worlds. Two images, one from December 1996 and another from February 1998, show the whole layout of AlphaWorld seen from above as if from a satellite. As in real Landsat images one can see clearly the "urban" and "rural" zones, and in the 18 months between the two shots the urban growth has been explosive.Unlike Heim and his students at ACCD, most Active World builders choose a fairly conventional approach to their own private Idahoes (sadly, there is no "Idaho" world, but there is a private Virginia, a California, and a Texas). Taking their cue   from AlphaWorld, most of these worlds look like virtual versions of small American towns. You wander down tree-lined streets past large comfortable houses with big yards; there are public squares and parks; permanently blue skies (no pollution); and a general sense of cleanliness (no litter or graffiti).In AlphaWorld there was even a local newspaper. It is now defunct but there are still billboards which real advertisers can rent to pitch their products to virtual citizens.You do find pyramids, Greek temples and medieval castles here, but the plan of the world itself is pretty conservative. The Active Worlds universe also contains a realistic virtual shopping mall where real-life vendors are beginning to sell their wares, and opening soon is a lavish toy store called "Toy world", which looks as if it's been modeled on the Warner Brothers store in the Forum shopping center at Caesar's Palace.One world that takes this literalism very far indeed is the virtual version of the University of California at Santa Cruz. Commissioned by the university's Office of Admissions, "UCSC world" offers prospective students a chance to check out the school virtually before visiting in person.No doubt in an era of increasing competition this is a clever marketing ploy, but Heim questions why so many VW designers seem intent on simulating the physical world. Heim acknowledges that it's amazing what the builders of UCSC world have   been able to achieve with their virtual campus, but, he says, "this technology is really very bad at simulating physical reality". Why bother, he wonders? Why not use the technology to do things that can't be done in the physical world. This is the philosophy he is trying to instill in his students and which they are collectively exploring with the development of accd world.Where most AW worlds restrict themselves to a flat-earth-style landscape with a set horizon and regular gravity (ie. everyone walks around on the ground), accd world utilises the potential of full three-dimensional space. There is no horizon and only what Heim calls "local regions of gravity".Accd world is actually a collection of individual "nodes", each of which is its own mini-world. The green structure described at the start of this piece was just one    node; others have quite different aesthetics. Horse Heaven is a bizarre equestrian fantasy, consisting of a series of arched walls and terraces adorned with horse statues; another consists of a huge tiled sphere inside of which is a large pearlescent drop.   Being inside the drop is like being inside a big pearl shell.Each of these nodes hangs in a vast three-dimensional space, and from a distance each is represented as a sphere, as if it were a little planet. One flies between the nodes - or rather one's avatar does - by    directing its motion with cursor control keys. What is so surprising is that even with rather crude graphics the psychological experience can be quite powerful. I got a real thrill, a sense that for an instant I was actually soaring through some strange surreal   space. At one point, the feeling of this soaring motion was so convincing I even felt a bit air sick.In accd world Heim says they are trying to create what the philosopher Alfred North Whitehead called "aesthetic occasions". By this he explains   that they hope to produce "surprising moments" when one is moving through the world and suddenly sees a virtual structure from a particularly striking or pleasing perspective. In other words, it is not so much the objects themselves that matter for Heim and his students, but the dynamic experience of being in the world.According to Heim, simulation of physical reality &agrave; la Thirteenth Floor will never be possible. Contrary to this Hollywood dream, reality is more than just 60m polygons a second. Heim, the author of several seminal books on virtual reality, curls his lip ever so slightly when I mention The Matrix. He is clearly not impressed by its vision or its aesthetics. He believes the job of virtual world designers is not to try and fool us into thinking we are in another version of the physical world, but "to think through the technology and make discoveries about what can be done that is unique to this medium".
Does size matter? It's a question that has taxed internet search engines for some time, since they realised the web was growing too fast for them to keep track.Figures published last month in Nature showed the top-performing search engine (the little-known Northern Light, atwww.northernlight.com) covers only 16% of the web. It is becoming very difficult to know what's out there.Some search engines appear to have given up the fight, having found bolting on extras like free email, communities and e-commerce costs less and generates more revenue than searches. They also claim most requests can be met effectively by a relatively small database.But that view is now being challenged. Norwegian company Fast Search &amp; Transfer ( Alltheweb.com ) this week unveiled what it claims is "the world's biggest search engine", working its way through the entire web during a year. At the same time, Excite@Home announced its latest search engine, to be launched later this month, which it claims will cover the entire web - even though it also claims to be twice as powerful as its existing search technology, which covers only 5.6% of the web.The important question remains unanswered: will these massive new databases make it easier to ask questions and get sensible answers? Or will they continue to frustrate people with thousands of irrelevant links, leaving users no less lost than when they started?We think not. For the voracious hype machines which surround these highly-valued companies, size does matter. Users, however, would tend to say its more what you do with it that counts.
The dream ticketAdvance orders for Sega's Dreamcast passed the 200,000 mark this week, a month before its US release. The 100,000 pre-orders for the first PlayStation suddenly look pretty measly. Arch-rival Sony tried to raise its profile by announcing that the follow-up to the PlayStation will be called... the PlayStation Something. That is to say, the new platform's title has yet to be finalised, but will definitely contain PlayStation. Clever money among Blankety Blank veterans is on "PlayStation 2000".Voodoo childThe company 3dfx has confirmed a release date of October for its Voodoo 4 PC graphics card. The card's chief selling point is something called "T-Buffer" technology, which, says 3dfx, will allow visual effects comparable with the stuff you see in Hollywood block  busters. It also promises full-scene anti-aliasing - in layman's terms, an end to those annoying jagged edges in 3D games. At last, Lara Croft comes into her own.Olympic gameInterplay has unveiled a real-time strategy game called Invictus: In the Shadow of Olympus. With elements cherry-picked from every corner of Ancient Greek culture, historical accuracy won't be its strong point, but the battleground promises to be fun, letting you pit humans against harpies and heroes against Gorgons. Could be a big multiplayer hit.Just landedThe first game written specifically for Digital Versatile Disc (DVD) format    was released this week in the States. Psygnosis's Lander is a mission-based space adventure, with eight-player capability, Dolby Digital 5.1 sound and MPEG-2 cutscenes. It will also be available (with less impressive sound and video) on CD-Rom, however, so don't feel obliged to shell out for that DVD drive just yet.Fair playLike computer games? Female? Feel underrepresented? A new site atwww.womengamers.comoffers daily gaming news, features and reviews from a woman's perspective, as well as on-line ordering. Registered users of the service will be able to post news and game reviews, and are eligible to win prizes. However, WomenGamers.com does not discriminate - men are welcome to sign up too.
England win at cricketInternational Cricket Captain 2PC CD-Rom &#163;34.99 Empire Interactive 01208 343 7337International Cricket Captain 2 offers you the chance to make amends for the debacle that was the World Cup and lead England to glory.Actually the international options are the icing on the cake to the main course: the county championship. This is the cricketers' cricket sim with plenty of opportunity to fine-tune every aspect of your team.Eschewing the lazy option of becoming England captain straight away, most enjoyment is to be had guiding your team to domestic glory to earn the chance to captain England to some unrealistic success.As team manager you can involve yourself in everything   from transfers to tactics andthis depth that makes it all so rewarding. Developing and nurturing talented players is just as enjoyable as tinkering with field settings. The intuitive interface is a joy to use, with most options but a mouse click away, although there was a tendency to crash every now and then.The matches are nicely done with Aggers' commentary authentic rather than annoying. You can choose to watch every ball or dip in occasionally. Although the graphics are simplistic they do enough to convey the action.Unlike arcade style bat-'em-ups, ICC2 is a cerebral and long-term cricketing test. The need for an encyclopedic knowledge of the game is one of the few flaws as it restricts the involvement of the more casual fan.However, you'll find that the combination of ICC2 and a free Sunday afternoon will be more than enough to banish post World Cup blues.Two for the beachBust a Move 4Gameboy &#163;24.99 Acclaim (0171 344 5000)Prince of PersiaGameboy &#163;24.99 Red OrbSummertime means only one thing - taking the Gameboy to the beach. This handheld console is the great videogame survivor with a chameleon-like reinvention from lardy grey block to svelte colour icon.Its vast catalogue is further swelled by these two classics of their respective genres. Bust a Move 4 is developer Crawfish's latest conversion. Like Tetris, this bubble-popping puzzler is perfectly suited to Nintendo's baby.Simply halt the multicoloured bubble invasion by firing your own sticky bubbles in an attempt to join three of the same hue. This causes chain reaction-style popping as you aim to clear the screen.It's simple to pick up but, like Tetris, is worryingly addictive with the use of pulleys and an array of tricky opponents upping the tactical slant.The indistinct colours are   initially distracting but clear a few screens and the irrepressible gameplay ensures a satisfyingly aching thumb.Pain-free digits are essential for Prince of Persia, whose release enhances the Gameboy's growing reputation as a retirement home for 80s videogames.Hugely influential in the days of tape drives and 64K memory, this is a perfect conversion of the platform and swordplay classic. Within a strict hour time limit you must escape the dungeon, free the girl and live happily ever after.The visuals still impress   today although the unforgiving gameplay will infuriate. Jumping alone takes time to master and, as death means restarting at the beginning, patience is essential for any kind of success.In fact the spikes, leaps of faith and fiddly swordplay leave you longing for the fluidity of the similarly aged Super Mario.However, with deep breaths and calm thoughts the rewards for your hard work materialise, making things increasingly absorbing.Just be grateful that they don't make them as tough as they used to.
Billions of pounds could be lost from the UK economy and millions of jobs put at risk because a "hard core" of the country's small businesses are ignoring the millennium bug, Whitehall officials warned yesterday.The warning came as Action 2000, the official body preparing Britain for the date change's impact on computerised systems, reported that a quarter of firms employing fewer than 250 staff "are putting their businesses and their employees' jobs at risk by taking very little action".Worst culprits are hotels and restaurants, and transport and logistics - mainly road hauliers, who could cause severe damage to trading patterns.With less than five months to go, Gwynneth Flower, the state-funded body's manag ing director, said the smallest companies, those employing between one and nine staff, were most at fault. They comprised more than a million firms, accounting for nearly 40% of GDP. Only 54% of them were Year 2000-compliant.Similarly, about 40% of firms   employing between 20 and 99 staff were not taking appropriate action. "This 40% employs around a million people. Do they reallly want to put not only their own but their employees' livelihoods on the line?'Action 2000 is worried that some people fear the world   will come to an end on January 1, 2000 - and equally concerned that the business community has been lulled into a false sense of security that the bug problem will be solved, perhaps with a "magic bullet".A failure of small firms' computerised systems could send the millennium bug up the   supply chain to bigger firms and cause them problems.Ms Flower refused to estimate the potential cost to the economy and jobs but elsewhere in Whitehall the impact was said to be billions of pounds. She said: "The historical wait-and-see attitude of British business is not going to   work against the bug. This shortcoming of British business could be its downfall."Condemning many small firms for their "woefully slow" progress, Ms Flower said the real problems would not surface when companies returned to work on January 3 or 4. There would be "progressive degradations" which would show up in salary payments or trading results weeks or months later.While the overwhelming bulk of larger companies are or will be bug-free, one in seven has made no contingency plans for disruption.But the world's biggest drugs companies are building huge stocks of essential supplies for manufacture and expect a surge in sales in the coming months. Pharmacists, hospitals and patients are expected to stock up with drugs for heart, asthma and epilepsy tratment, boosting revenue in the final quarter of this year.
Last Tuesday the people at Ford woke up to a nice surprise. Pictures of Prince William behind the wheel of a gleaming silver Ford Focus were splashed across almost every newspaper in the land."'Ello Wills got a new motor?" screamed the front page of the Sun. "Royal charm offensive gears up" ran the Guardian, with the Daily Telegraph dubbing him "The Prince of Wheels". All named the car at regular intervals and used various shots of the dashing 17-year-old driving the clearly branded vehicle. A similar burst followed on Thursday when Wills passed his test.Such free publicity is the stuff of motor manufacturers' dreams. Marketing experts have estimated that the combined column inches amounted to the equivalent of &#163;2m worth of paid-for advertising. And that's just the press: the story also ran across numerous TV news bulletins, not to mention the unparalleled upmarket endorsement conferred by the heir to the throne.But how did it happen? Companies are not allowed to sign up royals to endorse their products. And how are other car placements with celebrities secured? The tabloids were recently full of shots of David Beckham driving a Mercedes Cabriolet, while the media have spotted Tim Henman in a Mercedes C43 AMG - even "it" girl Tara Palmer-Tomkinson was writing about "my beloved Beetle" in her Sunday Times column last weekend.That William was photographed in a Ford seems to have been pure luck for the car giant. He is in fact the owner of a VW Golf tdi diesel - a gift from his father for his 17th birthday. Insiders insist the Ford was either loaned by the Metropolitan Police Driving School or one from a fleet of Fords supplied to St James's Palace on a commercial basis for use by palace staff. The photo call was also set up by the palace, possibly in a bid to give the media their pictures and get them to leave Wills alone as he learns to drive.Despite strong denials from Ford that the photo-shoot was any "stunt" of theirs, they do - along with many other car manufacturers - aggressively pursue a programme of celebrity placements for some of their vehicles: "When we launched last September we didn't advertise but opted for an advocacy programme called Friends of Ford Focus in which we supplied the car to a host of high-profile movers and shakers. They were all selected on the basis that they were contemporary, cutting-edge people setting standards within their own fields, just like the Focus," explains Meredith Earl, co-ordinator of the programme.Those celebrities included Melanie Sykes, Les Ferdinand, Sharon Davies and Ian Wright, all of whom were given the Focus for a range of periods from one month to a year. Each was furnished with a briefing pack on the car and could answer questions on it if asked, and there were 2000 celebrities and public figures driving round in them at any given time.Other manufacturers have tied up similar deals. Vauxhall, for instance, has "given" the snooker player Dennis Taylor a Cadillac Seville, while Ron Atkinson drove a 4-wheel drive Monterey during the world cup last summer. Griff Rhys Jones was even lent a Zafira for his holidays before filming the recent TV campaign to launch it."The advantage is when the brand fits the image of the celebrity," says a Vauxhall spokesman. "Then you can benefit from the fact that they are high-profile and will be seen in it, and that it will appeal to a particular target audience that is the celebrity's fan-base."Most deals involve the celebrity being contracted to make several public appearances in the motor at organised events such as car shows, dealer events or press launches. In addition, the hope is that they will be photographed driving the car round voluntarily, or even mention it innocently in the course of unrelated media interviews.But some manufacturers are sniffy about celebrity car placements. Graham Biggs of BMW states simply: "We don't do it. We don't need to. We have a great number of celebrities who happily buy our cars anyway."Others, such as Mercedes, claim the practice suits mass-market brands in search of high volume sales better than the posher marques, adding that it can also be useful for mainstream new brands or those that want to change their image.VW too, perhaps smarting a little from the missed publicity opportunity of Wills and his Golf, adds: "We don't lend cars to celebrities or public figures, and we would never seek to use a member of the royal family for press coverage. We don't need to involve ourselves in such extra tactics - we sell everything we produce."VW does have a press loan programme, however, which is how Tara P-T got her famous lime green Beetle: she is, after all, a journalist for the Style section of the Sunday Times (and many companies are trying to seduce style writers rather than just motoring correspondents to write about their cars)."Tara phoned us up and said she loved the new Beetle and would like to assess it for her column. She volunteered to do two columns on it, but the car is now back with us, although she has said she would like to buy it at the end of its press fleet life," says a spokesman.The association with Ms P-T perhaps highlights one of the pitfalls of celebrity attachments for cars. She has only recently returned from a spell in a US clinic drying out from cocaine addiction; in last week's column she even wrote about how "a hole leapt out at me" as she was driving along and she ended up pranging the car's radiator. What happens, for example, if one of the chosen celebs has a bad accident in the vehicle, or gets done for drink-driving or speeding?"We are always very conscious of the pitfalls but if you want to deal with celebrities then there has to be give and take. People with personalities get into scrapes and the media are always watching," comments Ford.The risks are apparently controlled as much as possible. Vauxhall runs rigorous audit tests to calculate the specific value of a particular star being seen in one of their cars, while Ford freely admits that they wouldn't lend Denise Van Outen a Focus because "empty-nesters &#91;a key target group&#93; wouldn't like to be associated with her." Wherever they can, the manufacturers will also check the motoring history of the star to screen out those with past offences.Despite these possible risks, celebrity placements appear to be   becoming more prevalent. They may not be cheaper than advertising or other marketing initiatives but they are an effective way of getting a specific vehicle into the eye of a particular target audience.So whatever next? Ford's coup with Prince William is probably a one-off, and we are not about to see Prince Philip doing a photo call in a spanking new Toyota or the Queen cheerily climbing into the back of a Mini. But it seems we will be seeing more and more famous drivers and their respective motors adorning the pages of our newspapers.
A Minor royalA Morris Minor which once belonged to Sophie Rhys Jones has just been sold - for &#163;2,500. Described by Brooks spokesman James Knight as "a little tired", a car like this would normally have fetched around &#163;700. So who decided it was worth nearly four times that? A "private English guy" says Knight.Stolen momentsGood news for car thieves. What Car?'s annual security tests found that 87% of new cars failed to satisfy minimum home office security guidelines and that nearly a third could be broken into and driven away within 5 minutes. If you've just splashed out &#163;35,700 on a new TVR Chimaera, you probably shouldn't have bothered as someone will probably relieve you of it very soon (it scored only 10 out of a possible 100). Only the Lexus IS200 scored the maximum 100%.Quote of the week"Here we have a car &#91;Aston Martin DB7 Vantage&#93; which can easily hang on to the coat-tails of Ferrari's new 360. And yet is costs less - just &#163;95,000, about 20 minutes work for David Beckham. He probably won't buy one though. Because, as he's already demonstrated, he wouldn't know what Posh was even if he married it."Jeremy Clarkson, the Sun
Wealthy drivers are used to being in the hot seat, but not like this. Thanks to a dodgy thermostat, the UK's most luxurious car, Rolls-Royce's &#163;155,000 Silver Seraph, has been giving its new owners a bit of a roasting. All Seraphs and Bentley Arnages, 1,725 cars in all, have been recalled for discreet correction.It is estimated that the cost of hauling in all the cars will be &#163;300,000, but that's nothing compared to the scale of other mass-market car recalls. Ford, for example, is busy with the small matter of tweaking 61,130 Focuses, all of which have faulty alternator regulators which, in very wet conditions, might cause your interior lights and instruments to flicker on... and off. Audi, meanwhile, has some 11,450 1998 A3 hatchbacks that need to have their seat-belt tensioners checked. In some cases, they can ignite and set fire to the interior trim.If you want to know more about whether your car harbours potential fireworks, call 0117 954 3300. The hotline for the Vehicle Inspectorate (VI) is set up to deal with public enquiries and complaints about cars. Their websitewww.via.gov.uk/car.htm) also holds a database of all recent recall campaigns.Car owner or not, it makes gripping reading. The list is a roll call of potential crash-bang-wallops. For example, drive, if you dare, an Audi built between August 1997 and February 1998 and fitted with the maker's V6 five-valve engine. On a cold morning, "misfiring after a cold start can cause the air grid to the air mass meter to become detached". Whoops, you might say, but never mind. Except that the detached grid can "jam the throttle, causing an increase in engine speed".And if you're piloting a Ford Explorer of the August 1996 to April 1998 vintage, you might be interested to know that this one has two design faults that "may inhibit the throttle pedal from returning to its normal idle position". Ford sold 4,599 of these before the fault was spotted.For a better thrill, try a 1994-1997 Hyundai Accent (36,000 of them are out there). This one's a strong contender for a dramatic corner: "There is a possibility that the front suspension coil could break. Should this occur, the unseated section of the spring could puncture the tyre.It is, of course, likely that virtually all aforementioned potential hazards have been ironed out,   every car being swiftly returned to the relevant maker for attention and correction. Or is it? In a less than ideal world, are British roads loaded with badly designed or badly built models which are just waiting to go dramatically wrong?The short answer is yes. More than a million vehicles were sufficiently iffy to warrant official recall last year. And quite a lot of them were never put right.The VI, with a vast army of five staff, oversees the recall system, which is, essentially, voluntary. The process was hammered out in 1979 to see that "vehicles and components with safety-related defects due to a feature of design or construction, and which are liable to cause significant risk of injury to the driver, occupants or other road users," are promptly put right.Responsibility for identifying and reporting a problem is placed with the relevant manufacturer, so they effectively police themselves. That's not to say that the VI is toothless: it does its own investigations into accidents to determine whether a design or construction fault is to blame. If it feels a maker should issue a recall, it can order a notice enforcing the model in question to be taken off the road.So far, spokeswoman Miranda Roberts says, this has never happened, "because no car maker would relish the media attention of government action against them".Once a recall is under way, a maker contacts the relevant owner through the DVLA's address database. The VI stays on the case for 18 months - or less, if the 100% success rate has been achieved.But in reality no recall can ever be declared 100% effective. "Even with recalls of cars just six months old," says Roberts, "and especially with cars in fleet use, the cars can be quickly sold on."The AA describes the entire recall system as "a net full of holes" and says it is concerned that there is no readily-accessible database listing all the cars in question for motorists to consult. "We are looking into publishing some sort of list to help our members know what's going on," says campaigns manager Matthew Joint.If you're contemplating a new-used car and are concerned that it might have slipped the recall net, the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders has a solution. "All you need do," says spokesman Al Clarke, "is check with the manufacturer by calling their helpline. If the car has been subject to any recall notice, they will know instantly."Unless, of course, the fault is on a nearly-new model and remains, as yet, undetected. Drive steady, now.
Can you give us a brief history of your computer use?Background, originally pretty anti-, actually bit of a luddite. My dad's a systems analyst, a previous boyfriend is a computer/internet boffin hence no desire to go there!!! Now I'm a convert - it's been a gradual process over the last couple of years, starting off with a really crappy old Amstrad lent to me by a friend.What do you use now?Office Dell Pentium D266 PC and a smaller Packard Bell at work. Apple Mac G3 at home.How does the computer help in your design work?From a fashion point of view the design process is very much still done with pen and paper. In visuals and graphics it's a great tool, but only as good for creative design as the designer using it. In a more general way for afashion business, it's great for co-ordinating visuals with administrational information. I think for actual original design it's limited.What advances in technology could help you more?Healing Hangover Software.Any favourite websites?&lt;A HREF="'http://www.swayzak.com"' TARGET=_NEW&gt;www.swayzak.comAny favourite software?Photoshop.Any gadgets you'd like?Cup of Tea icon.What do you mainly use your computer for?Administration at the moment which will change to communication of information.Do you shop online?Yes, just started, from Go, fantastically easy to buy and select flights on the net to mini Tabasco bottles brought in bulk for Bloody Marys for a Birthday Brunch.Anything really irritate you about computers/technology?When it doesn't do what you want.What's the strangest thing you've found online?Not strangest, funniest: "Gerbil in a Microwave."How long have you been known to spend at your computer?Three days on Excel doing cashflows.What do you see in the future for computers? What would you like to see?Hardware getting seriously aesthetically pleasing. We tolerate it at present because there's no choice.What are you working on at the moment?A very exciting multi media project with other creative disciplines not usually connected with computers and technology, but the end result will be a marriage of leading creatives and leading technology both in the final presentation and in communicating that vision and information.
Apple's iBook computer - unveiled last week at MacWorld Expo in New York, for delivery in September - promises to take the iMac strategy into the portable market. Like the iMac, the iBook has a limited specification, both to keep the price down, and to protect sales of Apple's own more professional PowerBooks. And like the iMac, the iBook has been styled by British-born designer Jonathan Ives. Whether you like it or not - and someone has already compared it to a toilet seat - it's distinctively different.It also has a novel selling point: wireless networking. With the AirPort expansion card ($99) and hub ($299), users will be able to access the internet up to 150 feet from where their hub or base station is connected to the telephone line. As Apple's interim chief executive Steve Jobs quipped at the launch, he knew only one person whose house was too big for one hub - Bill Gates - and he could afford two.Wireless networking is far from new and last year National Semiconductor based its prototype Cyrix WebPad, demonstrated at the Comdex computer show, on the same idea as the iBook. But standard PC notebooks don't have a wireless antenna built in to the case, which the iBook does. Also, the iBook uses a high-speed variant developed by Lucent, which runs at 11 megabits/second.While this may be widely adopted as a standard, the    iBook may be there first. The built-in Ethernet and wireless potential are clear advantages especially in the home and education markets, where cables are inconvenient if not dangerous. However, in other areas there is evidence of cost cutting.The iBook has only 32 megabytes of memory when 64 would be more useful for today's applications; and like the iMac, it doesn't have a floppy drive. The iBook is also very limited when it comes to expandability and flexibility: there are no standard PC Card slots, no ports for a printer or external mouse, and there isn't even a socket for a microphone. Apple argues that lots of devices can be connected via the standard USB (Universal Serial Bus)    port.This is true, but it limits people's choices, and will frustrate those who already own usable peripherals. But at least Apple has kept the projected price down to $1,599, which is very competitive with comparable PCs running Microsoft Windows 98 from companies like Toshiba and Gateway. And while price certainly matters to Apple's target buyers in homes and schools, will they care about the limitations? Carl Howe, research director at Forrester Research in Cambridge, Massachusetts, thinks not."The wake-up call for PC makers is that &#91;the iBook&#93; is distinguished by its style, not by megabytes and megahertz," he says. "Everyone who looks at it says: 'Boy, is that different!   I wonder if I want one?' It's just a brilliant marketing play." Andy Brown, an analyst with the International Data Corporation (IDC) in the UK, says the trend in the notebook market - led by companies like Sony and Sharp - is towards smaller, sleeker machines, and he has reservations about the iBook's size and weight."But a lot of other vendors' consumer notebooks are also too large, and the consumer market is still relatively unpenetrated, largely because of price, I expect," he says. "But I've no doubt the iBook will be a considerable success initially. "It's a very exciting-looking product. With Apple, it's always about how well you package the product, and that is what they do well."Few soft optionsDespite the huge success of the iMac - Jobs noted in his keynote speech that Apple will have shipped 1.9m of them by August - the company still has a battle on the software front.Apple constantly cites the rising number of developers working on Mac products, but many of these are not the ones widely available in Windows versions that Mac users would like to see.Prior to the launch last year of the iMac, Jobs had to talk to some software companies who were planning to drop their Mac lines, despite having forged their reputations on the platform. The success of Apple's streamlined product range, has persuaded companies like Macromedia, Adobe and Avid to stay in the fold.Things look set to improve. Amid a swath of upgrades and new products from vendors including Microsoft and Avid, IBM announced it would release a Mac version of its popular voice recognition software, ViaVoice.Jobs's recent push to woo game developers has also paid off, with high profile programmers announcing releases for the Mac. In New York, MacWorld had more than a token gaming area for the first time. It was a small corner, but games demos drew some of the largest crowds on the opening day.MacWorld's most noticeable absentee was Mac OS X, the long-promised, Unix-based operating system that will overhaul the Mac OS. Although Jobs's NeXT business was acquired when he returned to Apple in 1996, with a view to using elements of its operating system, he didn't mention the new system in his keynote speech. He also refused to discuss it afterwards, except to note it would be released in 2000.While Jobs demonstrated some innovations for Mac OS 9, the upgrade due in October, most Mac users want to see OS X. The new system will be optimised for the G3 and feature innovations to make it easier to dig out files. Major software vendors have been persuaded to bring their applications to the new system.  
&#149; Karlin Lillington in New York
To the uninitiated, webart consists of work that centres around and makes use of the web. While countless websites contain works of art, be they reproductions of Rembrant or the latest Turner Prize nominees, webart can only be defined by sites that actually are art. Webartists not only use the very fabric of the browser to create and show their work, but often, for its very subject matter. And so good has some of the work become, that various dignitaries of the international art establishment are beginning to sit up, take notice and wonder how on earth this stuff can be sold.Last month at the CyberArt99 event in New York, the director of the Whitney Museum of American Art, Maxwell L Anderson, impressed on his audience of curators, art dealers and new media gurus the importance of creating a proper art market for the digital arts. Users, he suggested, should be encouraged to purchase web-based art online in much the same way they might pay to download music files.Anderson's speech followed news that Slovenian based artist Teo Spiller had sold a work of webart to Ljubljana's municipal gallery for $500, after an open auction conducted over the web.Britain is developing a notable webart scene. On first glance Backspace, an experimental digital workshop for the online arts, looks like a natty youth club - albeit one encumbered with leftover kit from an aborted space mission. Visitors could easily think that they have wandered into some kind of futuristic mechanics' workshop, where casually dressed youths saunter around the various bits of kit, chatting over chipped cups of   tea, or hunching over screens staring intently at complex layers of code.To define Backspace is not easy, but to think of it as a cyber-cafe for the digital hardcore wouldn't be far off the mark. Set in the Dickensian backstreets of Southwark, not far from Tower Bridge, it is a self-funding workshop and internet service provider (ISP) where different groups from London's new media scene hang out, swap ideas, and occasionally attempt the kind computer abuse that would be frowned upon at a more conventional cyber-establishment. Many also see the place as the unofficial heart of the city's digital art scene.That luminaries in the art establishment are beginning to take their work seriously has left the patrons of Backspace somewhat bemused. Some, like Mathew Fuller, of British-based webart activists I/O/D, see it as a sign that the art "establishment" is trying to muscle in on an art form that has so far existed outside the traditional structures of gallery and market. After all, he suggests, "the internet is so forgeable, and so fluid, that it is very difficult to verify provenance and that's something that shakes the established institutions up".The artists of I/O/Dwww.backspace.org/iodstarted their web "activism" in 1994 by producing multi-media presentations via floppy disk. Their work focused on the use of the computer itself - in order to provoke change, or "blow the conventions up", as Fuller more cheekily puts it. Their work became infamous   for engulfing your computer, reducing it to a frustrating, but addictive series of seemingly randomly generated dialog boxes, a labyrinth of commands and answers that would crash the whole system more often than not.More recently I/O/D has made the web its favoured target. Its most recent work, the Webstalker, blows open the structure of the web by stripping sites of all content and design, leaving only a two-dimensional mnemonic showing a skeletal map of how the web is linked together. The Webstalker has already received over half a million downloads, but Fuller and his partners, Colin Green and Simon Pope, see free distribution of their work, the subject of Anderson's speech, as the essential principle of webart. For a group of young British artists I/O/D seems surprisingly uninterested about being paid for work.This comes is no surprise to Pauline Van Mourik Broekman, co-editor ofMute, the London-based, European art and technology magazine, and occasional loiterer at Backspace. Van Mourik Broekman began shouting about webart back in 1994 when she and co-founder Simon Worthington left art school.Aware of both the cultural and artistic potential of the web and of the work of early practitioners like Heath Buntingwww.irational.org/heathand Belgium-basedJODI, and as no other art magazine seemed to be taking up the art and tech nology cause, they decided to extend Worthington's one-off arts and technology newspaper, Mute, that had formed a part of his masters degree at the Slade. Or to try and help "nurture debate and discourse, to bring it in to being, to not just sit around and wait", says Van Mourick Broekman.As they put it in their editorials, Mute started as "attempted response to the do-or-die mythmaking of the digital revolution", to debunk the wealth of hype, that threatened to obscure the many good things that were actually happening in the early days of the web. Mute began to pay particular attention to artists like JODI who were then anonymously "performing" their work on the web, which messed with and often crashed the browser used to view it. Or how Heath Bunting used a hacker's eye to sabotage the workings of the web.Although very different in look and feel, both were using the web in a way that artist Jon Thomson recently described as a kind of work "where form, content and their means of transfer collide and collapse together". For artists like JODI and Bunting the "whole thing is the art work", according to Van Mourik Broekman. "Right from the beginning they both tried to deconstruct the principles at work, and both wanted to show that there was an archaic element to the web."Once artists like JODI had become known, their influence quickly spread. American-based artistsPotatolandalso started producing work on the web. Late last year they unleashed the Shredder - a work that perhaps best exemplifies how the platform itself can become the art. With the Shredder Potatoland went so far as to design their   own browser that, just like Netscape or Explorer, can access just about every corner of the web. But the Shredder works by "shredding" the sites it visits, stretching gifs to abstraction and displaying the html and java script beneath them in a beautiful display of colourful code.If Van Mourick Broekman has any reservations about the current state of the webart scene it is that the    growth of the movement has led to a subtle change in its meaning: that the beauty of the code revealed in JODI and Potatoland is distracting from the very political comment that existed at their inception. Whereas artists like JODI began by ripping fabric of the web apart, and making comments about its unpredictable and ephemeral nature, they now produce something more akin to a   virtuoso performance, that Van Mourik Broekman likens to more performance-based arts like contemporary dance.Like dance, webart works are of a very temporal nature and therefore can vary over time. Webart also has no real physical presence and must be stored digitally. But with the hardware and software used to create it constantly changing, preserving the work is immediately problematic. Benjamin Weir, the director of new media at the Institute of Contemporary Art, recently lectured on the problems surrounding the curation of webart.A former critic and curator    of conceptual work, Weir became involved in the webart movement when he co-foundedadaweb, a website that commissioned and hosted work by artists who were using the web as a medium. As Weir pointed out in his recent seminar at the ICA, the old adage that works of art are never finished, just abandoned, is fundamentally challenged by webart. Not only are sites like JODI and Potatoland in a constant state of flux, but they can be manipulated, updated and redesigned by the artist at any time. Again Anderson's notion that webart can be bought and sold in much the same way as a pop song is challenged by the never-quite- finished aspects of webart.Weir agrees that the European webart scene is in a better shape than its American counterpart, and that Britain, for the moment, has a wealth of funds thanks to the lottery and even New Labour's commitment to the creative industries. But he has some reservations about how long this financial idyll will last in Britain. "At the moment the European scene is much more grounded, because Europe has a culture of publicly funded arts, but how much money will be left when the current crop of online art student start to leave college?" he asks.That webart has managed to firmly establish itself is now beyond doubt. How the movement will sustain itself is still in question. Benjamin Weir: "The whole economy of online art is part of an equation that still needs to be resolved and I don't think we are remotely close to finding a solution."Still, back at Backspace, those casually-dressed youths keep pushing back the artistic and technical frontiers of the web. In between chipped cups of tea, of course.
Who would have thought it a year ago? London's stock market displayed full-blown internet fever on Monday, sending Freeserve's stock soaring 37% on its debut day of trading. We never thought a loss-making internet access company could seem so sexy to the city.It may, therefore, seem churlish to suggest that the future for internet service providers is anything other than rosy. But, drowned out by the screams of delight over Freeserve's performance this week, were muttered warnings from investment bank Durlacher. There could be 200 free ISP services in the UK by the end of the year, they said - and that's an   awful lot of businesses relying on call charges passed on by BT, advertising revenues and commission on anything they manage to sell through their websites.But if the situation looks uncertain for a lot of the free ISPs, spare a thought for the paid-for ISPs. The same Durlacher report showed their growth, once at 80% a year overall, declined to less than 1% last year. They now need to add value to their services to justify their subscriptions "or face extinction".Yet all these problems are as nothing compared to the challenge which will be brought by the arrival of high bandwidth services for the masses through telephone lines or cable.For some of those brave ISPs which have survived the current shake-out, that could spell the end. The winners in that battle will be those with the backing of telecoms companies willing to invest in the technology to support high-speed access. Things could look very different again in another 12 months.
Imagine sitting on top of a bus watching The Phantom Menace on what appears to be an Imax size screen - courtesy of the visual equivalent of a Walkman built into your glasses.It may sound like science fiction, but the technology is almost with us now. Virtual Retinal Display scans images directly onto the retina, without the intervention of anything so crude or conventional as a TV screen, computer monitor or even the latest active matrix LCD panel.The result is an almost life-like three-dimensional image - still or moving - which    appears to be about a metre away. It can either replace or augment the user's normal vision, depending on the application. Users say it's a truly three-dimensional image with none of the haziness and lack of clarity of   holograms. It's already being used in prototype form by the US military in head-up displays and, its inventors say, it's only a matter of time before it finds its way into mobile phones, operating theatres, building sites, even glasses (like those pictured) for the ultimate virtual reality experience. In fact they reckon there's no reason why eventually it shouldn't all but replace conventional methods of personal display for about the same costs.Developed by Microvision,   VRD projects a very low-power, electronically encoded, rapidly scanning laser beam through the eye's lens directly onto the retina, stimulating individual neurons at the back of the eye.It's been in development for the last six years, but the recent incorporation of ultra-violet laser technology has dramatically reduced power consumption and size. This means genuinely affordable and lightweight consumer devices could be on the market before the end of next year."The increased sensitivity the eye has to violet light means we can use less power than with red or green light," said Tom Lippert, principal scientist at Microvision. "It also means we can eliminate all of the fibre optics while still increasing efficiency. Suddenly, the entire photonic system becomes the size of a sugar cube."In case you were wondering, the company does stress the safety requirements of shining a laser beam directly into the eye. "We have to adhere to the international safety standards set down by the ISO," said Lippert. To put it into perspective, it's estimated that even production military devices will emit about 1,000th of the power of those hand-held laser beams everyone was getting so upset about at nightclubs up and down the country a couple of years ago.Moreover, military applications will emit in the region of 200 micro watts, which is just below the accepted safety level. This is because the images they produce need to be visible in situations with   much brighter ambient lighting. Consumer devices will emit only 30 nano watts because the need for high brightness and contrast isn't so great. There is nothing inherently dangerous about laser beams, only the amount of concentrated power they produce. It's far more dangerous to stare at a 60 watt light bulb.Because there is no screen, the resolution of the image produced is limited only by the diffraction and optical aberrations of the light source - which, because it's decoupled from the image producer (see diagram above), can be almost any kind of source.This is because the image is produced by a single scanning beam and not discrete light sources, as in the case of a computer monitor. Lippert says the maximum resolution Microvision has managed to produce is 5,120 by 4,096 pixels in a field of view of 100 .This is still not good enough for what's called "full immersion" in a video game, for example, which would require a field of view in the region of 140 degrees and would need to produce a variable resolution depending on where the viewer's eyes are focused - in much the same way as our own vision works. Nevertheless, it's far better than anything else so far achieved.In fact the system is a great deal more suited to the way our vision works than traditional methods of display. After all, images are projected onto our retinas all the time, and the intervention of an intermediary screen really only gets in the way. "VRD is a very efficient way to do it," said Lippert.Painting on the retinaA VRD system consists of four primary components: drive electronics, light sources; scanners; and optics. The drive electronics receive and process signals from an image source (a computer, a video camera, or any video output). The processed signals contain information that controls the intensity and mix of colour and the co-ordinates to position the individual picture elements (pixels) that comprise the image.The VRD uses a very low power light source to create and convey a single pixel at a time through the pupil to the retina. With colour images, three light sources - red, green, and blue - are modulated then merged to produce a pixel of the appropriate colour.Operating at extremely low intensity levels, VRD poses no danger to the eye.Horizontal and vertical scanners "paint" an image on the eye by rapidly moving the light source across and down the retina. Finally refractive and reflective optical elements project the rapidly scanning beam of light into the viewer's eye through the viewer's pupil and onto the retina to create a large virtual image.
Scotch missedBraveheartEidos Interactive, &#163;39.99 PC CD-Rom   And now to this year's Blade Runner Award for tardy tie-ins... Yes, a full four years after Braveheart the movie comes Braveheart the video game. You can see why it took so long; it must have been a beast to programme. It's also a beast to play.Taking charge of one of 16 clans, you must use espionage, trade, diplomacy and warfare to unite 13th century Scotland and rise up against your dastardly English oppressors.Unfortunately, the range of tools at your disposal for this task is nothing short of bewildering. Resource management, taxation, combat tactics, diplomatic missions, scouting, job allocation, army   training - this, combined with the unintuitive interface, is likely to leave you clicking till you're blue in the face.You can delegate the more mundane duties to your computerised assistant, but be warned: the AI seems to have learned everything it knows about economics from Sarah Ferguson. The 3D mode, which you use to inspect towns, direct spies or enact battles, is rather more entertaining, but equally difficult to control, not to mention glitchy. And when the attention to detail is so great in some areas, it's all the more annoying to hear female peasants speak in the same throaty growl as the men.You can't help but admire the variety and sophistication on offer here; but given that you'll probably spend more time reading the manual than actually playing the game, it's probably wiser to worship from afar.Nasty but niceB&gt; Dungeon Keeper 2Bullfrog, &#163;34.99 PC CD-ROMFor the uninitiated, 1997's Dungeon Keeper was a strategy/combat title with a   twist. You played the Keeper of the title, a decidedly nasty piece of work whose chosen subject was "Building underground kingdoms and overthrowing the forces of good".After you had constructed your lair, you enlisted various unholy creatures to guard it, and filled the place with   devious traps. Then you could either sit back and laugh as gung-ho heroes stumbled blindly to their doom, or physically enter the body of one of your minions and lead the battle from the front.It was original, fun, and buggy as hell. The follow-up offers much smoother graph ics, an improved first-person mode, and a horde of new rooms, monsters and spells. Being bad never felt so good.Buyers of the original game, though, are entitled to feel aggrieved at having to pay full price again. This is what Dungeon Keeper should have been the first time round.Nasty but niceDungeon Keeper 2Bullfrog, &#163;34.99 PC CD-ROMFor the uninitiated, 1997's Dungeon Keeper was a strategy/combat title with a   twist. You played the Keeper of the title, a decidedly nasty piece of work whose chosen subject was "Building underground kingdoms and overthrowing the forces of good".After you had constructed your lair, you enlisted various unholy creatures to guard it, and filled the place with   devious traps. Then you could either sit back and laugh as gung-ho heroes stumbled blindly to their doom, or physically enter the body of one of your minions and lead the battle from the front.It was original, fun, and buggy as hell. The follow-up offers much smoother graph ics, an improved first-person mode, and a horde of new rooms, monsters and spells. Being bad never felt so good.Buyers of the original game, though, are entitled to feel aggrieved at having to pay full price again. This is what Dungeon Keeper should have been the first time round.Andy BodleTight defenceArcade Hits: Joust/DefenderNintendo Game BoyDefender was not just one of the great games of the early 80s, it's arguably one of the greatest arcade games of all time.The Game Boy version appears to be identical - it could well be an emulation rather than a rewrite - but the resemblance ends with the software. You don't get the huge cabinet, the sturdy handle, the thumping bass or the big screen of the arcade machine, and on the Game Boy's tiny LCD, some of the nasties are practically too small to shoot.Joust - a medieval but mid-air game of lance-to-lance combat - has similar problems. While this two-game cartridge might be aimed at the retro/nostalgia market, many over 40s will find their eyesight is now too poor to enjoy the games, at least on a Game Boy Color.Under 11s with sharp eyes and even sharper reflexes, however, might finally learn what "compulsive" really means.Jack Schofield
Compiling any brand-new dictionary is a mammoth task. So when Nigel Newton, chief executive of book publisher Bloomsbury, came up with the idea of not only putting together a dictionary, but one with regional editions to make it relevant wherever it was read, it was certainly a tall order. And it was one where technology simply had to play a leading role.In fact, with a single dictionary once taking 10 years to compile before the advent of new technology, the task might have proved impossible had the internet not come to the rescue. In the end, the    task of compiling two databases of English - one UK English, one American English - to make the new Encarta All English Dictionary, took only four years.A team of hundreds of language experts around the world recently finished filing their contributions by email to an anonymous building off London's Soho Square, where every word was put into a custom-built database and given a mammoth string of tags defining which editions it would appear in. It wasn't quite a case of pushing a button to publish the various paper editions and CD-Rom to be made by Microsoft, but the boiling down of the laborious process of contributions, checking, double checking and typesetting was still a revelation.Newton thinks the difference was so marked it may even have changed the nature of the dictionary, which will be simultaneously published in all its forms and around the world in September. "Obviously, if the people compiling a dictionary all come from within 60 miles of    one of the great universities of the world - be it Boston or somewhere in Britain - they're going to have one outlook," he says. "On the other hand, 320 people from 20 different countries around the world are not only capable of having, but are briefed to have, a different view."For our competitors, it was appropriate to approach language in the way they did when they were originally commissioned which, in the case of Websters was 1828 and Oxford 1868. But now that it's the language of one in five people in the world, it's appropriate to find a broad cultural perspective rather than reflect the former power of the nation concerned."Lexicographers in that far-flung team were also told that, if they wanted to take part in the exercise, they had to get reasonable PCs and access to the internet, so their work could be fed straight into a database.  "The database holds the two main spelling forms of English - British and American - in parallel," explains editor Kathy Rooney."There are many varieties of world English - Australian, New Zealand, Canadian, South African - and others around the world. We have all those in our headwords list in a highly structured database from which each edition, tailored to whichever market, can be derived."We will have this dictionary, which will be published worldwide simultaneously in both print and electronic form, but what is there will be very different.  Someone in Milwaukee will think 'this is my dictionary' because colour will be spelt color and some definitions will be different, whereas someone in Macclesfield will read it and think 'this is  my language' because colour will spelt with an 'our'.That sounds very easy, but in reality you need to create a dictionary in parallel. "Now, in the database we have a resource which will mean, eventually, if somebody wants a Canadian schools dictionary or a New Zealand beginners' dictionary, we can do that very quickly."
Finding familiesThe very simplest websites are often the most important. A simple database and search interface, like the one atwww.refugjat.org/englishindex_e.html, easily demonstrates how the web can make a difference to people's lives. Refugjat.org allows Kosavar refugees and their families to search for news of missing relatives and friends. The site's information has been gathered by a Macedonian relief organisation called ADI (Association for the Democratic Initiatives) which exchanged information with refugees already in the camps. To assure individual safety, only refugees' names, their place of origin and the town they registered in are available over the site, but ADI has provided a contact number with access to further details.Auction aidSupport for refugees, both Kosovan and Serbian, is also appearing on the web.Raccoon Inc, and New York-basedWomen in Blackare organising a web-based auction of work from artists and photojournalists from around the globe and are looking for donations and submissions. The online auction will be held on July 31 athttp://auction.balkansnet.orgwith all proceeds going to Women's groups in Belgrade and Kosovo.Dark knowledgeThe first full eclipse in Britain since 1927 is nearly upon us, and those wishing to see it can look to the web for help. Accommodation can be found at sites likewww.thisistheeclipse.co.ukand travel information atwww.highways.gov.uk/eclipse99/index.htmGuardian Unlimited has also launched an eclipsedocumentaryand is seeking submissions of pictures and accounts of past eclipses. The documentary will feature the original reports from the Manchester  Guardian on the 1927 eclipse as well as an article by the astronomy officer at the Royal Observatory an Greenwich. The site will also host a live webcast on the day.Powerful incentiveAlthough Britons still have to pay by the minute to access the web a wealth of small financial incentives keep appearing to help plug us in.Powergenis offering &#163;30 cash back for anyone prepared to change both their gas and electricity accounts to a new web-based service. The company also claims it can save some customers up to 20% of their current bills and provides an online bill calculator to help demonstrate this.Who needs satire?Zealous American Christians have always been an easy target for the satirist. The only problem is when the sites unwittingly become funnier than the parody. Landover is an imaginary American town deep in the virtual Bible Belt andwww.landoverbaptist.org/home/mainx.htmlis its local online paper. The site attempts to do for Christian    websites what the likes of theOnionhas been doing to American news. It's both well-observed and more than a little puerile, but only half as funny as some of the sites it attempts to send up. Far more kitsch than the Landover Baptist site is the over-earnestwww.capalert.comwhich presents itself as a Christian Analysis of American Culture but is more like a berserk reaction to anything even mildly off-centre. Not only does Cap Alert attempt to record every single, swear word, fight scene and sexual reference in films like The Muppets In Space but its online reviews describe South Park as "incredibly dangerous" and a film like Notting Hill as "vulgar".IT driveTheContainer Projectis a bold attempt to take technology into marginalised communities by filling a shipping container with 15 computers, an internet server and portable power generators and driving it into deprived areas. The container will be driven around the UK for four months before being shipped to Jamaica where a set of similar projects have been set up. The Container hopes to nurture new media culture and link up all the communities it is trying to help.Chill outThe multi-media drop-outs of the Big Chill have just relaunched their website atwww.bigchill.co.ukto coincide the launch of their new record label. Big Chill (logo shown right) has made itself popular at outdoor festivals and the content-rich website is surprisingly full. It now contains information about forthcoming events, online ticket   sales and a blissful net radio station.More than a gameWith computer console and arcade games industries now claiming to earn more bucks than the American movie industry, many people are beginning to take the games world very seriously.Eyebeamis an online digital forum which is trying to apply academic analysis to the games world. The online critical symposium runs until August 20 and will be followed by a book and "real world" conference in New York in November.In sightShooting Peopleis a daily email service dedicated to the independent films industry in this country. Bulletins offer gossip about upcoming productions and film festivals.Six of the bestWeb groovesJust the musicwww.groovetech.comDrum n' basswww.datanetworks.ch/~breakbeatloungeStrictly undergroundhttp://interface. pirate-radio.co.ukCorporate clubbingwww.cream.co.ukBig night outwww.clubber.mcmail.comBig night inwww.gaialive.co.uk
Believe it or not, in the Moscow metro there is a vending machine, in the familiar purply-blue, offering in Cyrillic script all the delights of "Kedberi's" chocolates inside.I can only imagine what it took to put that machine there and keep it filled - negotiations and contracts, distribution agreements and commissions, restocking schedules and inventory management.On the web, by contrast, virtual machines show up overnight, in places figuratively at least as remote and as specific as the Turgenevskaya metro station. It doesn't take years, but how does it happen? It's the result (mostly) of a process called syndication, familiar in the media world but now   also applying to e-commerce.In the media, someone writes an article, produces a video or records a song then distributes it through a syndicator to a variety of media outlets. The creative work reaches a larger audience, and money flows back to the creator, either as advertising revenues or licensing fees from republishers. But there's so much content out there that the flow of money is reversing. Content providers are actually paying AOL to publish their content, in the hopes of recouping money later through advertising or commerce revenues.So why not syndicate commerce? That is basically what Amazon is doing through its Associates program, whereby thousands of associates send their customers to buy books at Amazon, for a small percentage of the revenues they generate.The practice is spreading. On the web, the transfer of content is so easy that it enables the business deals, the assembly of content from disparate sources, and the relationships to become more complex. Among others, Affinia, Linkshare and Be Free are building networks to expand syndicated commerce.Without syndication and   resellers, online merchants must reach and interact with consumers directly. Syndicators manage the transformation and distribution of information between the originators and the websites (known as partners, affiliates or resellers). The websites display syndicated offerings to their customers and interact with them on behalf of the originator. Consumers benefit from the reach and flexibility of syndication networks, and in turn they prime the system by buying things or viewing advertisements.Syndication facilitates specialisation. An originator (of content or of products or services) can specialise in one area, yet still reach a broad audience. At the other end of the scale, websites avoid the expense of generating (all) their own high-quality original content or offerings. In a syndicated world, companies and individuals can choose where they wish to concentrate their   effort, and still reach a broad market or range of suppliers.The result is a rich ecosystem with many potentially profitable niches. From a business perspective, syndication aggregates a large number of small-value transactions into a profitable concern. The syndicators sell the service of doing so; the originators benefit from increased volume and faster time-to-market. And smaller, less commercially-oriented sites can share the benefits of the internet economy, by outsourcing their e-commerce offerings.Syndication makes sense precisely because there are so many web sites and so many originators. As the number of potential relationships grows exponentially, bilateral contracts with some formal, pre-existing relationship become increasingly untenable as a broad-based business model (though individual bilateral agreements will persist).The essence of the net is openness and the theoretical ability for anyone to have a (business) relationship with anyone else. Syndication makes the theoretical ability practical: it fosters the "mass-production" of customised, one-to-one relationships, by defining and implementing the technical and operational terms   under which originators and distributors interact with each other and with consumers. Instead of a product moving down the channel to the consumer, the relationship moves up the channel from consumer to originator.Syndication is a mechanism for the emergence of order. There is such an overwhelming volume of information on the web that consumers can't possibly find for themselves all the content creators and originating merchants that might interest them.One solution to the chaos of the web is to create new centres around which everything else revolves. Portals and infomediaries attempt this. But there's a better model: like the brain's neural networks, syndication webs comprise interacting but independent actors who need not be aware of each other to support end-to-end transactions.&#91;I owe much of this column to the current edition of Release 1.0, the newsletter published by  EDventure Holdings, and to my colleague Kevin Werbach, who wrote it.&#93;
Line costsI was pleased to read that the BT monopoly on local phone calls may finally be ending. As an American who spends a good deal of time in the UK, I am appalled by the telephone charges here for internet access. At home, I spend about &#163;10 a month for unlimited local calling, which includes access, plus about another &#163;15 for my provider. Here, the provider may be free, but monthly phone charges run over &#163;150.US government figures show that the ongoing American prosperity, in the face of a recession almost everywhere else, is due to the internet. British people are losing out not only economically, but socially and culturally.For example, at the University of California, Riverside, where I am a professor, we have made a major commitment to online instruction. My own department recently began an online course in screenwriting, taught by Judy Burns, a distinguished Emmy-Award winner.We wanted students at our sister institution, Rose Bruford College in Sidcup, Kent, to take part. We discovered to our horror that students here would have to pay about &#163;14 a week to access the virtual classroom, putting it out of the reach of most of them.Britain, once far ahead of us in Distance Learning, now lags far behind.Richard HornbyLondon SW5Table talkRomilly Bowden's suggestion that putting everything on a website into one big table is a bad idea (Feedback, July 15) is not accurate.I use tables with mixed text and thumbnails on my website (as does every major site on the web) and the table and text load first, the pictures when they come through. I've always thought that the phenomenon described occurred when people don't specify the size of the pictures that they are using in pixels causing the browser to wait until it knows their size before bringing them up on screen.Beginners should, in my view, use tables a lot. They compensate for HTML's rather poor formatting possibilities and let you do a lot more with your content. Too many sites are long text blocks interspersed with images, no interest at all.Chris Lynasc15546@bristol.ac.ukTwin callTwin readers may have been intrigued by the account given by the identical twin Margaret Westheim (Can one and one make one? July 8) of the many distinct differences she had observed in the behaviour and personality of her identical twin.Would other identical twin members or pairs who share her experience, please contact Dr Arnold Feinstein at 6 Chalcot Gardens, London NW3 4YB (telephone 0171 722 3688).Dr Arnold FeinsteinLondonCuba.comWhat a great article (Internet Si, Yanqui No! July 22). What withwww.easyeverything.comusing Che Guevara in their advertising campaign, Cuba and its internet friends must be having an impact.For the last four years the   Cuba Solidarity Campaign has been sending thousands of computers to the island, many of which can be seen in the "free access Computer Clubs" referred to in your article.Readers may want to help with the 'real revolution' or just find out more about Cuba and the world of Cuba on the net. There are a number of UK based sites dealing with Cuba and solidarity. All have excellent links to worldwide Cuba sites:Cuba Solidarity Websitewww.poptel.org.uk/cuba-solidarityCuba on line shoppingwww.cubaconnect.co.ukOxford based campaign  Trade Union based solidaritywww.salud.org.ukRob MillerLondon N7 7QGMore information about the Kulturserver project can be found atwww.kulturserver.deJules MarshallAmsterdam
Ever hailed a cab with no one in it, and it's just sailed on by? Annoying, isn't it? However, chances are these days that the driver hasn't done "the Knowledge", doesn't have a badge and has no interest in boring you to death with insipid small talk about all the famous people they've had in the back of the cab. The reason? Because there's every chance that the person driving that black cab is either already famous or confident enough that they're going to be - some day soon, anyway.Falling into the former camp are celebrity owners and drivers who aren't cabbies. They include Stephen Fry, the Duke of Edinburgh, Lord Winchilsea, Liberal Democrat peer, Simon Hughes, LibDem MP for North Southwark and Bermondsey, and Michael Ashcroft, the Tory party treasurer. But more interesting is a new breed of bright and trendy cool young things focused around Hoxton Square and other parts of London's East End.Taxi cabs have become the MPVs and 4WDs of this set. With no children (yet) to take on the school run, and only art materials or photography equipment to carry around town, these "urban workhorses" - as they were described to me by artist-owner Bruce Everard - have become the perfect city vehicle. Everard, who bought the car with his artist partner Sarah Cooper, says: "We wanted to buy a van, but decided against it because we'd always end up moving houses for people." Photographer Barry Cawston, along with workmates Al Deane and Rob Sara, bought one cab and have since added a second to their collection. "We use the 2.2-litre to do things around London. The other one, a 2.5-litre, is better when one of us goes off on a job out of London, say a trip up to Newcastle."Newcastle is a bit too far for Everard and Cooper, who use their cab mostly in London: "It's quite relaxing to drive in the city. It has an amazing turning circle, but it's slow and noisy. We knew when we bought it that it wasn't an out-of-town car. We've driven it to Devon and to Dungeness, but it's not a car to go places in a hurry. We've got eight people down to Pooh Corner in Kent to play poohsticks, and we took a picnic. However, it rained and we all ended up having the picnic in the back in the middle of a field." Cawston and company do the same with their cabs: "We suddenly realised that we could get 12 people in the two cabs and go off. We went on a trip yesterday to Camber Sands. The trip becomes a joy, a completely social experience which puts everyone in a good mood."All the owners seem to have become very attached to their taxis. Cooper and Everard have christened theirs Prune: "It's something about it being black and ugly. It just has more personality than your average car. But you treat it like you would a cherished object; you speak to it."Someone else who I'm sure speaks to hers is Brit abroad Lucia Stewart, who lives in a small village called Montolieu in the south-west of France, a centre of books that has become the French equivalent of our own Hay-on-Wye. "I can't sing its praises enough," she says of the car, hardly catching her breath for the excitement talking about it brings her. "It is terribly strong in  joie de vivre and a huge source of pleasure. I bought it in London primarily for the adventure of having a London cab, with a view to driving it to France where I had a writer's retreat. The retreat's now in full swing and the cab's a major part of that. Now I also use the cab for the food tours of the region we've started to do. It's cool in the heat, and there's nothing nicer than going to a vineyard with a few people in the back and wine-tasting in style. We also go to visit cheesemakers and markets in it, and as most of my visitors are currently Americans, they love it." Like the other owners, Lucia uses hers for picnics. "We'd stop in a field and have a picnic. One farmer drove his tractor right round us because he didn't want to disturb our meal."Using the cab has brought Lucia's two businesses lots of free adverts in the form of the acres of local publicity she's had about it, and the fact that the side panels that previously carried advertising have now been covered with blackboard paint and carry advertisements for her many activities.But it isn't only the local press who are into the cab. "It was parked in the village in front of the caf&eacute;, and we eventually heard that at night all the village lads were sitting in it and smoking away." And what about repairs in France? "All I've ever had to do is buy a new bumper for it. Mann &amp; Overton &#91;suppliers of cabs and their parts&#93; are brilliant. It got knocked into a tree and they sent me the replacement part directly to France. Another time we were bumping up a lane when it burst a hole in the tank. The farmers plugged the hole with a matchstick or something and it continued just fine. That's the kind of car it is, a working vehicle."The last word on what driving a cab can do for you should go to someone who lives and uses it in London. Back to Cawston: "You end up driving a bit like a cabbie. You tend to have your window down and your elbow resting on the side there, and somehow you seem to get to know all the back roads just by assuming this persona."Top tips: how to buy a taxiPrices range from &#163;800 to &#163;8,000 for second-hand cabs. Dealers include Nationwide Taxi Sales, Three Colts Lane, E2 (0171 729 8046) and North Eastern Motors, Arch 79, Dunbridge St, E2 (0171 739 4043), both in London.FX4s and Fairways share the same body shape and are the most common. Cheaper spare parts come with Metrocabs (the uglier, squarish ones) as they have Ford engines. Different models come with different engines - Austin, Rover and Nissan are the ones you'll find in Fairways and FX4s. Everyone I spoke to disagreed over which is the most reliable engine, but Rover seemed to come out on top.Most models are quite cheap to repair, and can be done quickly. TXIs are the newest shape, but unless you have about &#163;29,000 to spare, forget it.Check the engine size. Do you want a 2.2, 2.5 or 2.7-litre engine? The bigger you can afford, the faster the cab will go. You should check the state of the doors, because they get the most wear and tear. Make sure the car gets an MOT, and if you're buying it from a garage, make sure that someone other than the garage you're buying from does the MOT.You must keep the roof light turned off; of course, you cannot pick up fares and you must stay out of taxi lanes. Insurance is about &#163;500pa. You'll probably want a second seat installed in the front, and this, along with the extra seatbelt, costs around &#163;100 extra.
"Culture will be the weapon of the 21st century," Fidel Castro told the first Unesco conference on Culture and Development held in Havana in June. It may be the only thing on which the president of the Cuban council of state and council of ministers, and the rightwing US ideologues who blockade his country agree.The Unesco conference had a level of debate rarely heard in investor-friendly conferences back home. Among the delegates from 43 countries, discussion of the net was generally about how it was a tool of Anglo-centric neo-liberal globalisation. As one delegate noted: 20% of the world's cultures face extinction due to global audio-visual culture. The state is weakening and national/regional identities are under threat. The problem of critical selection from the flood of data is not just a problem of the poor, but all net users.Nevertheless, there was also a prevailing feeling of "we can't prevent the net, so we must learn to use it". Globalisation itself is not necessarily a bad thing (ask any Marxist), but what kind of globalisation, and for who?"Internet?" said Castro in a brief, unscheduled speech. "Yes, we can use it - to tell the 80% of Americans online that they have to stop and realise the Earth is on the edge of an abyss."But as only 2% of Latin America has the net, we must invent something else, he added. "In the revolution we used our loudspeakers as much as our weapons. If peasants can't read or write, how can we reach them?"I was in Cuba with members of the Ponton European Media Art Lab, a German organisation, to give a workshop at the conference and meet culture representatives to discuss using Ponton's Kulturserver software, a non-profit project, as a front-end to a proposed national   open-access network for artists and institutions.For one hot, exhausting week, during which the five-month drought that had reduced water supply to an hour a day in Havana finally broke, cultural representatives from ministers to techies met by day at the surprisingly sophisticated and entrepreneurial national multimedia centre (CEISIC).Evenings were split between organised displays of folkloristic and democratised "high" culture, and extra- curricula seafront rum drinking. All proved useful and valid aids to understanding this opinion-polarising society, and its desire to take part in the new, technological revolution.Another theme of the Unesco conference was the role greater unity and stronger regional identity can play in countering the tide of Anglo/neo-liberal culture, and Ponton believes Kulturserver is just the product to support that role. It strengthens local, national and regional identity by offering individuals and groups a simple, cheap means of   exchanging art, ideas and culture, at the same time creating a coherent navigation system for accessing the chaotic mass of information on the internet."A lot of people here are afraid the net will increase propaganda," Ponton director Benjamin Heidersberger said at the workshop. "The net is open and content becomes transparent, but that's a two-way thing. You can talk back, show the world what your culture is. It's hard to control; there's always a way round ideological barriers so if you put something on the net, no one can control the flow. It's very fair."Despite the economic blockade and crisis, Cuba is perhaps the major Caribbean networking nation, and has a sizeable user community. By Western "one computer per desk" standards, Cuba is a hopeless failure, and only a tiny percentage of the population have a PC at home.And yet more than a decade ago the Cuban Youth Computer Clubs established TinoRed with Castro's explicit support. Tino (a Cuban cartoon character and logo) Red (network) operates more than   150 walk-in computer centres throughout the country for people to learn the basics of computing, telecommunications, and desktop publishing. So far more than 200,000 have taken the opportunity.And freedom of access? As with any transitional system, there are mixed signals. A proclamation guaranteeing the internet for all Cubans (one day) in October 1996, shortly after Cuba had been granted its class B licence to join the internet, was quietly withdrawn soon after. There's still no national policy, despite an inter-ministerial policy group being established in 1998 on the internet.Talk is now of "limited access to true universality", and alternative models for wiring Cuba that serve the whole population, not just   those with cash. Distrust of dollar ownership (only legal since 1994) is still such that if you've got the $150 a month for a private net connection, you're automatically suspect (and denied)."You can find Zapatista news or hardcore pornography. But that's the diversity of life, right?" says Abelardo Mena, curator of the National Museum of Havana and co-ordinator of Rayuel@, a non profit project for the promotion of the Cuban and Latin American arts and culture. "The net means the complexities of the real world converted to bytes. And nobody, nobody, can stop that move."Even so, "we are an underdeveloped country which fights every day just to feed and cloth itself. Internet means nothing to the major ity of the people," adds Mena. And the intellectuals, he says, still find accessing the internet "more difficult than talking to Bill Clinton"."Cuba is so isolated, in every sense, that it is really important to become an equal member of an international network," says Klaas Glenewinkel, editor-in-chief of Kulturserver. "They can put up as many .cu sites as they like, they will still be perceived as 'official'. It's important to elevate them from this to a new level. That is what they need and want: a common platform."Reflecting their belief that, contrary to much content on the internet, it's local culture that has most resonance and importance to people, Ponton atwww.ponton-hamburg.deis building an international, decentralised network of regional cultures, side-by-side with each other and equal in importance. Kulturserver Cuba would offer Cuban nationals at home and abroad, foreign friends and critics a neutral space to meet, access and discuss contemporary Cuban culture."I think the Kulturserver proposal is great, because   they are offering an incredible technological support, and the opportunity to work with and share a 'European' way of making things: seriously, every day, and that's an incredibly necessary 'school' for Latin and Cuban 'souls," said Abelardo Mena. He's keen to work with Ponton and believes it is the "right way to open our culture to the European and international public," that it will support the increasing wave of German tourism to Cuba - all with very important economic consequences.Carlos Alberto Mas Zabala, deputy director of the Instituto del Libro Cubana, is supporting Kulturserver and has offered space for a multimedia studio/access point in his beautiful institute in Unesco-restored Old Havana.   He loves the idea of being able to broadcast Cuban ideas and culture worldwide, as an antidote to anti-Cuban rhetoric. He'd also like to use it as an interface to a national literature network designed to side-step the country's chronic shortage of paper.Given the current siege mentality, artists are unlikely to be offered unlimited access to the net via Kulturserver unless sanctioned by their ministries. As the coordinator general of ICAIC (the Cuban film institute) told Ponton: "Internet will be granted to the masses, but slowly and in step with a retreat from aggression by Cuba's enemies, otherwise, why give them the ammunition?""We have to be diplomatic," said Glenewinkel. "Kulturserver Cuba is great even if   the ministries act as filters. We could be idealistic and immovable, or we can accept there will be give and take. We're not keen, but we also understand the unique situation Cuba is in."Another sticking point is the cost of maintenance and technical support, localisation and installation - "these are not huge costs", says Glenewinkel, "but costs to us all the same, and we want Cuba to take responsibility and show a sense of ownership by paying... something. We appreciate hard currency is in short supply, and we'll take anything reasonable - the use of an apartment, even a few cases of rum! But it's important - for them as well as us - that something exchanges hands as a show of commitment."How to go global but stay localIt has expanded to nearly 1,050 homepages - a doubling in the last six months - and includes servers for Hamburg and Berlin. Lithuania, Iceland - and since the Havana conference, Egypt and Kosovo - are considering joining.Kulturserver would be perfect for Cuba's low-cost networking philosophy, and Ponton expects the official go-ahead any day now. The Kulturserver dream is to establish communities world-wide, to transfer the technology to developing countries to stimulate self-help, to help create markets and to aggregate content.In Germany, disintermediation - cutting out the middleman - is a popular selling point of artists' agents, distributors, publishers and galleries, offering a new channel for the unrepresented, unsigned, and just plain obscure.But can Cuba tolerate disintermediation of its government institutions?High-tech CubaThe Cuban government has already taken steps to increase foreign trade with customers who pay in hard currency, particularly targeting mining, tourism, biotechnology, and informatics.GDP that fell by 35% between 1989 and1994 - when rioting marked the low point - has grown every year since. Cuba has introduced the dollar and stabilised it against the peso, introduced private enterprise, limited privatisation, and still maintained its enviable education and health achievements.Today, Cuba's biotechnology industry competes in the world market, with more than 160 products developed by 53 research centres, ranging from genetically engineered disease-resistant crop seeds, to a vaccine for hepatitis B.The level of Cuban tourism is now greater than it was at its height in pre-revolutionary Cuba (with up to 2m visitors expected next year).The collapse of real socialism and the increased embargo since 1990 has meant the loss of 85% of Cuba's supplies, especially specialised products like film stock and music instruments, said Cuban Culture Minister Abel Prieto. But the country continues to finance culture as a priority, recognising that it essential to its spiritual/cultural needs, not simply an ornament. The mechanism of funding involves using part of the profits of the sale of art works for re-investment. The sale is based on capitalism but the distribution of income on socialism - what has been dubbed 'Market-Leninism'.Within the prioritised informatics sector, the national policy is to make Cuba a centre for software engineering and development, which requires only modest capital investment.The prizes: hard currency income, employment for an oversupply of university graduates, technology transfer into Cuba, international visibility, and applications to other sectors of the economy. Its most notable achievement is perhaps its centre for virus research and data protection that has identified and documented more than 10,000 viruses and made it Unesco's reference centre for the region.
Are computers important to your work?Yes. My handwriting and spelling are terrible so when I write reviews, programs like Microsoft Word are simple and quick to use. In regard to music composition I can try different configurations of instruments and experiment with arrangements. You can do more quicker. Computer systems can be seen as an extension of certain aspects of (the) mind. However, re the application of computers in the creation of music there is still a tendency (with the guileless) to place too much emphasis on linear, logical unambiguous thought processes. In an attempt to avoid this pitfall, and therefore, aesthetically speaking, to build compositions vertically, they revert to cut and paste techniques and end up making mini post-modern collages. Essentially I would say that computers do not have and could never have any direct influence on the fundamental aesthetic problems involved with the creation of music. They can only have a bearing on how it is processed and presented.What do you use the machine for?OK! OK! Ignore the above, I play games on it.Any particular favourite software?I think I'll be enjoying MP3.Any favourite websites?I have taken a bit of a shine to various medical websites. It's the same experience as the old medical dictionaries. You end up thinking that you've got all the diseases on display.What machine(s) do you use?Both - the Apple Mac for Music (Audio Logic) and design and the PC for everything else.Do you use your own name when surfing?No because if I told them I was Francis Ford Coppola, people would hassle me with endless requests to read their scripts.How long have you been known to spend at your computer?18 hours quite a few years ago (you know you're being stupid but you can't stop).Are you a geek?Superficially I'm a handsome, debonair and carefree bass player, but inside I'm 101% pure geek. It's something to do with adolescence and arrested development.Should/can the internet be regulated in any way?This is the same as asking should society be regulated. Because surely the internet is no more than an extension and manifestation of society. It's like the answer to how far should we trust computers and technology is: How far can we trust ourselves?Has email revived the art of letter writing?No, it has revived the art of penfriends!!
One of the UK's largest charities, theRoyal National Institute for the Blind, is to create its own multi-million pound technology company to produce specially-adapted mobile phones and other communications devices.RNIB digital access team manager Steven Tyler says the charity has been growing increasingly frustrated with the failure of the technology industry to design products which can be used easily by disabled people, including the UK's 1.5m blind and visually impaired.The institute already produces 600 products on a small scale from white canes to household appliances, but has never attempted anything this ambitious.The new firm, to be called Distech, will begin by designing, manufacturing and marketing mobile phones with the help of an outside partner, likely to be either Nokia or Ericsson - both firms are due to submit formal bids in the next three to four weeks. The first prototypes should be on the market by January 2000.The phones will offer features such as large screen type, contrast control, a voice output so blind users can hear what is written on-screen and voice-activated controls. They will also be compatible with the emerging Wireless Application Protocol   (WAP), a stripped-down text-version of internet access which will allow mobile phones to carry out interactive tasks such as consulting bank accounts, buying stocks or receiving traffic directions.Tyler says: "Mobile phone manufacturers seem the most stubborn to make their products accessible, partly because they are in a constant race to get the next product out ahead of the competition."Our worry is that WAP-based systems to be launched this autumn, which will allow mobile phones to be able to access cash machines or anything else that is WAP-enabled, will not translate into opportunities for everybody because not enough attention is given to generic access."Tyler says that &#163;2.5m will be invested in the venture, with the RNIB putting in around &#163;250,000. The rest is to be raised from venture capitalists. The phones will bear the brand of whichever private sector partner is selected and will be priced similarly to other new models."The intention is that mainstream mobile phone outlets will carry the new phones alongside existing lines which will make them available not only to blind people but also to people with no sight problems who may prefer their ease of use ."We are going to prove   that accessibility makes good business sense. If it is universally designed, it is good for anyone," Tyler says. People who may the find the new phones easier to use include those who often have to talk while their hands are busy with another task, those using the phone in different light conditions and anyone who prefers voice-activated control.Distech will follow its mobile phones with a range of accessible digital radios and television sets. Digital radio, or digital audio broadcasting, is a new system which can also offer on-screen information. The first in-car digital radios are appearing this summer, with home products and personal computer adapters due to be launched later this year.Tyler says this technology is currently entirely inaccessible to blind people, which is ironic as many of them rely on radio as a key source of information and entertainment.In a separate initiative, the RNIB last week launched a free video, Web Sites That Work, explaining   how corporate and government web site designers should build accessibility for the disabled into their sites. It recommends, for example, that sites should use text tags alongside images so blind people using speech or Braille converters can know what is depicted; sites should be easy to navigate; alternatives should be provided to areas which use scripts or browser plug-ins; and audio messages should be captioned for deaf people.Among sites singled out for criticism in the video were Marks and Spencer, Channel 4 and 10 Downing Street, although the institute said these and other organisations cited had now accepted their sites should change .Singled out for praise were theCommunity Justice National Training Organisation; Hants Web, the site ofHampshire County Council; and King's College London atwww.kcl.ac.uk.Tyler says that ultimately, accessibility and universal design is a straightforward business issue: if disabled people cannot access the web, companies are missing out on several million potential customers.&#149; The RNIB video, Web Sites That Work, can be obtained from Julie Howell, telephone 0171 391 2191
"How can you play with crap cards like that?" asks "Aces" from Indian Wells, after witnessing my awful starting hand develop into a big winner.And he was right. If "Aces" were sitting next to me at home or in a real casino, I would feel slightly embarrassed to win with such terrible cards. But he's 6,000 miles away from me as we play poker over the net for real dollars (trywww.planetpoker.comorwww.deltacasino.com).Also in the game - "Bobby33" from Montana, "Swede" from Stockholm (great sense of humour in Sweden), MaryJane from Baltimore and five others   from various points of the globe, mainly West.Poker is my game, or at least I like to think so, and I've lost thousands of pounds playing it to prove just how skilful I am. Now, when the poker rooms of my local casinos are closed and when my Switch card starts emitting a high-pitched whining noise I can turn to the net, withdraw some e-dollars from my credit card and carry on gambling.Not that I'm addicted or anything (email:info@ gambleranonymous.co.uk), but if I were, the net would pose me some problems. Among the 5,000 or so gambling sites (seewww.gamblinglinks.comfor a comprehensive list) there are some 400 virtual casinos, a number growing by more than 10 per month.God knows how much money they're generating, but here's a clue from one of the many gaming software companies based in Canada (which is still undecided on the issue of internet gambling after two years of debate).The company, Go-Call of Ontario, provides virtual blackjack, craps, roulette and slot machines to subsidiaries operating through servers in the Caribbean (strangely reminiscent of sex-chat lines). The company generated more than $2m in January this year - not a fortune, but more than double what it made the previous month.Casino games aren't the only types of gambling on offer. The British bookmakers have been on the web for quite some time, and those offering "spread betting"are particularly keen to promote their sites.If you're a city trader (where spread betting originated), following the fortunes and changing prices of your selections over the web makes the days, and the pounds, fly by.So, as Larry said to Dustin, "Is it safe?" Well, it is and it isn't. You'll have to send your credit card number over the internet if you want to play for real dollars at the online casinos. It's as safe as any   form of e-commerce - and you can read a hundred other articles to find the answer to that argument.Some of the foreign sites will accept cheques and/or bankers drafts, but you'll end up paying plenty for the transactions. The British bookmakers will take cheques or Switch/Delta cards depending on the type of account you hold.But are the games fixed?    The poker games certainly could be, and that discussion has been running for years on my favourite newsgroup rec.gambling.pokerIt would be very easy for one person to play as two players in the same game - or even two friends with mobile phones or an internet chat programme to relay information.As for the other types of games, it would be so easy to fix them that it is undoubtedly going on somewhere. But, like real casinos, the virtual ones seem to be doing very nicely thank you without having to resort to foul play.Let's face it: most gamblers know they're going to lose, but they gamble anyway. You should regard it as you do any form of entertainment:   possibly costly but enjoyable.There are also plenty of gambling sites which use "fun"money. But back to the game..."Big Bertha" bets $10 and I raise "her" (who knows what she/he is - there seem to be more women playing poker on the web than in real life) another $10.By the end I've still got exactly what I started with - a handful of dreams. So here goes nothing: I try to bluff her with another $20. I've obviously fooled her so completely that she calls, and wins the pot of $150. How delightful! I've lost $70 in 70 seconds without even moving from my chair. Thank God I don't have an ISDN connection. I could lose even quicker.This small setback doesn't put me off in the least, but I have gone off internet poker for the simple reason that it's too boring.It's quite easy to win but you don't get the tiniest fraction of the feeling of playing real people face-to-face, and enjoying the banter and bullshit that goes with it.And the worst thing is I didn't even feel bad when I lost money over the internet. Now that is scary.&#149; David Wood is a freelance journalist and gambler.
