Hey there, it's Wednesday! EA announced a new Sim City last night, so I'm happy.
It has to be the worst kept secret in city simulation development, but now EA has finally made an official announcement: Sim City is returning. As rumoured for several weeks, the town creation classic will be hitting PCs in 2013, and it seems the name will simply be Sim City rather than Sim City 5, suggesting something of a reboot for the series which revolutionalised gaming on its arrival in 1989.So what can we expect? A major graphical overhaul, of course. Development duties are being undertaken by the game's original creator, Maxis, using the proprietary GlassBox engine. The new tech will apparently allow cities to be personalised in intricate detail;a feature on the game in a German magazinerecently suggested that players would be able to individually customise every building – and would even be able to spy on inhabitants as they are personally affected by boom or bust developments. At the very least, you'll be able to craft highly themed developments going for sleek financial mega cities or smoke-belching industrial zones.From the trailer released by EA, there certainly seems to be a wealth of intricate detail, with a realistic sports arena (showing Monster Truck events), power stations and skyscrapers crowding the skyline. It looks like you'll even be able to watch as your buildings are constructed by tiny workmen.EA has also mentioned that the game will include a multiplayer mode in which cities will stand side by side in interconnected regions. Participants will need to work together to develop renewable resources and deal with climate change, or compete greedily for resources and to hell with Mother Earth.Other than that, it looks like the structure will be familiar, with players taking on the role of mayor, attempting to guide his or her town to economic and cultural success. Apparently, however, the interface is going to be re-worked so that both newcomers and veterans will be able to hop straight in.Although Sim City has been a regular fixture on EA's release schedules over the last twenty years, the last major PC iteration was almost ten years ago; the more mainstream Sims franchise has taken a lot of the attention. However, a new Sim City title that offers slick visuals and a high level of customisation, as well as multiplayer and social elements, is bound to re-awaken interest in this classic of sand box gaming.
What is Anonymous?Anonymous is a group of online "hacktivists" – individuals from around the world who engage in hacking attacks and other actions in the support of various causes, including targeting private security firms, Middle Eastern regimes, and the Church of Scientology. It's a loose collective of individuals with differing degrees of involvement: a core of active people with relatively sophisticated hacking skills, surrounded by others with limited knowledge or willingness to hack, and some who only participate in legal campaigns.What is LulzSec?LulzSec, short for Lulz Security, was a smaller and more organised offshoot of Anonymous who engaged in a series of attacks through 2011. Several individuals in Britain and Ireland were arrested as alleged members of the group, and its activities have subsequently waned.What sites were targeted?Anonymous rose to prominence after a string of "denial of service" attacks – a simple hack which temporarily takes websites offline – after the release of diplomatic cables by WikiLeaks. It targeted politicians who had denounced the leaks, the US department of justice website, Visa and Mastercard for blocking WikiLeaks' payment streams, and others. The group had previously been better known for online pranks and mischief-making, particularly based from the internet bulletin board site 4chan.LulzSec took actions further, gaining access to servers of several large security companies and some publishers – including News International. Some details from these hacks were published online, while others, including an alleged 4GB of emails from the Sun, never materialised.Anonymous and LulzSec were accused of being responsible for the theft of tens of thousands of credit card details from the Sony PlayStation network, though this was vehemently denied by prominent members of both groups.In December Anonymous obtained a huge cache of emails from private intelligence provider Stratfor, which are currently being published via WikiLeaks. A hacker allegedly responsible for this attack is among the latest arrests.How were the individuals caught?If the information contained in unsealed indictments, and leaked in advance by US government officials, proves to be reliable, details on alleged members of the groups were revealed by one of LulzSec's most prominent members, known as Sabu. Often referred to as the leader of the group, Sabu was known to be older than many members – in his 30s – and a New York resident. He has been named in a US indictment as Hector Xavier Monsegur, and pleaded guilty to several hacking-related charges in August 2011. Since then, he has regularly been tweeting in support of Anonymous and related hacking groups, as well as being a frequent prescence in their chat channels.Is this the end for Anonymous?There is little doubt the arrests, or further charges against, suspected high-profile members comes as a blow. An even greater problem for a group constantly plagued with mistrust that individuals are working for the "Feds" is the suggestion that such a high-profile member has turned over evidence against other members.The group, however, operates loosely, with different alliances and friendships between members. The public chat channel used by the group had more than 500 people online for much of the day, with many venting frustration, vowing to continue or threatening revenge. The group has been written off before, only to emerge with a  new and audacious hacking attack – though never after so dramatic a sequence of events.
He was the self-taught "elite hacker" behind devastating attacks on the US Senate, the Zimbabwean government and a string of enemies in between.From the New York apartment block he shared with his two children, 28-year-old Hector Xavier Monsegur led an audacious double life as the internet activist "Sabu" – something of a celebrity in the world of hackers.But Monsegur was finally unmasked on Tuesday after it emerged that he had pleaded guilty to computer hacking charges and had acted as an informant for the FBI since August 2011, just as theinternational crackdown on the notorious Anonymous hacker collective gathered pace.Monsegur was deeply involved in attacks on behalf of WikiLeaks in December 2010, according to court papers unsealed in New York on Tuesday.The hacker acted as a "rooter", identifying weak spots in the websites of multinational firms including Visa, MasterCard and PayPal which his Anonymous group of "hacktivists" would then attempt to exploit.The 27-page indictment of Monsegur reads like a hall of fame of online sabotage. According to the FBI, Sabu was intimately involved in the WikiLeaks "Operation Payback" attacks that managed to steal documents from the Yemen and Zimbabwe governments and deface the website of the Tunisian prime minister.Sabu was always quick to claim responsibility for the attacks, aiming to taunt law enforcement bodies and gain respect from his peers. And although rumours of his identity began to circulate in the hacker community, his precise details remained unknown.On 7 June last year, the act was over. FBI officials found Monsegur at his Manhattan apartment. According to the US media, the expert hacker had been foiled by his own carelessness. The FBI discovered that he had logged into an internet chatroom from his own internet address – a schoolboy error of computer hacking.Unknown to his fellow hackers, Monsegur quietly pleaded guilty to 12 charges related to computer interception on 15 August last year. And, threatened with 124 years in prison, he agreed to become an FBI informant. The FBI took his own battered laptop and replaced it with their own – which they monitored around the clock.Online, he maintained his bravura attitude. "Next thing you'll say is I work for the CIA and I'm a blackop," hesnappedat a Guardian inquiry on Twitter after the Sun's website was hacked in July."Am I snitch/informant? Lets be real – I don't know any identities of anyone in my crew," said an online post attributed to Monsegur in October last year – weeks after he was "flipped" by US authorities. "And the last thing I'd ever do is take down my own people. I am a grown ass man I can handle my own issues. I've been to jail before – I don't fear it. In fact there is very little I am afraid of especially these days."The post was a response to other hackers who were increasingly accusing Sabu of being a "media whore" and an informant. The rumours were rife – little more than 14 hours after he avoided imprisonment by assisting the US government, one group claimed Sabu was a "Chinese infiltrator"."Lately I've been chilling; enjoying time off to focus on my personal life. I'm not tied to this the rest of my life," said the post linked to Sabu's Twitter account. "I've already made my impact. If I disappear now or get knocked, its already too late … Sadly people want to exonerate themselves from their responsibility – like emailing the feds for immunity."Monsegur described himself in the post as a professional security researcher, but the computer genius had been unemployed since the closure of filesharing giant LimeWire, according to US authorities who spoke to Fox News.The broadcaster cited Monsegur's handlers, who described him as an anti-government, anti-capitalist hacker who had a political edge. They said his now-infamous online moniker had been taken from a professional wrestler born on nearby Staten Island, known as Sabu the Elephant Boy.The hacker clearly drew inspiration from the New York fighter. He routinely responded aggressively to police, journalists and others on social networking websites. "I don't give a fuck what anyone thinks, I also don't give a fuck if you have a beef with me," saida postattributed to him on the Pastebin website. "The end result is always going to be: You. Can. Not. Stop. Me. Deal with it."The FBI handlers described Monsegur as brilliant but lazy. According to Fox News, US authorities found him selling stolen credit card details to others on Facebook.It is not clear how lucrative Monsegur's brief reign of terror was. But the downfall of Sabu will continue to send reverberations through online hacker collectives for a long time to come.
The FBI turned a computer hacker to build its case against a group of people it alleges are responsible for a string of audacious attacks that captured the personal details of more than one million people, US court documents have revealed.They reveal an astonishing degree of co-operation between the FBI and its source, who gave the bureau details of other hackers and advance notice of attacks – which the FBI then apparently allowed to happen. The FBI even provided its own servers for members of hacking collectives to use.The indictment sheets detail charges against five men alleged to be principal members of the hacking groups Anonymous and Lulzsec. The source has been indicated to be Hector Xavier Monsegur, known as 'Sabu', one of the group's most visible members and often referred to as the group's leader.Monsegur was arrested by US authorities on 7 June 2011, according to his charge document, and from this point is not described as a member of Anonymous or Lulzsec. By August 2011 he had pleaded guilty to twelve charges relating to computer hacking.His online avatar, Sabu, has subsequently remained active on Twitter and elsewhere, posting a final update less than 24 hours before the latest spate of arrests. Monsegur's arrest and guilty pleas have been kept secret until today, as he is said to have provided information against other arrested individuals.The crimes to which Monsegur has lodged a guilty plea carry a maximum jail sentence in excess of 124 years. Such sentences are often mitigated if offenders co-operate with authorities after their arrest.Another charge sheet, against Donncha O'Cearrbhaill, 19, from Ireland, sets out how Sabu's cooperation was central in building the FBI allegations. O'Cearrbhaill, is accused of two offences relating to intercepting and recording a conference call between the FBI and the UK's Serious and Organised Crime Agency, which was subsequently posted online in February.The indictment, written by the investigating FBI officer, details how Sabu, referred to as 'CW', communicated with other hackers "acting under the direction of the FBI". From information taken from internet chat logs "recorded by the FBI with the CW's consent", the document relating to O'Cearrbhaill recounts an online conversation between the informant and another individual, allegedly the defendant, using the nickname "anonsacco".In the first conversation, on 14 January 2012, anonsacco gets in touch asking Sabu for some technical help with a hack."Hi mate. Could I ask you for help? I need to intercept a conference call which would be a very good leak … If you could help me I am happy to leak the call to you solely. I guarantee it will be of interest!!"The FBI agent confirms the conference call under question did indeed take place, and believed information on how to gain access had been gleaned from a previous email hack of the Irish police force, the Garda.Two weeks later, anonsacco got in touch with Sabu again through private chat. "Hey mate. Would you like a recording of a call between SOCA and the FBI regarding anonymous and lulzsec?" he said. "I think we need to hype it up. Let the feds think we have been recording their calls."Sabu's responses are not recorded, but the indictment says he agreed to receive the file, which was then checked by the FBI and found to indeed be a recording of the conference call. Five days later, the recording was posted online.The indictment later details an earlier conversation with Sabu in which "palladium", allegedly another identity used by O'Cearrbhaill, is asked to corrobrate his identity. Palladium confirms details about his internet address and services he used to anonymise himself.If extradited and convicted, O'Cearrbhaill faces up to15 years in prison.The logs also detail Sabu's astonishing involvement in the hacking attack on the security company Stratfor, of which US citizen Jeremy Hammond is accused.A cache of more than 5m emails taken from an attack on the company's servers in December 2011 is currently being published by WikiLeaks, but the indictment documents reveal that straight after the attack, Sabu offered an FBI-owned server to store the cache – which was quickly accepted."btw I started unpacking on [CW-1]'s new server," an online identity alleged to be Hammond notes.This not only gave the FBI access to review or even potentially amend the cache, but also an inside track on Anonymous' discussions on how to use the documents, and potentially – though not revealed within the files unsealed to date – conversations between Anonymous and WikiLeaks.The US department of justice has convened a grand jury investigation into WikiLeaks, based in Virginia. If through Sabu or information he had gleaned from other Anons the US could glean any evidence to tie Julian Assange to hacking attacks on US soil, such as Stratfor, the case for extradition would be substantially strengthened.The extent of communication between WikiLeaks and Anonymous regarding the Stratfor leak is currently unknown.Throughout the logs detailed in the indictments published to date, the informer talks to other hackers in the room, at one stage even proposing publishing private password details: "Wanna release that list of 92% cracked stratfor hashes?" he asks. "Hrm, your call..." the defendent replies. "I'd err on the side of no, so that way we can more fully exploit."Sabu also provided detailed information to authorities carrying out physical surveillance on Hammond prior to his arrest, giving details of login and logout times of various identities while FBI agents tracked internet use, use of TOR – a service which anonymises internet connections – and other activity at Hammond's addresss alongside his physical movements from 28 February 2012.Sabu's online persona has been silent since the legal files have been unsealed, but had continued unabated until shortly before, with recent tweets angrily denouncing the federal government."The feds at this moment are scouring our lives without warrants. Without judges approval. This needs to change. Asap," said one sent within the last day. "The federal government is run by a bunch of fucking cowards. Don't give in to these people. Fight back. Stay strong," said another shortly afterwardsHis final tweet, sent less than 4 hours later, contained the last words of Marxist revolutionary Rosa Luxemburg. They translate as: "The revolution says I am, I was, I will be."
Spotify users have spent 1,500 years inside apps within its desktop application since the start of December, the company has announced.That's just over 13.1m hours, which with 10m active Spotify users, means around 1.3 hours per user. Sten Garmark, Spotify's director of platform, revealed the figures at the Music Apps: Beyond the Hype conference in London.He also gave some numbers for specific apps on the platform. In February, users of the SoundDrop application – which helps people create virtual rooms to listen to collaborative playlists – listened to 15m songs together.Moodagent is generating more than 3.5m playlists a week with its Spotify app, while users of TuneWiki's Spotify app have edited or synchronised more than 100k songs in its lyrics "wiki", so other users can see the words to songs displayed as they play."Everyone has their individual idea for what Spotify should do next, which is why we love music apps," said Garmark, speaking to The Guardian in advance of the event."They are important so we can cater to all those needs. And since people are asking us to provide these features, when we do, music will be more valuable to them. They will be more likely to pay, and that makes more money for artists."Spotify and its streaming-music rivals have faced regular questions in recent months about how much money artists are making from streams of their music.Spotify launched its applications platform in late November 2011. The theory – and the reason Garmark is talking about engagement stats for the first wave of apps – is that these apps will help people discover and play more music, and thus start to increase the payouts for artists."We have to turn ourselves into the OS of music," says Garmark. "We are in the middle of a transformation from being an app ourselves to being a platform.Spotify has also been opening up its catalogue to mobile app developers, having launched its CocoaLibspotify API for iOS in August 2011. One of the first iPhone apps to launch was SpotOn Radio, a personalised radio app that creates playlists based on artists. A bit like…"Users are telling us it's like Pandora but better," says Garmark. "And here's the interesting thing: they just killed us on the Swedish App Store. They passed us and went to number six in the chart. That might not seem like an obvious success for us, but it is."So, an iPhone app built on Spotify's API is now more popular than the main Spotify app – but since SpotOn Radio requires users to be paying for Spotify, this isn't a problem for the company.A number of startups and media companies – including The Guardian – jumped on board Spotify's desktop apps platform when it went live. The next wave of apps may come from another source though: music labels."It's a really interesting platform for artists and labels to really enhance the experience around the music," says Garmark."In this digital age of music, the experience in some ways got reduced to just a track or a playlist. But with these apps, it can start getting back to the old way of immersing yourself in the album cover, or reading about the music while listening to it. And artists can use it to connect with their audience."At the Music Apps event, Garmark showed a sneak peek of two new Spotify apps – as in apps for Spotify's desktop platform – that focus on artists.The Complete Collection shows digitised CD booklets to accompany albums by the likes of 50 Cent, Lionel Richie and Keane, while The Legacy Of brings in biographies, photos and playlists for artists including Bob Dylan.The apps are built using standard HTML5 technology, but Spotify is continuing to carefully manage the approval process."We have tremendous interest in the app platform, so we have built a team and are scaling it up to manage the onslaught of developers who want to work with us," says Garmark."It's a curated platform: we want to make sure the content is great, so we're not just letting anyone release anything. We're working with them to make sure it's good. We don't want our users to have crappy experiences with apps."For now, Spotify isn't announcing any news on when its apps platform will move to its own mobile applications, nor is it providing an update on any plans for app developers to share in advertising or subscription revenues.This is likely to remain a question mark for a number of developers and startups, but for labels making their own Spotify apps, the reward will come in more streams of their artists' music – meaning better payouts, but also increasing the value of Spotify itself, which the four major labels and independent agency Merlin have minority stakes in.
Adele is closing in on 20m sales of her album 21, but the British singer has also been a big hit on Apple and Google's app stores.Theofficial Adele apphas been downloaded more than 1.5m times on iPhone and Android, according to David Emery, head of marketing at Beggars Group, the parent company of Adele's label XL Recordings.He announced the milestone at the Music Apps: Beyond the Hype conference in London. "It's just going gangbusters, especially on Android," says Emery.The app was released for iPhone in September 2011, and then Android in mid-February 2012. XL used the Mobile Roadie platform to create both versions."Android is now overtaking the iPhone version for downloads," says Emery, citing promotion on the homepage of Google's Android Market as the key reason. "They're about half and half, but the Android one has been out for less than a month."In terms of features, Adele's app is fairly standard – news, photos, videos, song previews and tour dates, as well as a social section for comments and photo postings.Emery says the aim was less about selling more music and tickets, than to provide "another communication platform" for Adele's fans, sitting alongside her own website, Facebook and Twitter.The social aspect has been incredibly popular: there's a whole set of people that use the app on an hourly basis," says Emery, citing stats from the app's leaderboard, which ranks fans according to their in-app activity."The top person has 386,000 points, and they've made 6,600 comments and 6,540 fan-wall posts. And the next person down has made almost 13,000 wall posts! It's not a big surprise though, because we've seen the same levels of engagement on Adele's website forums."Are there lessons to be learned from Adele's 1.5m downloads for other artists, though? The most obvious reason why the app is so popular is the phenomenal success of Adele herself, at a scale that very few artists can hope to repeat."I have no idea what this means for artist apps more generally, as it's such an odd outlier," says Emery. "What it does say is that if you have a mainstream artist or brand and get coverage on these stores, it can really take off."The Adele app uses the Mobile Roadie apps development platformHe admits that when it comes to the rest of Beggars' roster of independent artists, the label group takes a pragmatic approach when deciding whether to invest in an app: if a band isn't at a certain scale, it may be more sensible to focus on their existing website and social media presence."We're working very hard on making our artist websites more mobile-friendly though," says Emery. "These days, around 10-15% of visitors are coming from mobile devices, including tablets."That's unsurprising: as Bloomberg's mobile boss Oke Okaro explained to Apps Blog earlier in March, any mobile user who finds their way to a brand (or band) from a browser search or a link posted on Twitter or Facebook will pitch up at their website, not their native app.For now, though, Beggars will continue to use Adele's app as part of its wider communication with her fans, bridging the gap between the end of the campaign for 21, and whatever she comes up with next.One thing that isn't a huge focus for the app is selling music, even though the iTunes Store links are in there. "Nobody's retiring off the money we've made selling tracks through Adele's app," says Emery."And when you're talking about an app that's done 1.5m downloads with the biggest-selling artist in quite some time, the fact that they're only making a little bit of money selling tracks tells you this is primarily a communication platform."
We sift through the rumours about Apple's two potential new products, the next version of the iPad, and Apple TV.Chris Cross joins us to look at another new release, the Raspberry Pi – is it a modern version of the BBC Micro?Charles looks back at the big lessons from last week's Mobile World Congress, and talks to EU Commissioner for Justice, Fundamental Rights and Citizenship Viviane Reding about Google and privacy.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
All eyes are on Tim Cook, the new chief executive of Apple, who is expected on Wednesday evening to unveil the third generation of the company's succcessful iPad tablet with a higher-definition screen – and perhaps a "haptic" display that will seem to add texture to objects on the screen when touched.The company, whose gigantic sales of iPhones and computers have driven up its share price to make it the world's most valuable company by market capitalisation, more even than oil company Exxon, is also rumoured to be readying an assault on the "smart TV" market.That would put it into head-on competition with Google, Samsung and Sony, which have also been pushing at television – seen as one of the last bastions where the internet has not yet made a serious impression.The new iPad is expected to further accelerate the uptake of tablets across the board, whose sales are growing by more than 50% a year while those of PCs remain flat worldwide.Tablet use is growing so rapidly that in the last three months of 2011 Apple sold more iPads – 15.4m – than any single vendor of PCs, including the two biggest, HP and Lenovo. Amazon's Kindle Fire and Samsung's Galaxy Tab range are also adding to the growing uptake, according to the research company IDC.The iPad is becoming so pervasive that it has begun to replace textbooks in schools and flight manuals in aircraft cockpits.The new tablet is widely expected to boast a super-high resolution "retina display" screen like that used on the iPhone 4, where the pixel density is so great that Apple says individual pixels cannot be distinguished.So far only Asus's latest Transformer 3 tablet, due to go on sale this summer, has achieved that measure. The focus on the display has led some, including former Apple advertising executive Andrew Miller, toforecastthat it will be called the "iPad HD, not iPad 3".But the invitation from Apple also hints that the new device will offer something extra. "We have something you really have to see. And touch," it reads. That is being seen by analysts as a hint at something beyond just a high-resolution display."Apple never uses words in its invitations without them meaning something," said Carolina Milanesi, smartphones and tablets analyst for the research company Gartner. As she pointed out, the invitation for Apple's previous event in October had a picture of some app icons, a "1" against the iPhone, and the phrase "Let's talk iPhone" – in retrospect, a pun on the planned introduction of the single iPhone 4S, with the Siri voice-driven "assistant" software.Milanesi thinks similar analysis will pay dividends: "Saying you have to 'see' it obviously refers to the retina display. As for 'touch', my first thought was that they have done something to the back of the iPad."But the Guardian believes that the "touch" refers to a technology from Senseg, a Finnish startup which has developed a system called E-Sense which appears to give texture to a touchscreen. By using "tixels" generated by electric fields from elements embedded around the screen, it can make areas of the screen feel rough, ridged or rounded – and change those just as the screen pixels can change.When the Guardian met Senseg's chiefs in their Helsinki offices in January, its directors declined to say whether they had spoken to Apple about the use of the technology in the iPad – but said they were talking to tablet manufacturers.Apple is famously secretive about which companies it is using for its new products; in the past it has cut companies out of announcements when they have leaked information ahead of time, making those involved especially paranoid about speaking out of turn.But asked this week whether Apple is a customer for the E-Sense technology, Petri Jehkonen, Senseg's technical marketing manager, declined to comment. Asked whether Apple is not a customer, he replied: "That would be for Apple to say. My comment is no comment."The update to the Apple TV has long been expected, with some retailers saying they are short of stock, which usually indicates that a new version is in the works.Expectation that Apple would move into the smart TV space, where sets can connect directly to the internet, have been high since the publication of the biography of Steve Jobs, Apple's co-founder who died in October.In that he told his biographer Walter Isaacson that he had been puzzling over the problem of how to improve TV – and that now he had "cracked it".But so far nobody outside Apple has seen the fruits of that insight. Wednesday evening may bear fruit.• The Guardian will cover the launch atGuardian Technology
The last time I clapped eyes on Ubisoft's I Am Alive was when its teaser trailer was released ahead of E3 in 2008. It then dropped off the radar almost completely until news of its impending release started flitting about game websites at the end of last year.The promotional push behind it seemed miniscule, and even though a couple of previews sounded promising, the general consensus did not. After all, what is one to make of Triple-A game that went dark after its first trailer, only to resurface four years later as a download-only title that its publisher is keeping rather quiet about? Sounds like it's probably a dud, right?Well hang onto your hats, kids, because I Am Alive is arguably one of the strongest games that will see release this year. On paper it doesn't sound particularly original; it's packed with familiar elements such as platforming third-person combat, and its story is set in a lawless, broken future. But I Am Alive's developers have applied these familiar gaming tropes in a unique and compelling manner, resulting in a game that stealthily burrows under the player's skin and then begins to chill their blood with an ever-increasing sense of dread.The only respite against this horror comes in the form of empty-handed resignation. Players are likely to feel emotionally drained by the time the end credits roll.I Am Alive is set in a post apocalyptic future where a cataclysmic series of earthquakes known as The Event have reduced much of the US to a pile of rubble. The player takes on the role of a man named Adam who has spent a year since The Event trekking across the country to the fictional city of Haventon, to be reunited with his wife and child.As the game opens, Adam – a gaunt, dust-covered individual with a thousand-yard stare – is recording messages to his family on a video camera. He then begins clambering over the broken highway and pulverised cars and heads towards home.I Am Alive starts off as a slow-burner. Initially, as the player guides Adam through the collapsed city in the dust-bleached daylight, I Am Alive threatens to turn into a fairly standard dystopian adventure with some interesting free-climbing mechanics thrown into it. In what amounts to the game's opening tutorial, Adam navigates his way across a broken bridge by pulling himself up support columns, shimmying along ledges and balancing on beams – and it's here I Am Alive tosses its first curveball.Unlike every other free-running hero in gaming today, Adam is limited in the amount of energy he can exert on his vertical travels. A life-bar and a stamina-bar appear at the top of the game's HUD. The stamina bar decreases if the player makes Adam climb something or run (walking and standing still have no affect). If the stamina bar runs out while Adam is in mid-climb, the player has to frantically tap the right-trigger to force him to push on. This, however, decreases Adam's overall stamina over time. Once that runs out, Adam will fall to his death.As the stamina decreases, players are alerted to Adam's plight by the game's increasingly urgent orchestral score. Players can restore Adam's stamina with items such as water bottles and cans of soda. They can also restore his health with first aid kits and food. However, knowing when and where to use these items is crucial to Adam's survival and as the player slowly realises this, I Am Alive begins to stick the knife in.You see, the world of I Am Alive is an unforgiving and ruthless place. Food, water and other human necessities are in very short supply and, after the first hour, a dust storm covers the streets of Haventon, which makes foraging a potentially lethal activity. So for most of the game, players are urged to safeguard every useful item they come across. They should only use items from their inventory if they have no alternative, whether it's a can of food to restore their health or a piton they can gouge into a wall and take a breather on a long climb. This goes double for any bullets they find for Adam's gun, which is empty at the beginning of the game.The reason for this is because the only law in Haventon is the law of the jungle and the only other people Adam encounters are either predators or potential prey. The former roam in packs, killing anyone they come across and looting their bodies for food and supplies. When Adam encounters them, the player has the opportunity to lull attackers into a false sense of security and get an early quick-kill. Once the weapons are drawn, fights are short, sharp and tactical. If the player can take down any opponents armed with a gun first, they can threaten remaining foes with an empty gun and they may surrender. But if they find themselves being rushed by more than one opponent, and they're out of ammunition, they're dead.Adam will face more than just random attacks and looting, though. Over the course of its plot, I Am Alive presents players with a harrowing look into the dark side of the human psyche and the sort of horrific acts people are capable of when might-is-right becomes the rule of law. The moral depths that some of the people in Haventon have plummeted to are sickening, but the developers explore them in a way that is never cheap or tawdry. They always feel like realistic by-products that would occur after the collapse of civilisation.Not every human the player encounters will attack them on sight. Some simply threaten them until they back away. Other reach out to them for help, begging for an item – perhaps some food, or water, or bandages from the player's very rare and very hard-to-come-by first aid kit. Some may offer information about Adam's family in return for this help. Some may offer more. Most will ensure the player receives another "re-try" token that stops them from being dumped back into early stages of the game should Adam die.The player can choose to help them or not. I Am Alive doesn't force a choice on the player with these survivors. It simply puts someone in need in the player's path and leaves the decision up to them. Sometimes the player might not even have the item these survivors are after, while in other instances, they may decide that helping someone else comes secondary to their survival.Adam isn't some superhuman he-man who can hang indefinitely off the side of a building or machine gun his way through rooms full of enemies. He's a tired, haggard shell of a man and he's relatively easy to kill. It's a hard, brutal world and those who give charity too often don't survive in it.In this way, I Am Alive uses its post-apocalyptic environment far more effectively than many other games that share its nightmare vision of the future. I Am Alive joins games such as Fallout, RAGE and Left 4 Dead in its setting where a some horrendous event put paid to civilisation as we know it, but in truth, it's far closer in its atmosphere and aesthetic values to Cormac MacCarthy's grim post-apocalyptic novel, The Road.It takes a hard, unblinking look at how humans behave when social order is destroyed and then builds horror upon horror, allowing only the briefest glimpses of human decency to shine through. It's a work of art that speaks to the human condition. It shows us what we could become if we allowed our basest impulses to take over and what we could be if we cling to our humanity at all costs. It reminds us that there's more to being alive than simply surviving.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Capcom's eccentric tank sim is a throwback to a distant era – and that is meant as a compliment. As a game experience, it is as bulky and unforgiving as the machine you're required to pilot. It forces you to become proficient at weird, complex controls, in a strange fraught environment. If you're expecting to sit down with the family for a few minutes of Disneyfied tank fun, you're going to have a horrible shock. This is where motion controls go hardcore.Set in a future that has been blasted back to 1940s technology by an apocalyptic computer virus, the game sees crusty old tank commander, Winfield Powers (best tank commander nameever) returning to the front line in order to quell an invasion of America by a new, unknown super power. Throughout the game you sit down in your hulking bipedal vehicle, with a machine gun loader on the left, a missile loader on the right and a subcom perched at your side shouting intel into your ears. And you blow stuff up.In my hands-on session with the game, I start with the tutorial mission, which takes place in a scruffy military base. As I walk to the vehicle in a first-person view, one of my crew saunters up to me and stretches an arm out – it takes a while for me to figure out that I actually need to physically offer my own hand to shake his. This is almost certainly the first time a game has ever made me feel awkward about social etiquette, and in a title filled with such gestures and interactions, it won't be the last.Inside the tank, a huge instrument panel awaits your flailing attention. A yanking motion with your right hand switches the engine on, a lever pull with your left gets it into gear, then you're ready to chuck the analogue stick forward and move off. In the cockpit position, your view of the landscape ahead is confined to a teeny letter box - but if you push your controller forward, you're put into a full-screen mode that lets you view the world as though in a first-person shooter.Around the parameter of the screen are various other contraptions to grab. Reaching up accesses the periscope, essentially a sniper sight used to aim at distance objects. A slightly lower grab will bring down the shutter on your viewing window, while aiming your hand more to the right brings out an instrument panel, complete with switches for vehicle lights and smoke evacuation. There's also a self-destruct button. I have no idea when I'll need that, but it's the last button I want to hit by mistake.At first, it's all rather overwhelming, especially when you chuck in the monitor screen on the left, which can be swung round to show you four camera views of your tank's surroundings - great for spotting enemies and mission objectives. The vehicle chugs onto the firing range like a volvo on wonky scaffolding stilts. It hisses and steams, and your tank chums whine and shout. A superior officer yells at you continually through an intercom. I feel like I'm in a steampunk Top Gun.During your first desperate lunges at the instrumentation, you often grab at the wrong bits and pieces. I was constantly bringing down the metal shutter on my windscreen instead of the periscope, or moving into the first-person view, only to immediately pan out again when I accidentally jogged my pad. After a while though, you learn to trust the hand icon that appears on the screen whenever you lift an arm – you only need delicate movements to get it into position, and then it clamps around the relevant lever or handle with eager accuracy.Eventually, you're swapping gracefully between first-person view and periscope while swishing your arm left or right to swirl round and check on your crew. My favourite though, is standing up, which opens the top hatch and lets you have a peek outside. Cup your hands to your eyes and you get a binoculars view. You will feel like Field Marshal Montgomery, although from outside your window, you will actually look like a lunatic conducting an animated argument with your TV. And in some ways, of course, your are.I learn the basics of tank fighting on the firing range, switching between armour-piercing and incendiary rounds to blast different objects. Then I'm let loose on an early mission, where allied forces are storming Lower Manhattan. It's a scene reminiscent of the New York invasion mission in Modern Warfare, except here you don't just sprint up the beach following a kindly commander. There's no one to follow – just soldiers and armoured vehicles everywhere, blasting at each other below a charcoal black sky.I switch into high gear (it's faster but harder to manoeuvre) and leg it up the coast, attempting a complex periscope-assisted shot at two enemy tanks far off at the back of the bay. My subcom is yelling something about mines, there are alarms going off; a shell hits the tank, turning the screen red and sending me jolting backwards. It's equally exciting and confusing.The big problem – or challenge, let's call it – is navigating this beast through the dense action environment. Even in slow gear it can be tricky to get the thing where you need it, while organising your attack option. Later, we're in the bomb-blasted streets of the financial district, having to deal with RPGs and tanks (that are clearly piloted by experts rather than a waving idiot like myself), scuttling between city blocks pounding me with fire.But it is also hugely immersive, the claustrophobia and panic of the unique interior testing both your tactical prowess and your ability to interact with this frantic virtual environment. I also love the interplay with your weird, often faintly psychotic crew. There are around 30 members to choose from before missions, all with different strengths and weaknesses.In my demo, for example, I am accompanied by a twitchy left gunner who swears his way through a lengthy diatribe about how crap it is to be a left gunner, and then swears his way through every subsequent encounter. He is Hudson from Aliens, but less reserved. Indeed, when I saw a demo of this game last year, it was this character who panicked and tried to climb out of the tank. Apparently, you have to drag him back in and punch him. I've heard from another journalist that if you don't get him inside in time, all that you pull back are a pair of smoking legs. This has yet to be confirmed, but I wouldn't put it past Steel Battalion's dev team.My subcom, Natch, meanwhile, seems to be nursing a small crush on Winfield; after one successful tutorial task he puts out his fist for me to bump – but when I fumble my response he looks away crestfallen, muttering apologies about being over-enthusiastic. When my failed fist movement is finally registred on the screen, it unintentially becomes an awkward grope at Natch's face. You could have cut the tension with a knifing movement – as long as you did it clearly enough for Kinect to understand.Anyways, the action isn't confined to the the tank. At certain points, you have to get outside to complete sub-missions, like helping a wounded member of another tank crew. These look to be short on-rails events, but they provide a brief counterpoint to all that cockpit tension. You'll also get enemy soldiers trying to get in the tank, or lob in grenades; if that happens, you need to open a hatch in the floor and pop it out. Your tank apparently has eight damage points and its perforamce will be affected if one of these is shelled. Get too much damage on one leg for example, and your tank hobbles like ED 209 on a spiral staircase.The story takes you from New York, to Europe and into the deserts of Northern Africa, with each location providing different gameplay experiences. Morocco, for example, is more about exploration and surviving the environment, than combat. Your vehicle is also customisable, with parts available to be scavenged from the battlefield.Steel Battallion will remind old timers of '90s mech monsters such as Virtual On, or even idiosycratic gems like train sim Densha de Go, which came with its own vast controller – as did, of course, the original Steel Battalion on the Xbox. Honestly, don't be fooled by the Kinect integration – this is a challenging, hardcore mech battler, with tons of bizarre little moments that'll delight gamers willing to try something a bit offbeat and bluntly challenging. It is this year's Dark Souls. But in a tank. With a panicking maniac and a comms expert who may or may not fancy you. Good luck out there, commander.• Steel Battalion: Heavy Armour is out on Xbox 360 on 19 June (US) and 22 June (Europe)
"Can I get my Street Fighter without sexual harassment?" asked Twitch.tv community manager Jared Rae of moderately well-known Tekken player Aris Bakhtanians during a conversation about sexist language at pro fighting-game tournaments. "You can't. You can't because they're one and the same thing," he answered. "This is a community that's, you know, 15 or 20 years old, and the sexual harassment is part of a culture, and if you remove that from the fighting game community, it's not the fighting game community."Unfortunately for Bakhtanians, these comments were streamed live on video as part of Capcom's Cross Assault reality series, which pits a team of Street Fighter players and a team of Tekken players against each other in a tournament for significant prize money. You can read a full rundown of the conversation and the ensuing large-scale controversyover at Giant Bomb. It's a very ugly scene. Female contestant Miranda Pakozdi ended up essentially withdrawing from the tournament, losing matches deliberately to escape Bakhtanians' jibes.He's since apologised, explaining that his remarks were made in anger, but that doesn't help much.Sexual harassment is not part of the culture, obviously. I've been a part of the gaming community for going on 20 years now, and I don't think that sexism is a part of gaming culture any more than racism is a part of British culture. It exists, sure, but it's not mainstream. It's not accepted. But two things have happened in the past few weeks that have brought this issue – one that I'm usually happy to quietly ignore – into uncomfortably sharp relief, and made me question how we approach these incidents when they arise.Just a few weeks ago, BioWare writer Jennifer Hepler ended up deleting her Twitter account to escape the hatred and abuse of gamers calling her an "obese cunt", a "fat bitch", a "whore", a "plague" and a "cancer", advising her to commit suicide and making harassing phone calls to her home. (Until recently, a quick Twitter search showed the full extent of this extraordinary harassment; since the closure of her account, it seems that it is no longer archived, which is good if you don't want your day ruined by reading it).She was singled out by extremely angry people unhappy with, among other things, BioWare's inclusion of optional gay romances in Dragon Age II, the way that the developer's games are becoming more accessible, and perceived shortcomings in plot and characterisation in more recent BioWare titles that Hepler had worked on (or hadn't even worked on, in many cases).Why was all this laid at Hepler's feet? Because she said, in an interview from 2006, that she sometimes didn't enjoy playing through the combat sections in games all that much, that story was more important to her, and that being able to skip combat would make games more enjoyable for some people. These responses, in heavily-edited form,were originally posted on Redditand lateron the BioWare forums. (The full original interview can't be found anywhere online anymore, so all we're left with is these out-of-context quotes.)It's difficult to imagine the language used towards Hepler being as loaded and incendiary if she were a man. Why she, and not any of the other writers at BioWare, has been held solely responsible by a small group of astonishingly entitled and, evidently, astonishingly misogynistic people for ruining "their" games is largely a mystery; we can only assume that it was because she was a visible target for their hitherto directionless rage, and her gender made her an easy one.It's a universal truth of the internet, from YouTube to political comments threads, that awful people feel more comfortable hurling abuse at you if you're female, gay or part of a racial minority. She also dared to stand up for herself before closing her account, which only angered them further.Neither of these recent events reflects at all well on the gaming community. The thought that someone on the outside might think that this is what we're like – a bunch of pointlessly furious, venomous, entitled arseholes that consider ourselves outwith the normal rules and boundaries of respect for our fellow human beings – makes me extremely sad. It paints a picture of the gaming community that I don't want to believe in, and that goes against the vast majority of my experiences. This is not what we're like.There is abundant proof of this. All you have to do is look at the wider response to either the Hepler or the Cross Assault controversy to see the small minority of hateful commentators drowned out by a vocal majority of people expressing outrage, disappointment and sympathy. BioWarehas vocally stood by Hepler, making a donation to Bullying Canada in her name. Capcom has distanced itself from Bakhtanians' comments and apologised that they were broadcast.Of course, both of these events have also brought the worst kind of person out of the woodwork and into the comments threads, too – much as almost any conversation about sexism, racism, homophobia or politics on the internet seems to attract the trolls like a giant unpleasantness magnet – but the bigger picture is a community of people united by common decency as well as a shared love for video games.The difficult thing about the issue of sexism in the games industry, for me, is that even talking about it is giving it more attention than these idiots deserve. Often it only fuels the fire, and it attracts the haters your way, which is something that any sane person would want to avoid. It's impossible not to want to speak out against the people who give us a bad name and feed negative stereotypes, but the fear is that in doing so, you'll both bring negative attention upon yourself and tarnish the gaming community as a whole. But keeping quiet isn't an option either; we need to stand up for ourselves.I've had abuse directed at me plenty of times by strangers online, a lot of it to do with my gender, but the idiots are always vastly outnumbered by intelligent and respectful people who are interested in actual discussion rather than insults and pointless cruelty. This is the gaming community, for me – the great people I've chatted, argued and played with online, the guys and girls I grew up playing split-screen multiplayer with, the readers who start thought-provoking discussions, the creative and interesting folks I work with every day in this industry. Not the twerps who call me names in comments threads.Are things like the Hepler and Cross Assault situations acceptable? No. Should we quietly ignore incidences of sexism in the gaming community in the hope that it might go away on its own? No. But is this a part of gaming culture? Absolutely not. We are not like that. It's important that we make our voices heard, too.• Keza MacDonald is UK Games Editor atIGN.com. You can follow her on Twitter@kezamacdonald.
The government has been given the green light to implement the Digital Economy Act after the final legal challenge by two internet service providers was thrown out at the court of appeal.BT and TalkTalk on Tuesday lost their appeal against last year's judicial review of the government's controversial anti-piracy legislation on all but one ground.Three senior judges at the court of appeal ruled that the government could not make ISPs pay a proportion of the case fees attached to the act.The ruling brings to an endalmost two years of legal challenges against the legislation by the ISPs. The government will now be able to compel internet providers to send out warning letters to subscribers accused of illegal filesharing.Tuesday's court of appeal ruling found that the Digital Economy Act is legal and compatible with European law.Geoff Taylor, chief executive of the British Phonographic Industry, welcomed the ruling, saying: "The ISPs' failed legal challenge has meant yet another year of harm to British musicians and creators from illegal filesharing."BT and TalkTalk had complained that the legislation was incompatible with European law and put an unfair burden on them to pay the costs of the rights-holders' crackdown on illicit downloading.However, the court of appeal judges – Lady Justice Arden, Lord Justice Richards and Lord Justice Patten – agreed with an earlier high court ruling that the legislation is lawful.They said that ISPs will have to pay 25% of the qualifying costs incurred by media regulator Ofcom in running and setting up an appeals body for alleged illicit filesharers.They confirmed that the ISPs should pay 25% of relevant costs, which are operating fees incurred when identifying which subscribers are accused of illegal downloading.The judges overturned a previous high court ruling which said that the ISPs have to pay 25% of case fees that are charged by the proposed appeals body.Rights holders have agreed to foot 75% of the costs in each of the three fees.The court of appeal also ruled that BT and TalkTalk must pay 93% of the costs of the legal challenge, a figure understood to have run into six figures.
A selection of 10 new apps for you today:Monty Python: The Holy Book of DaysThe Monty Python team have gone "back to their vaults" to find outtakes, rehearsals, songs, scripts, stills and other content from Monthy Python and the Holy Grail. The idea: it's a second-screen companion app for the Blu-ray release of the film. "Will it sync up with my VHS copy?" asks Python Terry Gilliam in the App Store listing. A treat for fans.iPadTEDThe TED conference is known worldwide for its thought-provoking talks, thanks to its habit of making videos available online. Now there's an official Android app for that to join the existing iOS version, offering more than 1,200 videos and audio recordings.AndroidMass Effect InfiltratorEA's latest big-budget iOS game is based on the Mass Effect series: a brand new game rather than a port of a console title. It sees you wandering around the hostile Cerberus base seeing off enemies. A clever feature will see activities in this game boosting War Assets in Mass Effect 3.iPhone / iPadThe World In Figures iPad EditionThe Economist has launched an iPad version of its The World in Figures book, offering facts and stats for more than 190 countries, with trivia to test your knowledge.iPadLearn Chinese: Toy Story 3Here's an intriguing idea: an iPad app from Disney to help people learn Chinese, designed for ages seven and up. "Experience the excitement of Toy Story 3 with Buzz and Woody while gradually transforming it from English to a story you understand in Chinese and Pinyin..."iPadEviteDigital invitations service Evite has launched an official Android app, enabling users to create and send invites, manage guest lists, RSVP to events they've been invited to, and get push notifications for updates.AndroidFunny or DieComedy site Funny or Die has launched its official Android app, offering new videos every day, and the ability to search its archives.AndroidAdam Jones Official Testimonial App 2012Well, this is certainly the first iPhone app that lets people add Welsh rugby player Adam Jones' hairstyle to their own face. The app has been released for Jones' testimonial year, with all profits going to his foundation.iPhoneAndmade ShareThis simple but useful Android app replaces the default share menu on your smartphone, providing a list of checkboxes to share content to various social networks and cloud services.AndroidMove Out ObamaForget attack ads on TV: it seems the battle for the US presidency is also now being fought on Android Market. This Republican-leaning game wants players to literally move Barack Obama out of the White House. Will Democrat developers respond?Android
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamInteractive cross-browser testing &gt;&gt; browserlingNifty.40 Years of Las Vegas Sprawl, as Seen From Space &gt;&gt; The Atlantic CitiesThe video starts at 1972 and ends at 2010. During that time, the Las Vegas metro area has seen its population grow from slightly under 300,000 to almost 2 million.What's that line from the Matrix that Agent Smith says?How to disable Metro? &gt;&gt; Microsoft AnswersWhat's the second most-asked question on Microsoft Answers over Win8CP?Is there any way to completely disable Metro, and bring back the Windows 7 start-menu? (or, even better, the XP start menu!) Either a setting or a hack or whatever... Anything.. I can understand why the interface needs to be updated/reworked for touchscreen devices but for a normal desktop computer some of these changes seem... how do I say this without getting banned from the forums... "somewhat annoying"..In case you're wondering, the most-asked question is "What happened to the Start icon?"Aperture vs. iPhoto: Which one will come to the iPad? &gt;&gt; Mike BeasMike Beas:There's a silly notion going around that Apple will release "iPhoto for iPad." That's stupid, and if you believe it, I feel awfully sorry for you. Here's why. First, Apple isn't hiring people to develop iPhoto for iPad, but they are hiring people to develop Aperture for iPad.Okey-dokey.Metro breakdown! Windows 8 UI is little gain for lots of pain o The RegisterAndrew Orlowski:Metro is a user interface designed for smartphones, which I have praised generously, and which looks good and works well on small devices. It may yet mature into something equally attractive and useful on iPad-like tablets. But welded onto a non-touch laptop or desktop PC, it represents a huge negative for the majority of Windows users.Now with postcode outlines &gt;&gt; Google MapsNow when you type a postcode into Google Maps, it shows you the outline.Here's how SW1A 1AA (a certain central London residence) looks. And if you're wondering - the freeing of the postcode data does follow a long-running campaign by Guardian Technology.Google's plan to compete with Apple's multi-platform Siri? Google "Assistant" &gt;&gt; TechCrunchGoogle has had the in-house voice technology for ages -- it hired Mike Cohen, the guy who started Nuance. But 'Assistant' is set to go beyond Siri in many ways, most importantly in that the search company will retain complete control of all the layers involved.Putative launch date by fourth quarter 2012.Evgeny Morozov: The IGod: Steve Jobs's Pursuit Of Perfection - and The Consequences &gt;&gt; The New RepublicColossal. There are so many quotes to choose from, but here's one near the end:What is most troubling is that Apple is not doing anything to explore its online footprint. Perhaps Apple's design mentality--combined with its messianic self-portrayal as the only company in the world that is fighting some anonymous corporate menace (even as it is one of the most valuable companies in the world!)--has worn down its ability to ask the sort of big-picture questions that Jobs was so prone to asking in his youth. Apple, with its total fixation on the user and its complete disregard of the community in which that user is grounded, does not seem well-equipped to identify and evaluate the threats that it poses to the Internet, let alone do something about them.There are many more. Set aside half an hour to read it.Rumor: Sony to make Windows Phone 8 devices later this year &gt;&gt; Windows Phone News, Forums, and ReviewsTake this with a heaping cup of salt, but Tweakers.net is reporting from multiple sources that Sony is planning on joining the Windows Phone camp late in 2012. Of course there are hurdles in the way such as Sony and that whole Playstation thing, but Sony is like any other massive corporation and its departments operate independently of each other, so we wouldn't actually cite that as a reason not to.The Xbox Live tile wouldn't be a problem for the company that makes PlayStation? Might be a bridge too far. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Apple: We never said Siri would actually work in the UK &gt;&gt; The RegisterAdvertising Standards Authority rejects complaint from disappointed iPhone 4S owner. But it's the ASA's logic that's interesting:The belief that Siri would be able to direct users to useful local businesses was not implicit from the advert, said the ASA, and was an expectation that would not trouble the UK's "average customer", who, the agency asserted would have little knowledge of technology journalism or Apple product launches.Translated: you might know that Apple has or is going to do things, but most people don't. This doesn't quite explain the giant dip in Apple's iPhone sales in the third quarter of 2011, though, which Apple put down to people being led to expect a new device that didn't materialise during that period.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Across the country, it's a fair bet that right now, an awful lot of gamers are praying for the sort of snow that decimates public transport and provides a ready-made excuse to skip work. After all, there are more important things to do, such as saving the universe. And that's precisely what the third instalment of BioWare's epic space-RPG Mass Effect offers.Yes, Commander Shepard is back and, this time around, things are bad even by his (or her – as ever, you can choose Shepard's gender and appearance) standards. Those dastardly sentient machines the Reapers are coming, with their agenda of exterminating all organic life, and it's up to Shepard to stop them. With you at the controls.If you've played one of the two previous Mass Effect games, you'll know what to expect – nothing less than a near-TV series-length slab of space opera that plays like a third-person shooter while providing all the character development an RPG fanatic could desire. You'll also find proceedings reassuringly familiar: Mass Effect's conventions and controls remain more or less untouched in its third incarnation, although it does achieve new heights of polish and slickness.BioWare always intended Mass Effect 3 to be the conclusion of a trilogy, and it has a suitably simple yet conclusive plot. The Reapers, as Shepard has long warned everyone they would, launch their invasion – starting with Earth, where Shepard has been grounded by the Alliance. Naturally, after a bit of gentle tutorial-style action, he escapes – back at the helm of the Normandy, with a brief to head to the Citadel and convince the perennially squabbling alien races that they all need to band together or the Reapers will wipe them out.Conveniently – and at least the dialogue has the wit to discuss that it might be a bit too conveniently – he's able to visit Mars and snatch the blueprint for a weapon sufficiently advanced to take out the Reapers, from the sinister grasp of Cerberus, his employer in Mass Effect 2.Plenty of old friends from the franchise are back with central roles – Liara T'Soni is Shepard's trusty lieutenant this time around, while Garrus and Ashley Williams also feature – and plenty of action takes place on the Krogan homeworld Tuchanka, as bleak and uninviting as ever.The plot slots beautifully into Mass Effect's structural framework. Shepard soon finds old feuds between alien races are still raging, and so must carry out missions that bring them into the fold, this time with an extra dramatic backdrop provided by the Reaper invasion, as many of the places he visits are full-on war-zones.As Shepard, you get to make momentous decisions that determine which alien races join in with the Alliance effort, so there's diplomacy to be performed when you aren't shooting aliens. Cerberus constantly pop up, throwing whole bags of spanners into the works. The story is full of twists and little subtleties that will delight fans of the series, and those who have never played a Mass Effect game before will be astonished by its depth and richness. The ability to shape parts of it with your actions makes it even more involving.While the basic mechanics of the game haven't been altered – the wheel that lets you select weapons and powers is the same as ever, for example – BioWare has indulged in plenty of judicious tweaking. This time around, Shepard is noticeably more mobile and moves in a more fluid way, which is handy in a firefight. The layout of the Normandy has changed (it's back to being an alliance, rather than Cerberus, ship), and the mining mechanic has been abandoned as being irrelevant in the context of a universe-wide war. Instead, the Alliance funds you, which is a lot simpler than fiddling around looking for rare elements. And there are plenty of random missions to be found on planets beset by the Reapers.There's also a co-operative mode for the first time – having humans rather than AI in your squad is something all Mass Effect players, surely, have craved – and an almost board game-like iOS app which is all about reclaiming the universe, planet by planet, from the Reapers, and what you do in the single-payer game can feed back into it. Mass Effect always had vast amounts of replay value, and that just adds to it.More than ever, the Mass effect universe pulls off the masterful trick of feeling huge and yet believable – the game's production values are through the roof, and its third-person shooter controls incredibly precise, responsive and accurate given Mass Effect's immense scope. It really does feel like a TV sci-fi series in which you play the central character – which highlights the current absence of significant sci-fi series from our TV screens.It's even the first Mass Effect game to let you play as a male Shepard and have gay relationships – although those are conducted in such a stiff and awkward manner that you don't feel BioWare was particularly comfortable about making them. But at least they show the game's desire to provide a mature form of entertainment which lacks nothing in comparison with Hollywood or television. Show it to the next person who maintains games are vacant and unsophisticated, and watch them squirm as they're forced to acknowledge their ignorance.• Mass Effect 3 was reviewed on the Xbox 360
Tuesday is here! How is your week shaping up so far?
After three years in development,Asssassin's Creed IIIwill be released on October 31, on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360. It is also in development for Nintendo's forthcoming Wii U console.As we wrote last week, the game will be set during the American Revolution, over 200 years after the events of Assassin's Creed Revelations. This time, the lead character is Ratohnaké:ton, a half-British, half-Mohawk warrior whose village is burned down amid the battle for independence and he must now fight for vengeance.From the press release:Players become an Assassin in the war for liberty against ruthless tyranny in the most stylised and fluid combat experiences in the franchise to date. Assassin's Creed III spans the Revolutionary War, taking gamers from the vibrant, untamed frontier to bustling colonial towns and the intense, chaotic battlefields where George Washington's Continental Army clashed with the imposing British Army.The game is apparently showcasing a new in-house engine technology, named Ubisoft-AnvilNext. It will allegedly provide unprecedented graphical detail as well as advanced artifical inteligence. In an interesting piece of cross-platform marketing, fresh artwork from Assassin's Creed III will be featured in Assassin's Creed Recollection, a board game app for the iPad."Assassin's Creed III features the franchise's most expansive setting so far, along with an exciting new hero and exponentially more gameplay," said Ubisoft CEO, Yves Guillemot. "Whether you're a longtime fan of Assassin's Creed or if you're new to the franchise, you're going to be blown away by the scale and marvel of Assassin's Creed III."It's certainly an interesting set-up, and the lead character's position between the Brits, the native Americans and the 13 American colonies, puts him in a good position to catch all the key events of the era. As some fans have mentioned, though, high buildings will be in short supply in 18th Century America, surely limiting the series' usual acrobatic parkour gameplay.However, the country wasn't entirely flat.John Joseph Holland's water colour of New Yorkshows plenty of height; and Paul Revere's famous engraving of theBoston Massacrereveals that city's highly developed architecture – just behind the massacre bit at the front.Also, the American revolution is a swirl of Assassin's-style conspiracies involving everyone from the Illuminati to the Freemasons. If you want a headstart, it might be worth researching a few of those before the game arrives this autumn.You can see the teaser trailerhere.
Advertising networks used by apps in Android devices can get access to user information, according to an investigation by a UK information security company.MWR Infosecurity found that a significant number of the top 50 "free" apps which generate money for the developer and advertisers by connecting to an American advertising network pass on details about the phone's user to the network – a move that may breach European data protection laws. With roughly a quarter of the UK's phone users using Android phones, and with millions of apps downloaded every month – often for free, supported by advertising, rather than paid-for – the gap in security is a source of concern.The study was commissioned by Channel 4 News. MWR Infosecurity told the programme: "We found that a lot of the free applications in the top 50 apps list are using advertising inside the applications, and that the permission that you grant to these applications is also granted to the advertiser. If users knew about this I think they would be concerned about it, but at the moment I don't think they are aware of the situation and how widely their information can be used."The EC commissioner for justice, Viviane Reding, condemned the practice: "This really concerns me, and this is against the law because nobody has the right to get your personal data without you agreeing to this," she told Channel 4 News. "Maybe you want somebody to get this data and agree and it's fine. You're an adult and you can do whatever you want. But normally you have no idea what others are doing with your data. They are spotting you, they are following you, they are getting information about your friends, about your whereabouts about your preferences. That is certainly not what you thought you bought into when you downloaded a free-of-charge app. That's exactly what we have to change."Reding spoke out last week against proposed changes in Google's privacy policy, warning the search giant that she was "not playing games" as the French data protection commissioner, the CNIL, announced that it would lead a Europe-wide investigation into whether the changes were legal. Google implemented the changes, which it said would pull together information from across all of its services, at the start of March after announcing them in January.The code that MWR Infosecurity found gave advertising networks access to contacts, calendar and location. It came from a large US ad network called MobClix. Channel 4 said that it had not responded to repeated requests for comment.Google told Channel 4 News that it has best practises for app makers to follow when it comes to user data, but it doesn't screen applications before they are offered for download.MobClix is owned by Velti, a US-based company which claims to be the largest mobile marketing company, based on revenue, customers, consumer reach and technology holdings.Apple has recently come under fire too after it was discovered that some apps can upload all or part of the user's address book, and more recently when it was found that for both Apple and Android phones that some apps could access photos on the devices. Apple has said that it will address the weakness in a forthcoming software update.Correction: the headline on an earlier version of this article said that user data was passed to advertisers. As the story makes clear, this should have said 'ad networks'.
Yahoo is reportedly planning another series of redundancies as the troubled internet giant struggles to keep pace with rivals Google and Facebook.The layoffs, firstreported by the technology site All Things D, would be the first major move by the company's chief executive, Scott Thompson, who took over from Carol Bartz after she was ousted last September. She also presided over wholesale job cuts at the firm.The news comes after a significant shakeup at the top of Yahoo. After Bartz's departure, co-founder of the firm Jerry Yang, the chairman, Roy Bostock, and three other senior directors left the company.Yahoo's net income dropped 5% in the fourth quarter of 2011 as the company struggled to keep up with Google in search advertising and Facebook in display advertising."In 2012 we will be aligning resources behind key areas of focus to enable us to move aggressively in market and grow our business, bringing innovative new products and experiences to both our users and advertisers," Thompson said at the time.According to All Things D, cuts are being considered in public relations, marketing, research, marginal businesses and weaker regional businesses.Thompson is weighing Yahoo's future as the company has struggled to find buyers for its Asian businesses. The search firm owns a stake in China'sAlibabaas well as sizeable assets in Japan. But talks over the sale of those assets have stalled.
If you're a fan of Epic's visceral run-and-gun steroid marine stomp, but you need a new reason to play it, mark your calendar for the end of March. Gears Of War 3 is set to be the recipient of some new DLC in the form of the Forces Of Nature Map Pack. The download contains five maps, a couple of new characters and some nifty new skins for weapons.Out of the five maps on offer, though, only three are actually brand spanking new. There's Cove, which is set in an industrialised pier, Aftermath, which occupies the crumbling ruins of what look like some municipal buildings and Artillery, which takes place in a darkened military base. The remaining two are re-jigged and sharpened versions of the Jacinto and Raven Down maps from Gears Of War 2.All five bear the usual hallmarks of Gears Of War 3's multiplayer: chest-high walls, no camping areas and gorgeously rendered visuals. And all of them compliment the close-quarters, highly brutal fragfest style of play.However, every map in the pack contains some sort of environmental event that is triggered half-way through each contest. Aftermath, for example, has an earthquake that kicks off in the middle of the battle, which destroys some of the walls inside it. Artillery is hit by a tornado, while a stealthy fog creeps into Cover, diminishing the players' vision. In Jacinto and Raven Down, it's raining and snowing respectively.Alongside the new maps, players can get some interesting new skins for their weapons – if you fancy wielding a Day-glo purple Lancer, now's your chance – and there are two new avatars. Commando Dom and Mechanic Baird are available for the COG, while the Locust have the Savage Grenadier Elite and the Savage Hunter.It's out on 27 March for 800 points.
Demand for the Raspberry Pi computer – a £22 British-designed system – was still running at 700 per second at the end of last week, according to one of its main distributors in the UK.The device, intended to make programming simple and accessible for children much as the BBC Micro and Sinclair Spectrum did in the 1980s, has also attracted interest from a Middle East country which plans to issue one to every schoolgirl, said Harriet Green, chief executive of Premier Farnell, which is selling the device via its site."It's interesting to look at why there's so much excitement around Raspberry Pi," said Green. "I think that a lot of teachers, parents and children are worrying that they're becoming just consumers – taking something out of a box and plugging it in. There's a lot of points of concern about children being just consumers rather than creators and innovators."The Raspberry Pi, whose price is fixed by the charity that controls it at $35 (and then adjusted locally via exchange rate), has already sold its initial production run, of around 10,000 units, which were sold through two companies, Premier Farnell and RS. "Demand was 20 times greater than our supply," said Green. But the price will not be raised; the company will simply increase production as far as it can to meet demand. "There's a relationship between ubiquitous supply and how much it costs," said Green. "If you go back to the days of Amstrad and the success it had, you realise that there's a great skill in getting the price right." She says the design itself is "beautiful" but "doesn't cost much to make" – leaving enough profit to make it sustainable.The first version of the device, which sold out within minutes of going on sale on 29 February, is a simple circuit board without packaging, and will go to developers so that they can write supporting code which can then be preinstalled on to later versions, expected to go on sale in the autumn with proper packaging.Besides interest in the UK, Green said that there had also been interest from a Middle East government which wanted to give one to every schoolgirl in order to enhance their job prospects. She declined to name the country, but said "the inclusion of girls is very important. A survey a couple of years ago which asked women aged 13 to 18 what they wanted to be, and it was quite salutary to read the results. The primary thing they wanted to be was a superstar or a Wag. There weren't any wanting to be businesswomen, lawyers or journalists. I'm not a programmer, but it isn't hard with the right capability."She thinks that there is even the possibility for the ultra-cheap device – which has connectors for a keyboard, display, network and USB devices such as a hard drive – to have a "subversive" effect on the entire PC industry. "There's absolutely nothing to prevent the likes of Apple or Dell or Lenovo or HP from doing something similar to us," Green said, adding "I would really encourage the major companies to have a look at the power of this idea."While the Raspberry Pi does not have the fastest or most powerful central processor available – relying instead on one that would typically be found in a smartphone, using the Arm architecture designed by a team that originally worked on the BBC Micro – Green thinks that it has the potential to grow enormously.She says too that social media and online communities have helped keep interest in the project high. A programming community called Element 14 – the atomic number of silicon, a key material in chips – has a large Raspberry Pi group, and so far there have been 30,000 downloads of the operating system software for the device, an order of magnitude more than have actually been made.• This article was amended on 7 March 2012 because the original said Element 14 "has grown up around the interest in writing programs for the device". Element 14 was created in 2009.
Microsoft has revealed that the Xbox Live version of Minecraft will boast a four-player splitscreen mode, allowing groups of avid crafters to work together. There will also be an eight-player online multiplayer mode – and this can be combined with splitscreen, allowing roomfuls of four people to work co-operatively.The multiplayer component will be based around the PC game's Survival mode, requiring groups to work together to create inhabitable structures before nightfall.Interestingly, both the online and splitscreen options confine group play to Friends Lists – you will not be able to craft a world with a group of strangers. "This is to keep it all friendly and non-destructive," says lead producer, Roger Carpenter. "That was a request from Mojang - to make it that kind of experience."Apparently, one player takes overall command of each map, and can make it available to select groups of friends, who'll be able to access the map whenever it's online. "It works really well," says Carpenter. "Whoever hosts the map is the map owner. Everyone else joins and the game stores all their data so they can easily return."Elsewhere, the crafting and inventory interfaces have been completely re-designed and updated. Players can select objects to craft using a handy compartmentalised menu, which tells them what every item in the game does and how they need to be constructed.According to Carpenter, the XBLA version of Minecraft will have full support for Achievements and may also come with Avatar customisation options.There's still no firm release date for the conversion, which is being handled by Dundee developer, 4J Studios. 'Spring 2012' is all Microsoft will say.
The question of who Master Chief is and what makes him tick will be key elements of the Halo 4 single-player campaign – that was the message delivered by developer 343 Industries at the Xbox Spring Showcase in March.The enigmatic lead character of the original Halo trilogy is set to return to action in the fourth title, due for launch this winter, after sitting out previous prologue installment, Halo: Reach. And this time, we're told, it's personal."Master Chief is the heart and soul of Halo and as gamers we missed him," said executive producer, Kiki Wolfkill. "We wanted to contiune his story and map out his journey over the next 10 years. It was a real challenge to think about how we take this beloved hero and move him forward."Graphically, the character model has received a huge overhaul. Images of Chief, as well as other Spartan soldiers, reveals densely detailed armour with a Batman-style rubberised material beneath the metallic plates and at joints."We want to provide a very visceral first-person experience and to deliver on the fantasy of being this 900 pound spartan, feeling that combination of strength and athleticim that defines him," said Wolfkill. "We reworked the armour with an eye toward the functionality he'll need today, but also trying to think over the next decade to some of the things he could be doing."Although 343 Industries will not reveal the new enemy of the series, after the defeat of the Covenant, it has provided some juicy hints. "Chief has faced an enemy in the past that he knows very well," said Wolfkill. "Now he's going to face a new threat, it's very ancient, very dark and it's going to present challenges that he's never had to face before. How he does that, the decisions he has to make, will help to define him as a hero and give him more dimension as a character."The rumours are that this ancient antagonist will be the Forerunners, the alien race that built the halo technologies at the centre of the series. Unsurprisingly, 343 Industries would not confirm this. Speaking to the Guardian, Wolfkill stressed: "From a game perspective, it's a completely new enemy."Telling an engrossing story around this new confrontation is clearly a major concern for the studio. "There's such a rich fiction around Chief that we get in the books and other media, but it hasn't traditionally come through in the game," said Wolfkill. "So how do we take some of that and really pull back the curtain on Chief and his motivations?"We want to look under the mask, without being disruptive to the game experience. It's a first person experience, so it's about how we reflect Chief in the people around him. Obviously Cortana is his closest friend and ally and their relationship is very important for the story – she reflects Chief. In some ways, she's more human than him – so how do we capture some of that humanity?"That whole idea of getting under the mask, seems to be a guiding element. Wolfkill also pointed out at one stage that the team was redesigning the heads-up display. The idea is to give players a real feel for being in the Spartan helmet, looking out through its visor, and interacting with its futuristic technology. Will ammo and weapon data be illustrated like an augmented reality display overlaying the visor? Something akin to the helmet cam in Need for Speed: Shift 2? We'll see.Elsewhere, creative director Josh Holmes claimed during the Xbox event that the game would have a darker feel than previous instalments. "We want to tell a more impactful, more emotional story than ever before in a Halo game," he said."The focus is on the depth of character development. What this means for the game is a darker and more sophisticated tone – that's in service to the story we're telling and the themes that will come up through that story. And we're thinking about this in the context of a story that will be told over multiple titles, with a span of the next decade or more."Speaking to the Guardian, franchise director Frank O'Connor also promised a total technical overhaul for the series. "We talked about the engine a few days ago," he said. "We were asking ourselves, well, what is it exactly? If you're using a commercially available engine, it's really easy to pick a rubicon – it's version number one, or two or three, etc. But the Halo engine is more organic, it's something that's evolved over the years."There's still some code from Halo 1 buried in our engine, but it would probably be pretty unreconisable to the original developers. In Halo 4, almost every single system has been either radically overhauled or rewritten from the ground up. Almost nothing is untouched. I don't know what to call that! It's such a radical evolution of what it was, even as recently as Reach. The way we render, the way we stream textures, the way audio is handled – everything is very different. But the core gameplay, the spirit, is intact."O'Connor also hinted that we can expect much larger levels and environments in the single-player campaign of Halo 4."Our coding and engineering team is second to none," he says. "They've done wonders. Some of our campaign levels are going to be way bigger than the already gigantic spaces seen in previous Halo titles. The 360 is a very flexible platform, and we get a lot of support from Microsoft to do things that would otherwise be very challenging."But O'Connor was also keen to bring the discussion back to that over-riding concern: narrative."The story we're telling this time is really personal. It's about characters and people, in a way that it hasn't been before. That's how you can move players. What people care about ultimately is other people. They want that in the context of epic tales of heroism and enigmatic galactic mystery, or whatever – but really, it's about, 'how can I identify with that character?' That's where we're really pushing the envelope."
Apple's App Store has passed 25 billion downloads, with Disney's iOS game Where's My Water? Free nudging it past the milestone.Apple had been running a counter on its website and store, so the 25bn mark was actually reached over the weekend. The company has now revealed which app was the 25 billionth, as well as the name of the downloader: Chunli Fu in Qingdao, China.Late chief executive Steve Jobs would surely have approved of both. He was Disney's largest shareholder in his later years, after it acquired his Pixar Animation Studios. Meanwhile, China has been an important growth market for Apple in the last year, as the iPhone went on sale there."We'd like to thank our customers and developers for helping us achieve this historic milestone of 25 billion apps downloaded," said Apple's senior vice president of internet software and services Eddy Cue."When we launched the App Store less than four years ago, we never imagined that mobile apps would become the phenomenon they have, or that developers would create such an incredible selection of apps for iOS users."That's true enough. Walter Isaacson's authorised biography of Jobs revealed that Apple executiveshad to lobby hardto convince him that apps would enhance the iPhone, rather than harm it."He didn't want outsiders to create applications for the iPhone that could mess it up, infect it with viruses, or pollute its integrity," wrote Isaacson, while quoting senior vice president of worldwide product marketing Phi Schiller on the lobbying efforts."I couldn't imagine that we would create something as powerful as the iPhone and not empower developers to make lots of apps. I knew customers would love them," said Schiller.Apple has sold more than 315m iOS devices since the launch of the first iPhone in 2007, meaning a rough average of 80 app downloads per device – although it should be noted that many people will have bought more than one and carried their apps across.From a development standpoint, the 550,000 iOS apps have generated an average of 45,000 downloads each, although the figures will be skewed by the most popular apps like Angry Birds, Facebook, eBay, Twitter and others, which have done tens or even hundreds of millions of iOS downloads.The 25bn milestone comes ahead of Apple's press event on 5 March to unveil its next-generation iPad tablet, which reports suggest may be called iPad HD rather than iPad 3.The App Store reached 10bn downloads in January 2011, then15bn in July that year. It has taken eight months for the next 10bn downloads: a rate of 1.25bn a month, or 41.6m a day.As a comparison, Google recently announced that its Android Market store is generating 1bn monthly app downloads.
Every year, Lionhead runs something it calls a creative day. All the development staff get the chance to leave their ongoing projects, gather into small groups and brainstorm new ideas. They might put forward clever software tools or a fresh way of working; sometimes they make games. Fable Heroes started out like this. But unlike many of these other experimental diversions, it is about to leave the building, via a full release on Xbox Live Arcade. And here's why.Imagine Fable re-built as a Gauntlet-style co-op dungeon crawler, with cartoon visuals, bags of humour and a neat sideline in moral consequence. That's Fable Heroes. Up to four players – either local or online – choose from a selection of 12 doll-like characters, all based on familiar faces from the RPG trilogy. The cute combatants then fight their way through eight environments, battling weird hybrid versions of the Fable monsters, then grabbing the gold coins that spill from felled creatures.It is absolutely as fun as it sounds, especially in split-screen local multiplayer, which captures those riotous Gauntlet sessions of old. The combat is slick and satisfying, with a quick light attack, a more elaborate "flourish" move on the Y button, and a dodge move, all of which can be used in speedy combinations. The warriors must work together to progress, but as in all decent co-op dungeon slashers, competing for gold is important. At the end of each level, your cash stash dictates how much you can level up your character. Greed is good. Greed works.The fun of the game, however comes in the balance between your cooperative and competitive instincts. It's possible to hit the right trigger for a super powerful move, but this takes one of your heart icons, which puts you a step closer to death – yet it may well prove a vital sacrifice for your team. If a character runs out of hearts, they become a ghost, still able to damage enemies, but unable to pick up gold.Dead enemies occasionally drop heart icons, though, and if the ghost player grabs one, they come back to life. At the same time, getting to heartsbeforeany phantom co-warriors may be advantageous, ensuring that there's one less person to compete with for loot. It's a compelling interplay of altruistic and selfish tactics, cleverly reflecting the moral component of the main Fable titles.Lead designer Ted Timmins says he and colleague Jon Eckersley dreamed up the idea for Heroes one afternoon in the staff cafe. They thought it might make a jolly little project for a forthcoming creative day, so they gathered four more staff and started bashing together a prototype, using the Fable engine, but massively modifying it for their vision."We worked nights and weekends, and after a couple of weeks we had a demo," explains Timmins. "Creative day was then delayed for six months but we thought, we've got something cool here, maybe we should show it off. So we grabbed the design manager of Fable, Josh Atkins, and he said, 'wow, let me get Louise [Copley, the head of Fable Studio]'. We did the whole demo again and she said, 'I'd better get Peter'. So Peter comes in sits down, watches it and says, 'this is amazing!' We were gobsmacked."Quickly the project was greenlit. Ted and his team were given more staff and were even set up in their own office across the road from Lionhead. In the space of a few weeks, Timmins and Eckersley had gone from crunch time on a Fable III DLC pack to running their own development team. "I started here as a work experience kid in 2004," says Timmins. "To think I'm now project lead on a Fable title ... it's just crazy. It's awesome!"Last week, I played the first level, Millfields. It's a quaint romp through lush green fields and villages, all inhabited by the familiar Hobbe creatures from the Fable universe, but here strangely fitted with chicken heads. Other stages include the icy Mists Peak, the dungeon-like Hobbe Caves and a gloomy cemetery – all drawn with a crisp cartoon style. "It's kind of inspired by Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker," says Timmins. "When you go for realism, there's a limitation on how long it will look good for, but Wind Waker was so stylised. My girlfriend is playing through it now and it looks as good as ever. And Albion looks great like this."The cloth-like lead characters fit in perfectly with this kawaii look. "I originally designed a group of four fairly generic heroes, but it didn't feel right," says Timmons. "So Jon said perhaps we could play as children, with oversized heads. But again, it wasn't right. Then the penny dropped – Fable has always featured hero dolls, let's use them! Jon and his art team created a bunch and it fit perfectly."Naturally, all the characters have their own weapons and styles of combat. Hero from Fable 3 gets a sword, which is fast, but does less damage than Hammer's, erm, hammer. Garth floats eerily along, using magic attacks, while Reaver has his ranger gun, which offers a handy distance attack. This is an advantage when it comes to avoiding damage from melee weapons, but it means he's that bit further away from the gold when he kills something, giving unscrupulous pals the chance to mop it all up.Between battles, players come across treasure chests, which provide juicy power-ups to whoever gets there first. There are around 15 possibilities: one turns the character into a giant more powerful version of themselves, another provides a doppelgänger to fight alongside you.Brilliantly, some chests provide either a good or an evil option; go for the latter and you'll get to select another member of your squad and curse them. The result will be some unfortunate impediment, like a black cloud that hangs over the character, sucking up all their gold. However, whoever has the cloud can get rid of it by touching another player, so the whole thing becomes a chaotic game of cloud tag.At the end of each stage, players get to choose between a boss battle and a mini-game – they're both fantastic fun. In the former category, there's a giant clockwork beetle, a Hobbe king who shoots Hobbes at you out of a shotgun, and a sentinel from Fable 3. Players also get the option to play through all eight levels in a harder nighttime mode, complete with trickier versions of the end-of-level encounters.This mode will include one last surprise character – a series favourite, apparently – who'll provide the ultimate Fable boss battle. "It's going to make every fan boy's head explode," says Timmins. I ask if it's Peter Molyneux. "We did talk about that," he laughs. "But we thought, well, he's given us the keys to the franchise, maybe we shouldn't. However, he does feature in the last level, I'll tell you that much."Mini-games meanwhile, feature the likes of Kicking Chickens, where you have to avoid explosive poultry by booting them at other players. There's also Chicken Football, and a mine cart level where you hammer a button to hurtle along the rails. These frantic, ultra competitive bouts provide an entertaining distraction – and once completed, they're available to play separately from the main menu. Just right for those quick multiplayer face-offs.At the end of each stage, players are taken to a board game table, where gold coins are transferred into dice rolls. Here, each space you land on provides a different power-up, ranging from new finishing moves to more damaging weapons, greater speed and even funnier facial expressions. Apparently, this system somehow combines with in-game achievements to create infinite power-up possibilities – though Timmins won't say how. More will become clear at E3 no doubt.There is also set to be some interplay with the Kinect spinoff Fable: The Journey, which will be released after Heroes. Apparently, any coins you earn in Heroes can be imported into Journey so you're able to level up your character before you even start. Alternatively, if you have a Journey game save on your HD, you can open up exclusive items and characters in Heroes. Plus, every doll you unlock in Heroes shows up in your inventory in Journey, so you can then hang it on your in-game cart.Heroes is a fantastic little surprise that looks set to pitch the hectic fun of Castle Crashers and its ilk into the rich Fable universe. Timmins hinted to me that if it's a success, we may well see similar spin-offs in the future. This year it's frenetic Gauntlet-style dungeon romping; next year a Fable FPS, perhaps? Or how about ... Fable tennis?
Microsoft has revealed intriguing details of Halo 4's multiplayer mode. For the first time in the series, players will be able to customise the abilities and equipment of multiplayer characters through a progression system.Furthermore, developer 343 Industries – which has taken over the Halo franchise after the departure of its creator, Bungie Studios – has hinted that there may be some kind of social gaming service akin to Battlelog or Call of Duty: Elite. There could also be some kind of narrative element to multiplayer.Fans of the series may also be interested to note that the classic Battle rifle is back. The familiar pulse weapon looks set to be restored to its powerful specifications from the first Halo titles.Speaking at the Xbox Showcase event in San Francisco last week, creative director Josh Holmes told reporters: "You, as a player, have the ability to customise all aspects of your Spartan warrior – and not just cosmetically. For the first time in a Halo title, you can actually change gameplay-impacting components. This allows you to customise load outs and gives you gameplay enhancements that can be unlocked through the progression system."In an interview with the Guardian later on, executive producer Kiki Wolfkill explained that 343 Industries had been looking at trends in the first-person genre, and had recognised the need to provide a more adapable and personalised multiplayer experience."We've looked at everything," she said. "Whether it's first-person multiplayer or third-person – some very interesting things have happenedthere. And if we've seen some interesting design elements, even if they weren't successful in another game, they may have sparked interest for us."When we look at our multiplayer, one of the things we've explored is, because Halo is about the sandbox, about people playing how they want to, how do we push that even further? How do we really support different play styles in Halo 4? There's always been a lot of choice in Halo, but it's about pushing that even further. It gets back to how do we allow players to choose the thing that supports the play style that makes them the most successful."The move toward a full character progression system will no doubt be controversial with Halo fans, and will be viewed as a shift in style toward first-person shooter rivals such as Call of Duty and Battlefield."The community should have some confidence that it's been thought through as a Halo game," said franchise development director Frank O'Connor. "The balance system has been considered as an intrinsic part the Halo feel. I'd like to tell people to be happy and confident and look forward to it, but I can't control that. We'll explain our decisions at a later date. It's been carefully considered."During a press briefing, Holmes also hinted that the infrastructure of the multiplayer mode is likely to evolve too, with changes to the lobby and matchmaking systems that suggest a more socially connected title. "We're really changing the experience surrounding multiplayer," he said. "We're providing a brand new experience for you and your friends to play, in a way you've never played Halo before."O'Connor was more specific in an interview later with the Guardian. "If you've ever played Geometry Wars on the Xbox, it shows you the top 10 players in the whole world – who are also your friends," he said. "This makes you feel more important and more succesful as a player than you actually are."It's all about contextualising. The number one rule of multiplayer game design is – everything is fun against a friend. Pong is fun against a friend! But it probably isn't against an anonymous random person. So socialising your multiplayer experience is the number one thing you have to do. It's something we'll be expanding on with Halo 4."Microsoft showed a couple of brief teaser videos revealing in-game visuals, and specifically two new Team Slayer maps: Warhouse and Wraparound."Warhouse is a civilian manufacturing plant that is in near space orbit around a gas giant," explained Holmes. "It's been commisioned for the creation of a new weapons platform, the Cyclops Mark 2." The massive Cyclops mech can be seen in a huge arena in the middle of the map, around which multilayered metal platforms provide an extremely vertical experience.Wraparound is a similarly small, arena-based map focused on the Team Slayer mode. "But this is a very different location," said Holmes. "This is solar facility that is generating the artificial sunlight, creating the light and energy that powers a planet."Again, the focus is on great circular flow around the outer areas. You've got multiple levels, there are drop down areas on the catwalks so you can quickly transition from level to level – and then there are circular hallways that go round the outer edge and then connect back, either on the sides or through these man cannons that launch players through the air into the central space."Both of these maps are designed for fast play and constant action – really intense combat."While the gameplay looked similar to Halo experiences of the past, the environments show an interesting visual diversity, ranging from grungey industrial tech to glowing hyper-advanced architecture."One of the opportunities we have with the environments within our multiplayer experience is to visit places that you've never seen before in the Halo universe," said Holmes. "We want to give you that wider view and show you places you my not encounter in the campaign. All the maps have been purpose-built for multiplayer – that gives us the optimal flow and balance."There has also been a suggestion that the Halo 4 multiplayer may contain narrative elements. In the past, the online experience has been somewhat separate from the story elements of the campaign mode. However, during a video in which interviews with several 343 Industries team members were featured, one suggested that the studio is creating a convicing reason why red Spartans fight blue Spartans."We really wanted to redefine what the multiplayer is," said Holmes. "We wanted something that is definitely Halo at its core, something with that classic feel, but that has evolved in important and innovative ways. We've created a combat that is much more fast-paced, more intense and visceral than anything you've experienced before from a Halo game."Lots of interesting information then, hinting at a multiplayer mode that will hark back to classic Halo (hence the Battle rifle and fast-paced combat), while recognising industry-wide additions to the genre, such as character progression and social frameworks. No doubt we'll discover more at this year's E3 event.• Halo 4 is due for release on Xbox 360 in winter 2012
Oke Okaro is global head of mobile at Bloomberg, having joined in 2010 from a similar role at ESPN. His job: to help fulfil the company's stated aim to deliver "essential news information and tools" for businesses and financial executives."That broad mission is platform-agnostic: we are committed to doing that across every platform, and doing it in a way that is optimal for each platform, including mobile," he says."Mobile is changing consumer expectations, changing the way people interact with content, and most importantly changing their expectations around that content."Since joining Bloomberg, Okaro has worked on the launch ofBusiness Week's iPad appin early 2011, as well as iPad appBloomberg TV+and iPhone appBloomberg Radio+later that year.One of the interesting features of the latter is the ability to see biographies of radio guests, market data and charts as they are referenced during a show or interview on the screen, while listening."It makes sense because it enriches the experience in a way that's very natural," says Okaro. "We are connecting both worlds [radio and app] in a very organic way, and I think quite frankly that in the future this is how radio and television will be consumed."Ah, second-screen apps, although Okaro uses the term "companion experiences" – an area he has been exploring since his days at ESPN. He sees great potential in this, particularly if what's happening on the second screen is "programmed" to synchronise with what the user is watching or listening to."You'll have someone on the air who's using an interactive tool to provide a specific perspective or point, and you'll be able to do this yourself if you have the product," he says."These tools are going to be transportable across platforms, and the companion screen is going to be a very important screen, if you have programmed a companion experience to complement the show."One benefit these apps are having for Bloomberg is to extend the company's reach – Okaro says that 40% of the people who use the Bloomberg TV+ app are new to the service, rather than existing viewers on other platforms.The company has also been running surveys and digging into the data provided by usage of its apps to gauge what features people are using most, and how this might affect the apps' evolution in the coming months.A key lesson: "What people really want is greater personal relevance from a content experience: they want the ability to more effectively tailor the experience to meet their specific needs," says Okaro."With the amount of content that we have on the news, data and tools sides, certain combinations of that make sense with different audiences. One size fits all does not work, especially on smartphones when people want to get to what they care about very quickly and easily."The Bloomberg Radio+ app shows charts and biographies while people listenBloomberg is not purely focused on apps when it comes to mobile: its mobile website is thriving. That's due to a deliberate strategy of focusing just as much on mobile web as on native apps, as Okaro explains."We think it is essential to have content across every device, and we can do that by having a great mobile website," says Oke Okaro, global head of mobile at Bloomberg."Then we see a role for apps to give us another point of discovery in terms of being in the app stores, and also to deliver an experience that is slightly richer than you can provide in a mobile website. We think that both will co-exist."In fact, they are already. Okaro says that Bloomberg currently sees 7.8m unique users across its mobile products every month, with 3m of those coming from apps.He outlines why the mobile website attracts so much traffic, starting with search. "Whenever anyone runs a search on a mobile device and taps on a link from Bloomberg.com, it brings them to the mobile website, and whenever someone taps on a link that has been shared on Twitter, we bring up the mobile website," he says."And, of course, if you go to Bloomberg.com from the browser, you get the mobile website. There are a number of ways people discover content, and the content available in apps is not yet being indexed in the same way as the web is being indexed. You have to have a great mobile web experience."When it comes to native apps, Bloomberg prioritises platforms based on their overall scale, and their critical mass among its audience – in the latter case, that critical mass may be current, or Bloomberg may believe it will happen in the future, and wants to get in early.Over time, Okaro believes that any debate about native apps versus mobile web will fade away, as companies get smarter about targeting both. "It's all about reaching your audience in whichever way your audience chooses to consume your content," he says."Over time, the two worlds will coincide. People will end up with about 80% of their app being built in HTML5, and the rest being built in native, which will make going from one platform to the next a much more palatable process."That may spell good news for Windows Phone-owning Bloomberg users. Okaro says he is very impressed by Nokia's latest Lumia smartphones, and Microsoft's work on the Windows Phone user interface."I like Nokia's hardware, and I think both Nokia and Microsoft are clearly committed to this," he says. "There are some things it doesn't support today, like fast-switching between apps and various other things they'll need to address. But I think it's going to do very well."
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 3 MarchPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)SSX (3+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)12 (4)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (35)Wii (5)PSP (4)233 (–)Mario Party 9 (3+)Wii (100)14 (1)Uncharted: Golden Abyss(16+)PS Vita (100)25 (6)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (60)3DS (39)146 (3)UFC Undisputed 3(15+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (44)37 (8)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (42)PC (3)Wii (3)178 (2)Fifa Football(3+)PS Vita (100)29 (–)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (45)PC (3)1510 (9)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (37)PC (12)1911 (7)Syndicate(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (32)PC (5)212 (–)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (48)1113 (12)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (34)PC (16)1714 (16)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (82)Xbox 360 (14)PS3 (4)4915 (10)Final Fantasy XIII-2(16+)PS3 (53)Xbox 360 (45)516 (5)Rayman Origins(7+)PS Vita (51)Xbox 360 (22)PS3 (15)Wii (11)917 (14)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (80)Xbox 360 (17)PS3 (2)2118 (20)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (33)1619 (–)Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception(15+)PS3 (100)920 (19)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (40)16UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
The most important thing to realise about Your Shape: Fitness Evolved 2012 is that it's not a game. It's firmly aimed at people who want to exercise, so (unsurprisingly) I wouldn't recommend it if that's not on your agenda. It's not designed for having fun with your friends at parties, or for playing alone – it's designed for training, not for play.The imaginatively-titled successor to Your Shape: Fitness Evolved, it's an expanded, polished fitness experience that makes good use of the Kinect's capabilities. The tracking for the most part is superb, the product is bright and fresh, and it does what it can to offer a personalised training solution for people who just need a quick home exercise programme with buckets of motivational incentives attached.From the home screen, you're given a wide choice of activities. A substantial amount of effort has gone into designing a comprehensive series of exercise routines to work different areas of the body, including some vital floor exercises. The routines let you target abs, legs, arms and so on with varying levels of intensity, but the Kinect does occasionally get a little confused about where you are on the floor exercises – especially to begin with, because you'll have to keep turning your head to check your form on the screen.Then there are series of interesting classes to get you doing various kinds of dance – Latin, Bollywood, hip hop and so on – as well as cardio boxing and yoga. Though the exercises start out fairly simple and limited, the exercises progress to get you to learn the moves, string them together and speed them up, though the limitations of the Kinect and the follow-my-leader approach mean you're unlikely to reach fluency using Your Shape alone.There are also short running-on-the-spot exercises that have your avatar running through minimalist, deconstructed versions of London and New York, giving you short intense burst challenges and distracting you with information about your virtual surroundings. They're good if you're the sort of person who doesn't fancy going for a run – or if it's freezing cold and chucking it down outside – but the shine quickly wears off and they don't feel like they've been designed for repeated or long-term play.For the most part, the activities don't come with much pretense at gameplay. Instead, they come with cheery coaching from trainers, regular state changes so you don't get too bored doing the same things over and over again, and buckets of good form rewards, medals, points, achievements, encouragement and reinforcement. This is gamified exercise, not gaming – which is fine, if you find these sorts of rewards motivating – and it's a very, very slick implementation.Having said that, there are a few entertaining mini-games that bring some play into the experience. My personal favourite is Wall Breaker, a simple block breaker where you use your fists and legs to smash bricks that appear on the screen, and twist to dodge the occasional mine. It's no coincidence that this is by far the activity I've done the most – it's well designed, responsive and intuitive, and it's possible to get into a genuine flow state, anticipating where the next block will appear and moving to intercept. It's fun, and it'd still be fun if I hated exercise and didn't care about achievements.Your Shape: Fitness Evolved 2012 isn't a replacement for a serious exercise routine. If you just want to move around for a few more minutes each day, it's a useful aid to help you do so – but if you want to seriously build strength or lose weight, this isn't going to give you the support you need. You can set up exercise goals when you first log in, working towards one of several frustratingly vague options, whereupon the game will recommend time goals, calorie goals and some exercises for you to focus on.But exercises you do in other areas won't count at all towards your goals. You can do one or two things over and over in order to score your points, so it's very easy to avoid a balanced routine. And Your Shape: Fitness Evolved 2012 doesn't provide any detailed information about how to seriously get fit, stay healthy, lose weight or build muscle, so there's nothing within the game to explain why that imbalance might be a bad idea.The biggest issue I had with the game – from both a health and a gaming perspective – is the points system, which uses an estimate of calories burned. At the most basic level, this means that if your goal is to increase flexibility and energy levels with yoga, the system feels unbalanced – you can be working very hard at a personal level, but the game's extrinsic motivation just doesn't match up. At a deeper level, cheery instructors telling me to "bash those nasty calories away" at the end of an exercise just doesn't feel right.If you're exercising to lose weight, maybe that makes sense (though if you've only burned six calories in a two-minute stretching exercise, it feels unnecessary). If you're exercising to build muscle or strength, there are times when you should be eating more, not less, food – so demonising calories is counterproductive. Either way, diet makes a much bigger difference to fat loss than exercise does – and once again, the game alone doesn't give you the information you need to understand that.So – if you want something simple and light that'll work around a busy schedule, it's great. As home fitness products go, it's certainly one of the best. It's absorbing, interesting and fun in parts, and if you're the sort of person who gets a kick out of medals, points and progress reports then you'll certainly enjoy the framework it offers. But if you're looking for a fun Kinect game with a getting-fit side-effect, or a comprehensive exercise routine with serious results, Your Shape Fitness Evolved 2012 is not quite there.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
A selection of 23 new apps for you today:Tesco Photo Free Mobile Print ShopGetting your iPhone photos printed down your local Tesco supermarket? There's now an app for that. It ties into the Tesco Photo cloud service too, so pictures can be stored and shared, while also ordering prints from 120 Tesco Photo centres around the UK.iPhoneOverSkreen: Floating BrowserThe latest web browser for Android tablets is OverSkreen, which floats its web-windows on top of the screen, hovering over other apps. And yes, that means multiple windows on the screen at once, too.AndroidRokuThis Android app turns a smartphone into a remote control for connected set-top box Roku, launching and rating channels. It can also work with multiple Rokus, switching between them at will.AndroidHouse of FraserRetailer House of Fraser has launched an iPhone app offering more than 1,000 designer brands to browse, with gift and wish list features, a store finder, and the ability to scan products in-store to find out more about them.iPhoneUSA Today for iPhoneAmerican newspaper USA Today has relaunched its iPhone app, now with updates throughout the day to cover breaking news, sports scores, weather and other content.iPhoneRemiix Mixmag: New HorizonsMusic technology firm Liine has teamed up with Richie Hawtin (aka Plastikman) and dance music magazine Mixmag for this iOS remix app, which serves up a selection of emerging artists' songs to loop and warp.iPhone / iPadToilet GenieThere is no better way to put this: Toilet Genie brings gamification to age-old arguments about whether men remember to put the toilet seat down after urinating. It's an app that awards points for lid-closing. How? A wireless sensor stuck to the bottom of the toilet seat, and a Toilet Genie base station plugged into the Wi-Fi router. Which, frankly, sounds more complicated than simply threatening divorce.iPhoneSquare RegisterUS mobile payments startup Square has a new iPad app for retailers, which helps them organise their inventory and accept credit card payments using its card reader peripheral.iPadDungeon VillageJapanese games developer Kairosoft has applied its simulation-game formula to roleplaying games. Well, sort of. Your task is to turn a "humble hamlet into a mecca for the land's most ambitious adventurers", so you're building a town rather than actually slaying monsters yourself.AndroidARnav betaThis is one to keep an eye on: an augmented-reality navigation app for Android, out in beta, which "simplifies navigation to Points of Interests". It uses OpenStreetMap data.AndroidAppoday"Just like Groupon but for Apps &amp; Games" claims the App Store listing for this new app – something that's been tried before by startups like Free App A Day. The idea here: daily deals and discounts on iPhone apps. It's the work of the former CEO of Outfit7, the company behind the ubiquitous Talking Tom Cat.iPhoneCrosswa.lkApple has just bought app-recommendations app Chomp, which either makes this an amazing or a dreadful time to launch a rival. Already available as a website, Crosswa.lk is now an app too, using "data from your friends, family, opinion leaders, and your personal app choices" to suggest new apps you might like.iPhoneSmall StreetGlu Mobile's latest freemium game is (a bit) like a horizontal Tiny Tower, as you build a town of shops, restaurants and apartments while matching citizens to specific jobs. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadBlackjack/Ninja Royale/Putt Putt PenguinJapanese mobile social games network Mobage is expanding globally, having already supported a series of Android games with its platform. Now Mobage itself has released three iPhone games: Blackjack, Ninja Royale and Putt Putt Penguin, which all include its community.iPhone / iPadFanatix for iPadFanatix started life as an iPhone "social messaging platform for sports fans", but now has an iPad version. It connects your Facebook and Twitter accounts with global sports matches, so you can chat to friends and other fans about what you're watching.iPadMy A-ZThere are many flash cards apps available for kids, but this is one of the most creative. It lets you and/or your children create the card for each letter of the alphabet, taking photos and recording audio of the people, places and objects that your child recognises.iPhoneThe Drop OutBouncy cartoon-physics puzzler The Drop Out has bags of character, as you rescue a succession of hapless furry critters from imprisonment across a varied bunch of levels.iPhone50 Easiest ever Italian recipesUK-based Olive Magazine has launched a new iPad app promising to help even novice chefs whip up a tasty Italian meal in their kitchens. Each recipe comes with a full-screen photo, ingredients list and step-by-step instructions.iPadWhat's the Expression for iOSThis is the latest iOS app aimed at children with autism. In this case, it wants to help them recognise emotions including Happy, Angry, Tired, Surprised and Sneaky, by looking at virtual characters.iPhone / iPadHeist: The ScoreThis is a good-looking on-rails shooter based on a 1920s bank robbery in Prohibition-era America. Spiffing 3D visuals are partnered with motion-captured cut scenes to move the story on.AndroidRegusRegus, a provider of temporary offices, has a new Android app, helping people search its global database of business centres, get directions to them, book meeting rooms and day offices, and share the details with contacts.Android
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid 'Key Lime Pie' comes after Jelly Bean &gt;&gt; The VergeWe've been tipped by a reliable source today that Google will be using the name "Key Lime Pie" for the version of Android that comes after Jelly Bean.That's the version after the version that hasn't yet been officially announced, and after the one that has just started to appear on devices.Microsoft v Google: How not to win friends and influence people | The EconomistBad lobbying:The latest seminar was a textbook example of how not to lobby. ICOMP invited Christopher Graham, Britain's information commissioner, and Georgina Nelson, a lawyer with Which?, a consumer-rights group, to give the event a veneer of respectability. But the aim of the evening seemed to be to give Pamela Jones Harbour, a former commissioner at the Federal Trade Commission, a platform from which to attack Google.Not very subtle. The smart thing would be for Google to apply to join ICOMP. If it gets rejected, that pretty much shows ICOMP up as biased. If it gets in, it can try to adjust the agenda. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Anonymous, decentralized and uncensored filesharing is booming &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakTheRetroSharenetwork allows people to create a private and encrypted file-sharing network. Users add friends by exchanging PGP certificates with people they trust. All the communication is encrypted using OpenSSL and files that are downloaded from strangers always go through a trusted friend. In other words, it's a true Darknet and virtually impossible to monitor by outsiders. RetroShare founder DrBob told us that while the software has been around since 2006, all of a sudden there's been a surge in downloads. "The interest in RetroShare has massively shot up over the last two months," he said.It's serverless, so it's like Limewire and other decentralised networks. But the PGP swapping is going to be a big hurdle; this isn't going to get big in a hurry.Retina display Macs, iPads, and HiDPI: Doing the Math &gt;&gt; TUAWRichard Gaywood does the maths. You may be surprised at the Apple non-phone that in effect already has a retina display; and the non-Apple product which does too.Why Google+ doesn't care if you never come back &gt;&gt; TechCrunchIsn't it curious that Google+ doesn't actually show you any ads? It's because the time-on-site and page views there are trivial. Hit the road, Jack. Don't you ever come back and post an update, upload a photo, or add anyone to your Circles. It doesn't matter. What's important to Google is getting your biographical data.Logically consistent.Our comments policy &gt;&gt; Hacker NewsWe like this:The test for substance is a lot like it is for links. Does your comment teach us anything? There are two ways to do that: by pointing out some consideration that hadn't previously been mentioned, and by giving more information about the topic, perhaps from personal experience. Whereas comments like "LOL!" or worse still, "That's retarded!" teach us nothing. Empty comments can be ok if they're positive. There's nothing wrong with submitting a comment saying just "Thanks." What we especially discourage are comments that are empty and negative--comments that are mere name-calling.Interactive demo: how sites track you across the net &gt;&gt; CollusionHTML5 demo showing how you get tracked by cookies across various sites. Available as a downloadable add-on for Firefox. More than a little creepy:If you haven't realized it yet, companies are tracking you across most of the sites you visit daily on the web. It's quite likely that these companies know more about you than your government. Some of them might even know more about you than your best friends.Sony's Comeback &gt;&gt; Seeking AlphaDerek Cheung, money manager of Honny LP:The screen of the Xperia has the same resolution as the iPhone 4s (330 pixels per square inch)! That's one of the iPhone's biggest selling points, and something to this day unmatched by phones like the Samsung Galaxy S2. The Sony's aluminum body gives it the best build quality of all Android phones. Believe me when I say that this is going to take share of mind.Let us know how things are going if Derek is managingyourmoney. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Google Music Losing Users Weekly &gt;&gt; Wayne's WorldWayne Rosso:According to a highly placed digital music executive, Google Music has actually been losing customers week over week-consistently-since it's launch last November. "I've never seen anything like it", the source said."It's astounding. It's hard to believe that with an install base of over 200 million Android handsets they're actually losing customers." Evidently some label execs are very concerned that things are so bad at Google Music that the mothership might just decide to pull the plug on the whole service, except for the geniuses at Warner Music who have refused to license it. The thinking is that the industry needs for Google Music to be successful so that the whole sector prospers. A failure of Google Music would be perceived as a setback and, of course, a loss of much-needed revenue for the labels.Rosso has tended to have an inside track from the music industry, so this is worth noting. Unlikely that Google would pull the plug - there's always the chance of a miracle - but comments suggest that Amazon's music locker does it better.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
It's Monday again! How did you spend your weekend? Gaming I hope! Well, stay on the blog until at least 2pm today – I was at the Xbox Showcase last week and that's when the news embargo lifts...
On Wednesday 29 February, Microsoft released the consumer preview edition of Windows 8. Duly I downloaded it and set it up as my main development machine. You want to know about the first day?Running Windows 8Screenshot by Matthew Baxter-Reynolds. Click for larger version on Flickr.Some rights reservedThis is what the Start screen really looks like – a big mess of grey-ish tiles, not the wonderful active ones you see in the adverts (and the picture at the top).I've been lucky in the timing of this release in that all of the projects I'm working on for customers are devoid of any weird stuff, and I've been able to get everything up and running on Windows 8 without any bother at all. Visual Studio 2008 and 2012, SQL Server 2008 R2, various components and bits and pieces need to support my apps. All installed, all building and running with no drama at all.It's almost been too easy.Since installing, I've learnt to regard Windows 8 as being two operating systems. One part I've been thinking of as Windows 7.1. The "classic desktop" bits of Windows 8 is just Windows 7, minus the Start orb, with a new theme to replace Aero. This part is frankly superb. I can't remember the last time I used a beta version of a Microsoft OS and had it work this well six or seven months ahead of RTM [release to manufacture, when the code is final]. Hence I'm thinking of this as Windows 7.1 – it's really just a service pack. You could actually roll this part out and use it quite happily.But what about that flashy Start screen? That works really nicely as well, and it should do because although that looks like it's part of the new Metro-style gubbins, it's not. What's happened there is that the Windows team has made the regular Start menu a full screen affair so although it looks like a Metro app, it's not. You can see this for yourself – open Task Manager, look in the "App history" tab and you won't find an app that maps to the Start screen. Also, if you kill off the Explorer.exe process, you'll lose the Start screen. Restart Explorer.exe and you'll see the Start screen reloading.Screenshot by Matthew Baxter-Reynolds. Click for larger version on Flickr.Some rights reservedThe Windows 8 Task Manager showing running Metro-style apps, of which a Start menu one is not there, because that's not a Metro-style app. It just looks a lot like one.There's precedent for this – Microsoft has been changing and enhancing the behaviour of the Start menu for years. All they've done on Windows 8 is Metro-ified it.The "hot corners" of the OS work really well as well, but again these are implemented by extensions to Explorer and the windowing subsystem components of Windows.The Metro-style apps are, in comparison, rubbish.Built-in appsIt would be unfair of me to be too harsh about the quality of the built-in apps on Windows 8; it's a beta version at least half a year away from release. As a software engineer, I can intuitively "feel" the quality of the built-in apps; and it's early days. The difference in quality between the Windows 7.1 bits and the Metro-style bits tells something about the engineering – namely, that Windows 7 is a very solid base that's required some relatively minor changes, and that most of the engineering effort has gone into building the infrastructure to support Metro-style apps.Day-to-day, I use a virtual machine for Windows development but use a Mac for everything else. (This is another reason why I've been able to move over to Windows 8 as a primary machine rather than having to run it on a secondary machine kicking around the office.) On the Mac I run mail, Google's Chrome browser, TweetDeck, and a few other bits and pieces. I have two monitors – and I typically run Visual Studio on the main monitor and everything else on the secondary. If I'm coding away in Visual Studio and receive an email, I'll turn my head to the second monitor, bring the mail app to the foreground and off I go.Screenshot by Mattthew Baxter-Reynolds. Click for larger version on Flickr.Some rights reservedThe weather app, Metro-style. Because what could be more convenient than a handful of data points taking up the entire view on an OS that's had 20 years of practice at showing windows of information.One of the things that Apple has been been criticised about on the iPad is that you have to jump in and out of apps to do anything. There's a very thunk … thunk … thunk context switch to using an iPad. That's nothing compared to life in a world where you've got a classic desktop and Metro-style.When running Windows 8 today I've pretended I'm not using a Mac. I've run VMware Fusion in full-screen, multi-monitor mode. First thing you notice is that both monitors get a taskbar. That's really confusing. But the reason becomes clear because if you open up the Windows 8 mail app – BLAM! – the thing takes over the whole of the primary monitor, obscuring the taskbar. The classic desktop remains running on the secondary monitor, with a taskbar. Click on anything on the secondary monitor and – SHOOM! – the mail app disappears because Windows thinks you've dropped out of Metro-style.Screenshot by Matthew Baxter-Reynolds. Click for larger version on Flickr.Some rights reservedTwo taskbars? Well, yes. You want information needlessly duplicated. Didn't you know that?What this does for you as you use it is a whole world of "wait … what?!" Trying to deal with Windows when your driving results in it flipping between classic Windows and Metro-style app is like having someone sneak up behind you and flick you on the ear when you're least expecting it. This massive context switching of "YOU'RE IN WINDOWS WAIT NO NO YOU'RE NOT!" creates an appalling user experience.What we've managed to get here is a very, very fast way of switching between two entirely different operating systems, in much the same way that we used to have to quit Windows to run Lotus 1-2-3. Rather than it taking enough time for us to sit at our desks and have a quick cigarette (the way I assume it was done in the 80s, although for full disclosure I wouldn't actually know), it's really fast now. Progress!What is it?I keep thinking of the episode of Red Dwarf where Kryten gets turned into a human. There's a scene where Kryten is trying to get used to the capabilities of his new body. At one point, Lister can see this isn't going to end well, turns to him and says: "You're neither one thing or the other." I think the reason why this scene occurs to me is that Kryten desperately wanting to be human gives up the things that make him an android andwillmake the proposition fit – consquences be damned. That describes to me pretty accurately what this version of Windows is.What we have then is a line item in Microsoft's product catalogue called Windows 8 that's either a hybrid of Windows 7.1 and an as-yet-unnamed operating system, or a bastardisation of both those things. Whatever the non-Windows 7.1 bits of Windows 8 are, it's sure as hell not Windows. At present, I'm not sure which word is fair. "Hybrid" implies a thought-through combination of the best of features from Column A and from Column B. "Bastardisation" implies a slapping together of mismatched features to achieve a level of supreme clunkiness.This indeed is some of my problem with the whole arrangement. I could probably get used to the "wait … what?" aspects of using Windows 8; after all it's only been a day and clearly this stuff has been thought through. But if I think back over the past few months to all of the clever, clever people that I know and trust who've built careers on watching Microsoft there isn't really a sense of calm. What there is is things like Paul Thurrott tweeting thatyou won't be able to join a WOA tablet to a domain.For the uninitiated, "joining a domain" is the process that sysadmins go through to take ownership of a PC. It allows them to, among other things, apply security policies to the devices. This is one of the things that makes (or made?) BlackBerrys so popular in enterprises. The sysadmins had ultimate control over those devices, as although they might not own them in a "nine tenths of the law" sense, they owned them in a "do whatever they like to them" sense. This sort of thing gives sysadmins warm fluffy feelings and allows them to sleep peacefully at night.Lost your handset? No problem – encryption and remote-wipe is standard. Microsoft-watchers, myself included, had expected WOA tablets to have the ability to join domains, primarily so that sysadmins could have the same restful sleep advantage as they do with BlackBerry. So the announcement comes out that you can't and – well, we've seen this, it's "wait … what?" again. Everything I know about managing intelligent devices on a private network tells me that these thingsneedto be joined to a domain.Thing is, we have the same thing over with Metro on the desktop. We're told it's all going to be fine and dandy but yet sit anyone with any experience down at that thing and the "BLAM! … SWOOSH!" aspects of running classic and Metro-style make this crazy to use on a PC. Yet we're being told to believe in Sinofsky that is all fine, and all logical (although now I think about it, we're being told thatbySinofsky), despite the fact that you can touch Metro on the desktop at it and just feel it doesn't work. It feels like it's haunted by theghost of Microsoft Bob.Prior to running Metro on a desktop I'd rationalised away the need to join WOA tablets to a domain. "It's fine," I told myself. "These devices are more – ahem – 'personal' than a PC. It's not necessary." Today I don't think that – I think not letting WOA tablets join a domain is a misstep What's changed? Well, now because I've seen the way Metro works on the desktop I know Microsoft is capable of making mistakes in its execution of Windows 8 as an iPad competitor. On Monday, Sinofsky's fine shoes looked sturdy. Today, I'm wondering if they're encasing feet of clay.I have a tablet over here, albeit an Intel-based rather than a nice ARM-based one, and the story is better. If you pretend it's an iPad, or even alarge Windows Phoneit's actually OK. It's slick enough, they keyboard is much improved, the targets are big enough to click. It's a good iPad clone. But it's rough – very rough, though not too rough for it to be given a "beta" label. And I suspect it'll work fine because a WOA tablet will be just one thing – it won't have this broken desktop/Metro thing going on. I'm confident WOA will turn out to be an adequate iPad-clone, providing the market stays still enough for WOA to find a way into it – but that's a story for another time.My prediction: no one will ever make sense of trying to run Metro-style and classic apps together on a PC. The PC will remain the PC and will remain the domain of the classic desktop. There's a reason we stopped dropping out of Windows to run Lotus 1-2-3.Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is the keynote speaker at the firstWindows 8 Conflabbeing held in London on 18 April.
Jonathan Freedland falls for the Google story that it can "join the dots of its users' electronic lives" (Our digital masters must themselves be watched, 2 March). If it can, it makes a pretty poor job of it. One of the subjects of my own research is "Longueville Clarke", and over many years Google has systematically failed to home in on the name, but churns out myriads of hits for "Clarke" and "Longueville". It offers the total irrelevancy of a chancer. I have on occasion made an online booking for a B&amp;B in Devon. If I trawl for "Longueville Clarke" and "Cumberland" (he was there in 1817) the first thing Google presents is a B&amp;B site in Cumbria. What sort of joining up is that? If Google were to go into the business of spying on its users it would only make a mess of homing in on the connections it has imposed on them, as opposed to those that might be meaningful for the sort of surveillance Freedland is concerned about.Stephen MassilLondon• Maybe Google's activity extends further than Jonathan Freedland describes. I posted a blog, which mentioned my hearing aids, using Google. Shortly afterwards a comment was left by Hearing Aid Reviews, advertising their products. Pop-up ads are one thing; invading blogs I consider an invasion of privacy.David FielkerLondon• Given the concern about Google, should we not question what information Steve Hilton may have been able to access via his wife, who holds "a senior post at Google" (Report, 3 March)?Name and address supplied
It haslaunched Obama's re-election campaign, hostedpowerful protest blogsand propelled hip young fashionistas and artists to fame and fortune. Blogging platformTumblr– created by 25-year-old David Karp five years ago, and now valued at close to £500m – could be called Facebook's quietly prodigious cousin. Less showy, less of a brand and less well-known than its peers but quietly, doggedly keeping pace with them all: Tumblr now garners around 14bn page views a month, more than Wikipedia and more, even, than Twitter.A Tumblr page is a blank canvas. A post can be a picture, a song, a link, a video. Many of the most successful never post prose. The essence of a Tumblr blog, or "tumblelog", is freedom for self-expression. A great Tumblr post is reblogged again and again; it tumbles across continents and generations. No surprise then that tumblr is&nbsp;a new proving ground for aspiring writers, artists and comedians.Most comic content on Tumblr is in picture or video form. Clips and snaps of captioned cats and clothed dogs abound, as do photoshopped images and the latest instalments of ever-evolving online memes. The best make it on to the site's"LOL" feed, selected by Tumblr's 25-strong panel of "LOL" editors. All the editors are bloggers, and around half work as comedians or comedy writers. Some have hundreds of thousands of Twitter followers.For most users, Tumblr is an end in itself. Many funny tumblelogs – Garfield without Garfield, People Who, Hungover Owls – have become books and many tumbleloggers have gone on to becomewriters for TV. But most maintain their presence on Tumblr because it connects them directly with their audience.For the comedian, Tumblr, like Twitter, provides fast, quantifiable feedback. The number of times a post is liked or reblogged tells the poster precisely how funny they've just been. It's like being on stage as a standup – but with a 24-hour global audience. Like standups, some tumblelogs play to silence, some find a cult audience and the best are seen by millions: the digital equivalent of an arena tour. The arena-fillers tend to riff on a simple theme: why does Nick Clegg look sad? How do gullible conservatives react toThe Onion? What might this cat be saying? Any list that purports to collect "the funniest" anything will amuse and enrage in equal measure. Lovers of omitted contenders, and haters of those included, will howl in indignation. Apologies in advance. Here, nonetheless, is a pick of 10 of the funniest.Notes to My Future HusbandThis one might be a little divisive. Notes To My Future Husband tends to provoke howls of recognition from women but – speaking from personal experience – can just as often induce in men a short and embarrassing guilty silence. Not just a place to come and laugh then – also a place for serially bad boyfriends to come and learn something. By category: "GIRLFRIENDS – Treat mine well. They know more about you than you can possibly imagine." "BACON – Bring home the bacon. Literally. I love bacon. That shit is delicious."People WhoA guide to the worst people in the world as identified by their actions. This website may be the most important and comprehensive manual of contemporary manners and morality we have. If you manage to read to the end without once thinking "I'm one of those people" then odds are you're doing OK at life. At the very least, don't be one of the people "who sit at library computers for hours but never seem to leave Facebook", "repeatedly shout out the same incorrect word during Pictionary", or, worst of all, "start the standing ovation".I Love ChartsThis combines the plain hilarious with the simply fascinating. Taking entries from all over the internet and beyond, an ILC post can be anything from a 19th-century pie chart to a hand-drawn Venn diagram, and will almost always raise either a laugh or an eyebrow. For people who see the funny in a&nbsp;bar chart titled "Frequency of Lying" that spikes at "I have read and agreed to the Terms of Service," or a colour-coded map of the US titled: "Classification of young American females according to Brian Wilson".Literally UnbelievableOK, so it's not strictly a Tumblr. Literally Unbelievable chronicles the po-faced responses of gullible Facebook users to articles from satirical newspaper the Onion, providing both a dose of funny and a feeling of superiority. One classic, from a user responding to an article titled "Brain-Dead Teen, Only Capable Of Rolling Eyes And Texting, To Be Euthanized": "You need to contact your congressman and tell him to put a stop to this. Why isn't the media covering this?" We can only hope the congressman contacted took it as seriously.Clients From HellThis one's strictly for the computer-literate. If you know your PDFs from your JPEGs, it's a riot. If you don't, you're likely to end up cringing in self-recognition. It collects email, phone and text exchanges between freelancers and their dim-witted clients, with most of the humour centring around the misguided requests of the digitally challenged. Case in point: "I've decided on the photos that I would like you to use on the website. They are attached to this email. Please send them back when you're finished as they are my only copies. Thanks!"Nick Clegg Looking SadDownhearted deputy PM Nick Clegg may be the defining image of&nbsp;the coalition but what really makes this Tumblr is its captions. Each post is a miniature masterclass in observational comedy. Favourites include: "Nick Clegg pressed '300' instead of '30' at the cash machine and now he has to carry loads of money around," and "Nick Clegg said something stupid as a joke, but then someone pointed out how stupid it was as though it wasn't a joke, and now everyone thinks he's stupid and it's too late to say it was a joke all along."Animals Doing People ThingsThis one's for the non-readers. With&nbsp;no captions or speech bubbles on the images,&nbsp;this self-explanatory blog offers laughs at a glance. Just don't be surprised to wake from a half-hour trance having clicked through every one of its 42 pages. Typical posts include a miniature schnauzer at a desk, a&nbsp;husky pup in glasses peering over a well-pawed novel and a crab with a cigarette. Oh, and so many waving bears that you will begin to wonder whether they are actually waving to&nbsp;each&nbsp;other.Hungover OwlsJournalist J Patrick Brown struck gold combining the things we say when we're hungover with, well, owls. It turns out that when an owl squints, stares, hunches or just closes its eyes it bears a striking resemblance to a drinker on the morning after the night before. The crude and sweary captions should be achingly familiar to anyone who has ever woken up with – as Withnail puts it – a bastard behind the eyes. Classic line: "If I can get more than half of my costume off by noon, then today counts as&nbsp;a&nbsp;victory."Garfield Minus GarfieldThe name says it all. Garfield Minus Garfield strips the cat out of the comic strip, leaving nothing but three panels of a lonely Jon Arbuckle. In the words of the site's creator, Dan Walsh: "It is a journey deep into the mind of an isolated young everyman as he fights a losing battle against loneliness and depression in a quiet American suburb." Rarely laugh-out-loud funny, but there's something inherently comic about a recurring&nbsp;cartoon-cat-shaped lacuna. Even Garfield's original creator is a&nbsp;fan.Food On My DogIn comedy, the simplest ideas tend&nbsp;to be the best: what if I skip&nbsp;with my arms by my sides? What if, instead of four candles, I want fork handles? Or, as in this case, what if I put food on my dog's&nbsp;head? The makers of this Tumblr do just that with their faithful and patient four-legged friend Tiger, posting a new photo&nbsp;with a new piece of food-based headwear every&nbsp;day. Recent&nbsp;choices include a&nbsp;fortune cookie, an onion and a stick of candy floss. Tiger is fine with it,&nbsp;apparently.
Who are you? A collection of motley atoms, yes. An intelligently designed human, probably not. An accidental mammal evolved from a kind of ape, almost certainly yes. But what do you like? What do you think, or consume, or covet? And crucially, who cares?In real life, certain traits mark you out: your clothes, your hair, your choice of Mac or PC. You're easy to categorise into a tribe. And online you're increasingly even more textured, and more visible. And the people who care are not your friends or your mum, but people who sell things.Facebook is at the centre of the gold rush of marketing spend. Brands are piling on to the site, interacting with users and chummying up to potential customers. The brands are essentially "like"-farming. If you "like" their page, their news pops up on your news feed. The boundaries between personal and consumer are blurred.Frank Lampen, creative director at Independents United, a London-based agency that has pioneered the use of social media, says: "Rather than a top-down advertising model, it's about an interactive, engaging, two-way communication channel." His clients include Asos and Vue Cinemas, and their Facebook pages are buzzing with people sharing views on clothes or films. Asos, an online-only UK retailer, has 1.6m likes.Even these UK success stories are dwarfed by the big names. Up there in the top 20 liked pages, alongside Facebook itself and Rihanna and Lady Gaga, is Coca-Cola, which more than 40 million people officially "like". According to allfacebook.com, which tracks "likes", Jesus was in the top 10 risers last week. But the Messiah has a long way to go to be more liked than Coke, or Starbucks, or even Burger King.Facebook last week held a conference in San Francisco for the burgeoning industry of third-party experts – the marketers and geeks that big brands bring in to boost the buzz on their pages. Your pootling about in cyberspace is someone else's marketing dream. It's easy to see what's in it for brands. The potential reach of their message is huge, measurable and all wrapped in the cuddly Facebook terminology of all-round mateyness; what you are seeing are recommendations from your friends. It makes the old days of billboards look like open heart surgery with a chainsaw.It's not entirely simple, however. Facebook employs proximity measures, which look at how actively you engage with a brand, before allowing the news to migrate over to your newsfeed. Yes, they're watching you. They're listening too. So-called "listening platforms" allow brands to monitor what people are saying about them across a range of social media.The proximity measures protect users from clogged newsfeeds, as only about 16% of fans get newsfeeds automatically. But they also give brands a reason to pay the company for its different forms of targeted advertising, rather than just relying on the free elements. Facebook earned around $3.15bn in advertising last year – and sponsored stories are increasingly used to direct people to brands' pages.Brands need to work hard to engage with consumers, partly to high-jump the proximity measures, but also because interaction is what works. They use Facebook apps; running games, promotions, giveaways and all manner of tricksy marketing ploys. Hence the blossoming of a new breed of specialist marketers. Never a breed to resist some jargon, they call it "newsfeed optimisation". Lampen says: "The strategy is to constantly engage people, and the most important thing is content. At Asos, it's about highlighting new collections or designer collaborations."A report Facebook commissioned last month from the consultants Deloitteestimated that businesses are making $7.6bn a year across Europe piggybacking on Facebook. Nor is it the only network of interest; there's Twitter, Google+ and the new flavour of the month: Pinterest. But if it's obvious what's in it for them, what about us? Why are we so happy to be like-farmed? Ten minutes in the British Museum suggests some of the reasons: humans have always been identified by what they buy. Ever since Stig stepped out of his cave with a particularly on-trend club, the link between who we are and what we possess has been there.Brand adherence is a convenient shorthand to build up a projection of how we wish to be perceived. Boden or AllSaints? Guinness or WKD? I-stuff or I-not? Opting out is still a choice made with reference to that consumerist impulse. It makes perfect sense, then, to include our likes of big brands in our online identities. Technology is re-inventing a familiar wheel, and making it spin faster.If you don't want to be part of the consumerist game, don't hit "like". Except most of us are not so purist. We willingly surrender our privacy, our lists of friends and our affections. And they give us free stuff. What's not to like?
LIQUID METAL BATTERIES MAY SAVE THE WORLDDonald Sadoway. Photograph: James Duncan DavidsonDONALD SADOWAYBill Gates is putting massive investment into a technology that Donald Sadoway, professor of materials chemistry at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), is developing. If we could store large amounts of electricity in times of abundance, we'd have it in times of&nbsp;scarcity.But at the moment, demand and supply on the power grid must balance. As Sadoway pointed out to the audience at TED 2012 in Long Beach, California, last week: "The electricity powering the lights in this theatre was generated just moments ago." So how might we approach the idea of "grid-level storage" – batteries so large as to be able to supply hundreds of homes – without incurring astronomic expense?Sadoway's big idea – a hugely ambitious one, pursued, he says, "not because it is easy but because it is hard" – is to use the aluminium smelting process to create massive batteries made from liquid metal. "If you want to make something dirt-cheap, make it out of dirt. Preferably dirt that's locally sourced," he says. Small prototypes are already working: a model to power 200 homes is on the drawing board.BE HUMBLE… AND CARRY A LISTAtul Gawande. Photograph: James Duncan DavidsonATUL GAWANDEIn medicine, it's not possible for an individual to know everything, says Atul Gawande, a surgeon in Boston andNew Yorkerwriter. It's become too specialised. The result? Mistakes. But Gawande looked to other industries, such as aviation, and came up with his "checklist" – a 19-point plan that included introducing surgical teams by name to each other at the start of the day. Introduced in eight hospitals, results were astonishing: post-surgical complications dropped 30%, the death rate by 47%. "These tools force us to admit humility," he says. "To value teamwork. To acknowledge that we can't know everything."PUT YOUR PHONE AWAYSherry Turkle. Photograph: James Duncan DavidsonSHERRY TURKLEWe need to converse, not just connect. Sherry&nbsp;Turkle is one of the most influential theorists about the online world, whose 1996 book,Life on the Screen: Identity in the Age of the Internet, put her on the cover ofWiredmagazine. But the devices in our pockets have the effect of removing us from our own lives, she believes, and are changing who we are."Technology gives us the illusion of companionship without the means of friendship," she says. The solution? Now we need to relearn how to be alone.TEACH ROBOTS HOW TO THINKVijay Kumar. Photograph: James Duncan DavidsonVIJAY KUMARMore precisely, rather than teaching them how to think, Vijay Kumar, professor of engineering at the University of Pennsylvania, showed how to get "nano quadrotors" – palm-sized, four-rotor helicopters – to navigate by themselves. The devices are "autonomous agile aerial robots" that can navigate around objects without any human intervention, autonomously co-ordinate their positions across the group and gather into what looks like a swarm of alien invaders. The applications are mind-boggling and ever so slightly scary.BE VULNERABLE, NOT WEAKBrené Brown. Photograph: James Duncan DavidsonBRENE BROWNWhen Brené Brown gave a lecture on vulnerability at a small TEDx event in Houston in 2010, the video of her personal and poignant talkwent viral. Initially, at least, that made the research professor at the University of Houston's college of social work feel more vulnerable. But more than three million people have now watched it. And Brown, who is also the author ofThe Gifts of Imperfection, wants to spread the message that vulnerability is a sign of courage, not weakness – and that empathy is the antidote to shame.TEACH NEUROSCIENCE TO KIDSGreg Gage. Photograph: Ryan LashGREG GAGEAs a frustrated neuroscientist in a postgraduate programme at the University of Michigan, Greg Gage decided to get out of academia and find a more grassroots approach to his subject. The result is his organisation Backyard Brains, dedicated to making neuroscience experiments possible at greatly reduced cost, both at home and in schools. His simple "spiker boxes" allow the user to hear and see neurons firing in insects. Send an electrical signal from music on an iPhone into a cockroach's leg – and watch it dance.BEAR WITNESSBryan Stevenson. Photograph: James Duncan DavidsonBRYAN STEVENSONThe greatest inequality in society arises because of lack of "proximity", says Bryan Stevenson. And until we pay attention to other people's suffering, we cannot be fully human. Stevenson, law professor at New York University and founder of the Equal Justice Initiative in Alabama. He gave a gripping talk at TED 2012 last week on the US justice system – the only one in the world where 13-year-olds are sent to die in jail. . And one in nine inmates on death row turn out to be innocent.The opposite of poverty in the US is not wealth, he told the audience, who had paid $7,500 each for a ticket – "it's justice". A day later, attendees had raised $1.3m for his campaign to prevent children being sent to adult jails. "You judge a society's character not by how it treats its rich," he said. "But how it treats its poor."BE NICE TO NERDSRegina Dugan. Photograph: James Duncan DavidsonREGINA DUGANNerds are the scientists and engineers who build things that make life better, believes Regina Dugan, the head of Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa) – the US department of defence's agency for "creating and preventing strategic surprise". And she demonstrated a hummingbird aircraft that weighs less than an AA battery and can fly in all directions.To learn how to succeed, though, she said, you have to be ready for failure – because "there's no way to learn to fly at Mach 20" if you're not prepared to leave the ground in the first place.CITIES MAKE US SMARTEREd Glaeser at TED 2012. Photograph: James Duncan DavidsonED GLAESERCities are what happens when there's "an absence of physical space between people", says Ed Glaeser, a professor of economics at Harvard University and the author ofThe Triumph of the City. Gandhi said that the future lay in villages, but "with great respect", Glaeser says, Gandhi was wrong. Cities are where humans create and collaborate with other other humans to remarkable effect – as he points out, the three largest metropolitan areas in the US account for 80% of gross domestic product but only contain 13% of the population.DABBLE IN NUCLEAR FUSIONTaylor Wilson. Photograph: James Duncan DavidsonTAYLOR WILSONAt 10, Wilson built his first bomb out of a pill bottle and some cleaning products that he found lying around the house. At 11, he started mining for uranium, taking his dad on long road trips to the fertile soil of Arizona. And at 14, having been enrolled in a gifted students' programme and offered safe facilities at the University of Nevada in Reno, he became the youngest person in the world – and one of only a few dozen of any age – to create a working nuclear fusion reactor. Now 17, he says nuclear fusion is the fuel of the future. And children may just change the world.
Two interesting things happened last week and neither had anything to do with social networking or privacy. First,a web server fell over. Nothing new in that, you say; happens all the time. Yes, but this wasn't any old web server: it was the machine that hosts the Raspberry Pi site. It was overwhelmed because, on Wednesday at 6am, the project released its first product – a credit card-sized computer board that costs £22 and which, when plugged into a TV and a keyboard,turns into a fully programmable computer running the Linux operating system. "Guys – can you please stop hitting F5 on our website quite so often?" pleaded the webmaster at one stage. "You're bringing the server to its knees." The swamping of the site by people desperate for news indicated that something was up.The second thing that happened confirmed this hunch. The first batch of 10,000 units to be made available throughmajor device resellers such as RSsold out within minutes of going on sale on Wednesday morning. This was the geeky equivalent of the Glastonbury ticket scrum.So something is indeed up. The Raspberry Pi project – a philanthropic effort to create the contemporary equivalent of theBBC Micro of yesteryear– has graduated from idealisticvapourwaredreamed up in Cambridge to a finished, deliverable product manufactured in China. (In a nice touch, the Pi device comes in two flavours, Model A and Model B, just like the BBC machine, which was also designed in Cambridge.) Over the next few months, we'll see container-loads of the little computer boards delivered to these shores. The time has come, therefore, to start thinking about how this astonishing breakthrough can be exploited in our schools.Here are a few suggestions.First, we need to jettison some baggage from the past. In particular, we have to accept that ICT has become a toxic brand in the context of British secondary schools. However well-intentioned the thinking behind the ICT component of the national curriculum was, the sad fact is that it has become discredited and obsolete. As a result, educational thinking about the importance of computing and information technology in this country has been stunted for well over a decade. We've taken a technology that can provide "power steering for the mind" (as a noted metaphor puts it) and turned it into lesson for driving Microsoft Word.Second, we need to persuade Michael Gove and his colleagues that the subject that should be taught to all children is not ICT but something called computer science. The idea that there's a major body of knowledge in this field – complete with a stable and intellectually rigorous conceptual framework that is independent of today's or yesterday's gadgetry – is probably unfamiliar to residents of Whitehall, who think ICT is trivial because it's always becoming obsolete.Learning about computer science involves learning to program – to write computer code , because this is the means by which computational thinking is expressed. We wouldn't dream of teaching pupils about German culture without expecting them to speak German. The same holds for computer science.Third, those of us who are evangelists for this stuff need to recognise that the arguments in favour of it are not just the pragmatic or economic ones that have been advanced so far – for example the line that we need schools to teach computer science to halt the decline in undergraduates studying the subject, or that parts of the UK economy – eg the games industry – need skilled programmers (though it does).There are actually far more important reasons why our children should emerge from school with a deeper understanding of information technology and computational thinking than is the case at present. They are to do with citizenship and democracy.The world our children will inherit is one that will be shaped and controlled not just by physical realities, such as climate change, but by computer software. And the choice they will face is the one expressed in a recent, sobering book by Douglas Rushkoff, entitledProgram or Be Programmed. "Like the participants of media revolutions before our own," he writes, "we have embraced the new technologies and literacies of our age without actually learning how they work and work on us. And so we, too, remain one step behind the capability actually being offered to us. Only an elite – sometimes a new elite, but an elite none the less – gains the ability to fully exploit the new medium on offer. The rest learn to be satisfied with gaining the ability offered by the last new medium."Is that what we want for our children? The answer has to be no, which is why we need to teach them computer science. Raspberry Pi offers us the chance to do just that. Will we have the courage – and the vision – to take it?
A serious difficulty for games developers, normally so fond of bullets and explosions, is that Batman never uses a gun. The developers ofGotham City Impostors(Monolith, £11.99, PSN/XboxLive/Windows), an online, download-only, first-person shooter based in Batman's home town, solved the problem of tooling up the Dark Knight by instead having two factions of vigilantes facing off against each other – one group in Bat disguises, the other caked in make-up impersonating his nemesis the Joker. Diving into a death-match places your customisable avatar into a team for six-against-six shooting in Gotham locales.It's frantic action, with weapons ranging from the conventional shotgun to the more outlandish jack-in-the-box grenade. There are grappling hooks, rollerskates and glider wings with which to traverse the landscape – and it plays pleasingly like a hyped-upCall of Duty. Experienced shooter aficionados will feel right at home and the humour lifts the experience, with rarely a minute passing without an amusingly cheesy one-liner. Fun, but certainly not revolutionary.
The wait is over. Armchair thrill-seekers who haven't seen anSSXgame since their PS2 vanished&nbsp;into&nbsp;the loft can finally enjoy it on a high-definition console. Yes,SSX, the groundbreaking snowboarding franchise, has returned to make a whole new generation dizzy with its winning combination of realistic physics and utter impossibility.It's all here: the usual suspects plus three new characters, each with their signature "über" and "super-über" moves, and a killer eclectic soundtrack that mixes itself as you fling yourself down geographically correct mountains, as satellite-mapped by Nasa, no less.There are nine ranges to race, trick and merely survive in the well named Deadly Descents, which will see you try to 'board on ice (it's tricky), race in pitch darkness, or where the way forward is more gorge than piste and requires a wingsuit…SSX's multiplayer action takes place online (and in no other way). Players compete against ghosts of their rivals' best runs and scores, either simultaneously or whenever the mood takes them while amassing medals for everything from going really, really fast to crashing all the time.
Quick time events – key moments where the split-second reaction to onscreen prompts determines success or failure – are the bane of many gamers, who may wish to steer clear ofAsura's Wrath: QTEs play a big part in Capcom's ode to anger.However, they also serve to make the game exciting in a way few other mediums can manage. Epic battles will see Asura – formerly a demi-god, now raging at his peers after a 12,000-year imprisonment – punching out space armadas or beating up planet-sized enemies. In between, smaller-scale fights against swarms of grunts give the player more direct control and progress the game's melodramatic story, itself a mind-bending mix of Hinduism, mad anime and science fantasy. At its core,Asura's Wrathis eye-candy, pure and simple. Challenge is minimal, direct control even less but it'll win you over just by virtue of being so gloriously, insanely over-the-top in its presentation.
On the one hand, there are those who think computer coders are the geekiest nerds around. The kind of people – no, let's not beat about the bush here – the kind ofmenwhose lack of personal skills and inability to get a girlfriend simply means that they have too much time on their hands because they're not having sex.Then there are the people like me who think it would be quite cool to hack into the CIA's mainframe. Would I like to learn how to write code in a day? Well, of course I would. I'm from the pre-Google era and consider computer code to be some sort of magic faerie spell sent from the Gods above. Who wouldn't want to know how to write magic faerie spells in a day?Decoded, a new London-based company that has set up the course, puts it slightly differently: it claims I'll be able to build a multifunction geo-location app in a day. But it's still a pretty bold statement, particularly given, how shall we say, certain technical challenges. Still, it's a pretty slick set-up. I show up at 9.30am at the appointed location, just off Silicon Roundabout, the heart of Britain's small but plucky tech industry, in the kind of super-cool warehouse flat that a middle-aged man, post-divorce, might buy, and meet the Decoded team and a group of nine other budding web developers.Only they're not. In the opening session, we lounge around on tasteful, designer sofas and introduce ourselves. There's a brace of CEOs who want to get teched up, a smattering of ad men looking slightly concerned about what the future might bring, but by far the greatest proportion of participants are actually from the tech industry. People who commission web content or lead interactive teams but who are about as au fait with code as they are with Klingon.But then, they're exactly the people that Decoded is targeting. They're a team of four, mostly ex-advertising, who spotted the great flaw at the heart of the digital economy: namely, that the people with power don't have much of a clue what the people with the technical expertise are actually on about. In the beating heart of tech UK, it becomes abundantly clear that it's perfectly possibly to talk the talk, or to have a high-flying job with a leading multimedia company, without any technical knowledge at all."And that's a pity," says Alasdair Blackwell, Decoded's resident code guru. "Because they're missing out on half the creative process." Like many of the best web developers, Blackwell is self-taught. As a student, he took a play to the Edinburgh fringe, was asked to update the production's website, bought himself a teach yourself book and never looked back.Blackwell believes that everyone should know about code. "We deal with computers almost every single waking hour of our lives. They're everywhere in the western world. And yet only a tiny proportion of people know anything about the language that's at the heart of them."What seems extraordinary, given the growing importance to the economy, and the grand political statements made about the tech economy, is that it's simply not taught in schools. But as Decoded has discovered, the demand is there: its courses are fully booked, Downing Street has asked for its advice, and when it went into a local school recently, 160 pupils applied to take part.But can we really learn the basics in a day? It seems unlikely, particularly given that the major part of the morning is spent lounging around trying to look cool while listening to Blackwell and Richard Peters, a fellow director, summarise the history of the internet and the role that computer code has played in its development.It's all things that I vaguely know – Tim Berners-Lee and HTML and the open source movement. But there's also lots that I don't – the origins of Javascript right up to the API revolution of recent times, which has seen companies such as Facebook open up their code to all-comers. Nor have I heard it framed so succinctly as a contextual narrative before.It's so interesting, I could lounge and listen all day. Then it's lunch, a rather classy home-made flatbreads-and-interesting-salads affair, and I'm starting to think that really, if this is what coding involves, I don't know why I didn't do it sooner when, dammit, Alasdair makes us sit down at a computer.We're going to build a geo-location app, ie one that uses a phone's GPS to deliver a message when a user arrives at a location. And to do this, we have to code in three languages simultaneously: HTML, CSS and JavaScript. HTML serves the browser content, CSS controls what it looks like and JavaScript tells it how to behave.Oh, yes,easy. Alasdair shows us how to write the code for our headline and how to paste a photo, how to spin it around, and have the title fade into view, and then, lo! I open up a browser and it really is quite unbelievably bad: the font is terrible, the background amateurish, the layout a joke. The only comfort is that the one created by my fellow student Paul Bainsfair, the director general of the IPA, advertising's professional body, who's sitting next to me, is possibly even more cruddy. "Christ," he says. "Look at that. It's like it's 1994 all over again."I like his welcome message, though: "Hi. Welcome to the site. Its purpose is to befuddle the reader with mindless corporate psychobabble."Alasdair gives us some more code and I manage to align my photo somewhere near the centre of the page. Then he gives the game away. Every bit of code you'll ever need has already been written. "You just have to work out where to nick it from?" I say."Actually, we don't use the word 'nick'," says Richard. "We use the word 'match'." Yes, it's really very different. You just have to work out where to "match" it from and owing to the work of a super-nice man called John Resig, who spent seven years writing a code encyclopaedia called jQuery, this really isn't all that difficult.In fact, if you have a keenly logical mind, and a high level of attention to detail, none of it is that difficult. I have neither and I get brain ache. By the time Alasdair has got us "matching" a piece of cutting-edge code from theBoston Globe's website, I'm close to a nervous collapse. It's the most intensive learning experience I've had in a decade, and while I feel like I've just sat finals, I'm also strangely euphoric: I have built an app!What's more, Alasdair claims that the single line of code we've cut and pasted from theBoston Globe's site, which automatically resizes our website according to the size of the page, is so bleeding edge that my site is actually more technologically actually more advanced than theObserver's.Really?"It's literally only existed for a couple of weeks," he says. What can I say? I have been inside the magic kingdom of code, if only for a day, and the magic faerie spells make just a tiny bit more sense. Though the CIA mainframe may take a short while longer.
