We all know that the e-transformation of government is vital if politicians are to (re-)establish credibility with anyone born after 1970 (and most of us born before 1960!). But, we equally know that the e-generation does not just want any old e-government, it wants services that live up to the latest developments in pervasive digital media events (PDMEs) - such as Big Brother. What can the e-government sherpas who are scaling this organisational Everest learn from the PDME kings and queens at Endemol, Granada and the BBC?There is a huge prize at stake for the government if it gets it right, and endless agony if it gets it wrong. For a start, the money involved is huge. Last year the chancellor set aside &#163;3bn to upgrade important processes, such as case-management systems across the criminal justice system, and local government services - such as e-voting. But this is just one of the government's IT and interactive initiatives. Running in parallel is everything from a &#163;2.3bn project to create a national and local electronic patient records system to &#163;13m for 30 culture online projects.But the government still faces serious challenges in persuading the public that its online services are trying to solve serious problems. For example, I had the rather engaging experience last weekend of watching four people with a total of 14 years of university education struggling to fill in a passport application form. As my brother-in-law took a digital photograph of my niece, edited it rather beautifully, ran it off on to his printer and attached it to the form, I thought: "Hang on. Isn't this what the internet was supposed to stop?" Why was my brother-in-law being forced to take a digital image, which he could have emailed in one nanosecond, and drive it hundreds of miles to Glasgow? Is this the e-transformation of government?As it happens, the Passport Agency has a pilot project going on at the moment that allows you to fill in your application online. But probably for perfectly sensible security reasons (although I'd like to know what they are), you cannot use this service if you need a passport within four weeks of leaving the country. The good thing is that it seems relatively easy to use   (unlike the fiendish paper version, which is cluttered with heffalump traps), and does that helpful online thing of telling you that you have not filled it in correctly.This got me thinking about the type of e-transformation of government that we need. Or rather, about one particular aspect of the challenge facing e-governors - namely, that its citizens are living in an age of pervasive media content. During a PDME, live feeds are available all day on TV, on audio streaming, on the website, and now, thanks to multimedia messaging, on your phone. If the Sun has its way, you will be able to watch Big Brother nookie on your Nokia.And just as media content is becoming pervasive, so must government services. Some are showing the way. The other successful pervasive Big Brother event of the year has been Canny Ken's congestion charge. Whatever you think of the policy, thetechnology has been pretty impressive. The "C" sign means you are being checked, charged and challenged. But you can pay using every means of communication at your disposal. Its pervasive presence on all communication devices is part of its success.The government must get away from the idea that one means of communication is somehow better than others. Once you've solved the security problems, there is no logical reason why one way of transferring data should be any more intrinsically valid. Take voting, for example. Scottish MSPs can vote from their seats using a swipe card. But that vote is simply a piece of authorised data. So why not let them use their mobiles from their offices and constituencies? MSPs' bums don't have to be in their seats for their brains to be in gear (I hope).Similarly, I was one of the lucky ones allowed to cast my vote electronically in this year's local elections. It was simple and effective. But didn't pass any other of my tests for pervasive services. The site didn't tell me what the various candidates stood for, or link me to local election manifestos. And, crucially, it didn't email or text me the results, or tell me I had been a good boy for doing my job as a citizen and offering me a meeting with my councillor on a topic of choice.It's not just the e-vote that counts - it's the context and follow- up. PDME producers know this simple fact is one of the keys to the success of their shows. The government must increasingly think like a media company, as much as an IT procurement specialist, when it engineers its electronic transformation. Otherwise e-government sites will look like steamer timetables in the jet age.David Docherty is a writer and non executive director of several new media companies who as the BBC's deputy director of television, was involved in developing its digital services
Being an American in Paris, and indeed in the rest of Europe, these days isn't what it used to be for US companies.One consequence of the friction with Europe over the war with Iraq is that wrapping yourself in the stars and stripes no longer affords a competitive advantage. And the expansion of the European Union means it's increasingly important to brandish European credentials.For big, brash Microsoft, the 'apple pie' of the American software industry, one would think the problem would be particularly acute.The company's chief executive officer for Europe, Middle East and Africa, is a Frenchman, Jean-Philippe Courtois. Of Microsoft's 50,000 workforce, only 12,000 (22 per cent) work for Courtois in Europe. In contrast with other leading technology companies, such as Hewlett Packard, Unisys and IBM, Microsoft's development workforce remains visibly North American.But despite the recent strains in US-European relations, says Courtois, 'nothing has changed in the way in which Microsoft sees Europe. Microsoft has been in Europe for 20 years and the company's internal perception of Europe has not altered, although we certainly recognise and respect the existence of a distinct European space on a range of issues,' he adds.'In fact, we see ourselves as a true European partner, in helping Governments, businesses and communities in Europe to solve their technology problems.'Courtois concedes that, in contrast with other companies, Microsoft's European presence is proportionally smaller but he insists that the company's employment footprint is many times larger in terms of the jobs that Microsoft's presence generates in Europe. Unlike other well known computer companies that employ a vertical services model, Microsoft works largely through partnership with local businesses. Consequently, Courtois claims that for every Microsoft job created in Europe, seven more are created in the local economy, which makes Microsoft unique as an employment generator in the European IT market.Microsoft has built a facility in Ireland to localise European-language versions of its software, has its research laboratories in Cambridge and a third facility in Aachen.'It is important to be a truly local partner here,' says Courtois. 'For Microsoft, that means having European substance as well as European style. Making our software and solutions available in European languages while attempting to set an example that has Microsoft in Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Turkey, Portugal, South Africa and UK winning awards as the top company to work for and among the top 10 employers in Europe.'A comparative assessment of other companies reveals that Microsoft will invest more than $5 billion in 2003. Oracle and Sun Microsystems invest between $1bn and $2bn and Intel $4bn. There are no figures available for IBM.Asked if Microsoft plans to continue investing in the European economy or acquiring European companies such as Denmark's Navision, Courtois declines to offer any figures but replies that the company is focused on responding to the needs of European customers in the development of accessible technology and by driving fundamental research from Europe. This will involve a 'serious and significant financial and resources commitment on the part of Microsoft'.Courtois estimates that 1.5 million IT jobs have been created in the EU through the collision of the internet and the personal computer and that more than 1 million people are engaged in reselling Microsoft technology in western Europe.With the EU in the process of expansion and the IT industry trapped in the worst recession for 20 years, Courtois concedes that the business environment is difficult. But he argues that the opportunities for a versatile company greatly outweigh the challenge of low European economic output and PC sector growth of around 5 per cent.According to Courtois, companies such as Microsoft now have to show customers how to achieve 'more with less' - particularly among Europe's 20 million small businesses, which have the most to gain from efficiencies that technology can bring in supply chain management.While Microsoft continues to dominate the PC and small business applica tions market, at the opposite end of the business spectrum, the company is challenging the position of the traditional Unix software market with its Windows 2003 edition.In partnership with traditional 'Big Iron' companies such as Unisys, it is winning converts to the Enterprise edition of the windows operating system among many larger European companies and government departments, as a reliable and cost-effective replacement for older mainframe systems.Is Europe's growing enthusiasm for open source (Linux) computing a serious challenge to Microsoft's plans? Courtois appears unconcerned. 'There is,' he says, 'a measure of ambiguity to the argument revolving around open source and open standards.'While Microsoft has been revealing its source code to Governments, it has been equally active in working with the industry to develop and support the next generation of open standards.These say Courtois 'will complement our world, where data can be shared as easily as text and pictures, an example of how we are enhancing technologies and connecting all systems, not just Microsoft's. This is a credible, open and innovative approach which even our sceptics would agree is a real commitment.'Asked if there are fundamental differences in challenges facing the company in Europe, Courtois identifies three areas as uniquely European.'There are some exceptional technology opportunities in Europe. Smart phone technology is one good example,' says Courtois.'Tablet PCs can also leverage wireless advances in Europe, faster than in other markets. E-government is advancing quickly across Europe and European information workers are the prime beneficiaries of many of the technology advances that we are seeing.'Because of need for legislative 'har monisation' between member states, he says, 'the EU is leading in developing many standards of the new interoperable and secure computing environment; this again offers opportunities for us to both learn and contribute.'In addition to technology differences, there are economic differences. The small business market offers tremendous opportunities here and very strong growth rates are projected throughout the region.'Pessimism has dogged Microsoft's efforts to build a greater level of security into the computing environment. Courtois acknowledges this: 'Microsoft is an action-oriented company. We have found that the best way to answer pessimism and cynicism is through delivering results and making innovative, secure and reliable products.'He adds: 'In conceptual terms "trustworthy computing" is not a destination; it's a journey for our customers, for the industry and most of all for Microsoft.'
In today's Observer,John Naughtonjoins the weblogs-taking-over-the-world-and-Google fray a little late, but adds some well-judged comments on what weblogging is all about, and why these wee sites do so well on Google.
Hunched over his computer keyboard in a London suburb, Steve Linford is fighting a desperate war. The numbers ranged against him are growing and he fears he may be losing.Linford is one of the world's foremost fighters of spam - random emails that plague all our inboxes. For people like him such 'junk' mail is not just a nuisance, it is a menace that could bring the email system juddering to a halt. He thinks we may have only six months left. 'The email system is on the edge of meltdown,' he said.Internet service providers are becoming jammed. Linford believes the network will soon begin to slow down, then   many emails will get lost, followed by the entire global system crashing. Spam will have destroyed the most revolutionary communications system since the telephone.Figures from email security firm MessageLabs show that last month for the first time spam accounted for more than half of all emails sent, at 55.1 per cent, a third up on the month before.Linford runs Spamhaus, a project dedicated to fighting spam and tracking down those who send it. From a narrowboat on the Thames, he helps to co-ordinate 10 volunteers around the world who maintain a 'spam watch' 24 hours a day.Hackers from Spamhaus have infiltrated secure internet chatrooms where they pose as spammers to glean information on new targets or techniques. They can identify where spammers are sending from and try to block them with specially written programmes. They are also collecting information on individual 'spam lords' and maintain a database of personal details of almost 200 of the world's spammers.Spamming is big business, and vicious too. Linford gets regular death threats and no longer opens post sent by people he does not recognise.It is thought that as few as 150 spammers are responsible for 90 per cent of junk mail. One of the most prolific is Alan Ralsky, who is rare among spammers in having a public media profile. He has just fitted out his home in Michigan in the US with servers capable of sending a billion messages a day. Victims got their own back when Ralsky's address was posted on the internet by anti-spammers. They registered   his house for thousands of catalogues, leaflets and other junk mail and soon Ralsky faced a deluge of post each day. There is no suggestion that he is connected to porn spam emails or any campaign of intimidation.The global spam capital is the Florida town of Boca Raton, a favourite haunt of Florida criminals. Some 40 spammers are based there, including pornographer and convicted cocaine dealer Eddy Marin who heads the 'Boca Raton Spam Gang', which churns out 250 million emails every day.Even if just one person in a million responds, that is enough to make spamming profitable. The key weapon in the spammer's armoury is the   ability to collect enormous databases of email addresses which are 'harvested' from the net. Complex computer programs roam the web collecting email addresses. Other programs send randomly addressed emails by the million. Every genuine address discovered is then logged and sold on. CDs containing millions of email addresses are then sold between spammers for a few dollars.There is a dark underbelly to this business. John Carr, an internet adviser to children's charity NCH, recently had a phone call from a man in Lancashire whose 10-year-old daughter's email account had been spammed. She opened the message and was exposed to a graphic picture   of a girl her own age being raped. 'Spam is the main way these child porn sites advertise,' said Carr. 'It is dangerous and horrible for that girl to see that.'The legal landscape in which spam operates is confusing. In some countries strict laws make spamming illegal while others have given it free rein. Even in the US it varies from state to state. In some states forging the headers of emails is illegal, making it possible to prosecute spammers. In others it is not.Spammers based in South America and the Far East are so prolific that some companies are blocking any emails sent from those regions, assuming them all to be spam. China has been badly hit and is becoming increasingly cut off from the internet. 'There is essentially an electronic wall around China now,' said Linford.With all the holes in the legal barriers, a crop of private companies has risen to fight the war. Linford and his network are volunteers but these are also guns for hire. Subscribers can have their emails filtered and as much spam as possibleshot down before it reaches the inbox. One firm that does this is Brightmail. It runs its opera tion from two offices - in San Francisco and Dublin - that are dubbed the Bloc. Inside the Bloc operators monitor the web for spam attacks on a network of Brightmail 'trip wires' set up on the net. When they occur, they go into battle, blocking the spam from its subscribers and trying to trace its origin. Usually more than 97 per cent of spam is fought off from Brightmail customers. 'It is an arms race. They come up with new methods and we come up with new defences,' said Brightmail sales director Gert Veendal.MessageLabs defends its customers by using a program called Skeptic that is imbued with artificial intelligence. As it analyses and blocks spam, it is progammed to build up a database of experience to allow it to spot new spammers' tricks without any human input. 'It learns from the Spam and it trains itself in real time,' said David Scholefield, architect of the software.But such actions are so far barely denting the tidal wave of spam that is engulfing the internet.'I never thought I would still be fighting spam in 2003. I thought it would be over,' said Linford. 'Now I can't even see the end of this fight.'
Microsoft has lost Munich. In a major public-sector reverse for the company in Germany, the government of the city will be replacing the Windows operating system on its 14,000 office computers with 'open source' Linux, from rival IBM.Munich is the first large German city to make such a move. Microsoft was so con cerned by the prospect of losing Munich that chief executive Steve Ballmer met mayor Christian Ude.Ballmer argued that a cheaper Microsoft bid, estimated at $32 million (about &#163;23m), offered a more cost-effective solution than a partnership with IBM and the German Linux developer, SuSe.Germany's federal and state governments as well as the local authorities and other public agencies have been studying the benefits of Linux as they attempt to reduce their dependence on a single supplier. Ironically, while the Berlin government wants to reduce its dependence on Microsoft, other European public bodies, such as Rome council, appear to be doing quite the opposite.The German decision may say more about worries over competition policy than which technology is best.In the end, however, the German taxpayer may be the loser. German cities are short of money, and Munich's decision to defect to IBM and Linux will, at least in the short-term, take more from the city's coffers.The council not only accepted the more expensive of the two bids but it will also have to pay a huge extra bill for retraining all of its workforce - a bill one source estimates at a further &euro;10 million (&#163;7.2m).
"A day after developers at America Online's Nullsoft unit quietly released file-sharing software, AOL pulled the link to the product from the subsidiary's Web site, reportsCNet. "The software, called Waste, lets groups set up private, secure file-sharing networks. The product became available on Nullsoft's Web site on Wednesday, just days shy of the four-year anniversary of being acquired by AOL. Waste is a software application that combines peer-to-peer file sharing with instant messaging, chat and file searches. Users can set up their own network of friends and share files between each other." Comment: It does sound a bit of a waste (sic). On the other hand, it may not be as interesting asBitTorrent, and how many people use that?
Telephone bills used to be simple. They landed on the doormat once a quarter and apart from the shock of how many calls teenage children had racked up, they were more or less predictable and tended not to break the bank.Not so any more. When British Telecom's monopoly ended it opened the floodgates to new competitors, an avalanche of complicated tariffs and a baffling communications landscape that only the most determined consumer can navigate their way around. Cue mobile phones and the whole thing became even more confusing - and expensive.The average household now has a land line plus one or more mobile phones - 75% of UK adults own/use a mobile phone and 83% of households have at least one mobile, according to Oftel.Average bills are higher than ever before - &#163;74 was the average quarterly spend on fixed telecoms in the first quarter of 2003 including calls, rental and VAT, Oftel says. Keeping track of whether family members are paying over the odds can be nigh on impossible.So, in an effort to make it a little bit easier to shave something off the mounting bills and avoid the most common mistakes, Jobs &amp; Money has put together some step-by-step guidelines:1. Get to grips with standard rates and packages and ask yourself some basic questions:One of the hardest things to get your head around in the home telephone market is when it is best to stick with standard rates, when to subscribe to a package or bundled deal, and having got that far, how to decide which provider to settle for. Ask yourself these questions.&#183;How many minutes in total per month are used and how long do your calls last?&#183;Are they predominantly off or on peak?&#183;What proportion are international?&#183;Are there lots of calls to mobiles?&#183;Would it be tied into internet or cable television usage?2. Suss out the latest offers:One thing is certain - millions of households are paying too much. But, a word of warning. Beware of comparisons between packaged or bundled rates and standard rates. Phone companies frequently compare their best rates   with a competitor's worst ones to lure you in - don't fall into this trap. Which? advises all consumers to make use of any discount schemes on offer, pointing out that BT has the widest range.First and foremost, consider whether or not you want a straightforward phone package or one bundled with internet usage or cable TV. All the major players have websites that provide information on what they offer. Some to look out for include:&#183;BT's standard rate goes down to 1p per minute from June 1 and it has launched a new series of BT Together packages which taper discounts according to usage. Check outwww.bt.comfor more details.&#183;Telewest has a Talk Unlimited tariff that allows unlimited national and local calls, for a fixed fee of &#163;26 per month, including line rental. There is an off peak version for &#163;17.50 a month. For an extra &#163;3.50, a month there is a 30 channel TV package. Check outwww.telewest.co.ukfor further information including broadband internet options.&#183;NTL claims to offer the widest range of unlimited talk tariffs in the UK, but the value they offer depends on how heavy a user you are and whether the internet is involved. It claims that one of its other benefits over BT is the cost of the surplus services such as call waiting and voicemail, which it says are a third cheaper than BT's.&#183;British Gas Communications has a package called Your Choice 500 that will combine mobile and fixed line bills for &#163;12.99 per month with 500 "free" minutes per month between both. When the 500 minutes are up, calls revert to 3.1p per minute from the fixed line and 4.2p per minute from the mobile. In a few months it will introduce a tariff that doesn't discriminate between on and off peak, which will include lower cost mobile and international calls.3. Check out the newcomers:Carphone Warehouse recently entered the fixed line market, with claims that it offers better value for a number of different types of telephone user, while Tesco Telecom says it will make a splash when it launches later in the summer with tariffs that will undermine its competition. These companies   need to win customers in the early days so may well be a good first port of call.4. Carrier pre-select and indirect service providers:Always worth a look - especially if your household makes large numbers of international calls. When signed up to one of these services it essentially means you by-pass the main provider, for example, BT, by routing the call via a cheaper alternative. Check out One.Tel on 0800-957-0700 or atwww.onetel.co.ukor Telco on 0800-594-6123 or atwww.telco.co.uk. For a more comprehensive list go to:www.oftel.gov.co.uk/publications/consumer5. Some of the 192 alternatives will be costly so decide on one early:The new system will be a bit of a minefield when the old 192 BT directory enquiries number is finally phased out in August this year. And, if you use it a lot, your bills could shoot up. Of the replacements, some cost more than others, and the billing systems can be radically different. For more information on the new services go towww.oftel.gov.uk.It is also worth remembering not to let a mobile operator connect you directly to a number - it is likely to sting you for the princely sum of 60p a minute all the way through the call.6. Keep a close eye on your mobile bill and don't rush to renew a contract without looking at the competition:In January, the Competition Commission lambasted the mobile industry for over-charging customers in some areas, notably   the "termination charges" levied by operators when customers call another network.A survey for Which? magazine at the end of last year concluded that 10 million people (almost half the total number of adults on pre-pay mobile phone deals) could save money by switching to a contract deal. If you spend more than &#163;19 a month on calls and buy a new handset at least every 20 months you could be better off, Which? says. It found that an average of 20% (&#163;80) a year could be saved by switching.7. Review your mobile phone tariff every six months to see if your usage has changed and if it has pushed the bill up:A tariff that seemed like a great idea when you signed up to a network can fast become a millstone around your neck if the way you make calls changes.Off-peak packages, where a flat fee is paid every month to guarantee a bulk of "free" minutes during the times when you use your phone most, are a popular option. But, what if, say, you get a new job and suddenly you are making more calls during working hours? If you're not on top of your tariff the bill at the end of a month when the changes kick in could come as a bit of a shock.And, one final word of advice - don't ignore the colourful promotional envelopes from your mobile operator when they land on the doormat. Tariffs are often reviewed but its up to customers to say they want to switch to a better one, so read the literature - it   can often make you substantial savings.8. Read your contract carefully:If you have been tempted away from one operator to another, the old consumer adage "read the small print" definitely stands. The operators want consumers to sign up to 12-month contracts and there may be a penalty if you leave before the year is up. This could well eliminate any savings you hope to make with the new tariff.9. Beware of hidden charges on international roaming and premium line numbers:Phoning home from another   country or even making a call to someone in the same resort, is still expensive and it pays to read the conditions of your contract relating to international roaming.However it may be advisable to switch your phone off altogether - on most networks it costs more to receive a call from the UK while abroad than it does to make one. Unless you are a frequent traveller and have signed up for international roaming for a fixed fee per month, avoid using a mobile if you can.The same applies to premium line numbers, which can cost over the odds. And, if you are calling a freephone   number, do it from a landline: they aren't free from mobiles.10. Do your research and use the websites that help you compare tariffs:Try the Consumers' Association's comparison site:www.switchwithwhich.co.uk. It was launched late last year to help you compare mobile phone tariffs. It has an online calculator that classifies consumers in to five user types and directs them towards the best operator/tariff.www.uSwitch.comalso offers a useful calculator to compare landline tariffs.In addition, telecoms regulator, Oftel has launched a Price Assurance Standard   scheme to help with making comparisons as well an Oftel "pass logo" that it will award to websites it deems to be offering "independent, accurate and up-to-date information." For details go towww.oftel.gov.uk.Last, but not least, keep an eye on the quality of service. It's no good finding the cheapest deal on the market if the customer service is poor.The Consumers' Association recommends checking out how some of the major companies perform on service by getting a copy of "How well did your telephone company do?" by calling 0131-472-5558 or by going towww.cpi.org.uk.
"The drives come in various colors and are often worn on a cord around people's necks, like pens. Because they are so small, they're sometimes overlooked as potential evidence gold mines, and law enforcement officials have begun to work harder to train officers to recognize them," reportsMercury News. It seems the USB drives have been used by collectors of child pornography and to store drug dealers' contacts.
Maybe, but it probably is not ready for you. "Whether there is a market for a home three-dimensional printer depends in part on improvements in the technology. Mike Rufo, president ofDesign Prototyping Technologiesin Syracuse, uses the machines to make objects for his clients before undertaking the manufacturing process. The reliability of the machines is rapidly improving, but they're not ready for homes, he said." SeeThe New York Times[free reg req'd].
The New York Times[free reg req'd] reports on how the city has turned "a six-square-mile area into a Wi-Fi hot spot". It covers 4,500 houses and costs users 16 quid a month.
Last weekI linked to a ZD Net opinion piece that lambasted Bluetooth, and Mike McCamon, Executive Director of Bluetooth SIG, has repliedhere. Berlind has also done afollow-upwhich boils down to this: it's a waste of time trying to use anything that doesn't support Bluetooth's Human Interface Device (HID) profile. Berlind's Dell notebook PC didn't support it, but presumably does now because he will have downloaded the driver from Dell's Web site. Of course, it would have saved a lot of bother trying to get Bluetooth to work if you'd just told us this in the first place....
If you're now hooked after attending one of the IT taster sessions during this year's adult learning initiatives, the next step is clearly getting your own equipment.But what if you have problems using a keyboard, are disabled or visually impaired? Fortunately, there   are a surprising number of adaptations and short cuts which make using computers easier, even for those with no physical impairment.For those with no experience of typing, there are keyboards where the keys are set in alphabetical order, rather than the conventional qwerty layout. You can also get keyboards designed for left-handed users and ones that have keys which are four times the size of those on a standard keyboard with lettering that is 10 times as large. They come in a choice of colours with contrasting black lettering on bright white or yellow keys designed for those with visual   impairment that can be used in combination with software which enlarges everything on the screen. Alternatively, you can get self-adhesive keyboard stickers with the lettering printed in an enlarged bold typeface.Other options for the partially sighted and those suffering from hand tremors are Intellikeys, where the sensitivity of the keys can be adjusted to meet the individual's motor skills and can also be operated by foot, head or by a stick. For those with severe upper limb trauma there is the hands-free Lucy keyboard with a variety of input and output options.And that's just a few of the many options available for those who find conventional keyboards restrictive. The same goes for a mouse which, though they come in different shapes and sizes, can be a problem for those who don't have full control of their hands. While some will find it easier to do all the necessary navigation by keyboard, other options include trackballs which are essentially an upturned static mouse with a ball on top which can be moved using fingers, thumbs and palms, and larger ones which are operable by foot, as can other mouse alternatives. Other devices which carry out the same functions as a mouse are touch pads and joysticks.A more recent development which ditches the need for either a mouse or a keyboard is a touch screen, where, depending on the model, you can operate everything on your computer by either touching or pointing a finger or a pen at the screen, which incorporates a keyboard that can also be activated by simply moving your head.And such have been the advances in new technology that a range of software which can be used separately or collectively can now enable even people with no vision at all to use a computer. Not only can computer screens be activated by voice, but their content can be read either by touch through braille display technology or through a speaker using synthesised speech software.The Royal National Institute of the Blind (RNIB) has free factsheets spelling out the pros and cons of the range of available options, while its technology information service provides guidance on purchasing the equipment which can be tried out at one if its resource centres. And the British Computer Association for the Blind (BCAB) provides specialist training and support.The first port of call for those with any form of impairment is AbilityNet, a charity which specialises in providing free information and advice on all aspects of computer access for the disabled and works closely with the RNIB and the Disability Rights Commission (DRC).Its services include assessment of an individual's technology needs, including those with visual impairment with full training and technical support. It also publishes a series of factsheets covering a wide range of practical issues with links to providers of specialist or adapted equipment.But getting the right equipment is not the only issue when using new technology. So too is the accessibility of websites, as was pointed out in the report published earlier this year by the National Audit Office (NAO) assessing the government's progress in achieving its target to provide internet access for all by 2005.The NAO criticised the accessibility of the websites of the government's own departments and agencies, none of which fully complied with the accessibility guidelines set by the Office of the e-Envoy - not even those that were aimed at the older population.And they're not alone - the same applies to the private sector. Frustrated by the government's failure to address the issue and with the Disability Discrimination Act requiring all providers of goods and services to make their websites accessible by October next year, other or ganisations representing the more vulnerable in society who, because many are housebound, have most to gain from internet access are taking their own initiatives to improve web accessibility.The RNIB has already established its own "see it right" accessibility standard for blind and partially sighted people and two months ago the Disability Rights Commission launched its first formal investigation of web access, the result of which will be published later this year.In collaboration with the Centre for Human Computer Interaction Design at London's City University it is now evaluating 1,000 sites across the public and private sector to identify barriers to access and provide advice to the site owners on how to tackle and remove them.Next week AbilityNet will launch the first of its "state of the e-nation" quarterly accessibility audits of the top 10 websites in each goods and services sector, kicking off with the airline industry. It already offers guides to accessible web design as well as templates which can be tailored to meet the individual needs of website owners, will be running joint seminar and master classes for web designers.And the British Library for the Blind has just launchedwww.a-sites.orgwhich provides direct links to accessible websites.Who to callAbilityNet:www.abilitynet.org.uk;enquiries@abilitynet.org.uk; 0800-269-545.BCAB:www.bcab.org.uk;info@bcab.org.uk; 0121-665-4256.Keytools:www.kewytools.com023-8056-4314.RNIB:www.rnib.org.uk/technology/factsheets,technology@rnib.org.uk; 0870-013-9555.&#183;Write to me at  The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER  or email your inquiry to me:margaret.hughes@guardian.co.ukPlease include copies of any relevant documents and a daytime phone number. Sorry but I can't reply to inquiries individually
If you cannot wait until 2005 to get your hands on a PlayStation 3, Sony could have the answer in the form of the recently-announced PlayStation X.Launching in Japan at the end of the year, and elsewhere in 2004, it is the second new product to be unveiled by the company in two weeks. The Sony PlayStation Portable (PSP) handheld became one of the most anticipated and talked-about products at the recent Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in Los Angeles.However, unlike the announcement of the PSP, which focused mainly on PR rather than a visible product, Sony actually has something to show off this time.Like Nintendo's revamping of the GBA with the GBA-SP, the PSX will have a sleeker, more aesthetically pleasing design than the current PS2. As well as that, it will include DVD playback, a TV tuner and a 120 gigabyte hard drive.The move marks a concerted effort by Sony to assimilate some of its successful gaming technology into its sluggish electronics division, recently pinpointed as a chief contributor to the company's biggest quarterly net loss in more than eight years.However, the announcement is also indicative of the current trend in console development, which is to create a more multimedia-friendly product, thus winning a share of the market that is not driven by just gaming requirements.It seems that the days of a console being just a box under the television for playing games on are coming to an end. Sony's plans for both the PSX and the PS3 revolve around creating a system incorporating several different entertainment genres, including movies, music and games, to create a more set-top box feel.This approach is mirrored by Microsoft, with the company recently announcing that, over the next year, its Xbox Live service will be updated to incorporate a variety of interactive gaming and entertainment features.  	  Meanwhile, 70 of the humble PlayStation 2 have been harnessed by scientists to form a giant supercomputer, believed to be capable of half a trillion computing operations per second.The supercomputing centre at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, which is in charge of the project, has turned the army of PS2s into what is known as a "Beowulf Cluster" (named after the Scandinavian folk hero who was rumoured to have the power of many people).This allows individual systems to be linked together, via the Linux operating system, to form one super-machine.Although the Xbox might seem a console better suited to such an experiment, given its fast, PC-like underpinnings, greater memory and built-in hard drive, the fact that only the PS2 officially has Linux on board was the defining factor. It is, after all, unlikely that we will see an Xbox running a sanctioned, non-Microsoft operating system any time soon.While the PS2 Beowulf cluster may not be one of the fastest supercomputers, it is undoubtedly one of the cheapest, costing around $50,000 (£30,000). The fact that it can even be used in such an experiment speaks volumes about the power and pace of current consumer technology."If you look at the economics of game platforms and the power of computing in toys, this is a long-term market and computing trend," Dan Reed, the supercomputing centre's director, told the New York Times."The economics are just amazing. This is going to drive the next big wave in high-performance computing."Although scientists claim that the PS2 cluster will only be useful in a limited number of areas, the little black box that you might play Tekken 4 on is currently being used to calculate quantum chromodynamics - the theories surrounding nuclear physics.If it can do that today, just imagine what it can do tomorrow.Top ten games: all platforms (compiled by ELSPA)1)  Enter the Matrix (PS2, GC, XB, PC) Atari - £39.992)  The Sims: Superstar (PC) Electronic Arts - £17.993)  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.994)  Def Jam Vendetta (PS2, GC) Electronic Arts - £39.995)  The Sims (PS2, PC, XB, GC) Electronic Arts- £37.996)  Midnight Club II (PS2) Take 2 - £39.997)  Silent Hill 3 (PS2) Konami - £39.998)  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell (PS2, Xbox PC) Ubi Soft - £37.999)  Return To Castle Wolfenstein: Tides of War (XB) Activision - £39.9910) Championship Manager 4 (PC) Eidos Interactive - £29.99
I am having heart palpitations, my hands are shaking and my mouth is dry. The things I do for research.I've had a caffeine overdose because I have been out and about in London on a wi-fi safari.Wi-fi hotspots are public places, usually cafes, where those equipped with wi-fi facilities on their laptop or PDA can surf the internet and send and receive email wirelessly at broadband speeds.Enormous things are being claimed for wi-fi, yet for it to stand any chance of becoming more than a niche for business users it needs to be cheap and simple to use.So armed with my laptop I headed for Farringdon near the Guardian Unlimited HQ in central London to find out how easy it is to turn up at a hotspot, switch on a PC and surf.First port of call was Starbucks on Cowcross Street. The American coffee chain has a deal with T-Mobile and offers wi-fi access in five sites across the capital. I ordered a coffee and Panini and explained I fancied some wireless high-speed internet access on the side.After a moment or two's thought my server thrust a leaflet in my hand and told me to follow the instructions. I headed off to the basement seating area, got out my laptop, fired up my browser and waited.A few seconds later the home page appeared and I was asked to fill in my details. After entering my password and credit card details, I plumped for £14 for 120 minutes' access across 28 days (it's £5.50 for a one-off hour long session).Overall it was a pretty pleasant way to spend half an hour. Web access was quick and easy and the seating area is nice enough. There's even a plug socket if you are low on power. A good start.Just down the road, Costa Coffee is offering wi-fi via a deal with BT Openzone. Again the staff didn't seem especially interested in answering my questions; rather they shoved a leaflet at me and left me to my own devices.On opening the web browser the BT page appeared and my troubles began. Login proved to be a painful and time-consuming experience. It was around seven or eight minutes before my home page finally appeared.Had I popped in for a quick slurp of my coffee and to check my email, or even worse been surfing via my Palm rather than my laptop, I'd have given up. Pricing isn't great either. I paid £6 for an hour's access over a 24-hour period.Benugo seemed to be offering a deal too good to miss. At two of its classy sandwich stores (the one I visited was in St John's St, Clerkenwell, and a second in Soho's Berwick St) you can surf wirelessly for half an hour freely as long as you've spent more than £2 on food and drinks.The staff knew exactly what I wanted. They gave me a piece of paper with a six-character password on it and told me to open up my web browser. Sure enough I landed straight on Benugo's home page, and after I'd put in the password I was away cruising the net. No need for credit card details, address or user names.Surely, if wi-fi is to establish itself as mainstream technology, the quick, free and easy Benugo route has to be the one to go for. The staff told me that at least 20 geeks access the internet via their WLAN each day, which might not sound much but in terms of hotspots that's quite an impressive figure.I finally headed to Leman St on the edge of the City of London to check out the Old Monk - one of the capital's first wi-fi pubs. An organisation called the Cloud last week took more than 200 of the UK's boozers online via wireless networks, and although it intends to charge for access for the time being it is free.Initial impressions weren't good. I ordered a pint (purely in the interests of research) and asked the barman about getting online. He shrugged his shoulders. I looked around the pub, no leaflets or signs. Maybe I had come to the wrong place?I switched on my laptop and checked the wireless monitor - no signal. Just as I was about to give up the barman pointed me in the direction of a games machine, where he said there were instructions for accessing something wireless.I read and followed the instructions, but still no signal. Giving the Cloud one last chance I rang their helpline from my mobile only to be told that the number doesn't exist.Finally I got through to the company office and left a message for the operations manager. Are they being a little economical with the truth about how many pubs are now online?After about 20 minutes he returned my call to explain there was a router problem at the Old Monk that would be fixed later that day. He added that it sounded like my mobile phone network wouldn't access premium rate numbers like the Cloud's helpline.To be honest, by then I was more interested in lining up my third beer than checking my email anyway.
Customers of eBay, the biggest e-commerce website in Britain, have been targeted with a sophisticated new email fraud designed to trick users into disclosing their bank details.Users of eBay's online payments service, PayPal, have received official-looking emails over the past few days warning "inactive customers" that their accounts may be cancelled. The emails ask recipients to confirm their details - including their credit card number, expiry date and Pin number - to avoid losing their account with PayPal.The bogus email purports to come from paysecurity@paypal.com and includes the PayPal logo, advertises the PayPal newsletter and even apologises if the user previously asked to unsubscribe.The online con is not the first email attempt to defraud eBay and PayPal customers - who number 2 million in Britain alone - but it is one of the most convincing.Anya Pearse of Hemel Hempstead in Hertfordshire received the email this week. "I was about to renew when I noticed that it asked for my 'ATM Pin number' to verify my bank details," she said. "I thought surely a legitimate site doesn't need my Pin code?"A spokeswoman for PayPal, which is wholly owned by eBay, confirmed that it was a bogus email. "We think it has probably been sent to hundreds of thousands of users in the hope that some people will fall for it. PayPal and eBay always stress in all their communications to customers that they will never be asked for personal information like this."Unfortunately, it is not the first time we have seen mock emails that look like they have come from PayPal. We can trace the emails back to the sender, but usually it is a URL address which has been set up to scoop up credit card details and then shut down within 24 hours."She added that PayPal had no way of knowing how many users might have been conned, but a fraud investigation would begin immediately. The FBI and authorities in the UK would also be notified.Bank customers should not give out their Pin numbers, the British Bankers' Association warned yesterday. "Never write down or disclose your Pin number to anyone. It is like giving someone the key to your front door. There are no circumstances in which it can be asked for by a legitimate organisation," said a spokesman.California-based PayPal has 25 million registered users and is seeking to become the global standard for online payments on e-commerce sites such as the auction house eBay.Two years ago some users of PayPal were redirected to a mock site called PayPaI, which was operated out of Russia and conned users into giving their credit card information. Eventually the fraudsters were lured to the United States in an undercover operation by the FBI, who found that they had stolen 56,000 credit card numbers.
The internet's "browser wars" between the mighty Microsoft's Internet Explorer and the once-triumphant Netscape (now owned by AOL Time Warner) are now officially over. This follows Microsoft's payment of $750m to AOL - small change for Bill Gates - to settle outstanding litigation. Since AOL will get Explorer free for seven years it is presumed that Netscape will wither away leaving Microsoft's 90% market share in browsers strengthened further. This is the end of an era. The question is does it matter?The dotcom boom started in August 1995 when Netscape - developer of the first full-fledged browser - was floated on the US markets valuing it at a mind-boggling $2.7bn. Since sales were only $16.6m in the half-year, this set the pace for the barmy overvaluations of the dotcom era. Netscape then boasted an 80% market share that frightened Microsoft into launching its own browser to protect its dominant position in personal computer software. Microsoft exploited its 90%-plus monopoly of the PC operating system by "bundling" Explorer into it. The US courts found that Microsoft's dominance, while not illegally acquired, was illegally maintained by methods like strong-arming computer manufacturers to make Explorer the "default" browser when you switched on.Arch rival AOL responded to Microsoft's dominance by buying Netscape for $9bn (in shares), one of the biggest overpayments ever. Having done that, AOL failed to invest on a scale to threaten Microsoft, which can now add its 90%-plus monopoly in browsers to its 90%-95% monopoly of PC operating systems and Excel and Word office software. There are some smaller browsers but none with the clout to challenge Microsoft. For anyone who believes in the benefits of competition this is a really bad development even though Explorer itself is popular. Microsoft has become one of the few private sector monopolies to discover the secret of longevity.
It's Thursday, so today's issue of Online is onlinehere. . . .
Business meetings are being disrupted while people fiddle with their gizmos. One solution is to ban their use for 50 minutes an hour, with a $50 fine for those who disobey, theChicago Tribunereports. "You'd be surprised at how upset people get about paying $50."
The story so far: SCO has been making a noise because, it says, Linux -- a clone of Unix -- infringes its Unix rights. Novell undercut this by claiming that it still owned the rights to Unix, which it got from AT&amp;T, and which SCO (formerly Caldera) said it thought it had bought from Novell. See theAPversion of events. TheCBS Marketwatchversion includes quotes from SCO CEO Darl McBride, and ends with the interesting sentence: "McBride added that unless more companies start licensing SCO's property,he may also sue Linus Torvalds, who is credited with inventing the Linux operating system, for patent infringement." This man is clearly not planning to enter any popularity contests.....Update:Clarification:SCO says threat to Linux creator was overstated[Thanks to Nick Miners for the link, posted via a comment]* People who care who really owns Unix can read this:http://www.opensource.org/sco-vs-ibm.htmlDon't miss the colourful cut-out-and-keep diagram of the Unix family tree.Update:"But wait! It's not thefullCOAK Unix family tree," as Charles points out in a comment.
Business Solutions has a simple mission statement: to help boost the efficiency of small and medium sized companies (SMEs) by promoting the beneÞts of new technology. Britain's economic success in the decades ahead depends critically on successful small businesses expanding into bigger ones. Expansion is partly needed to compensate for all the big companies that are rapidly turning into smaller companies (like Marconi and the former British Leyland) but also to provide jobs for people displaced by the natural productivity improvements that large companies are forced to make to survive.According to the latest statistics published by the Bank of England, SMEs account for 54% of the gross value added in the main industrial sector (a category that excludes public services, the Þnancial sector, forestry and fishing). Gross value added is the income generated by companies out of which wages, capital investment and interest charges are paid before arriving at profits.The mere adoption of new technology - whether it is high-speed broadband internet access or the latest computers - will not in itself provide a competitive advantage but if you do not have it then your company will be vulnerable and Þnd it very difficult to succeed.The days are long gone when companies thought they had joined the IT revolution simply by having their own websites. It is now accepted that companies must have an internet strategy encompassing everything from a well designed web presence to a functioning e-payments system.But, even if a company's strategy consists of nothing more than a few simple web pages outlining what it does and how to contact it, this is far better than nothing at all. Why? Because of the phenomenon of "passive marketing". A lot of companies have found that they have become accidental exporters as a result of customers overseas coming across their products by chance in using search engines to scour the internet for components and services.Since Business Solutions was launched two and a half years ago, the adoption of new technology has improved enormously. The latest Oftel Þgures show that over 2m or 63% of SMEs now have internet access. This compares with barely 20% a few years ago. But it still means that 37% of them don't. Even allowing for the fact that many of the rest are one-person operations or non-trading companies it still leaves a lot of companies that haven't woken up yet to the realities of the IT revolution. These days if you are without email, let alone the internet, it is a huge disadvantage in dealing with other companies for whom the instant communication that email affords (and the ability to transmit large documents) has proved a vital business tool.Business Solutions and Online have strongly promoted the advantages of adopting broadband internet access to speed up communications and data transfer as well as broadband Wi-fi (wireless) connections under which all parts of your ofÞce or business can receive high speed web access instantaneously without having to lay down wires to multiple computers. Small companies across the land are now ganging together to produce enough corporate customers to make it worthwhile for BT to provide broadband in rural communities where it has so far been uneconomic to do so.In this issue, Business Solutions' resident expert Guy Clapperton examines Þve essential technologies that SMEs should not be without. And Justin Hunt looks at how several companies have successfully used the web to improve their businesses.  Business Solutions strongly believes that the government should do more to improve the environment in which SMEs operate. The most important thing is to provide a stable macro-economic background so companies can plan and invest in the knowledge that that there will not be a recession around the corner. The second is to act as advocate and facilitator for the adoption of IT. And the third is to reduce the ever growing mountain of red tape that companies have to contend with and which distracts them from the wealth creation process.So far, this government has delivered on its pledge to avoid the excesses of the stop-go cycle. But the economy is now entering more treacherous waters as global growth slows down faster than expected and the rest of Europe slithers into recession. The government has made a brave start in being an advocate of IT but failed in its target to ensure that the UK had the best environment for e-commerce by the end of 2002 (did you miss the celebrations?). It still has a long way to go to bring red tape down to acceptable levels.Small companies start with a handicap in that they know that 50% of new companies either fail or get taken over in the Þrst four years of their lives. They are naturally upset by the government's imposition of higher national insurance charges - even though they are going to fund a better health service from which everyone will benefit.We believe that the government should foster a very competitive environment for small business and should not take decisions about business that can only be taken by executives at the coal face. At the same time it has a vital role in setting fair rules for competition and in helping to agree the standardisation criteria - like GSM for mobile phones - that are so important for international success. In return we believe that SMEs should be good corporate citizens, paying their due taxes, paying their employees decently and avoiding the corporate excesses that have soured the images of so many of the country's largest Þrms. If you would like to add your comments please email us at:online.feedback@guardian.co.uk&#183;Victor Keegan is editor of Online.
My habit's getting truly out of hand. I'm addicted to linking my weblog to as many external services as I can - so many, in fact, that a recent posting set off a string of over 100 requests and commands. It's not surprising: the most popular sites offering the APIs (applications programming interfaces) that Jack Schofield writes about elsewhre today, are also among the most popular sites in the weblogging community. Indeed, open internet APIs are one of the technologies that the weblogging community has pioneered.Perhaps the most used of these APIs are the weblogging systems themselves. The Blogger, Metaweblogger and LiveJournal APIs allow you to write and edit weblog posts from programs that run on your own machine, instead of the more usual web-based interface. Programs such as Kung-Log and EspressoBlog all give you a better user interface, luxuries such as spellchecking, and the ability to write blog entries while offline. Then, via the weblogging APIs, they post them quickly when you get a connection.Developers are also using the weblogging APIs to create a variety of applications that can post to your blog. Mobile phone services use this system, as does Audblog.com, which lets you post audio blog entries from a telephone.Once you've posted, you might want to see who is linking to you. Here's where the Technorati.com API comes in. David Sifry's blog-tracking site offers a whole range of ways for programmers to find out things like these. This is the API I use the most: my blog displays the number of other blogs linking to it, and links itself to the latest one, all via the Technorati API. It also makes a query for every address that I link to, and notes the real name of the site and the number of other blogs linking to it.The Amazon API is also incredibly popular. Amazon Light, for example, uses the API to provide a clean, clutter-free interface to the online retailer, while Amazon RSS provides news feeds based on searching Amazon for keywords. But the outstanding example must be All Consuming, which can show you exactly which books the blogging community is currently making a fuss about. Erik Benson's site tracks   the list of updated weblogs held at Weblogs.com, looking for mentions of books. Then it retrieves additional details about them, including the cover art, using the Amazon API.The cover picture is the Amazon API's secret weapon. The company's API policy allows anyone to take the cover art from any of the books, CDs, videos and DVDs held in its catalogue. This enables applications like Clutter to automatically display the cover art of the album when you are listening to an MP3 file. Apple's new music program, iTunes4, also has this ability, and since its launch, a great deal of effort has gone into automating the taking of Amazon's images for people's iTunes databases. (The sordid secret is that many of us used to spend a few hours doing it manually.)The launch of the Google API really captured the imagination of the developer community. The Google Hacks book, published by O'Reilly, is the bestselling computing book of the year (though may be challenged by the new Amazon Hacks). Many of the hacks themselves are quite low-key, but make up for it with their ubiquity. Also, the inclusion of Google API support within the Movable Type blogging application now means that hundreds of weblogs are decorated with the results from automated searches. Receiving the results from a Google search into a small program means that programmers can style the output to look however they wish, or take the data and refine it further. Dave Winer does this with his new weblog search tool.This ability to get at the raw data, and then do interesting things with it before putting it on the screen, is the very point of these APIs - and a point that rapidly transforms itself into a yearning. Once you have played with these things - and in most cases, they are very simple to use - you start wanting APIs on every site you interact with.My online banking service, for example, is utterly crippled by a terrible user interface - what I would give for an API that just let me find my balance? Travel sites, train timetables and newspaper archives would all benefit from offering a programmable interface. Most users would never touch it, but those who did could create products that really help.Useful linkswww.benhammersley.comwww.Technorati.comhttp://allconsuming.nethttp://allconsuming.netwww.yaywastaken.com/amazonhttp://scriptingnews.userland.com
Could the playstation generation have a new heroine? While Lara Croft wins admirers for battling zombies and ancient mummies in Tomb Raider, an American scientist called Daphne Bavelier has shown that playing such video games may actually be good for you.The new research shows that people who play action games including Grand Theft Auto and Super Mario Carts several times a week beat non-gamers in tests of visual ability.It means that children hooked on computer games may not be rotting their brain, but rather improving attention skills such as being able to track and focus on objects while avoiding distractions. The study also suggests that hours hunched over a games console could improve elderly people's driving, or the concentration of airport security staff."Although video-game playing may seem to be rather mindless, it is capable of radically altering visual attentional processing," said Prof Bavelier of the University of RochesterTo test the effects of playing video games, Prof Bavelier and her research assistant, Shawn Green, asked both non-players and self-confessed male game addicts (they could only find one female player) to focus on, detect and count a series of shapes and letters flashed on to a computer screen. They found that the gamers reacted to the fast-moving objects   more efficiently and could track up to five objects on the screen at a time - about 30% more than the other group.The skills of the non-players could be improved by asking them to train on a game for an hour a day, over a period of 10 days. But the type of game was critical. While non-players who shot baddies in the war game Medal of Honor significantly bettered their performance in the visual attention tests, those who merely rotated blocks in the game Tetris showed no improvement."By forcing players to simultaneously juggle a number of varied tasks ... action video game-playing pushes the limits of three rather different aspects of visual attention," the researchers said. Their results are published today in the science journal Nature.Jeremy Wolfe of the visual attention lab at Harvard University says the findings can be applied to real-life situations. Accident-prone elderly drivers are more likely to score badly in field-of-view tests, for example. "It would be a great leap at this point to say that Grandma should be playing first-person shooter games so she would be a safer driver, but those are the things one might investigate," Prof Wolfe said. "And people at airport security screens are doing visual attention tasks."But the results are not an excuse for teenagers across the land to ditch homework for game playing. "Just having great attentional ability will not get you through life," warned Mr Wolfe.
&#183;Our company's core business is motorcycle engines and spares but these days we are just as reliant on our computer systems as we are on mechanical parts. With PC and software crashes becoming a frustrating daily routine, I'd like to know who is liable when our software fails? If an engine breaks down it is clearly the fault of the manufacturer, so can I sue our accounts software developer if their product crashes and I lose all of last year's figures?David Crocker:In the UK there are few legal precedents for suppliers of packaged software being prosecuted for faulty goods, in contrast to the way that a mechanical engineer might pay damages if he builds an engine that blows up.In the recent case of SAM Business Systems Ltd. vs. Hedley &amp; Co., the judge asserted that software sold as "tried and tested" should be free from bugs, but ruled that the supplier's limitation of liability clause in the software licence agreement was valid. With faulty software it's generally the user's job to find upgrades on the worldwide web. A change might come as software companies move to methods such as "verified design by contract" supported by automated reasoning tools that help developers produce software known to be bug-free. I'm pleased to say that UK universities such as Royal Holloway are at the forefront of research into this. But it will be pressure from users demanding more reliable software that leads to the guaranteed eradication of bugs from commercial and office software.&#183;I own a company of 50 or so people and really need to get on top of our system's security. I've been looking at the products that provide security out of a box but really want to know if these are any good. They are cheaper, but are they safer?Matt Tomlinson: Don't do it. These jack-of-all-trades products can be likened to a Swiss army knife; it's OK if you need a temporary tool for occasional use but if you need a decent knife or corkscrew for prolonged and regular use you will buy them individually. That way they are more likely to compliment each other and be used correctly.It's true that these "one-stop" products tend to be aimed at companies with less than 100 users, as well as sectors like healthcare and education that are deemed to be cash sensitive markets. What these products promise is the protection of a firewall, anti-virus, a VPN, content inspection (email and web monitoring) and intrusion detection all out of one box.They seem like it a great way of quickly adding security when in reality each component tends to be much weaker than the full blown product. For example, the anti-virus component will only be updated every four to six weeks and will only have a limited number of virus signatures that it scans for, whereas an AV product from the likes of Trend or Sophos will be updated daily if necessary and, with these companies spending hundreds of thousands on research and development, the product will have practically every known virus signature.The best advice is to seek out some trustworthy advice from a reputable IT security provider, perhaps from several so you can compare and contrast. They will advise you on what aspect of your network you need to secure and how it should be secured. If they are worth their salt they will advise on what is known as a multi-layered approach. This involves different elements of security ie separate firewall, anti-virus etc, that when deployed correctly will work together to ensure you are secure. It's worth remembering that no system can ever be 100% safe but obviously the more layers you add the safer you are likely to be.&#183;I'm getting more and more cold calls from sales people offering my company a customer relationship management (CRM) system. We're a very specialized manufacturer of medical equipment with 100 employees, 30 of which are sales people who are permanently "on the road". How do I find a CRM system that fits a company of our size, and what tangible, measurable benefits will it bring?Nigel Huxtable:Look for a CRM system that can easily and rapidly be configured to support your unique corporate strategies. This means finding a software offering that is flexible and can be expanded as your sales force grows - and as your business environment changes. You should also look for a supplier with experience in your market, with an understanding of the unique issues your mobile sales force faces. The tangible benefits you will see from the right CRM system are increased enterprise efficiency coming from sales process automation as well as increased sales by better targeting and focus of your sales efforts.&#183;Do you have a technology problem you'd like solved by our panel of experts? Write to Business Solutions Surgery, Online, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, fax them to 020 7713 4154, or email them toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
If you want to impress in Silicon Valley, you need a videophone, according to Stephen Timms, who today completes his first year as e-commerce minister. "I showed this to some high-tech wireless people, and they thought it was stunning," he says of his NEC e606, demonstrating an ITN bulletin he downloaded earlier when he was on a train.It's fair to say that Timms, who spent 16 years working in IT, is a good match for his ministerial role. "I am enjoying it enormously. It's a fabulous job," he says.So what does he feel he has achieved in a year? "We've certainly made a lot of progress on broadband," he says. Connections have tripled, from 666,000 a year ago to 2m. Contrary to some press claims, the definition of broadband (128kbps or faster) has not changed, he says.This still means the UK has just 3.4 connections per 100 inhabitants, less than the 3.9 average figure for the 30 Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development nations last June.Germany remains ahead of the UK, concedes Timms. "Although in the short-term, through this huge dominance of Deutsche Telekom &#91;BT's German equivalent&#93; they've got a big number, it's not growing very fast. In Germany, prices are slipping up," he says, whereas in the UK, "the pressure on pricing is downwards". This is because BT directly provides only a quarter of connections."Given where we started from, the progress that has been made is very, very encouraging, with well over 30,000 new connections a week," he adds. "We need that rate of improvement to be sustained, and I'm pretty confident that given this very competitive environment we have, and some new development with wireless as well, we can be confident about that."What Timms calls "affordable broadband" is available to 70% of UK citizens - the same as the US, he points out - but this should be higher. "There is a huge, huge groundswell of enthusiasm right across the country, and frustration as well, in places where broadband has not yet been delivered," he says.Timms' solution to this lies in the government's &#163;1bn budget for connecting all schools and surgeries, along with the criminal justice system and councils, to broadband. "It's   my job to make absolutely sure that we invest that money in a way that meets the needs of public services in a cost-effective way, but just as importantly, do it an a way that opens up broadband services to people outside the public services," he says. He chairs a committee of ministers on this subject.For example, a consortium including cable firm Telewest is building the infrastructure to provide broadband for both schools and universities in the West Midlands. "It's not owned by the public sector, it's owned by this consortium, and they can sell it to whomever they want," he says.And he thinks wireless will be the key technology: "This was one of the lessons from my visit to Silicon Valley. Classically, Wi-Fi means sticking up an aerial and giving wireless broadband access to people using their laptops sitting in an airport departure lounge or Paddington station. But we talked to people who are bringing to the market Wi-Fi aerials with a reach of some miles, not just a few hundred yards."The vast majority of the population lives within a few miles of a school, so you could envisage that it might be the case for a lot of communities - and there are one or two examples where this is now happening - that you provide broadband to the school, and you could then provide a wireless antenna set up at the school."In the meantime, there is a broadband technology that already covers the whole country: satellite. But it is pricey, particularly to install. So five of the regional development agencies (RDAs) are now subsidising the cost. Timms has just visited a financial adviser in Battle, East Sussex, which received one of 500 grants from the South-East England Development Agency (Seeda) for the installation of its satellite connection.The adviser employed three people in south London. "They decided to move to Battle, but not until broadband was available. This arrangement with Seeda meant they could get broadband by satellite, so they moved last November. They've now recruited six people locally. That's what we need on a much wider scale around the country," Timms says.If Stephen Timms and the government can make these ideas work, the UK will have excellent access to broadband. As with the technology, it's now about speed of delivery.Timms other tipsThe European directive banning spam:For intra-EU spam, I think we can pretty much resolve the problem. The difficulty is, as far as email is concerned, very little comes from within the EU. That isn't the case with text messaging spam, so I think the directive will be a pretty powerful tool as far as that is concerned.Whether 3G phone companies have been hindered by their multi-billion pound UK licences:Along with a counterpart service in Italy, &#91;3's UK service&#93; is the first major 3G service in the west. Not only that, all the other 3G licence holders, including mm02 &#91;who last week   announced a &#163;10bn loss partly due to the licence cost&#93;, are committed to proceeding with a 3G service. Indeed, Orange has announced it will abandon investment in 3G, except in the UK.We're a world leader in the development of games software. I think 3G will be a big platform for this, and through your mobile subscription there's a very clear way of paying for all this. Micropayments are very easy.How Wi-Fi will fit with 3G:The view that emerged from my visit to California is that Wi-Fi hotspots will accustom people to being able to access broadband from their laptops, and that will be a key driver for 3G,   as 3G can deliver that on the move. We'll see PC cards that can deliver Wi-Fi and 3G.On corporate social responsibility, such as telecoms firms providing access to phone services in Africa:In the future, we want there to be attractive commercial opportunities in the huge African market. I don't see these activities as philanthropic, I see them as companies exploring the opportunities to make commercial successes by behaving in a responsible way.These CSR activities are very creative in terms of developing new commercial opportunities.
Online gets ironicThe Online piece on May 22 (Make cheats, not war) made very interesting reading. I suspect that, even among computer users, there are more people unhappy about the violent nature of certain PC games than the number of players who get their joy sticks in a twist over cheats and "haxOrs" undermining their bit of fun.However, the most entertaining and ironic part of the article was the idea that the American military, which has spent billions of dollars on perfecting weapons that can see in the dark and fly round corners, should be upset with "dishonest" players using aimbot to make their targets stand out so they are easier to hit. "Players who act up," and by that I presume players who use a technological advantage, "violate the rules of military contact ..." Really? Did anyone tell Gen Tommy Franks?Nick Skeldingnick@n.skelding.freeserve.co.ukName the cheats!Re: Make cheats, not war. Very interesting, but why aren't the cheaters and hack-coders named and shamed?  As a long-time gamer, and an ex-games journalist with over 10 years' experience, I think it's about time the people responsible for destroying online multiplayer gaming paid a price for their malicious activity.You might say "it's only a game", but it's not as simple as that - the online gaming industry is dying as a result.  Someone should name and shame the cheat writers, and if that results in their lives in the real world being ruined, then touch&#233;!Paul MallinsonCheckmateComputers themselves ruined correspondence chess.JHannay1@cs.comWar game truthsAs an avid AA:Ops player, I was disappointed at the errors in your article. In the first paragraph, on the map being discussed (pipeline), there is no fog, there are no snipers as claimed by the writer, and there isn't anywhere on the map that an entire team would lie prone as a tactic.He says: "Expansion packs are planned." There are no expansion packs because the game is being continually updated.He adds that angry soldiers have flooded AA:Ops forums demanding action. He quotes one poster, Sloppy, as saying: "For this not to be addressed is a slap in the face to all of us busting our humps to get honour points". I've never seen this post, and I have  not seen a flood of users demanding action."Undercover operatives, or 'admins' disguised as normal players have been deployed on all 140 official servers to hunt out cheaters": Admins are only available on request. There are only a handful of admins. They are not available on all official servers but HomeLAN servers only. Someone needs to do some fact-checking _ unless reporting the truth isn't what you are interested in.Garrett Soclinggsocling@cub.kcnet.orgOpening upI write with reference to the letter from Ian Cook on May 22 about BT Openworld. His letter, while sad to hear, may be slightly misleading.  BT Openworld has three similar services for customers, Broadband Direct, Premium Mail and PAYG. Mr Cook switched from Anytime to Broadband Direct.While this is similar to the PAYG service, it is designed for customers who have broadband access from another supplier but either wish to   retain their Openworld email accounts or simply want email for the no-frills broadband services.Mr Cook should use the PAYG service as this also allows him webspace and gives him spam protection and other benefits at only the cost of his local-rate number. Premium Mail is an add-on service for customers who want webspace and POP access rather than just webmail. Again, this is meant largely as an add-on to BT's no-frills broadband service.Ian Arnoti.arnot@btinternet.com(BT employee writing in a personal capacity)Apple shoots...Following on from Mike Petty's observations about the Apple iTunes Music Store and EMusic (May 22): After doing some calculations, to subscribe to EMusic would cost me a total of $119.88 a year ($9.99 a month).So for 99 cents a song or $199.88 a year, I'd rather pay 99 cents to download only the songs I want and when I want from Apple. I'd personally never spend anything like $199.88 on music in an entire year.  Plus that's all I need: another monthly subscription fee draining my bank account.Roland J Youngwww.rolandjyoung.co.uk... and it scoresMike Petty misses two crucial points: firstly, the Apple store, unlike EMusic, doesn't rely on the crummy MP3 format, and secondly, I don't want a contract. EMusic had a few items I'd quite like but I'd rather pick the odd album and pay for it.While EMusic offers a free trial, I prefer Apple's 30-second preview so you can make sure you have the right one.I might end up paying more ($9.99 is about one album a month, my normal rate of consumption) but I doubt it somehow. And at least via Apple, the tracks will be worth listening to...Jason Daviesjason@ophiochos.org.uk
Sony announced plans for a powerful do-it-all game machine yesterday, as the world's largest consumer electronics company tried to reassure worried investors that it had not lost its creative touch in the home entertainment market.The new device was trumpeted , along with a swathe of cost cutting measures, at the firm's annual executive strategy meeting, which falls this year against a backdrop of dismal results and a share price that has fallen to its lowest level in seven years.PSX, as the machine will be called, will be an all-singing, all-dancing home entertainment system combining elements of the PlayStation 2 game console with a TV tuner, hard-disk recorder, memory stick slot and broadband connectivity. Executives said they hoped the device would create a new market - a key aim of Sony chief executive Nobuyuki Idei who vowed earlier this month that his team would come up with a revamped profit model within three years.After not putting a foot wrong for 10 years, Sony has hit a wall this year as fierce competition from Chinese and South Korean firms has pushed down prices of Vaio computers, videos, televisions and cameras. In April, the firm posted its worst quarterly earnings in eight years and after a warning that its profits would slump to a similar low in the year ahead, Sony's share price lost a quarter of its value.The worst performer has been the company's electronics division, which accounted for two-thirds of sales last year but only a fifth of profits.The new machine is part of a plan to inject new life into the electronics arm of the business by introducing more of the technology used so successfully in games, the company's most-profitable arm.Although the PSX will not replace the PlayStation 2 - the next generation of the world's most popular game console is still in development - it aims to realise Sony's goal of convergence in gaming, film, audio software and technology.The company hopes this will set the new product apart in the fiercely-competitive con sole business. Despite the pre-eminince of PlayStation 2, its profitability has been hurt by cost-cutting by rivals such as Microsoft's X-Box and Nintendo's GameCube.To settle market jitters, Sony has promised to achieve a 10% operating profit margin in three years, a fourfold improvement on last year and double that of its main domestic electronics rival, Matsushita Electric.The &#165;1.3 trillion restructuring plan would see the company moving away from lower-end products - that can now be made more cheaply in China - and concentrating on high-price items such as flat-panel televisions, camcorders and DVD recorders. It remains to be seen whether this will be enough to halt the slide in the company's share price and allay threats of a credit rating downgrade.
Are you using a British computer? The odds are against it, though you may well be using a PC that was assembled somewhere in the British Isles by an American company. Compaq (now merged with Hewlett-Packard) builds machines in Erskine, Scotland, and Dell in Limerick, Ireland.The UK got off to a good start in the computer industry. The Manchester Mark 1 was the first computer to run a program stored in memory. Leo (Lyons Electronic Office) was the first real business computer. The Ferranti Atlas was the first with virtual memory. But we have had very little success in turning innovation into sales.When people bemoan the failure of the British computer industry, as my colleague Michael Cross did   in Online last week, usually they are thinking of the failure of the many small microcomputer companies that flourished in the early 1980s. But this was not a uniquely British phenomenon. Almost all the early American and European start-ups failed as well.The problem was that dozens of early microcomputer companies all had different, incompatible designs. They could not run one another's software, even when they used the same microprocessor. Examples included the Acorn BBC B, Apple II and Atari 800, all based on the MOSfet 6502, and the Atari ST, Commodore Amiga and Apple Macintosh, using the Motorola 68000 line.Most people don't like being locked into a proprietary design and prefer a system that allows compatible machines to be built by   thousands of competing manufacturers. The IBM PC provided a standard that did that.IBM PC-compatibility drove down prices and prompted a flowering of innovation as companies created everything from pocket-sized machines (Atari Portfolio, Poqet, etc) to multi-processor mainframe class servers.There is no reason why British manufacturers should not have been successful at selling IBM-compatibles. But some disdained the whole idea (Acorn), while others did it badly (Sinclair). Some were successful for a while (Amstrad, Apricot, Dan). Some have survived without ever setting the world alight, such as RM (founded as Research Machines in 1973), Viglen (founded 1975), and Akhter (founded 1979). Those plus Time/Tiny, Mesh, Evesham,   Hi-Grade and many others are still flying the flag.But according to Ian Gibbs, a research analyst at IDC, British manufacturers only had 10.7% of the UK PC market in the latest quarter. This is down from 12.5% in the same quarter last year.Gibbs says that "the PC market has now become so commoditised that it is really only the large global vendors who have the resources necessary to reach a mass market."Well, it took the personal computer industry 25 years to ship the first billion units and the next billion will be shipped by 2008. Roughly $1 trillion is up for grabs.Everyone is scared of competing with Dell, but when Michael Dell started in 1984, he had to compete with multi-billion-dollar multi-nationals such as IBM and Apple. It's not easy, but it can be done.
Earlier this spring, I started work with a young firm, set up by three successful German entrepreneurs.      Our business: an internet one. We provide blogs, or online personal journals, to Europe's youth (and      young-at-heart). With the tremors from the dotcom crash and the technology bubble still being felt, it      might seem an odd time to get involved in an internet venture.The firm, 20six, is my fourth entrepreneurial role in as many years. My shortest tenure was three days,      my longest 20 months. The entrepreneurial bug has been addictive, but I think that today is the best      time in four years to launch a business.Why now?    While capital is, admittedly, scarcer, the environment for entrepreneurial internet ventures is in many      ways not as hostile as it was a few years ago. For one thing, many of us have learnt from the errors of      the bubble period. This generation cares about cost management and revenues. We recognise there isn't      really such a thing as an internet business anyway, the internet being so woven into the fabric of the      communications and media industries.Also important is a change in the internet ecosystem. There are new emergent standards that reduce      the cost of doing business, afford new opportunities and increase complexity in the system. For      example, wireless internet access, such as Wi-Fi, does all these things. It reduces the costs of getting      online, provides a raft of new services, such as public hotspots, while increasing complexities.How, for      example, do you easily roam across mobile phone networks, public hotspots and your office Lan? Firms      like Boingo Wireless and WiFinder exist because of these opportunities.       The growing connection between mobile phones and the internet is compelling. It is creating the      always-on crowd who wish to access resources on the move.Mobiles also provide a billing mechanism for      internet or online services, helping us satisfy our needs for a payment system.       Large established firms were burnt by their own excessive investments in internet businesses they      didn't really understand, didn't really work, or to which they weren't really committed.Large phone companies are saddled with debt. Their obligation is to reduce their debt, not invest in      developing new products. Media firms, particularly in the UK, are on the back foot, concentrating on      structural shifts in the advertising business and their declining audiences. Once bitten, twice shy. They      won't innovate for a while.And if that doesn't persuade you, perhaps this will. There is a trusted investor's adage: if a cab driver      asks you about investing in a particular company, it is time to sell. It certainly rang true during the      2000 bubble. I think it still does.Last week, returning from a dinner, I mentioned my new venture to my cab driver. "An internet      business?" he replied, "Do they still do those?" We certainly do.&#183;Azeem Azhar is UK managing director for 20six. You can find it atwww.20six.co.uk
Does it matter whose wires carry your medical data as it streams between different NHS organisations? No, says Richard Granger, the NHS IT chief. With the enthusiasm of a bullock on Antiques Roadshow, he is about to demolish one of the health service's IT heirlooms, a managed intranet called NHSnet.Granger announced last week that, rather than replacing NHSnet as contracts expire this year, the health service will instead plug into new regional broadband networks being procured by the Department of Trade and Industry for the use of all public bodies.This is great news for broadband Britain. Until now, the NHS has largely remained aloof from public efforts to take broadband to parts   of the country where telecom firms don't want to invest. Under the Granger plan, the NHS's need for high-capacity networks will create an instant critical mass of demand almost everywhere, cutting the cost of broadband for everyone else.Inside the NHS, Granger may have some persuading to do. NHSnet has never been popular - it was conceived in the early 1990s just before the internet hit public consciousness, and took years to reach every NHS organisation - but it is the health service's own network. That was an important factor in persuading doctors to trust it after an early boycott led by the British Medical Association.Under an NHS code of connection, only organisations in the "NHS family" are allowed to plug in, a source of frustration to local authorities wanting to share data   between their social services departments and local NHS trusts.Campaigners for medical privacy, however, see this separation as a vital barrier to the state surveillance of confidential medical data.Granger will argue that the important part is not the physical network but the rules under which data traffic is managed. Security and confidentiality - as well as service standards - will form part of a contract for an NHS "managed service layer" to the regional broadband networks. This will need careful packaging if it is to be sold to the medical professionals.Whatever the objections, Granger seems decided. He told the annual conference of Assist, the NHS IT staff organisation, last week that regional networks would define the geography of his &#163;2.3bn project to upgrade health service computing.Under the project, five clusters of NHS organisations aligned with these regional boundaries will each place a contract worth hundreds of millions of pounds to obtain an "integrated care records service" from a commercial supplier. The ICRS will run across the new network, but what exactly the ICRS is remains a secret. A specification has been sent to bidders, but the NHS as a whole isn't to be allowed to see it. "Commercially confidential," Granger's office said last week.Granger is aware that his approach to IT project management is stoking up some monumental rows, but there is no time for consensus building. He told the ASSIST conference that "this is a great place to be if you want to do exciting IT delivery." But there is a real question about how much excitement the NHS can take.
Einstein a go-goAlbert Einstein's manuscripts have just been put online by the California Institute of Technology. After nearly three decades of research, more than 3,000 high-quality digitised images of his writings became available for download earlier this month. The collection includes hundreds of handwritten personal letters, poems, travel journals and essays as well as his manuscripts on relativity and the quantum theory of light and matter.The site is a collaborative effort of the Einstein Papers Project at Caltech and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. The original papers were collected during Einstein's life and after his death in 1955 by his secretary, Helen Dukas. There's an enormous amount of work available, but casual visitors should be satisfied by the gallery section, which highlights the most interesting work and adds supplementary texts. Which is ideal for the documents written in German.www.alberteinstein.infowww.einstein.caltech.eduGreenaway's diaryThe films of Peter Greenaway have often felt like huge works of multimedia. His 1990 film Prospero's Books, for example, has been seen by some critics as a cinema-screen-sized anticipation of the e-book. Now the maverick director has launched a website for his forthcoming movie, The Tulse Luper Suitcase. And as you might expect, Greenaway's site is not the ordinary mix of clips, cast list and screensaver you get with most films. The site itself functions as a virtual suitcase containing a diary that is updated each day for 1001 days. The story follows an alter ego of Greenaway and spans some 60 years of the 20th century. Both film and website form part of a massive odyssey which will eventually span five films, a book, a TV series and CD-Roms.www.tulseluper.netwww.wayney.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/greenaway.htmFlat sharingFinding a flat to rent is no easy task. There are lots of sites on the web, like Loot.com, that offer assistance but most want to charge a fee - at least for the most recent ads. Fed up with this situation, one backroom programmer has designed his own site. Offering a refreshingly simple interface with no commercial imperative, the main site is updated daily. There is a sister site for flats outside London including such far-flung places as Melbourne and Milan. The site is the work of "Julian", who describes his hobby as writing internet software. The nicest things about the site are that it has grown largely through word-of-mouth, and that it has quickly gained just as many flatshare listings as the commercial sites.www.moveflat.comwww.clickflatshare.co.ukwww.loot.comCard sharpThe US military's Deck of Infamy playing cards, issued in Iraq to identify the most wanted members of Saddam Hussein's regime, has now turned up as an online version of the one-player card game, solitaire. The site is the work of French graphic designers Virtualsined.com. The text on the cards is very hard to read in the browser, so head for the full-screen version and you will feel like a resting US marine in no time.www.virtualsined.com/wantedVirtual HackneyThe east London borough of Hackney was once home to William Shakespeare. Now you can trace the bard's steps with a virtual re-creation of Tudor Hackney. The tour is a recent addition to the National Archives' Learning Curve website. You can explore the world of 1601 through a virtual reality reconstruction (you must first download a special 3D Viscape viewer) of the Rectory House, which once stood on the west side of Hackney's Mare Street. Other material includes video clips and stories stretching from Stoke Newington to Shoreditch.http://learningcurve.pro.gov.uk/tudorhackneyFamous sonThe London borough of Waltham Forest has just launched a website celebrating a somewhat more recent history. The David Beckham Trail traces the early life of Britain's most famous footballer, from his birth at Whipps Cross Hospital to his time at secondary school, via the various parks where he spent hours perfecting his legendary free kick. The site maps out his early life in the form of a walk that you can take in the borough. For diehard fans, there's a map and directions of how to get there.www.lbwf.gov.uk/beckhamNew &amp; notedHelp save the bumblebeewww.english-nature.org.uk/newsMissed the Blogtalk conference?http://blogtalk.net/live.htmlExplore Tate Modernwww.tate.org.uk/modern/exploreSix of the best:PhotoblogsMidlands diarywww.sensitivelight.com/blogShutterbughttp://traceysnaps.diary-x.comA Polaroid a day, every daywww.dirtdirt.com/669Urban Londonwww.robotsbuildrobots.netLife in Tokyowww.hunkabutta.comLinks to even more siteswww.photoblogs.org
It's easy for businesses, particularly in their start-up phase, to think they have to have the latest and best equipment. Some, especially in the dotcom boom a few years back, had technology instead of a solid business plan and the results were predictably disastrous.But used as part of a business plan and with a purpose, many technologies can prove invaluable to a business. The most hyped lately is clearly broadband access to the internet. It's difÞcult to quantify exactly why broadband is any great shakes since it just does what the old connections did without having to spend time connecting up. You certainly need internet connections at the very least. Clients and suppliers won't ask whether you have email any more, they'll take it for granted. But if you're starting up and have one phone line, you don't want to block incoming calls while you're online. Broadband offers this plus budgeting control: "A key factor to any business, whatever its size, is cost - a broadband internet connection provides greater control over dial-up costs because you pay a Þxed monthly rate for unmetered access," says Dan Cole, DSL Product Manager, THUS plc.Once you're connected, and can see out onto the internet from your system, you need to be certain no one else can look in and damage it. The answer to this is a Þrewall - a piece of software either on your computer or on a separate computer or router between you and the internet that basically tells intruders to naff off. Beware of just buying anything with "firewall" written on the box and thinking you've done it, though. "As many organisations have discovered to their cost, it's not difÞcult for an experienced hacker to Þnd or punch a hole in your Þrewall and inÞltrate your systems," says Ian Tickle, UK manager of security specialist Tripwire. If you believe you're likely to be hacked then it's worth talking to a specialist.External communications are one thing: you will also want to consider how to link employees' systems together. Networking is simple but can be cumbersome because of cabling. Depending on where your ofÞce is located, putting the cables under the ßoorboards can be an issue (if, for example, you're in a listed building). One possible answer which is not as expensive as a lot of people think is wireless networking. A wireless access point, a router, wireless adaptors for every computer, and you're linked. "Technology can now be integrated into the lesson instead of the lesson centring around the technology," says Patrick Harty, head teacher at Marlborough School in St Albans. This offers a much more ßexible approach to teaching and learning. "Lesson plans are no longer constrained by the physicality of the classroom - laptop use Þts in with watching a presentation, then some board work, then back to the internet."Accidents do happen with data, however, and back up of some sort is important. Whether you hold a second copy of all your information on disk or somewhere off-site, the important thing is to be certain it's safe (Þreproof safes are no use if they aren't heat resistant) and that it works - so once you've backed up your information, make sure you practice restoring a Þle or two. Backing your data up offsite can be a useful option, as Ian Peel, director of public relations consultancy MCC International confirms. Prior to using his client's back-up system, Datafort, one of the women in the ofÞce had to back everything up to tape and take the tapes home with her which was an onerous responsibility."Off-site storage has always been horrendously expensive and not aimed at companies of our size," he explains. "But the Datafort system Þts the bill - you just pay for the amount of space you need and their compression system keeps that space down to a minimum. Also, since broadband arrived in our area, backing up via the net is much faster."Coverage is certainly an area of concern for broadband users, as current Þgures show that only 80% of the UK can get it. This will affect anyone with a geographically dispersed workforce as the usual way to stay in touch is through an internet connection, and developments in even the basic ofÞce suites - meaning Microsoft OfÞce for the majority of people - are heading towards collaborative working."A collaboration infrastructure with SharePoint products and technologies and integration with OfÞce applications provides document and meeting workspaces, as well as the ability to search and Þnd expertise in an organisation," says Microsoft's UK ofÞce systems product manager, David Bennie. In other words, if you're connected to other people you can do several times as much with the next generation of the product.How long it will take the UK to provide the infrastructure to make it happen universally is open to conjecture.
Many small and medium sized businesses have grasped that if they club together online they are likely to raise their proÞle and pave the way for more web-based sales.Woodstock Pharmacy, based in Northants, specialises in disability products and has witnessed a 15% uplift in sales since it joined @UK Plc, the online portal for SMEs. More than 2.1 million businesses are estimated to be using the service which provides inexpensive websites and e-commerce capabilities including visitor tracking functions."We were impressed with their understanding of the workings of the internet. You were not talking to some muppet at the end of the phone," says Tim Harrison, who is the co-owner of Woodstock Pharmacy. "They have a fully integrated shopping cart facility that is simple and cheap. And they completely re-designed our website for us."Harrison believes that any SME with e-commerce ambitions can beneÞt from being aligned to a dedicated high-profile portal which provides a range of hosting services. "It's no good being one little site stuck up there in cyberspace if no one knows where it is or how to get to it."The keyword tracking service which is available to all SMEs who have sites on @UK Plc's portal is enabling Woodstock Pharmacy to develop a clearer understanding of its online customers. "The keyword service indicates to you how people are getting to your site and which search engines they are coming from. We have found that particularly useful because advertising on the internet is extortionate. You need to be able to judge what value for money you are getting from advertising. We are assessing where we are going to advertise next and we can now be more precise," Harrison says.As well as the keyword service, @UK Plc provides SMEs with individual sales statistics for the last 20 sales through the portal and lets them check orders online. "SMEs are getting high value software at a low cost because it is a volume sale. They have the ability to look at their growth across products and they have a lot of information about where their orders are coming from," says @UK Plc's marketing director, Lyn Duncan. The dedicated SME e-commerce portal is also forging links with local authorities who are under pressure to meet their 2005 e-government targets. The idea is that councils can use @UK Plc to buy goods and services electronically from their SME suppliers. Duncan adds that she is also keen to encourage smaller companies to trade with each other across the portal. "One of the things we can do is cross-promotional work. We encourage the SMEs to buy from each other."Collaborating on the web in order to gain commercial advantages is also the recommended approach of Ian Sayer &amp; Co, a small London-based company of chartered quantity surveyors. The company is working on a £28.5 million housing regeneration project on St Martin's Estate in Lambeth. But rather than relying upon traditional methods of posting and signing off construction documents, the company has decided to use collaborative software which has been provided by Build Online, which provides new technology services to the construction industry.Using a dedicated website, all members of the housing regeneration project, including residents, can upload, download and revise documents over the internet as part of the on-going approval process. Messages can also be posted and the entire public sector construction project process is recorded online for auditing purposes."We made a decision that we would look at a more innovative way of communication. All of the drawings are uploaded onto the website and they are there for me to access," explains Alistair Russell, a senior partner for Ian Sayer &amp; Co. "The information óow needs to be quick. The software will assimilate everyone's different comments on a drawing or you can look at the comments individually. All of the instructions go through the website. I can tell to the second when someone has read a notice and when they have uploaded their response. My traditional correspondence has dwindled to nothing. I simply log on in the morning and all the messages are on the website."Russell admits that it has been difÞcult maintaining the discipline of sticking to online methods of working. Everyone was trained to use the system and he says the costs of using the software were shared among the 15 companies working on the construction project.For Ian Sayer &amp; Co, which has 14 employees, the collaborative construction software means the company saves storage space and it opens up new possibilities for the company to work remotely rather than having to be on a building site all the time. It also has the advantage of reducing the amount of time and number of people who are needed to manage a particular project as most of it can be handled online.Rather than paying to use someone else's software, there are obviously some SMEs who prefer to develop their own in order to exploit business opportunities on the web. The Leeds-based Card Corporation has developed an interactive website which uses its own graphic software to print business cards and stationery. Customers can select and control their own designs which are then printed out and delivered to them. "We use the web as enabling technology. It is a fully integrated part of our business and not something we have just added on like a fax or a telephone," says director of development Ivor Jacobs.The company, which has picked up e-commerce awards, now counts high street banks among its customers and is planning to introduce a range of new products including posters and greetings cards. However Jacobs acknowledges that the business still has to collaborate in order to develop overseas markets.If the company receives an order from Australia, for example, the Card Corporation will transfer Þles containing newly designed stationery over the web to printers down under so they can be printed there and distributed locally.The SMEs who are currently prospering online tend to be those who are open about their shortcomings and are prepared to cooperate with those who have the web intelligence they might lack.www.woodstockit.comwww.ukplc.netwww.buildonline.comwww.cardcorp.co.uk
Today's ever-changing business environment presents UK companies with great opportunities and many new challenges. Growing global competition means that businesses increasingly need to broaden their market reach in order to maintain a competitive edge.Businesses are already rising to the challenge and changing the way they work - most notably through the use of technology. Over a million households took up broadband access last year, making  teleworking possible for many for the fiirst time. And the introduction of terms such as "e-procurement" into everyday business speak is a re§ection of the fact that many companies are integrating technology into their business processes.Technology really can transform the way we do business. It is no longer simply about adoption, having a website and using email - the rush to get online is over and businesses are now looking to make the most of new and emerging technologies. ICT (Information Communications Technology) belongs at the heart of business practices. And in the UK we are well placed to achieve this. A recent report from the Economist Intelligence Unit positioned UK businesses among the most "e-ready" in the world.Of course for any company the business case for adopting new technology must be compelling enough to justify new investment. Technology should not be implemented for implementation's sake. As with any investment, the decision to employ e-business technologies should meet the requirements of its overall business strategy.For some businesses the case for investment may simply be the immediate opportunity to save money through fixed cost broadband internet access as opposed to the variable costs of a dial-up connection. On a wider scale, investment may lead to better relationships with customers and suppliers, plus better customer service.E-commerce technologies are opening up new opportunities right across the supply chain. Companies can benefit from better and faster access to information, less paperwork and greater efficiency in all their business processes. For example stock control orders can be made automatically, systems can monitor levels of ordering and purchasing, allowing businesses to be much more §exible. Businesses can keep in touch with clients and suppliers and give customers more choice in   how they communicate.Earlier this month I called on Printoff, a Lancashire based printing Þrm employing 50 people, to ofÞcially switch on their broadband connection. They explained to me how broadband would transform their business, allowing them, for example, to transmit artwork to and from customers and between their own sites in seconds. In the past, it took hours to transmit via ISDN - or they just had to send it by car. Broadband has removed past constraints on developing the business.Similarly, Skin Culture, a London-based company selling do-it-yourself skin treatments, invested in e-business technologies to improve communications with its customers. It set up an interactive website, designed to engage its customers, giving them the opportunity to browse through Skin Culture's catalogue of products, identify their skin proÞle and buy items through a secure online ordering system. The company now conducts over 75% of its business through the website and has branched out into international markets - the technology allowed it to tap into the growing internet-savvy shopper group.In short, e-business can enhance the productivity, competitiveness and cost-efficiency of any business, whatever its size. But the question for many smaller businesses is how they take that Þrst step. Integration of new technologies into existing business processes can seem a daunting task, but it does not need to be expensive or complicated. It could be as straightforward as ensuring one database of customer details is stored centrally on the business' system, rather than having two separate records for billing and delivery. When a customer's details change, only one entry then needs to be changed, saving time and money.There are a number of support programmes available to businesses needing advice. There is a network already in place of several hundred UK Online for Business advisors, situated in Business Links and their equivalents across the country, who will work with companies on anything from building an effective website to getting the right purchasing software. UK Online for Business is also developing tools to help businesses take up and maximise the use of technology. The E-business Toolkit outlines e-business models and the Benchmarking Tool allows companies to measure their progress against similar companies. The planning tool, Be Online for Business, also offers practical and tailored advice on how to create and apply a realistic e-business strategy.Many small and medium sized companies in the UK are already harnessing the beneÞts of new technologies. We are keen to reward that innovation. This year marks the Þfth annual E-commerce Awards, set up to celebrate organisations that are successfully using new technologies to improve their business. Since their inception, we have seen rapid growth in the number of entrants; in 1999, 236 companies applied to the scheme. This grew to a massive 1,683 entries in 2002. As the awards have evolved to respond to changing business needs and new technologies, so the quality of entries has improved.Back in 1999 the awards were focused on the use of internet and electronic trading applications. The 2003 awards will focus on the key ICT issues affecting organisations today. Truly e-enabled companies are those that have integrated ICT throughout their business.E-business offers real beneÞts to small companies - allowing better and faster communication, improving efÞciency and opening up new markets. With new technologies behind them, smaller businesses can succeed in an ever more competitive marketplace.
&#183;BA has dropped its Gatwick-Plymouth and Bristol-Newquay services. The CitiExpress subsidiary will no longer fly from Bristol to Newcastle, leaving a gap that Easyjet could fill.&#183;One-way fares on the new Stansted-Oslo route operated by the Norwegian low-cost carrierNorwegian.nostart at £27 and go up to £135. But the website frequently lapses into Norwegian, and the plane departs (from June 4) only five times a week.&#183;Tweezers, nail clippers and disposable razors used to be confiscated regularly from passengers' baggage, but the US Department of Transport and BA now allow those that are less than two inches long. Bringing any sort of bottle on board can also be risky: Ryanair has confiscated champagne bottles, claiming the miniatures the airline sells on board are made of specially reinforced glass.&#183;Skytrax (www.airlinequality.com) compares seat pitches and recommends the best seats to ask for on all the major carriers. If your company won't pay for business class on transatlantic flights,American Airlinesand Thai Airways are generally the most spacious. Meanwhile, Boston Logan airport has just opened its new USD321m international departure hall.&#183;Time Out New Yorkrecommends business hotels and rooms for less than US$150 a night, all bookable online.&#183;The self-ironing 100% cotton shirt has arrived. It's £85, comes in seven styles and 65 colours atEton shirts
Probably the most frustrating thing about journeys in my family is not that you get lost, but that you get my father-in-law "helping". Just as you're edging your way out of the door he asks: "which way are you going?" Reluctantly you settle down for the standard quarter of an hour of how he knows a better route. So you can imagine it was with genuine excitement that I began to use GPS - Global Positioning System - in the car. The principle is simple; you tell the system where you are and where you need to be, and it tells you how to get there and if you're lucky will estimate your journey time.The systems I tried were the Kane Car Pilot and the TomTom Navigator 2 wireless from Palmtop. Both work through a PocketPC PDA and they like the iPaq in particular, so this isn't a light investment if you don't already have the pocket computer. Working with and setting both up was straightforward enough. Install the software, plug the handheld computer's jacket in which the big memory card is located into the cigarette lighter socket and drive. Or wait for the satellite to find you first.You see, the unit you carry is only a small piece of the technology. The rest is in orbit around the planet, many thousands of miles away, transmitting in real time so that it feels like a service you're using about your person instead of the technological miracle satellite navigation actually is. Which is why I sat there swearing at the bloody thing every time it failed to anticipate some road works.Road works weren't the only problem (although since the product speaks to you through the iPaq's speakers, unless you're savvy with the wiring on your car's audio system you can't actually listen to the radio) - more serious were the atmospherics. Although cloud cover isn't the problem it once was, it's still an issue and can result in the satellite "losing" you. Turn right, the little voice says, so you turn right. Turn right, it says again, so you turn right again only to find that you're facing a dead end - it didn't realise you had already turned.   So much for how it performs when the elements are against it. When they're not it's a dream. Tells you how long it is before your next turning, displays a map but tells you not to look at it because you ought to be watching the road and takes account of any wrong turning you might make. Both systems were jointly the second most useful gadget to have in any car - the first being the hands-free kit for the phone. I don't care what anyone says, these make you a lot safer.Curiously, the Kane systems had mixed fortunes in finding my address by road name. This is because they're only as good as their maps. Reluctantly I must admit that my father-in-law can find our house better than a computer, and you don't have to plug him in.
It's not a name that rolls off the English-speaking palate, but Wixos.net is an address worth remembering if you happen to be travelling to Paris with a wi-fi enabled PDA or laptop. Until the end of June, anyone who registers with Wixos can use it at a string of new wireless "hotspots" along the number 38 bus route - including the metro station at Eurostar's Gare du Nord - for free.Wixos will be watching all the beta testers closely. So will the Paris transport authority, RATP, which has already installed fibre optic cables in every metro tunnel. Once it has worked out how to overcome the problem of signals breaking up between wireless nodes, the authority wants to make the whole Parisian transport network a wi-fi zone - leaving mobile providers like T-Mobile and Bouygues Telecom to sell prepaid cards and do the billing.If wi-fi takes off - and the expectation surrounding it right now is akin, a BT spokesman told the Guardian, to a "gold rush" - the biggest wi-fi players in Britain will want to make sure their customers can use it as easily as they do their mobile phones.www.bt.com/openzoneis negotiating roaming deals, but won't be drawn on who with. It already has a deal withTeliato let BT Openzone subscribers use nodes in Scandinavia for a 20p per minute premium. More will follow.Wi-fi is not cheap. The Openzone package costs between £10 for two hours and £85 a month for unlimited time online. Unless BT seizes control of as many of Britain's potential hotspots as it can, the high charges are bound to drive the public into cafes and shops where wi-fi is paid for by the owner.Theo Platt, the director ofBroadscape, wants to encourage businesses to lure customers by doing precisely that. The first two of his "virtually free" hotspots are already up and running in London. Customers who spend at least £2 in Benugo cafes are entitled to half an hour's access. He is "trying to finalise a deal with a major fast food chain and a couple of shopping malls" and, he says, welcomes the news that BT is pushing shops and small hotels to set up their own Openzone subscribers-only "hotspots in a box". "The more people have these services, the better it is," he explains. "But we truly believe in the free access model."Some US hotel chains have already begun to give away wi-fi access in every bedroom. Omni's hotels in Texas, New York, Chicago and LA (www.omnihotels.com) are among the first.Two other wireless providers are currently standing in the way of BT. One isMegabeam, which has a hotspot at Paddington Station. It has just been taken over by Swisscom Eurospot, giving subscribers a much bigger choice of zones, but subscriptions are still sold on the Megabeam site. A month's unlimited access costs slightly less than BT's package (£82).The other obstruction is T-Mobile. Despite a difficult and expensive start in North America (where, online tech news site The Register claims, it is losing between $1.5m and $2m each month), T-Mobile still intends to have 56 hotspots in British branches of Starbucks by the end of May.A couple of wireless minnows are floundering in the wi-fi market. UK Explorer  operates entirely on a pay-as-you-go basis. You might come across it at Birmingham Airport. Internet Exchange's hotspots are concentrated in London libraries (www.internet-exchange.co.uk). But BT, which announced this week that it was bringing forward its target of 4,000 Openzone hotspots by a year to summer 2004, is confident its subscription model will take off."We don't want to be just a coffee shop hotspot," says the head of product management, Joanna Bedward. Indeed, over 2,000 "premium pubs" under the Inspired Broadcast Networks "cloud" (www.inspiredtg.com) will soon become Openzone hotspots, too. She claims hotels, airports and motorway service stations are proving the real draw. "The Hilton at Heathrow Terminal 4 is in the top 10 every week."Go abroad, and things become much more complicated. Tracking down wi-fi hotspots is still a tricky matter. Both the Wi-Fi Alliance (www.wi-fizone.org) and80211 Planetcome up with different lists of hotspots for the same cities.Wi-fi will soon be ubiquitous. And unless you have a terminal addiction to the Starbucks frapuccino, BT may look like the automatic choice of network. It could take the audacity of a Branson or a Haji-Ioannu to make wi-fi cheap or free. But don't trash the modem just yet. It will take a while before finding and paying for it becomes as easy as making a roamed mobile call.
People who sell PCs are a bit glum at the moment. Maybe it's because we've all got one now:  sales of desktop computers are static or declining. But there's a bright spot for the PC business: we're buying more laptops. In fact, portable sales account for around a quarter of all PC shipments in Europe.Why? Partly because laptops  have come down in price and up in capability, and now they're much closer to desktops. Partly it's the trend to take work home and partly it's fashion - some (but not all) laptops are stylish and highly attractive to people who really ought to get more of a life.But there are many good reasons to use a laptop. And there are many laptops to choose from. So where do you begin?Decide what you want to do with your laptop and where you'll normally use it. If you want to duplicate a desktop PC, you need processor power, a large screen, as much memory as you can afford, and a decent keyboard. Size and weight probably won't be so important Typically these machines will have a built-in floppy drive as well as a combo CD-ROM/CD-RW drive, and they'll also have a full complement of sockets and expansion slots. The processor is likely to be a chunky Pentium P4 rated at around 1.8MHz.As a result these are the biggest and heaviest portables, maybe as much as 50mm thick and weighing 3kg or more. Prices start at just below £1,000 (try Time Computers) but you can pay double for maximum capability and a well-known brand. That's also what you'll pay for Apple's stylish 17in PowerBook G4.If you'll be taking notes in meetings, accessing your emails, and maybe browsing web pages or working on a document while stuffed into a train or airline seat, you should look for something rather different. You don't need the big screen and the beefy resources: you do need light weight and a compact design, long battery life, maybe built-in wi-fi.So we're talking about an ultra-portable 1kg baby with an undersized keyboard and a screen measuring less than 10in across the diagonal. The processor will be a purpose-designed low-power, maximum-life chip. Disks drives are probably external.All this costs money - expect to pay £1,200 or more, though that would probably buy JVC's impressively compact A5-size Mini-Note with VAT included.Meanwhile, most laptops fall somewhere between these two poles - you'll pay from around £600 up. Apple, as usual, plays by different rules - the iBook with a 12in screen starts at around £800.If possible, try before you buy. Get down to your local computer store and play with a few options; the best deals are on the web.Laptop shopping tipsProcessors:The CPU determines how quickly a notebook runs applications and performs on-screen tasks. Unless you run power-hungry applications like big databases or graphics editors, you will probably be ok with a 1.6GHz processor - the mobile versions of the AMD Athlon or the Pentium 4 and Celeron run cooler and soak up less power, though a few notebooks use P4 desktop processors to get the performance advantage. Intel's latest is the Centrino, a new mobile processor packaged with 802.11 wireless networking: the whole lot is designed for extended battery life, thinner and lighter notebook designs, and decent performance.Memory:As with desktop PCs, go for as much as you can. Even the cheapest general-purpose laptops will have 128Kb these days, which is adequate: 256Kb is better. Ultra-portables may skimp on memory to save space, but you probably won't be doing more than a bit of word processing and emailing on such machines.Batteries:Manufacturers tend to quote unrealistic best case figures for how long a battery will last, so halve them to get some idea of what will happen in the real world. The bigger, faster processors tend to use most power. Watching DVDs devours power and cheap nickel metal-hydride (NiMH) batteries don't last too long, but fortunately most laptops come with Lithium-ion (Li+) batteries, which are much better. You can extend battery life by dimming the display, removing PC cards when they aren't needed, going for as much memory as possible (so the hard drive won't be accessed as much) and looking for "speed stepping" processors that slow themselves down when possible. Buy a spare battery and keep it charged.Screens:Laptop screens are measured across the diagonal and quoted in inches: the bigger the screen, the higher the maximum resolution (so everything looks better) and the more information you can see at once. 14.1in is the normal starting point. Anything more is dearer, and anything less either means a budget design or a premium-priced ultra-portable.Expansion:You probably won't get a serial port and there may not be a conventional parallel port for a printer either. But laptops typically do have a couple of PC Card slots for expansion - you can buy modems, storage and other gizmos in the PC Card format. At least one USB port is also standard, for easy attachment of a printer or a digital camera: the more USB ports, the better. Less common but potentially useful are wireless network adapters, a FireWire port for digital video transfer (PowerBooks have these as standard), and new types of card slots such as CompactFlash and Memory Stick for exchanging information with PDAs and digital cameras.Don't believe (all) the hypeLaptops are seductive, but they aren't perfect. Here are four reasons why:Technology:There's usually a trade-off in laptop internals: components that consume less power, generate less heat and take less room tend to be underpowered. So laptops aren't usually as speedy or as capable as a desktop PC, unless you pay a ridiculous premium.Comfort:You're too close to the screen, the keyboard is an ergonomic nightmare, no mouse replacement is as good as a mouse, and the sound quality is pretty poor.Upgrading:Forget about it: it's difficult (maybe impossible) to extend the working life of a laptop by adding anything more than a bit of memory and some plugged-in cable connected extras. It's usually impossible to replace a processor or hard drive without shipping the thing back to the manufacturer.Price:Yes, of course laptops are getting cheaper. But so are desktops.PCs:The gap may be narrowing, but in terms of what computing you get for your money the desktop will always represent better value.
Interesting things are happening in the mobile market. It isn't just that notebooks are getting cheaper and more capable, or that phones are morphing into handheld camera-carrying computers. 
Here are five technologies to look out for. Some are evolutionary, others more radical. But the next few years will see a raft of developments that can affect how and where we work.Mobile processorsIntel's Centrino mobile technology, introduced in March, effectively packages a new processor family with integrated wireless networking. The Pentium M is designed to work faster while drawing less power than an existing Pentium 4 rated at apparently the same speedThat means better battery life. And less power means less heat, with commensurately less need for cooling inside the box. Combine that with low-profile chips, and you have the potential for very slim laptop designs. Samsung's X10, one of the neatest Centrino examples, is less than 30mm thick and weighs 1.8kg; Toshiba's Port¿g¿ R100 (one of five Centrino models from Tosh) is a slim 1.1kg.In a totally coincidental move, Intel's main rival AMD launched a dozen new mobile versions of its Athlon XP processor on the same date. The XP-M processors don't seem as radical as the Pentium M, but there's a lot more choice for the notebook manufacturers and much the same claims about low power consumption and super-flat designs.Hardware geeks like the Centrino package. It might take a while for the notebook manufacturers to come up with designs that make the most of it, however. For instance, none of the early Centrinos have spectacular battery performance: reviewers are finding it hard to get better than two hours per charge.Wi-fiWi-fi itself is emerging as the hot technology for notebooks. Also called 802.11 after the relevant industry standard, it's a short-range technology (up to 550 metres between you and a base station) that provides broadband performance at 512Kbps or more. All you need is a transmitter/receiver in your computer, some software that recognises what's happening on your behalf, and the availability of a base station.With discreet transceiver boxes around the place, you can run a small business network without wired connections. Or you can turn up at an airport or a caf¿, switch on, and access your email - no need to plug into your mobile, no compromise on access speeds.Wi-fi will be big - one day. Right now there aren't enough public-access "hotspots", and we aren't using them very much yet. Pricing and awareness seem the big drawbacks.But the other high-potential area is the boondocks. In many rural parts, cable or ADSL simply aren't available. The options for high speed internet access come down to satellite and local wi-fi networks. With more of us moving into the countryside and working from home, anything that beats the cost and performance of ISDN looks really attractive.But wi-fi itself is a moving target. Most implementations follow the 802.11b specification (including Centrino). The more recently available 802.11a and 802.11g are both faster and work at different wavelengths. Most hotspots use 802.11b right now, but they are expected to move over to 802.11g in the next year or so. For maximum flexibility, users need wi-fi transceivers that can automatically select the right speed and the best frequency for connection. It's all way too techie at the moment.BluetoothBluetooth has been around for a while now, having been announced in early 1998 by Ericsson, IBM, Intel, Nokia, and Toshiba. Bluetooth enabled devices can exchange information without a wired connection; and they don't need line-of-sight connections between the two.Basically Bluetooth is for short range connections, up to 10 metres - though there is a high-power version that will go to 100m. The original idea was a simple, low-cost, low-power way to connect headsets to cell phones, but it has developed from that. So it looks good for connecting your mouse or a keyboard to your PC, your PC or your PDA to your printer, or your laptop to a projector. It's basically a matter of replacing cables, though the 3,000 or more vendors who signed up to the Bluetooth idea have been talking about everything from CD players to washing machines and refrigerators that could automatically order more food from online grocers.A lot of the early hype is fading, especially as the United States seems to have become obsessed with wi-fi, which can communicate at speeds of up to 54Mbps against Bluetooth's 1Mbps and over ranges up to 500m rather than 10m. 
The Bluetooth developers are responding with version 2.0, due to be rolled out in the next year or so. This will permit higher speeds - up to 12Mbps - but sticks to the 10m range. There's a price to pay in power consumption, and the components will also cost more.Bluetooth looks a good bet for universal, cheap, power-friendly wireless communications that can mix voice and data. It's great for wire-free printing and cableless headsets. Maybe it should stick to those limited horizons.3G3G is supposed to be the Third Generation of mobile telephony. It's a portmanteau term for an alphabet soup of internationally-specified technologies including WCDMA, CDMA2000, UMTS and EDGE. They should make cellphone communications both faster and broader, so more information can be sent to your phone with minimum delay.If 3G really delivers, we can expect broadband speeds (2.4Mbps is promised) on 
our multi-function phone/PDA/camera devices. So 3G devices will be able to offer good-quality video images from built-in cameras, downloadable video on demand, high-speed data transfer for accessing the company network and full-speed internet.We don't yet have 3G services, but we're already seeing 3G-style devices that mix PDA functions like email and addressbooks with built-in still or video cameras - and of course conventional voice telephony. The fly in the ointment is the price. Famously, the 3G operators paid huge amounts of money - around £22 billion in the UK - to use the required bits of the radio spectrum. It's not at all clear whether enough of us will be prepared to pay the substantial costs.Killer applications aren't immediately obvious. There will be messaging services that combine email, voicemail, fax and text into a single application. Video and image services might provide videoconferencing and movie viewing. Real-time access to e-cash functions and information services like ticket reservations should be simple. And businesses can certainly see merit in simple remote access to company databases for centrally-held information.Mesh networksThis is one for the far-distant future, which in IT terms means three or four years hence. Mesh networking turns nearly any wireless device into a router, creating an ad hoc network in which the information hops from one user's gadget to another until it gets where it's going. So each connected PC, phone, PDA, or laptop contributes a little of the routing, forming a kind of spontaneous, temporary wireless cooperative.Sounds daft? Well, it should work - it will be cheap, fast and effectively without geographic limitation. It certainly looks feasible to mesh a neighbourhood or a campus, and it would be ideal for rural areas. 
Mesh networks will probably use existing 802.11 wi-fi technology, with an eye to wi-fi's proposed successor - another short-range protocol called UltraWideBand - which could deliver 400Mbps by 2005.Already US startup MeshNetworks and Germany's Moteran Networks are developing competing commercial versions of mesh networking. Other research leaders include Intel, which is working on mesh systems that can figure out the best way to link all devices on the network and route the data the devices are swapping. This will require a little more intelligence in the wireless components - but not much.
There was a point a couple of years ago when mobile phones ceased to be a luxury item and started to become an essential tool for small businesses. That was when Sony and Panasonic displayed their Þrst handsets that could access POP3 or IMAP email, ie the existing accounts people were already using.In the intervening years there has been an explosion of devices that can access email ranging from high-end handheld PCs to budget phones. Most use the GPRS (General Packet Radio System) to grab the header of an email, or the Þrst few lines. The user then gets the option of downloading the rest.Receiving email is one thing, responding to it is an entirely different matter. For in spite of a range of key pads and handwriting recognition systems there is still no quick and easy way to input data on a small device. The holy grail would of course be a voice recognition system that turns your words into text. Yet in spite of many promises, not least from Microsoft's CEO Bill Gates, we are yet to see the system available for a small device.While there's no denying the usefulness of being able to constantly monitor email, actually choosing a device to access it is becoming increasingly complex. That's because there are several different devices and form factors available. Which model you choose depends on how often you need to use email, whether you need a large screen or maybe even wi-Þ facilities, and how much you want to pay to access that data.The cheapest handsets you can currently buy are called smartphones. These can be picked up for less than £100 yet include basic email and web browsing (not just Wap) facilities.For more serious web browsing and easier input of data (via a keypad, handwriting recognition or onscreen virtual keypad) connected handheld PCs are worth considering. These combine the excellent personal organiser type facilities with the ability to surf and email on a much larger screen.If a person is looking for a laptop replacement the ideal solution is a high-end handheld PC coupled with a Bluetooth enabled mobile phone. High-end PDAs (Personal Digital Assistants) often come with integrated wi-Þ to enable them to access the internet via the growing number of wireless "hotspots".Still not entirely sure which device to buy? Here are a few recommendations of top models. For details of the cost of GPRS tariffs see the network's websites.Home ofÞce workersYou are one of the lucky few with a view of your back garden from your ofÞce window. On the rare occasions you travel you need to access your email, and maybe even take a cursory glance at the odd website.Your best bet is the Microsoft smartphone, the SPV that was introduced last year via the Orange network. Admittedly it isn't the most glamorous handset, but it is competitively priced (you can now pick it up for not much more than £30) and has two key features. Firstly, given its Microsoft heritage it syncs with Outlook enabling you to transfer, store and access your contacts. More importantly its email client is a very easy to use cut-down version of Outlook Express. The user can also see some web pages on its relatively large (for a mobile) screen. There's a camera attachment, games and music and video players on board too. If it has a weakness it is that it runs a little slowly.A good alternative is the Nokia 7650 that also has excellent emailing facilities. It can be bought for around £80.Road warriorIf you possess an unrivalled knowledge of the whereabouts of Little Chef restaurants, you obviously spend a great deal of time on the move and need a phone to act as a virtual ofÞce.A good option is the XDA, a PDA powered by Microsoft's Pocket PC operating system that also features integrated GPRS mobile phone facilities.PC owners will Þnd setting up and using the cut down versions of Outlook and Internet Explorer second nature, while the large screen makes reading email easy on the eye. The XDA uses Microsoft's Active Sync software to transfer contact details, events and Þles. It is available across all networks, but the best deal is reserved for 02 subscribers. Prices range from £250-400.A good alternative is the recently launched £500 Palm Tungsten W, another PDA/phone combination.Image workersPart of your job is to show clients locations and places, so being able to email video and still image Þles is essential.Although several phones now sport video facilities, none can really rival the versatility of the £200 NEC e606, currently the flagship phone of the newly launched Three 3G network. Its much-hyped video calling facility is no substitute for face to face meetings (the voice is often a little out of sync with the face) yet image quality is just about good enough for business applications. Probably more useful, given the limited number of 3 subscribers, is that you can take video snippets which can be emailed to a PC. The phone also boasts a simple device to set up an email system and has web browsing.The Three package, which starts at around £50 a month, is attractive too. However the network is only running in towns and cities. When you are out of its coverage video, downloads and even email and web browsing facilities on the phone don't work.Three also offers the £220 NEC e808, a large PDA style phone with an integrated keypad.Jet-settersAnother day, another airport lounge. The big thing in airports at the moment is wireless LAN connections, or wi-Þ. With a PDA that features wi-Þ you will be able to visit hotspots in lounges, coffee shops, etc. and access download speeds that are much faster than those offered by mobile phones.One of the Þrst PDAs to feature integrated wi-Þ is the new £400 Tungsten C from Palm. It is small, slim and simple to use thanks to a large screen with superb colour resolution and a mini keypad.Taking advantage of the wi-Þ connection is easy too. The Palm logs on in seconds and you can soon be taking advantage of its excellent VersaMail email system plus what is possibly the best browser so far on a PDA. Its whizzy Intel 400Mhz processor means that all the other applications it boasts can be accessed very quickly. It syncs very easily with Outlook for both Windows and Mac and has a generous 51MB of storage. A good alternative is the £500 HP Ipaq H5450 PDA, which has both wi-Þ and Bluetooth connectivity. It uses Microsoft's Pocket PC operating system. It's a tad chunky though.Total mobile solutionIf you have forgotten what colour your bedroom wall is because you are constantly on the move then the ultimate package has to be the £500 Toshiba e750 Pocket PC based PDA in conjunction with the £100 Siemens S55 mobile phone. The Toshiba syncs via Bluetooth with the Siemens for excellent web surÞng and emailing. As the Tosh also features on-board wi-Þ, you can always ditch the phone altogether and take advantage of the faster download speeds each time you happen to Þnd a hotspot. Alternatively if you only need to take calls, leave the Tosh at home and take the tiny Siemens handset with you. Its triple band facilities means it works in most countries including the USA.For more information go to:www.orange.co.ukwww.nokia.co.ukwww.02.co.ukwww.palm.com/ukwww.three.co.ukwww.hp.co.ukwww.toshiba.co.ukwww.siemens.co.ukwww.tmobile.co.ukwww.vodafone.co.uk
What would you think if this article started by saying mobile technology was in danger of being oversold, it wasn't necessary in every case and the "I've got a new toy!" factor was in danger of outweighing the beneÞts people actually got from this sort of technology? Well, you might think "a Guardian hack trying to Þnd a provocative opener" and you could be forgiven for making that assumption. Except that this didn't come from us. Instead it came from Fujitsu Services, which you might think has vested interests in selling everyone the beneÞts rather than criticising.Marie Lorenz, end user service manager for Fujitsu Services, conÞrms that the company has come round to getting people to think a great deal more carefully about their mobile purchases than they might have done before."Mobile working isn't appropriate for every organisation," she says. "And often where it is applicable it's not appropriate for every employee."This contrasts almost alarmingly with the hype from large numbers of marketers, particularly in times like these in which the economy dictates that spending, especially unnecessary spending, should fall at some stage.Lorenz cites organisations that propose to deploy a wireless LAN and its hotspots immediately without testing their business need as an example of the sort of spending that can happen in real life, to no one's real beneÞt."If you have a group of users that needs to get into the system to synchronise their details or pick up their emails once or twice a day then you'll be able to serve them adequately without an always-on GPRS or 3G connection," she says. "Different groups require different levels of connectivity."This is the sort of statement that ought to be kindergarten stuff, but Lorenz' experience suggests money instead of strategic thinking is still getting thrown at business problems, and one of the current buzzwords attracting that money is "mobile". Think of how many adverts you've seen for a hand-held computer or PDA (Personal Digital Assistant) as compared to how much use people actually get out of them; it's alarmingly easy to spend hundreds on a pocket diary and justify it somehow as a business purchase.The cost of sending data around the place using PDAs and laptops through a GPRS connection can also amount to a fair bit. And sales of mobile technology are growing rather than shrinking, particularly when compared to other IT purchases.   Nick Taylor, managing director of dealer Handheld PCs, conÞrms that customers sometimes start looking for mobile systems when other solutions to their problems would be more appropriate. He stresses the beneÞts, however, of appropriate use, citing his own business as an example."We use 02 XDAs and our own software for picking up mail - we just download the headers and if we need to respond we download the whole message." He contrasts this with the more traditional web mail approach. "A lot of people log onto the web through their PDA and are surprised when they Þnd they've run up a £250 bill in a month when they've only been looking at the odd mail." This, he says, is a major inhibitor to people adopting the technology but doing so has paid off. "If I'm out for a day you can guarantee there will be 30 mails in my inbox and I'll have to deal with one of them immediately."In other words there are cases in which a given task can be accomplished only by using mobile technology. This can sometimes mean the difference between business won or lost. Mark Adams, managing director of printer Forest Press, faced a possible manpower shortage when his main salesperson was about do some travelling for a while. "I had to either recruit someone else or take on his clients myself." Adams opted to take on the workload himself, aided and abetted by his Ericsson phone, a Compaq iPaq handheld computer and a laptop with a Bluetooth connection. He bought these through Cobweb, his ISP, as a mobile package and has had no cause to regret it."I know there have been occasions on which I've had to get information to people on the spot and this has only been possible because I've had my emails available. Of course I could arrange to have my mail routed to someone else but it's not always appropriate to have someone else dealing with or seeing all of my communications." He seems to get an understandable kick out of customers' surprise when he deals with an issue whilst absent from the ofÞce.Interestingly he opted for a separate handheld computer and phone, mostly as a result of his working methods."I tend to keep the PDA in the car and the phone I carry around with me," he comments. "My direct line gets routed to my mobile so having something lightweight is important." The opposing view is taken by Alun Dawson, project manager with building Þrm Watts and Partners. He found himself using three diary systems, a paper one, an elementary electronic organiser and his computer in the ofÞce, none of which would talk to each other. His answer was to invest in a Sony Ericsson P800, the top-of-the-range phone and handheld computer combination. It had everything he needed: "The calendar, email and business facilities were useful and it has an MP3 player which makes it pleasant when I'm not working."Dawson hasn't done anything as formal as an analysis of returns on investment, but his instinct is that the purchase has been worthwhile, particularly in the light of his use of the built-in digital camera. "The camera isn't as good as you'd get from a full-blown digital camera but it's good enough for my purposes," he comments. He frequently takes pictures of a project's progress and emails them to the client either from the phone itself (costly) or synchronises the phone with his ofÞce computer and mails then on from there (effectively free with a broadband connection). Given the right vantage point from which to take the pics in the Þrst place the clarity is more than adequate for the recipient to understand the progress that's being made.There are in fact a lot of instances in which the right mobile technology delivers fast business results. The downside is that people get carried away with it, even the bigger players. "We have a system people use internally in which people can get their contacts and messages using voice commands," he says.Fujitsu Service's Lorenz: "I was identiÞed as someone who would Þnd it useful but I never used it, so I reported back and they've been able to deploy the software to someone else." That's Þne if you're in the sort of corporate environment in which there's an IT department that can reallocate a piece of software or hardware; many start-ups and small businesses won't have that luxury, it's a case of "here's your laptop, here's your PDA, good luck."It's no use kidding yourself or anyone else: the "boy toy" element of mobile technology is very real and always has been. The pages of the men's glossies are packed with PDAs that double up not only as cameras but as MP3 players, and the same boys who buy those are quite likely to spend their pocket money on something shiny for the ofÞce as well. The cannier business owner will evaluate the advantages to be gained, look at the costs and if he or she deploys the devices correctly then they should watch the business grow or become more efÞcient as a result.ChecklistIf you're considering buying a mobile product it's worth examining why you're doing it and therefore whether you're going to get value out of it Þrst. A few questions to ask yourself would include:&#183;Am I going to want an extended keyboard often? If most of your work is going to be keyboard-based, consider a laptop rather than a PDA.&#183;How many boxes will this device save me buying? Alun Dawson replaced a paper diary and an elementary electric diary with his new phone and has eliminated the need to buy a separate digital camera. A minority of purchases will be this cost-effective but do look at what you won't need to buy.&#183;How do you want it to communicate? Increasing amounts of PDAs and smartphones like the O2 XDA, the Handspring Treo, Palm's Tungsten-W, Sony Ericsson P800 and others can collect email without the need to link to another device. However, they won't connect to a laptop without a cable or infra-red link so if you want all of your communications available when you're away from the ofÞce then a Bluetooth phone or add-in card is essential.&#183;Has it got the capacity you need? If you want to carry pictures and music (presumably for your own use) is it big enough or will you need to buy add-in cards - and do you know what sort?&#183;Can you measure any return on investment, or solve a business problem you can articulate, by buying the thing? If you can't, consider saving the money!
Microsoft is investigating how it can help businesses with the all-important issue of cash flow: how to finance a purchase of some of its higher-powered financial systems, such as those bought from Great Plains a while back. Senior vice president Doug Burgum, himself ex-GP, confirmed that the company has started setting up financing for companies in the US through third parties, to include purchasing hardware as well as software, and would be working through the regulatory issues in other territories, including the UK, in the hope of setting up similar schemes. This would lead to Microsoft joining a number of other companies helping customers to spread the cost of product acquisition: IBM, Siemens and others have financing or leasing arms. The American system, called MS Capital, has backing from GE Capital and the idea should hit Europe by the end of 2003.&#183;Is all of your software legal? Can you reassign unused software to someone in your company to make better use of it, or record the fact that you have a "dormant" licence? And did you know that a couple of years ago the law started to insist that directors of companies using unlicensed (in other words illegally copied) software can be liable to jail sentences? It was this impetus that led Richard Palmer, founder of Integrated Solutions, to set up a product through which, using simple dragging and dropping, business owners can track and account for exactly who has which software in their machines. It costs £49.99 plus VAT and is downloadable fromwww.softwarelicences.co.uk. Palmer confirms that the underlying database is configurable to keep track of any business asset and anticipates selling versions for fleet management and for HR by the end of the year. A second version, which will cost more, will also be out later in the year; this one will inspect your system and report any illegal software to you rather than relying on your keying in the details of what you have installed.&#183;Creative Labs has released a new cut-down external soundcard for laptop computer users. Aimed at the professional giving presen-tations on the road, or simply for people who are not comfortable opening their computers to upgrade their sound system, it is called the SoundBlaster MP3+, costs £39.99 including VAT and is smaller than the average PDA. The company boasts that the product offers everything a mobile user is likely to want including support for multiple formats and industry standard outputs; it attaches to com-puters through the USB port.&#183;SAP UK and Ireland is refining its approach to the small business market again. The company, traditionally associated with enterprise planning systems for multinational companies, has launched SAP Business One, which aims to address businesses with between ten and 150 employees. Its existing product in the SME market, MySAP, was aimed at companies with 150 and more employees. It integrates financial and management functions so saves on time to market and underpins customer relationships. It will be sold only through business partners and details will be available on the company's website; you can register your interest at www.sap.co.uk.&#183;Polycom has moved the bar up on telephone conferencing quality with the release of the SoundStation VTX1000. It uses wideband technology but comes through an ordinary phone line, so you can hear all the participants as if they were in the same room. This should enable people to walk around the room while voice conferencing if they wish, over to the whiteboard, wherever - users of predecessor products will be aware that the position of the person speaking could be an issue. Pricing had yet to be announced as we went to press, but it was scheduled for release by the end of the second quarter of the year, or "by the end of next month" in non-corporate English.&#183;UK Online for Business, the government's body for promoting electronic business, is launching a couple of video diaries to show companies thinking of going the electronic route the benefits. They're not in the form of video cassettes, however: they can be viewed online atwww.ukonlineforbusiness.gov.uk/videodiariesand will be updated every month for a year so hopefully viewers will get a realistic impression of what can and can't be done.Meanwhile, the same organisation is looking for entries for the E-Business Awards this year. You can enter if you have up to 250 employees. The total prize fund amounts to £182,000, of which £40,000 will go to the overall winner. There are regional heats first. Take a look atwww.ecommerce-awards.co.uk; anyone without the nous to get to the website is looking at the wrong award scheme!
Vodafone announced its last set of full-year results under Sir Christopher Gent on Tuesday, and surprised analysts with more impressive figures than had been expected. Full-year losses at the world's biggest mobile phone operator were halved to &#163;6.2bn, and, said the Lex column of theFinancial Times, "Vodafone is starting to generate prodigious cash flows and is growing at a decent rate."Most observers congratulated Sir Christopher on going out as chief executive on a high note. Although the rate of return to shareholders over the past three years was unspectacular, said Jeremy Warner in theIndependent, "go back to when the company was first floated in the late 80s, when Sir Christopher was managing director of the main network business in the UK, and the returns are sensational. In that period the shares have risen more than twelvefold against an index which has barely doubled." TheDaily Telegraph's City editor, Neil Collins, said Sir Christopher had "created one of the few British world-scale companies of the past decade"."It is still notching up losses on an heroic scale, but the red ink will come to an end before long," wrote Patience Wheatcroft in theTimes. "Then Vodafone will emerge as a truly global business with a strongly flowing income stream. The fact that the dividend is being given a 15 per cent boost is evidence of the company's confidence."In theDaily Mail, Alex Brummer piled on the praise as high as he could. Sir   Christopher, he said, could come to be viewed as the John D Rockefeller of mobile phones, having recognised in them the same potential that Rockefeller saw in oil. "Sir Christopher triumphed because he funded so much of his expansion by issuing shares. This makes the huge goodwill write-offs - &#163;13.5bn last year and a further &#163;14.1bn this time - more palatable ... This is one telecoms group that has a good chance, one day, of making real profits."TheWall Street Journal Europe, however, sounded a note of scepticism in its Breaking Views column. Using projected future cash flows to determine the value of the firm's assets "is not wholly convincing", said the paper. "Vodafone, after all, models its own future cash flows in its impairment review. So the result is merely an internal forecast that has convinced auditors. Its value as an external reality check is limited."Although Neil Collins, in the Telegraph, had hailed the legacy Sir Christopher was leaving his successor, Arun Sarin, the Journal felt otherwise. This year's dividend was "disproportionately cautious", it said, and had been determined by Sir Christopher's desire to avoid borrowing and to leave the company with a strong balance sheet. "When Mr Sarin inherits Vodafone in July, he is going to find it much harder to resist the pressure to use that abundant room to manoeuvre." The City editor of theDaily Express, Stephen Kahn, was also concerned: "The sooner Mr Sarin leaves Sir Christopher's shadow and reveals his plans for Vodafone's future, the better."They were rare voices in a chorus of undiluted praise, however. Even Sir Chrisopher's attack on those who complain about executive pay was treated respectfully. "Sir Christopher would say that if he's an overweight feline at all, then he's one fat cat that thoroughly deserves the cream," said Jeremy Warner in the Independent. "Up to a point, he's right ... It would be an awful shame if Sir Christopher was remembered more for fat cattery than Vodafone." Patience Wheatcroft took a similar view in the Times, arguing that "the climate of opinion seems to be moving" towards the view that high earnings are acceptable, "so long as they are geared to payment by results", which she felt Sir Christopher had managed.The critics of the fat cats should think again, reckoned Alex Brummer in the Mail. Criticism of his remuneration had been one of the factors that led to Sir Christopher's resignation, and "it is unfortunate that, having fought battles with investors over pay and taken a beating in the media, he is baling out when his management skills are most needed to take Vodafone to the next level. That is unfortunately the downside of putting all executives through the pay wringer."
It took 300,000 years for the human race to accumulate 12 exabytes of information. That's 12 billion gigabytes. Now the University of California in Berkeley estimates that we're creating 250MB of data each year for each man, woman and child on the planet - another exabyte or so - every year. It's no wonder businesses are looking for technologies to help them manage and store the information flowing in and out of their computer systems.Storage systems have always been a critical part of any business IT infrastructure, whether it is a server's own direct access storage hard disks, or shared network storage.Network storage allows organisations to consolidate data, simplifying backups and giving the businesses the ability to develop common data models as part of the drive towards more flexible business processes. It's also a solution that can scale easily, so you can add more storage hardware when it is needed. Vendors such as EMC offer upgrade paths that take a storage network from a workgroup system to a service that can handle storage for a whole enterprise as you grow.Two technologies are at the heart of network storage strategies: storage area networks (SANs) and network   attached storage (NAS). Often seen as very different solutions, targeting very different markets, they are both part of a trend that is leading organisations to centralised storage systems, accessed by a mix of high-speed local networks and slower wide-area networks.Traditionally, SANs are good at handling data a block at a time rather than a file at a time, so they're ideal for databases. High-speed fibre channel connections give servers quick access to large amounts of data, and specific storage resources can be allocated to specific applications. With fibre-channel switches and management tools, SANs become part of flexible arrays of storage hardware known as storage fabrics. A storage fabric can manage storage for several different applications, as well as linking backup systems to the storage network. SANs are usually an expensive solution, but lower-cost SAN implementations like Apple's Xserve RAID bring the price low enough for smaller businesses.NAS solutions let you access files over Ethernet connections: think of them as dedicated, pre-installed file servers. They're quick and simple to set up: you can have a large NAS system like a Network Appliance Filer up and running within 30 minutes of installation. Smaller NAS devices like   the Linux-based GigaDrive from SME-friendly Linksys, with its web-based user interface, can be ready for use as soon as you switch it on and name it. The access method usually depends on the operating system the appliance is intended for: NAS file systems for Unix use NFS, and CIFS for Windows uses CIFS (Common Internet File System). Some systems offer file access over HTTP.As network storage technologies mature, and management tools become more powerful, businesses can begin to take advantage of storage virtualisation. Like virtual servers, storage virtualisation lets you treat storage as a resource pool you can allocate on demand. In the past, SAN architectures have had to be based around single-vendor solutions. That could change with the storage management interface specification that the storage network industry association is pushing as a basis for interoperability. This uses existing management standards like CIM (the common information model) and WBEM (web-based enterprise management), along with web services.It is important to check whether your applications have been certified for use with NAS or SAN systems before investing in a solution. Some applications, like Microsoft's Exchange   2000 messaging tool, are only certified for use with block-level interfaces. While that would normally rule out NAS solutions, newer NAS technologies do offer block-level access using technologies such as iSCSI.Network storage means more than just magnetic disks. Backup technologies and servers are an important part of any storage infrastructure. One option is to use a virtual tape appliance like Fujitsu Siemen's CentricStor. Virtual tape appliances use disk caches to manage access to tape storage, ensuring that data is backed up on demand, even when tape drives are in use. Similar solutions can make network storage part of a hierarchical storage system, holding indexes and caching information that is normally kept in long-term storage, on tape drives or in optical storage.Network storage has an important role to play in business continuity. Consolidated storage is easier to replicate to backup sites than a myriad hard drives on small servers and PCs. Technologies like iSCSI and FCIP can help connect data centres, and allow remote offices to access the same data sources as the rest of the business. The resulting distributed infrastructure should make it easier to unlock the information inside an organisation.Implementing network storage   infrastructures isn't something to do overnight. The infrastructure requirements for a SAN fabric can be expensive, and need a particular set of administration and management skills. If you don't have those skills in house, you can look at a service like that offered by Cap Gemini, Ernst and Young and EMC, which gives you a managed storage network infrastructure for a fixed per-gigabyte cost.So what does the future offer? One obvious trend is the merging of SAN and NAS technologies. Already some vendors are producing SAN equipment that also offers NAS interfaces, while others are selling hardware that acts as a gateway between existing SAN systems and the wider Internet Protocol world.Open, interoperable network storage network can be a key tool to help build a resilient, agile IT infrastructure for businesses of all sizes, from the smallest SME to the largest Fortune 100 enterprises.
Police radiosThe Home Office has commissioned Imperial College to monitor the health of 100,000 police officers over 15 years, along with other in-depth studies, to check the safety of its Airwave secure digital radios. This system, currently used by eight police forces, and planned for use by all, has been linked to ill-health among users. It is not possible to eavesdrop on Airwave transmissions on normal radios, and the system allows some data transmission.www.homeoffice.gov.ukNew NHS suppliersA leaked document says that the NHS's new suppliers will have to build on existing systems. According to Computing newspaper, the suppliers "shall ensure that future developments aim to protect previous investment in infrastructure and equipment". This comes after news that local IT schemes have already been dumped in advance of the new contracts, including a &#163;250m patient record system in Birmingham.www.computing.co.uk/News/11410742005 e-gov targetThe government planned three years ago to have 73% of its services available electronically by the end of 2002, but reached just 63%, according to government IT website Kablenet. The latter figure was given by e-government minister Douglas Alexander to parliament on May 13, when he reiterated the target of making 100% of services available electronically by 2005. Conservative MP George Osborne   replied that the government is "still living in the dotcom boom".www.kablenet.com/kd.nsf/frontHalt PassportAnalyst firm Gartner has told clients to stop using Microsoft's Passport authentication system for "any meaningful business purposes immediately". The warning resulted from a fault that could have allowed hackers to hijack online identities. Although Microsoft has fixed the fault and no fraud has been reported, Gartner recommends that organisations should stop using Passport until November, "or until Microsoft can prove its security is adequate".www.out-law.com/php/pageToshiba hotspotsToshiba has launched a low-cost wireless hotspot service that allows localised public access to the internet in areas such as coffee shops, restaurants, company foyers, hospitals and airports. Users can connect to the web with the Wi-Fi wireless network cards that are supplied for mobile PCs and handheld computers. Toshiba's Public Wireless Lans will link up with BT's Openzone hotspot network to provide an estimated 4,000 hotspots nationally by 2004. Andy Bass, the general manager and director for Toshiba Computer Systems Division, says that at &#163;400 per unit and around &#163;35 per month for broadband connection, companies can gain a rapid return on their investment by charging for the service.Evesham Technologies and Nomad   Digital have also launched a hotspot kit to enable venue owners to offer broadband connections for less than &#163;500 plus VAT, including installation by an Evesham engineer.http://uk.computers.toshiba-europe.comCorinex EthernetCorinex is selling an alternative to wireless networks in the home: its PowerNet Ethernet Adaptors allow networks to be easily set up through the electricity mains supply instead. Connect a PC's Ethernet socket to the Corinex box and the system will automatically find any other systems connected on the same ring main, and allow secure access to the disk, printer and Internet connections. The advantage over wireless is PowerNet's compliance with the Homeplug standard, co-developed by numerous home entertainment system   manufacturers. For example, a single DVD player will be able to distribute a movie to any TV in the house. It is claimed that home users and small businesses will be able to network older PCs without having to understand cabling and network protocols.&lt;A HREF="http://www.corinex.com"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.corinex.comSecure ARMsARM, the UK-based chip design company, plans to add a TrustZone to its processor core - an area that will not be accessible to ordinary applications. This will allow operating system suppliers and device manufacturers to protect thecontent of the devices, though they will have to come up with their own ways to exploit the extra circuitry. One example could be Microsoft's Next Generation Secure Computing Base (NGSCB), formerly known as Palladium. This is important because ARM chips are used in most electronic organisers, including new Palm handhelds and Microsoft PocketPCs, and numerous smart phones, all of which are easily lost or stolen. Companies can already create secure devices by including extra hardware, but putting TrustZone on the chip should reduce the cost and complexity.Identity checkThe Home Office is planning to use a facial recognition system to track asylum seekers while their cases are being considered. Digital photographs will be taken of each applicant and stored with other details in a centralised database at the Croydon Asylum Screening Unit (ASU). Facial recognition software can then be used to check the identity of each person when they later report to any ASU nationwide. David Blunkett, the home secretary, said last week that he also wants identity cards issued to each applicant to show where they are and what services they are using. This has alerted privacy lobbyists who see this as a test for the introduction of ID cards for UK citizens.www.homeoffice.gov.uk/comrace
Wi-FiFaster wirelessUS Robotics is offering consumers a wireless networking system that it claims is capable of delivering the fastest data transfer speeds available. With its proprietary Accelerator technology, the company says its equipment ramps up speeds of the 802.11g standard from 56mbps to 100mbps. Most domestic wireless systems in the UK adhere to the 802.11b standard and run at 11mbps. The system, due in July, has a &#163;100 wireless access point and router, and either a PC Card or PCI adapter to connect the computer to the network, both of which retail for &#163;60.The company claims the extra speed increases efficiency for multi-PC networks, while enabling consumers to stream Mpeg2 (DVD-standard) video between PCs.www.usr.comWi-Fi trainsOne day soon, passengers on Britain's rail networks will be able to use their laptop to connect to a Wi-Fi network to access the internet and collect and send email. That's the view of Graham Wilde of research group BWCS, who told the Wireless LAN conference in London's Olympia exhibition centre last week that many of the country's rail operators were already trialling Wi-Fi systems. Wilde added though, that companies first had to overcome the substantial hurdle of working out the best way to connect the network to the internet. Satellite, GPRS, 802.11b, or even a mixture of the technologies are all under consideration.Movable bytesNot enough storage space on your PDA for all your favourite files? Toshiba may have the answer. It is apparently considering a UK launch for its innovative Hopbit gadget. The Hopbit is a small 5GB hard-disk storage device designed to connect wirelessly via Bluetooth to a PDA. Hopbit owners can then access their library of MP3 music, photo or video files on their handheld device. Toshiba claims it can function for six hours before its Lithium Ion battery runs out of power. Toshiba will have to move fast. Other manufacturers are working on similar devices.www.toshiba.co.ukMobile phonesCasio phoneThe quality of camera phones continues to improve, alas not in the UK, but in Japan. There Casio has been parading the first ever 1.24 megapixel phone, which takes much larger and higher resolution images than its UK equivalents. Due to be launched next month, the A5401CA phone also boasts an impressive array of photographic features, including the first-  ever panoramic shot mode on a camera phone. The phone also boasts 16MB of memory - much more than UK phones - to enable the user to store up to 80 pictures.Consumer48-hour DVDsBuena Vista Home Entertainment, a division of Disney, is introducing DVDs that will not play after 48 hours, allowing film rentals without returns. The EZ-D discs, made by US firm Flexplay, stop working by disrupting the laser beams used to read DVDs, and can be recycled after use. The 48-hour period is triggered when the disc is exposed to air. Buena Vista plans to introduce the discs in the US in August, with Spike Lee's latest film 25th Hour as one of the first titles. There are no plans yet to extend the technology to Europe.www.flexplay.comHome Office truthsThe Home Office consultations on retention of, and government access to, communications data close next Tuesday. Communications data includes the name and address of   phone and email subscribers, the data on phone bills and in the headers of emails, even the locations of mobile phone users. Privacy International recently used official figures to estimate that government agencies access details on 100m phone calls, along with subscriber data on one million people, every year. The Home Office says it welcomes your comments, emailed tocommsdata@homeoffice.gsi.gov.ukComputer museumIf computers bearing names such as Acorn, Sinclair, Atari and Amstrad bring nostalgic tears to your eyes, then it is time to head for Swindon where a History of Home Computing exhibition opens tomorrow at the Museum of Computing. Star of the show is a rare 1978 Science of Cambridge Mark 14 designed by (Sir) Clive Sinclair boasting   256 bytes of RAM resembling a large circuit board. It started Sir Clive on a road which led him, briefly, to dominate the home computer market selling more computers (by units) than anyone else. Sadly, most of the early pioneering computers are with us no longer. But that's another bit of history. For details, seewww.digitalhistory.org.ukBroadbandBalloonacyAccording to a York-based company, the answer to providing broadband to the UK's rural communities is up in the air. Eschewing the traditional route of digging up roads and laying cable, SkyLinc is suggesting that remote   areas such as the Scottish Highlands could get online via a series of tethered floating balloons equipped with base stations hovering 1.5km above the ground. The company reckons that 18 balloons would be enough to deliver broadband coverage for the whole of the UK. Users access the broadband signals via a satellite dish. SkyLinc adds that a key advantage its system has over its rivals is the service's download and upload speeds of 2mbps. While terrestrial broadband providers can match those download speeds, their upload speeds are much slower. The company's first broadband balloon is to launch outside the UK in the next 12 months. SkyLinc has already secured moorings for two balloons in Yorkshire and is in talks with UK-based ISPs.www.skylinc.co.ukMaking movies in front of your eyesIt might look like a pair of rather flash sunglasses, but the Eyetop, due to be launched in the next few weeks, is in fact a hi-tech viewing device. Integrated within the lens is an LCD screen that when connected to a PDA, laptop or DVD player, delivers an image much larger than the one on the device's screen.The glasses, or miniature monocular eyewear display, as the company calls it, connects by a wire to a belt-worn control unit. This in turn hooks up to the device via its composite video connection. As the Eyetop has a 16-degree diagonal field of view, users can wear their Eyetop all the time without it interfering with their field of vision. It has a QVGA 320x240 resolution with 65,535 colours but movie fans should note that the screen format is 4x3 not widescreen. The Eyetop, which is battery operated and compatible with PAL (European) TV systems, will be on sale via the company's website and retail for $600.www.eyetop.net
Was Man and Wife the product of many nights in front of your computer?It was more a case of many nights staring at women and thinking about broken dreams... I get a new computer for every book I write and I've just got a lovely new "bendy" iMac for the next one. It's quite a nice ritual really. I don't think of myself as particularly computer-literate but I've had Macs for almost 20 years now.Is Spellchecker the writer's best friend?I rely on Word Count more for writing my Mirror column - I file exactly 1,299 words every week. It's another superstition that if I file the same number every column then it'll somehow be all right. I don't always trust Spellchecker.Does the computer allow you to work from home?Definitely. I also probably shop online more than most people. Not just the usual books and CDs either, as I still quite like the ritual of buying those in shops. I trust the net and use internet banking and also for buying stuff that I find it boring to shop for. I just bought aDysononline - life's too short to go shopping for vacuum cleaners.So no Amazon for you then?I do use it  but more for harder-to-find stuff... though you do sometimes find you've overdone the old "one-click shopping"! The cliche was that writers went to Amazon to see what people were saying about their books but I don't think that's so true anymore because you get a lot of "would-be" critics there now. There were even stories a while back of people faking their own reviews but I think the novelty has worn off.Any other favourite sites?I like to check the bestsellers lists atwww.thebookseller.comandwww.booktrack.co.uk. They're good because they're quick. The net can feel really slow and cumbersome sometimes - during the Iraq conflict I felt it was a lot slower for news than TV. Pluswww.arsenal.com,www.interflora.co.uk,www.cclondon.com/,www.guardian.co.ukandwww.thesun.co.uk.Spam?I know people that get extremely unwelcome, unsolicited pornographic spam but I don't get a great deal of it myself. People can sometimes be a little too casual where they leave their email address on the net. I used to use Hotmail for when I did book tours abroad, but one time I logged in and had 800 junk emails, so I just ditched it.Do you text?A bit but not as much as   the average 14-year-old girl! It's very much a generational thing, although I do think the great thing about email or texting is that it's not as intrusive as a telephone call. I welcome the idea of giving people their space.Are you into gadgets?There's a great gadgets site called Boys Stuff - I've always wanted one of itsLazy Boy chairslike Rabbit has in the John Updike books. On the website there's a picture of a girl in a bikini reclining on the Lazy Boy but I'd actually prefer a better view of the chair! It also doesa very attractive light sabrefor &#163;125!&#183;Tony Parsons' new book, Man and Wife, is out now from HarperCollins
Google doesn't own the web, according to its director of technology, Craig Silverstein. The competition is just a click away. Thousands of programmers are now devoting their own time to developing things that could change that. What used to be a search engine is turning into a platform for applications.Of course, it's not just Google that is changing. Amazon and eBay are doing the same thing, but much more seriously. As a result, some people think that the web is now entering its third era. After static web pages and dynamic web pages, we are now developing what some are calling "the programmable web," though whether it is still the web remains open to doubt.Static web pages were simple things. Someone created a layout using HTML (Hypertext Markup Language), and you went and read it with a browser. Dynamic pages can, by contrast, be different for every user. They could include, for example, your choice of TV listings, cartoons and other things plucked from a database. Dynamic pages can be created using a wide range of scripting technologies, including JavaScript, and websites based on Microsoft's Active Server Pages (.asp) and the Apache Software Foundation's PHP (PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor) are now fairly common. Either way, you still use oldfashioned eyeballs to look at them.The programmable web is different for two main reasons. First, instead of going to look at a web page, you can get a computer to extract the information for you. Second, you don't have to view that information in a browser: you could use it in a different application, or on a different device, such as a mobile phone. When websites make information available in this way, they are called web services.Here's a fictitious example to show the kinds of things that are possible. Your in-car computer knows how far it can go on a tank of petrol, and how much petrol is in the tank. It gets the car's location from the GPS satellite network, and sends a message to the web services interface of a mapping site, such as Microsoft's MapPoint. MapPoint now knows your location, and can calculate the distance to all the garages in the area. It sends a message back that tells your car whether or not you need to stop for petrol, and where. This information is then displayed on the dashboard.The important point is that you didn't need to go to the web to get useful information from a website: the web is no longer just about "eyeballs," it is also about computers talking directly to computers on your behalf. The corollary is that someone has to specify how all these applications talk to one another, and provide an applications programming interface (API). This tells you how to frame a request in order to get the right response.Web services APIs are already enabling thousands of people to extract information from Google, Amazon, eBay and other sites without visiting them, though usually they go via a separate site.Google Alertsis a typical example. If you perform the same search at Google every day or two, Google Alerts can do it for you and email you the results. Or if you want to know what bloggers are reading, you can check Paul Bausch'sBookwatch. His software checks for books mentioned by bloggers and fetches the covers and other data from Amazon. (Bausch is currently writing Amazon Hacks for O'Reilly &amp; Associates. This will be a companion to the popular Google Hacks by Tara Calishain and Rael Dornfest.)So far, most of these applications are trivial, because usually they are written by one or two hackers who are experimenting to find out what they can do. However, Microsoft, IBM and many large corporations are betting big bucks that web services represent not just the future of the web, but the whole of information technology. Microsoft's .Net strategy is based on this belief.Google hacking is good for Google, because it is embedding Google's services into the rest of the IT infrastructure. Programs that make Google's data more valuable to users may also make it harder to switch to a rival service. However, Google has not found a way to turn the results into profits. Anybody can sign up to use the Google API, get a key - essentially a password - and create applications for non-commercial use. But no money changes hands. Yet.This may change. Hellen Omwando, an analyst from Forrester Research   in Europe, says: "I think it's a smart move on Google's part, but I bet they're not just doing this because they're benevolent. It's a revenue-seeking mechanism. They are trying to find another revenue stream."Life is much easier at Amazon. The company provides its tokens (keys) and programming tools free, and at last month's O'Reilly Emerging Technologies conference in Santa Clara, California, it put on a whole day's tutorial to teach people how to exploit its web services. It was packed. Of course, this is not a purely benevolent operation, either. Amazon associates can use web services to extract data about books and other products for use on their own sites, and Amazon benefits from any increase in sales.Paul Sonderegger, an analyst with Forrester Research in Boston, thinks Amazon's venture is more important than Google's, because it's relatively simple to access a search engine. Publishing the API "allows the   developer community to play around with it, but it doesn't give them significant leverage," he says. "But with Amazon, it starts to be a little more interesting. The difficulty of integrating data from Amazon is high enough that offering an API really does make it easier."The major problem with web services is that everybody has to agree on standards to make them work. There have to be consistent and predictable ways for web services to make themselves known, to say what they offer, to take calls and respond with results. This is throwing up an alphabet soup of developments such as XML (Extensible Markup Language), SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol), WSDL (Web Services Description Language), and UDDI (Universal Description, Discovery and Integration), the web services equivalent of a phone book.All of these have to work correctly regardless of what kind of computer, operating system,   programming language, application, and communications system you use. The required standards are being developed by a variety of bodies, including the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), Oasis (Organisation for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards) and WS-I (Web Services Interoperability).The standards-based approach represents a fundamental change for the WS-I's founders - companies such as Microsoft and IBM. With Windows, for example, Microsoft developed and owns the API. With web services, you can implement the API however you like, but it has to be accessible via common, open methods.In theory, the use of these open standards should prevent the "lock in" that comes with proprietary APIs. For example, a Google API service should work equally well with a different search engine, but it's unlikely that most of the people writing Google hacks have even thought about it. I asked Calishain, who responded: "if the API allows a developer to make Google do things that other search engines can't, then yeah, they're getting locked in. But other search engines could address this in a simple way: release APIs of their own, with even more functionality than the one Google has - I love the Google API, but I do realise it's limited!"There may also be another problem on the horizon. Web services spans the whole IT industry from one-man blogs with XML feeds to giant corporations such as IBM, Microsoft, Intel, Cisco, AT&amp;T, Procter &amp; Gamble, DaimlerChrysler and United Airlines, who are all members of WS-I. SOAP, for example, came as a joint project   from Microsoft and Dave Winer's UserLand Software, best known for its pioneering involvement in blogging.While this top-to-bottom involvement is exciting, it is also worrying, to the extent that the two sides don't understand one another. This was obvious at one of the O'Reilly Emerging Technologies sessions that I attended last month, where Microsoft's web services architect, Felipe Cabrera, preceded Google's Craig Silverstein. Cabrera tried to describe a hugely complicated system with a timeline involving lots of developments, whereas most of the audience seemed to be looking for a few quick hits. The "top down" strategist had run into "bottom up" developers, and neither side seemed to get the other's point.Let me spell it out. The SOAP interfaces to Google, Amazon and eBay are great, and you can do some way cool things with them. But these are just one part of what is meant to be a global, all-encompassing system that will involve thousands of corporate applications exchanging trillions of messages with millions of sites providing web services. As Cabrera said: "it's a huge challenge to get all this to happen. I like to think we're building the future."For Microsoft and IBM, it's like designing a giant metropolis, laying out the roads, agreeing on traffic regulations, putting in plumbing, and so on. For the hackers, it's more like "let's build a city: everybody bring a brick." This is not such a bad idea: it's basically how the PC industry and the web succeeded. But how it will turn out in this case is anybody's guess.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The target date of 2005 for the introduction of e-government services is a tough proposition for many local councils but the government is starting to pile on the pressure.It has just launched 16 different national projects designed to accelerate the take-up of e-government within local councils. Around &#163;45m is being invested to encourage local councils to adopt new technologies to make their services more accessible, cost-effective and inclusive.The 16 new projects are far-reaching and will tackle putting benefits online; the implementation of customer relationship management (CRM) systems; and ways of handling school admissions over the web. There are plans to investigate video conferencing as a way of keeping youth offending teams in touch with young offenders; and proposals to join up emergency services over the internet.Fresh strategies will be drawn up to support the introduction of smart cards, and councils will be investigating how they could be used for e-voting. Other projects will look to create prototypes for transactional local council websites; make information for businesses more accessible,   and explore how authorities can exploit opportunities arising from digital TV for delivering their services.This broad new wave of e-government programmes is ambitious and deadlines are tight - all of them have to be completed by this time next year.The office of the deputy prime minister, which is sponsoring these e-initiatives, is adopting a decentralised approach to these new projects. The project to deliver benefits online aims to provide claimants with a faster service. However, this will require local councils to be able to join up electronically with central government departments in order to quickly access information to process claims and simplify the assessment process."We're not joined up electronically with central government and we want to be," says Jason Ollivent, head of information systems for Rotherham metropolitan borough council, which is leading the benefits national project. "We should be able toconnect with citizens and with central government as well. It is quite frustrating when someone is in desperate need of benefits and a council does not have the information it requires."As well as attempting to change the thinking of central government, the local councils who are leading these   new technology projects are also hoping to re-educate private software vendors. "Most councils are starting to recognise they need to adopt good customer care approaches. But there is a great deal of confusion. Many of the suppliers have confused local councils by calling anything that moves 'CRM'," says Terry Dailey, programme director of national projects for the London borough of Tower Hamlets, which is heading up the new CRM initiative.Dailey wants software vendors to invest in training so staff understand how the public sector works. "If you want to buy a CRM system, the people who train a council's technical team tend to come from a marketing and sales background. They don't know about the public sector."One of the key themes of e-govern ment is to use technology to break down social exclusion. The government hopes the new national digital TV project will correct the common misperception that e-government can only be delivered over the web. "We want to up the profile of the use of digital TV by local authorities. It is an easy mechanism for people to communicate with," says Steve Dodson, programme manager of interactive TV for Kirklees metropolitan council, which is leading the project.The national digital TV project team is in talks with broadcasters, including Sky and the BBC, about providing access to local authority services such as health and community information.Guides will be produced to explain to local councils how they can get onto a digital TV platform. Research   will also be conducted into how the public feels about using digital TV to access council services. However, the outcome of this project is likely to be determined by the level of fees that broadcasters charge.Another issue is whether local councils can successfully create compelling content that engages the attention of viewers who will have lots of competing demands on their time when they are watching their digital TV. Councils will have to collaborate with each other if they are to stand a realistic chance of making all their services electronically available by 2005.Tony Blair once remarked that he had scars on his back from trying to push through reforms in the public sector. E-government is likely to rub a bit more salt into his wounds.
Tablet PCs, flat notebook-style computers you write on, are hot - literally. Not only are the latest versions that are running Microsoft's Windows XP for Tablet PC Edition so new you may never have seen one, they can also be too hot to handle.David Followell, head of business futures and usability at Nationwide, says: "You have to be careful about where the heat dispersal unit is located; some of our staff have complained about overheating when they have them on their laps."Nevertheless, he is a big fan of the devices, which are made by PC manufacturers including Acer, HP, Fujitsu Siemens, ViewSonic and Toshiba.Nationwide started trying out Tablet PCs a year ago, because it wanted to remove the barrier that technology can create between customer and banker. The plan is for Nationwide staff carrying Tablets to to shorten any queues by dealing with simple inquiries on the spot.Even complex inquiries, such as a customer wanting a mortgage, will be conducted in a more informal way among comfy couches more reminiscent of a coffee shop. Nationwide's personal bankers will be able to sit facing the customer instead of being divided by a desk and PC.But Nationwide is not about to put in a huge order. Not yet, at least.Followell says: "The issue that we've got is that we have to fundamentally change the layout of the branches. We have to look at how we redesign them and what kind of support roving staff need."Nationwide also has some concerns about the battery life and weight of the devices currently on the market. "Battery life is about three-and-a-half to four hours," says Followell."The Wi-Fi card takes a bit of power out. We need eight hours because we can't have them expiring while we're dealing with a customer."But Followell has not been put off. "We've talked to the manufacturers and all sorts of lighter, longer-lasting machines are being developed   &#91;Nationwide currently uses mostly HP and Acer Tablets but has tried other models too.&#93; What we really want is something that looks like the screen of a laptop computer that simply connects to the nearest computer server, but stores little information itself."This would have two benefits. First a device stolen from a branch would have no useful information on it as soon as it was outside the perimeter of the branch and the Wi-Fi network. Second, creating a "thin" web browser interface to the information would reduce the amount of data that had to be sent to and fro over the wireless network.Nationwide advises IT managers to create an area of their intranet for sharing tips on the Digital Ink handwriting software, for users who aren't familiar with it. For instance, it had a number of callers who had discovered that Digital Ink can be switched on by waving the pen-stylus across the bottom of the screen.There isn't much learning time needed because Windows XP enables people to use Microsoft Office and do most of the things they can do with Windows 2000 on a desktop PC.However, getting software applications built by Nationwide to work over a wireless network (most are designed to interact with fixed networks rather than send data as small packets of information) can be difficult."We are having to prioritise which software we move across," says Followell. But his message is that Tablets can be good for you.  .
CSI: Crime Scene InvestigationPC, &#163;19.99 Alliance Atlantis/Ubi Soft ****Being Channel 5's top-rated show is not necessarily a cause for celebration, but in the case of CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, a certain respect is due. The big question is, does the painstaking detail and careful plotting of the series transfer to CD-Rom? The answer is indubitably "yes".As the title suggests, your job is to solve crimes, with five cases of increasing complexity on offer. You can either solve them one at a time, or concurrently - seeking help from William Peterson (playing your boss) and other team-members when you run out of ideas.CSI is all about gathering evidence and inevitably involves a deal of toing and fro-ing between locations - all rendered in a simple pan-and-scan 3D effect. At each location you have dozens of tools at your disposal, then it's off to the labs to explore the results or run police checks. To make an arrest you need to provide at least two pieces of hard evidence, so rushing off to your boss half-cocked will only waste your time.So far, so good. However, there are some niggling problems. Interrogations, for instance, are of the tedious "click every topic one by one" variety, and having to re-question the same suspects as new clues become available only rubs it in. Nevertheless, this is a well-constructed and thoughtful game involving hours of distinctive gameplay.Mike AnderieszThe HulkPS2, Xbox, GameCube, PC, &#163;39.99 Vivendi Universal ****This year Hollywood appears to have adopted an official policy of preceding its blockbusting films with associated videogames - the Hulk game follows X-Men 2: Wolverine's Revenge and Enter The Matrix. Happily, The Hulk is a classier beast than its peers - indeed, if the trailer for the Hulk movie is at all representative, the game may well outshine the film. Staggeringly, considering it is an example of movie merchandising, some deep thought has been expended on the Hulk videogame.Vivendi Universal has turned the Hulk's finest qualities into rather innovative gameplay. The Hulk is very arcade-style: at first, you must smash your way through levels in which you are beset by hundreds of tiny soldiers shooting guns and rockets and, gratifyingly, you learn to pick them up and chuck them at their colleagues, or smash up the environment, releasing huge iron girders that can be used to take out hordes of enemies at once. Cleverly, monotony has been avoided by including stealth levels, in which you play as Bruce Banner, and in which your efforts will come to nothing if you are caught,   become angry and transform into the Hulk. Throw in some magnificently tricky bosses, gloriously crisp graphics and a storyline which, although fairly minimal, is very much in keeping with the original comic strip, and you have (unexpectedly) one of the best action games to arrive this year.The rest of Hollywood should take a long look at The Hulk and learn how it is possible for films-of-games to harbour ambitions beyond mere me-too merchandising. Please note: you will not have to wait until the film opens in July to play the game - it will be released on June 13.Steve BoxerEnter the MatrixPS2, Xbox, PC, &#163;39.99 Shiny/Atari, &#42;&#42;&#42;Despite the incessant psychobabble and sixth-form philosophy, the gravity-defying stunts made the Matrix movie a real hoot. Sensibly the videogame of the sequel keeps the action level pumped up and the conspiracy theories muted. With a plot conceived by the Wachowski brothers - the team behind the films - ETM will certainly appeal to Matrix fans. Especially as there is an hour of extra footage shot for the game.You don't actually play as Keanu. Instead, players can choose between two additional characters, each with differing plot strands. The simple controls let you kick, punch and shoot with ease. The slow-motion effects work particularly well, allowing you to dodge bullets and pirouette gracefully before clouting your opponent in the chops.But no matter how impressive the visuals and soundtrack, the repetitive combat gets tiresome. The difficulty curve veers from ridiculously easy to frustratingly hard within minutes. Some depth is added by the hacking element, which lets you uncover secrets and movie sequences.There's no denying that ETM is highly polished and a great franchise product that will satisfy fans of the film. But connoisseurs of great games will be disappointed, as the slick visuals can't disguise a lack of depth and longevity.Greg Howson
