"Every so often, a product comes along which, despite extravagant claims and sky-high expectations, actually lives up to the hype," said N'gai Croal in last week'sTimemagazine. "The new PlayStation Portable (PSP) is that sort of product."The new gizmo is principally for game-playing, but "Sony is taking on more than Nintendo with its flashy $250 &#91;&#163;133&#93; gadget," wrote Mike Musgrove in theWashington Post. "With a versatile device that can also play music and movies, the consumer electronics giant is hoping   &#91;to&#93; steal attention away from portable entertainment gadgets such as iPods and mini DVD players."The PSP was launched in the US last month. "With Sony holding blow-out parties and stores around the country opening at midnight... to long lines, the PSP quickly became the latest must-have gadget, with reports of demand far exceeding supply," wrote Monty Phan in New York'sNewsday.But, according to theDallas Morning News, "the event might not have been the blockbuster that was expected". Added theBoston Globe: "Retailers report that the devices are selling, but not spectacularly". The demand was great enough, at least, to force a delay in the European launch until later this year.TheLos Angeles Times's Pete Metzger was sold: he was ditching his Nintendo.   "Sorry DS, it's been great, but we've found a new favourite toy, the Sony PSP. Hope you understand. This could be true love." For the Boston Globe's Hiawatha Bray it was more true lust: "Where the Nintendo DS seems bluntly functional, the sleek, black PSP is overtly sensual, like an object that was made to be touched."But the PSP did not win everyone's heart. Reviewers inForbes,FortuneandBusiness Weekall gave the thumbs-up for the video game function, but were less impressed by the audio and video, citing limitations in versatility and compatibility. "An excellent games machine", agreed Paul Taylor in theFinancial Times, but the PSP "is unlikely to pose a serious challenge to Apple's iPod or other digital media players".Still, at least the core market seemed to be impressed. Thirteen-year-old Syed Farah, writing in theToronto Star, offered this analysis: "It sounds like the PSP is one of the greatest technological breakthroughs in history."
Computer-based hi-tech crime cost Britain's big companies at least &#163;2.45bn last year, a survey revealed yesterday.Almost 90% of businesses were hit by cyber criminals at least once in 2004, with internet fraud and computer viruses among the most common types of attack.The survey also found that about half of computer-based crime last year was carried out by company insiders, usually dishonest or disgruntled employees.The research was carried out by NOP for the National   Hi-Tech Crime Unit and is the first time the overall financial impact of so-called "e-crime" has been estimated.The cost to larger firms - those with more than 1,000 employees - was &#163;2.45bn; smaller or medium-sized businesses with between 100 and 1,000 workers lost &#163;177m.
Ach, Tuesdays - the day of blood, sweat and tears for us virtual hacks as we strive to produce another weekly edition of Online.Still, today I spotted a couple of semi-related tidbits on CNet News that raised my interest briefly. The first was onGoogle's expansion of video searchingto take submissions from (gasp!) the general public:"We're going to start taking video submissions from people" in the next few days, [Google founder Larry] Page told a crowd at the National Cable &amp; Telecommunications Association show. Later, in response to a reporter's question, he called the move an "experiment in video blogging."The announcement comes as the Mountain View, Calif.-based company is ramping up ambitious video search plans. In January, it unveiled Google Video, an engine that lets people search the text of TV shows. The service scours programming from PBS, Fox News, C-SPAN, ABC and the NBA, among others, making broadcasts searchable the same day.In a somewhat connected tale, former US vice president Al Goreannounced more detailsof his forthcoming Current.tv station - a kind of TV/blogging hybrid (a succession of viewer-submitted clips, in a 24-hourTakeover TVstylee). They've managed to link up with the Googsters to include Current on the video search, but they're also learning about the democratisation of media:Viewers will also be able to vote for their favorite videos and get tutorials via the Internet on how to produce their own segments, according to network officials.Think of it as a big video blog that you don't need a computer to watch. Gore said he is aiming to bring interactivity to the TV set."The Internet opened a floodgate for young people whose passions are finally being heard, but TV hasn't followed suit," Gore, the network's chairman, said in a statement. "We intend to change that with Current, giving those who crave the empowerment of the Web the same opportunity for expression on television."Gore will, of course, know how to make the most of the web's influence... after all, heinventedthe internet,didn't he?
Not only does the University of Liverpool boast a library with the largest collection of science fiction literature in Europe, but from next week it will launch the world's first website dedicated to science fiction research.The university's Sydney Jones library will unveil theScience Fiction Hubon Tuesday 12 April with the help of some of the genre's most acclaimed authors.Attending the launch will be Ramsey Campbell, acclaimed author and president of the British Fantasy Society along with fellow award-winning writers Brian Aldiss, best known for his Helliconia Trilogy, and Stephen Baxter, author of The Time Ships and Voyage.The Hub, supported by funds from the Arts and Humanities Research Board (AHRB), will mainly be used as a resource for independent research, providing access to over 20,000 journal articles and will rival science fiction's other major centre, Riverside, at the University of California.Roy McCready, the Hub manager, explains: "The Hub will provide a great boost to research into science fiction and its many related subjects. Many discount its academic credentials, but most English literature courses run a module in science fiction and our MA is extremely popular."It draws together a lot of different subjects, most notably in philosophy and physics. It is little known that science fiction has inspired many scientists in the development of technology."Arthur C Clarke, for instance, wrote about satellite communications in the mid-20th century - way before its eventual realisation."Science fiction can be traced back to stories of 'imaginary voyage', such as Homer's Odyssey and the term science fiction was first used in 1851 by William Wilson in his book A Little Earnest Book Upon A Great Old Subject.Hugo Gernsback reinvented the term as 'scientifiction' in 1926 in the first issue of Amazing Stories magazine. It has been officially known as science fiction since 1929.
While many pontificate that interactive stories are the future saviour of the games industry, and others suggest that simple games should go the way of the Dodo (or aren't "games" at all), I'm starting to think that this black-or-white approach to gaming isn't so good. I had an absolutely unreal time playing the extremely superficialYoshi Touch &amp; Goon my DS last night. There's jack-all story there, but I had a blindingly great time. Sure, my better half had his head in the GameCube kicking it off with the less-than-fantastic latest Starfox and the more-than-super Resident Evil 4, but instead of being drawn in to those capers I was lost in the touch-screen handheld, alternatively cursing its existence and proclaiming myself gamer goddess. Gripping to say the least.In the traditional sense of what has become, for many hard core players, the definition of a "game", Yoshi Touch &amp; Go is not. It could be defined as a "casual" game, like those played via web browsers or on airplanes. These hard core folks decry online solitaire and Bejewelled, claiming that the only true "games" are in-depth and, frankly, mainstream-inaccessible behemoths like Final Fantasy. In fact, it seems that simple goal-attainment, pick-up-and-play capabilities and distraction is how this entertainment medium grabs new players.So why be so exclusionary? If Yoshi Touch n' Go,Nintendogsand other quirky little simple titles (dare I mention Tetris?) can make it on an arguably hard core machine, what makes them games and others not?At last year'sEdinburgh Interactive Entertainment Festival(formerly known as theEIGF), Sony's Ray McGuire argued that the biggest revolution in the industry would come when we stopped using the word "game" to describe the products we know and love. This is the position many of the interactive storytelling proponents adopt - thus the name - and one which seems appropriate when considering the calibre and depth of so many of the contemporary products on release. Yoshi Touch &amp; Go cannot compare with immersive console worlds or massively multiplayer online games in interactive storytelling, but it's much more enjoyable than Starfox. It has a balanced sense of play and a feeling that if one tried just a little bit harder, the reward would come. Starfox, on the other hand, ricochets between game modes in an un-rhythmic way. It doesn't move smoothly. It's almost as if the Starfox arrangement, if it were a piece of music, is theoretically challenged.Reviews aside, and adopting terminology Disney has so successfully utilised in their theme parks, designers of the meaty products like Final Fantasy, Grand Theft Auto, Star Wars Galaxies and The Sims are creating "experiences", not just "rides". They involve active exploration, multi-level processing, thrills and spills, and occasionally raw emotion (OK, who cried at the end of Final Fantasy XII?). But are they games? Some people argue no; I've heard The Sims dismissed at academic conferences as "an interactive dollhouse" rather than a game. Some people argue yes; surely social interaction is a form of game? Achieving a goal and moving on to the next level is a part of a game? Perhaps, as a compromise, they should fall into a meta-category "game", much like theChoose Your Own Adventuresfrom the '80's fell into a super-ordinate "book" category. The problem is that "Interactive Entertainment" or "Interactive Storytelling" sounds so poncey.On the other hand, casual games are all about goal attainment, usually through tactical processing, skill development and timing. They're as different to the others as table-top role playing "games" are to traditional parlour, card, word and puzzle games. These are the true games: unfettered, unemotional (although it's rumoured that Desi Arnaz and Lucille Ball divorced because of a hand of Bridge) and uncompromised.An interactive story must have a pure game element in order to be enjoyable. Let's not forget those abhorrent interactive movies that came out for the PlayStation. They utterly lacked any sense of play. Furthermore, the eventual disinterest in games like The Sims Online and Black and White is arguably that they featured too much freedom. Most players need a reason to progress and persist (although somedisagree), and some of the best games - as recognised by the consumers and no one else - are those which dress up the game element, cloaking it with the emotional, narrative and other content so the "game" is imperceptible. These, then, are the "literature" of the game meta-category.By proclaiming that casual games like Yoshi, WarioWare, Katamari Damacy, or even Bejewelled are "lesser than" games like Final Fantasy, Fable or Deus Ex (as some do) is ignoring that more people play simple game-heavy products than this game literature.Surely there's a place for both?
The government is to order research into the future of mobile phone technology and phone masts, it was announced today.The research will look at the potential for increased sharing of masts between companies and will review the effectiveness of the website of the telecoms regulator Ofcom, which provides information about mast locations. The government is already reviewing planning rules for mobile phone masts.The planning minister, Yvette Cooper, said: "It is important to identify the future direction of mobile phone technology in order to inform policy development and to respond to public interest in this area."The announcement of the study follows a number of reports on the risks of using mobile phones. In January scientists from the National Radiological Protection Board (now part of the Health Protection Agency), which advises the government, said mobile phone emissions posed the most potential damage to the health of youngsters.Professor Sir William Stewart, who led the recent research, advised that children aged eight and under should not use handsets at all.The report said existing evidence on the safety of mobile phone technology was inconclusive and found far more research was needed. It said the health consequences of mobile phone masts, the base stations that relay signals, should be investigated further.The report called for an independent review of the planning process for masts. It was also critical of the information available about current mast locations, particularly on the Ofcom website.A study by the Karolinska Institute, in Sweden, published last October suggested long-term mobile phone users had nearly double the risk of getting a tumour on a nerve connecting the ear to the brain.The study was followed by EU-funded research that found mobile phone radiation could damage DNA cells.
An extremely in-depthdebateis developing over atIntelligent Artificeregarding the future of interactive story telling - a currently rather theoretical videogame genre based around deep characterisation, compelling narrative and realistic interpersonal relationships (although that definition itself is hopelessly contentious). It's all been kicked off by Michael Mateas' ratherdownbeat observationsfrom this year's GDC, most notably on an unsuccessful panel discussion entitled, 'Why Isn't The Game Industry Making Interactive Stories?'.Arguably, everyone has failed to properly consider the likes of Final Fantasy, Fable and Deus Ex, all of which - for different reasons - present a compelling form of narrative adventure to the gamer. In fact, it's difficult at times to work out what these people actuallywant. Does effective interactive story-telling require a whole new approach to game construction? And most importantly, do gamers actually want to play stories?Whatever the case, at a time when the industry seems to be homogenizing the design process, with individual game types increasingly giving way to 'super genres' like the driving action adventure, it is just good to know that issues like this are still being discussed.
Daftly named Indie publisher Octopus Motor has released somenew screensof its promising Rampage-style monster game,They Came From Hollywood. Due out later this year, the title offers 12 B-movie creatures including Giant Ant, Newtrino the Atomic Newt and the 52ft woman, any of which can be used to destroy seven highly detailed US cities (filled with screaming humans and panicking military forces, naturally). Combining real-time strategy and sim elements, the game promises to provide an interesting indie alternative to THQ's more mainstream, Destory All Humans. It also boasts an arcade mode where you can control the city-stomping action via a dance mat - perhaps while 'The Monster Mash' plays in the background.Another intriguing and polished development from the indie scene then. And the website's quite funny in its own right.
Internet advertising appears to have won over the marketing sceptics after outstripping radio for the first time last year, according to figures published today.Strong growth in broadband subscriptions helped online advertising expenditure to grow by 60% last year to &#163;653.3m in Britain, beating a total of &#163;637.4m for commercial radio, according to research for the Interactive Advertising Bureau. The internet edged above radio in terms of market share, taking 3.9% of total spending against 3.8% for its closest rival.Internet advertising promised a new dawn for marketeers at the height of the dotcom boom but its image was tarnished by a consumer revolt against pop-up ads and regulatory investigations into advertising deals at America Online. A dip in spending in 2001 has now been reversed emphatically, with internet advertising revenues four times larger than they were in 2000."The dotcom bubble was fuelled by this great expectation that people would be spending lots of time online buying things. In truth, internet penetration was not high enough and there were security issues over paying, which have gone away now," said Guy Phillipson, chief executive of the IAB.Mr Phillipson added that an   increase in internet connections, particularly high-speed broadband connections, has persuaded companies to invest money in chasing online consumers.Broadband users account for half of web surfers in Britain with more than 6 million subscribers. BT announced yesterday that it had signed up 5 million customers."It is a highly measurable medium, so that's attractive to not only marketing directors but also managing directors and chief executives who are looking for a better return on their marketing pound," said Mr Phillipson.The figures, compiled by accountancy firm PricewaterhouseCoopers and the World Advertising Research Centre, confirmed that the press is the largest, if not the fastest growing, medium. Press spending accounted for 41.5% of the total, followed by television with 23.9% and direct mail with 14.6%. Total advertising expenditure, buoyed by one-off events such as Euro 2004 and the Athens Olympics, rose by 6% to &#163;16.9bn.The IAB expects the internet to overtake outdoor, another fast-growing medium with a 5% share, by 2006. With broadband penetration expected to increase further and more internet sites launching every day, the web has greater growth potential than more established platforms."The inventory can go on   and on, whereas it might be harder for other media to produce lots more," said Mr Phillipson.The Advertising Association published a glimpse of the growth prospects for internet advertising in 2005 yesterday. Online spending is forecast to rise by more than a third this year, 12 times faster than on national newspapers and nearly 40 times quicker than on direct mail as companies spend more money on web marketing.The rapid rise has been fuelled partly by an explosion in paid-for searches, whereby companies pay to display their adverts alongside the results of searches for words or phrases such as "Kylie Minogue" or "Doctor Who"."Over 40% of internet spending currently goes on paid-for searches and we expect that figure to rise this year," said a spokesman for the WARC, which compiles the Advertising Association figures.The phenomenal growth rates for internet advertising over the past few years reflects the medium's relatively low start base. "Spending online is growing at an unprecedented rate but it still only accounts for around 3% of overall spend," said the spokesman.The amount companies spend on advertising overall is expected to grow by 4.2% during 2005, after inflation is taken into account, up slightly on last year.
"With GoogleRide Finder, you can search for taxis, limousines and shuttles and make better decisions by seeing the exact location of vehicles in your area. Just enter a zip code, the name of a city or even a specific address. You will get a map showing the companies and where their vehicles are located," says theHelppage.
Interesting debate happening in one corner of the blogosphere (can somebody please come up with a better word for blogosphere? Pleeease?) at the moment: what to think of The World's Most Popular Weblog (TM)Boing Boing.Glassdog (a snarky groupblog) recently ran a piece on Boing Boing (a snarky groupblog) and how it isplastered with advertisingwhich might be affecting its image.OK, fine. Boing Boing is profitable. Probably very profitable... So where's the money going?Oh, wait, that's none of our business. Boing Boing isn't public. They, legally and ethically, owe nobody an explanation for what they do or how they do it.Except it feels sort of wrong, doesn't it? It's got the same indie-Orwell feel that calling their business manager a "band manager" has: We're not corporate! We're rebels! We… make a lot of money. We just don't want look like it. Punk rock, dude!Salient, though perhaps not entirely accurate - and to be taken with a pinch of salt since blogs are, of course, more prone to in-fighting than most media forms.But then Phil Gyford (who weprofiled last summer) weighs in with a far more meaty question:Does a successful weblog have to try harder to be accurate?I can't help feeling that Boing Boing has stepped past the hazy mark where it can get away with publishing off-the-cuff posts about events in the world without spending some of the time and money we assume those ads are generating on checking facts.It's a re-hash of the "Is blogging journalism?" argument, but in new terms. Does having enough money to go professional mean that you have to adopt professional standards?As a kind of "professional blogger", I'm not sure what I think, but there are a few things to consider here.- The professional press is not always accurate, and some publications are less accurate than others, sometimes wilfully so. However, there are supposedly checks and balances (and regulators) to even these problems out.- Being partisan is not necessarily a bad thing, and neutrality isn't always interesting. We shouldn't imagine readers are thick-headed enough that they can't understand the difference - but we do have to realise that the confusion between news and opinion (and the circulation of rumour) does exist.- But do those earning money from espousing a kind of pseudo-rebellious doctrine owe their readers the duty of staying truthful? After all, getting on the back of Big Media is one thing, but removing comments and not being transparent makes it awfully difficult to keep yourself openly accountable.We're still feeling our way with all these things, and clearly as a professional journalist and blogger I'm in a slightly different position than most. I reckon we should try and be accurate, clear, transparent and accountable - whether we get paid or not. Why? Because we all have opinions, but the least readers deserve is enough of the truth to help make up their own minds.After all, it was the legendary Guardian editor CP Scott who said "Comment is free, but facts are sacred", and that stands as true for webloggers as anybody else.
For those of us who steer clear of religion wherever possible, it's hard to understand the acres of coverage being to the death of Pope John Paul II at the weekend.But despite my feelings towards religious pomp and the politics of belief, it's interesting to see how some priests are taking on technology as a way of spreading their ideas. Ben Hammersley wrote alittle piecefor us last year which mentionedBiblepod, but it's not the only example.One of our readers has pointed us in the direction ofCatholicInsider, a podcasting site run by Father Roderick Vonhögen, Catholic priest of the Archdiocese of Utrecht in the Netherlands.Right now Roderick is in Rome and podcasting with alarming regularity about the reaction to the Pope's death. If you can get past his slightly over-dramatic delivery (he's a Catholic priest speaking in a foreign language, after all) then it's an interesting experiment from the ground, talking to people in the Vatican and exploring what it all means.
The march of the Sony PSP continues, even in the shadow of last week's announcement that European gamers won't be able to get their hands on the console untilAutumn(cleverly detracting attention from a rumouredXBox 2launch? So cynical...). PSPWorld has kicked off an amusingphoto contestfor owners of the handheld. Take a snap of yours with a local landmark and upload it to their website.I'm particularly fond of the shot above, but echoing one of the comments, why is a PSP in space categorised as "Middle East or Africa"?ViaEngadget
Our boy Keith has his finger on thepulse. TheNew York Timeshas written a short article on New Games Journalism, summarising the movement. It has a much shorterreading listthan gameblog posted last month, however.
The car repairs industry comes under pressure today to smarten up its act as the National Consumer Council announces plans for a "supercomplaint" against it.The NCC and its Scottish and Welsh sister bodies have accused the £7bn-a-year industry for "inaction" and "lack of engagement" over consumer rip-offs.The consumer body said that having carried out "mystery shopper" exercises, it had found that people were "consistently and comprehensively" getting a bad deal from mechanics, with women suffering the most.It found mechanics were frequently guilty of missing faults, carrying out and charging for unnecessary work, sometimes without the owner's approval, making charges for work that has not been done, offering poor customer service and failing to comply with industry standards.According to the NCC, consumers waste an estimated £4bn a year on shoddy workmanship and unfair charges imposed by unscrupulous mechanics. The group accused the industry of failing to regulate itself despite many attempts to raise standards over the past 30 years.The NCC has written to Gerry Sutcliffe, consumer minister, Jacqui Smith, minister for woman and equality, and the Office of Fair Trading chief, Sir John Vickers. The body is now launching an examination into the car service industry's refusal to improve its reputation, and has threatened to lodge a supercomplaint - an official complaint submitted by a consumer body when industry practice is deemed to be "significantly harming the interests of consumers".NCC chairwoman Deirdre Hutton, said: 'We are throwing down the gauntlet to the industry. Years of inaction defy the harm this sector inflicts on consumers. Unless the industry rises to our challenge and gets serious about addressing the problems consumers suffer, a supercomplaint may be the only way forward."Owning and running a car is expensive - the equivalent of about a third of the purchase price goes on servicing and repairs during its lifetime. Most consumers aren't car mechanics - they don't know what needs doing to their car, whether it's been done properly or whether they've got value for money. What's more, shoddy repairs can put consumers and their families at risk of serious injury or death," Ms Hutton said.
Deutsche Telekom and French media group Vivendi have enlisted the support of their respective governments in a legal stand-off over who owns Poland's biggest mobile phone operator, PTC.The two companies are threatening each other with multi-million-euro compensation claims after a Viennese arbitration tribunal ruled in November that Vivendi's purchase of a large stake in the Polish mobile operator, which has 9m customers and employs 4,000 staff, was invalid.Vivendi bought the stake from Elektrim, a Polish industrial firm which set up PTC in 1996 in partnership with Deutsche Telekom. Elektrim originally had a 51% stake and Deutsche the remaining 49%, but the financially troubled Elektrim sold on half its holding to Vivendi three years later in a joint venture known as ET or Telco.Following the Vienna tribunal ruling, Vivendi is suing in the Polish courts for "fraudulent abuse of process" and miscarriages of justice.Vivendi has called in French president Jacques Chirac to protect its interests, while Deutsche has enlisted the support of chancellor Gerhard Schr&#246;der's government. Two of the German firm's senior T-Mobile managers were recently prevented from entering the PTC headquarters by Warsaw police.Deutsche officials said last night the issue had been resolved by a Warsaw court and the Viennese tribunal. It said the court approved new supervisory and management boards at PTC, which were functioning smoothly.It has exercised a call option on the disputed stake that it says is owned by Elektrim and that the French claim is owned by Vivendi and its partners.Last week Karl-Gerhard Eick, the Deutsche finance director, said: "We have made it clear we are prepared to pay a fair price for the shares in PTC, irrespective of how the issue of the validity of the call option will eventually be decided."Vivendi's chairman and chief executive, Jean-Ren&#233; Fourtou, has accused Deutsche of taking part in "one of Europe's biggest financial scandals".
The onscreen exhortation to press the red button is now as familiar to many viewers as the sight of Ant and Dec. And broadcasters are getting increasingly sophisticated in their use of interactivity as viewers become more familiar with it, from playing along with Who Wants to be a Millionaire? to accessing alternative sports during the Olympics.But many viewers remain resistant to interactive advertising, despite brands returning to the medium after a period when their enthusiasm was tempered by the slump in the ad market. In an effort to find out why, airtime sales group IDS has commissioned the most comprehensive survey yet of viewers' attitudes.The results show that many brands have yet to get to grips with interactive advertising. Focus groups recruited for the research proved that for some viewers interactive ads remain confusing while others did not tally with their expectations, and some found the red button add-ons frivolous and unnecessary."When we took the results to two or three agencies, they said that it was all common sense. But if that's the case, why are there still so many examples that we can show to illustrate the findings?" says Mark Connolly, manager of interactivity at IDS, the sales arm for Flextech's channels, including its BBC joint ventures under the UKTV umbrella. Because of its small size relative to ITV and Channel 4, it sees interactive advertising as a "great leveller", where it can carve out a niche.Some expensively produced interactive adverts fell at the first hurdle, the research found, because the call to press the red button was too subtle. One advert for BMW, for example, featured a carefully disguised red arrow as the call to interact, rather than the more familiar red dot in the corner of the screen.The research showed that the number of people who interacted fell by 80% when the call to press red was integrated into the ad rather than overtly placed over it. "When you go interactive, you associate it with the red button. Not having it is like changing the traffic light sequence and asking you to cross on the red man," said one member of the focus group panel.And while broadcasters show little reluctance in reminding viewers to press the red button during programmes, advertisers have so far   tended to shy away from referring to the interactive element during the ad itself. With more than 7m SkyDigital homes, the majority of which are au fait with interacting, this reticence is surprising, says Connolly. If viewers are audibly told to press the red button, they are more than two and a half times more likely to do so.The key difference thrown up by the findings was that while most agencies and advertisers believed that interactive add-ons should be entertaining and fun, most of those who went through to the interactive portion of the ad wanted more facts and figures.Only one in 10 viewers saw entertainment as the main reason to interact with an advert, while a third simply wanted more information. "I'm pressing the red button to find out more about the car, not the ad," was one typical comment.And, surprisingly, viewers were not adverse to answering lots of questions during the course of the ad, provided they were happy with what they got in return. They also praised easy-to-use tools, such as a personal loan calculator from Tesco.When interactive advertising first came onto the agenda more than five years ago with the launch of SkyDigital, it was seen as a luxury. But in some product areas such as cars, finance and travel it is now rare for a big brand to launch a campaign without some form of interactive add-on.The fact that ITV and Channel 4 now offer interactivity is one factor, while the emergence of a second provider of interactive airtime in Zip TV has provided Sky with some competition and halved costs. As it has become less of a novelty, the volume of those interacting with individual ads has gone down but their relevance to the advertiser has gone up.As the medium becomes more popular, Connolly believes the creatives will have to work more closely with their interactive siblings to ensure a consistent look and feel across the main ad and its spin-off."What tended to happen in the past is that interactivity was always seen as a bolt-on. Two weeks before an ad went out, I'd get a call saying that it might be a good idea to have an interactive element," he says. "Interactivity is edging further up the planning process but it has a lot further to go." Until that happens, the medium is likely to remain the advertising world's equivalent of England footballer Joe Cole - plenty of promise but frustratingly inconsistent.
So this is what an undisclosed location looks like. It is a balmy March evening and I am standing on the 5th floor of an anonymous office building in south London. I am here to meet the man - if indeed he is a man - behind Perplex City, the puzzle game that is gearing up to become the interactive phenomenon of the year. Secrecy is everything at Perplex City. Secrecy and flat-screen monitors, scores of which are crammed into the small room that acts as the top secret headquarters for the game's controllers.The first anyone knew about Perplex City was when cryptic adverts were placed in newspapers around the world (including the Times and the Guardian) asking for help in finding a mysterious missing object known as "the Cube". No contact information was given - just a link to a site calledperplexcity.com. Meanwhile around the world, hundreds of postcards simultaneously appeared in clubs, bars, shops and other public places, all containing subtle clues that led to the same website.To someone who casually stumbles upon it, this all seems pretty meaningless. But for anyone familiar with the world of 21st century puzzles, the cards, the cryptic adverts, the site - they only mean one thing. The start of a brand new "alternate reality game".But first some background. When history looks back and considers the phenomenon of early-21st century film hype, two letters will stand out like towering, disappointing giants. The letters are "AI". Make no mistake, Steven Spielberg's 2001 robo-flick, Artificial Intelligence: AI, was by far the most grotesque example of over-hyping and under-delivering ever to be discharged from the Hollywood creative sewer. But to be fair to Spielberg, it is hard to imagine how any film could possibly live up to the very special kind of hype that preceded its release. While most films make do with a poster campaign and a tightly-edited, deep-voiced trailer, the AI team asked Microsoft to create a truly ground-breaking type of interactive advertisement. Codenamed The Beast, it was not so much a game as a totally immersive on-and-offline adventure   that grabbed players by the throat and threw them in to a fantasy world of murder, intrigue and seemingly unsolvable puzzles.What those bemused players in 2001 did not realise, as they trawled for clues on the web and waited for late-night phone calls from fictional characters, was that they were witnessing the birth of the alternate reality game, or ARG - defined on a leading fan site as "an obsession-inspiring genre that blends real-life treasure hunting, interactive storytelling, video games and online community." The success of the Beast led to an avalanche of similar ARGs, to promote everything from "urban" T-shirt brands to pulp spy novels. But the level of round-the-clock commitment required by players meant that most of the copycats vanished without trace, with only a handful - like Electronic Arts' Majestic and Nokia's Nokia Game - registering as more than a passing blip on the cultural trend radar.For a couple of years it looked as if ARGs were destined to join Letsbuyit.com and Barcode Battlers in the e-dustbin of nice ideas that never really caught on. But then two things happened. First came the broadband explosion, creating a vast army of people who spend hours online every day looking for something to do. And then, not long afterwards, Dan Brown's book The Da Vinci Code shot to the top of the bestseller charts, introducing those very same people to the world of extreme puzzle solving. High-speed internet access, a horde of puzzle freaks - it was only a matter of time before ARGs were back with a vengeance.The first signs of the ARG revival came when Microsoft launched an ingenious game called I Love Bees, to promote Halo 2 on the Xbox. Like AI, the game began with a weblink hidden in an advertisement. Initially the link appeared to lead to the blog of an amateur beekeeper, but before long the site was "hacked" and replaced with chapters of a story. Of course, this being an ARG, the chapters were, in fact, ingenious clues which led players to real-life payphones scattered across the world. Anyone who went to one of the phones at a pre-arranged time, answered it and gave the correct password, would unlock a new chapter and a new set of clues. The game was a huge online hit, winning its creators a prestigious Game Developers Choice Award and spawning a whole new base of fans who flocked to ARG fan sites likeARGN.comto eagerly await the next game to arrive on the scene.Which brings us to Perplex City, and me to south London, for a meeting with the as-yet-unidentified mastermind of this year's most talked about ARG. For the purposes of this story, I will call him Michael Smith. He may share a name, and a face, with the 30-year-old founder of gadget e-tailerFirebox.com, but that is where the similarities end. Because in Perplex City, Michael is the puppetmaster - the leader of a team of full-time puzzle-makers whose job is to ensure that the clues that make up Perplex City are so mind-bendingly difficult that even the collective brains of thousands of players will struggle to solve them.The team's most recent wheeze was to lead players to the famous zebra crossing at Abbey Road where, at a precise time, a character would hand over envelopes containing clues to the next phase of the game. But only if the players worked out the secret password in time. "About 20 people turned up and hundreds more watched via the Abbey Road webcam," says a clearly delighted Smith. "It's amazing". Indeed it is. But what is even more amazing is that none of the players had any idea why they were there or what they were playing for. There are persistent rumours of a big cash prize for whoever locates the mysterious "cube", but Smith remains tight-   lipped about the exact aim of the game. Not that the players seem to care - for dedicated ARGers it is the taking part that counts. Smith does, however, hint that the current phase of the game is only the beginning - a trailer, if you will, for something even bigger and even more exciting. But what? "You'll have to play the game to find out." Of course. Sorry I asked. But whatever the   next phase of the game turns out to be, it is certainly going to be vast - the walls of the Perplex City office are plastered with artist's impression of game characters, only a fraction of whom have so far been revealed to players."Who's the one who looks like Harold Shipman?" I ask, pointing to a sinister-looking chap with a beard - but Smith ignores me, with a smile. Suddenly I am paranoid. What if they are not characters at all - what if they are just red herrings to put me off the scent? If I come back tomorrow will this office even still be here? Who is Agent Smith working for? Is he the Matrix? And that is when I understand the brilliance of ARGs - like no other type of entertainment they create a   constant sense amongst players that literally anything is possible. Smith says: "I'm absolutely convinced that ARGs are going to be a major new area of the entertainment industry - affecting film, TV, print publishing and video games. Big companies in Hollywood and the video game industry are starting to wake up to their potential. It's still very early days but I think the growth of ARGs over the next few months and years will be explosive."But for now world domination will have to wait - the puppetmaster has more immediate concerns. While we have been talking, players have discovered the next phase of the game - an online newspaper called the Perplex City Sentinel (perplexcitysentinel.com). Already the fan forums are abuzz with theories on what lies behind the mysterious subscription-only wall and what it all means for the search for the cube.One player even suggests that the Guardian might be involved in some way - after all is not Sentinel another word for Guardian? By God, he is right. I scribble down the URL on the back of Harold Shipman, slip him into my back pocket and make my excuses. I have to get a computer. The clock is ticking - and the cube is not going to find itself.
Another week, another mobile gaming announcement. Digital Bridges, one of the biggest players in the market, have rebranded themselves asI-play. Apparently their mission is to, "make mobile gaming the world's most popular form of electronic gaming." Hmm. To do this they will be pushing casual games heavily. This makes sense, but a wave of new Tetris clones doesn't fill me with excitement. However the other part of the rebrand - keeping the tech away from the consumer - is a good thing. When mobile gaming gets as easy to use as DS/GBA/PSP then it will really have made it. With Screen Digest estimating that the global mobile games market will be worth $1.7bn this year is it time to ditch the handhelds and pick up the mobile?
Feeling flat and jaded? Fancy a bit of excitement and fright? Why not call in Computer Man? I called him round last week to update my antiviral software. When I was little I used to be scared of the Struwwelpeter storybook, where kiddies had their fingers snipped off for minor misdemeanours. Who needs Asbos when one has the Scissorman on call? But now I am frightened by Computer Man. What ghastly stories he tells. And they are not even pretend.He has a quick look at my computer. "More than 5,000 attempts have been made over the past three months to get into your computer," says he. By whom? What for? They are after my money and identity, says Computer Man. Spooky-hooky. He warms to his theme."We live in a big bad world," says he. "There are more than 90,000 viruses and bots out there, roaming the internet like creeping, hungry little insects, looking for a computer with no antivirus programme." Computer Man sees me blanch and cling to the doorframe. He revs up. "We are surrounded by tens of thousands of tiny invisible robbers," says he. "They come up your telephone wire, whooo-hooo, and another little fellow sits inside your computer reading passwords."Clearly thieving is an excellent, white-collar career choice. No more climbing up drainpipes in the dark, or breaking windows, or confronting grumpy homeowners and having to stab them, then staggering off with the bag of swag. Just sit at home, diddle with your computer and rob everybody blind.I ring Fielding to warn him. But he is already deeply anxious about his blood pressure, failing sight, possible retirement, finances, daughter abroad in a distant jungle, and now I've put the wind up him over the million prowling robber viruses. Naturally Mrs Fielding is displeased. "Bugger off!" she shouts in the background.What are we all to do? "You just do as your Computer Man tells you," says Computer Man, and waves a shiny blue disc. It will update my computer. Phew. That's all right then. But wait a minute. The new updater is too new for my computer, so I must have a not-quite-up-to-date updater, which will be fine, Computer Man assures me. "See the green bits on the panda's nose? That means it's keeping the viruses out." I would prefer an alligator. Or Mr Scissorman.
The one part of a car's anatomy that motoring reviewers seem uninterested in testing is the horn. I, however, always choose a moment - not always appropriate - to lean on the centre of the steering wheel and give it a good long blast. It's the kind of thing I imagine Prince Philip does when a serf stumbles into his path while he's skidding round the estate lanes of Sandringham late at night, shotgun in one hand, gin in the other...Clearly seeing the lack of good horn data as a serious omission, Jamjar cars, the online car retailer, commissioned Professor Theo Van Leeuwen, an expert in the semiotics of sound at Cardiff University, to rank 25 of Britain's best-selling cars... by their horns. He rated them on volume, pitch, tension and roughness. These criteria were combined to produce a Car Horn Quotient (CHQ) for each model.It turns out the Mondeo - Essex-man fave and trusted workhorse of a million travelling reps - sounds the most aggressive; the politest was Audi's TT. Interestingly, or maybe not, the car found to strike a perfect balance of aggression and discretion was Vauxhall's Vectra.The professor's 'semiotic profile' of the Mondeo's horn, however ('very loud, tense and rough'), in no way reflects the car - which is unexpectedly quiet and refined.It's been 12 years since the first Mondeo rolled on to our streets and, though you'd be doing well to impress anybody by saying you own a Mondeo - letting a Ford keyring slip from your fingers at a swingers' party won't get you the master bedroom - it is a great drive. Smart, purposeful and eager.The marque's latest - and arguably best - arrival is the ST TDCi, or to put it less precisely the 2.2 Duratorq TDCi 155PS. A six-speed 2.2litre performance-tuned monster that is Ford's fastest-ever diesel - 0-62mph in 8.7 seconds and a top speed of 137mph. With its lowered suspension, Ronal 16-spoke alloy wheels, leather-wrapped steering wheel and silver-finished headlamps, it's a Mondeo with a big future ahead of it - especially in the areas of our country so beloved by John Betjeman. At £21,830, it isn't cheap, but being a Mondeo it still delivers almost 50 miles to the gallon - if it's to be a fleet car it has to be economical.So popular is the make in Britain, that this pumped-up model is a 'UK exclusive'. Mondeo fans in Germany and Japan, where the marque is also a massive seller, will simply have to peer over the fence at our greener grass.Perhaps surprisingly for such an unsurprising car, the Mondeo has a very active fan base. I logged on to the Ford Mondeo Owners' Club website and found 894 messages from drivers offering everything from advice on how to deal with a sticky window to trailers for the big event of the Mondeo social calender - the Mondeomania 2005 Fair, which is to be held in June at Wicksteed Park. Among the thousands of caps, scarves, spares and trims that will be on sale, there will also be one bumper sticker that seems to sum it all up: 'Honk if you're a Mondeo Man'.Braking newsThese days, you can have a car in any colour you like, as long as it's silver - a third of all cars are silver, with blue and black in second and third spot. Analysts predict next year's trend will be: 'Silver with a touch of beige'
Google has many qualities that make it a likeable brand. It helps you answer questions and solve problems. It enables you to discover new things, which is always fun. It plays little jokes with its visual identity to fit special occasions like the Olympics and St Patrick's Day. Oh, and it's free to use.Being free (in both senses) is a large part of Google's charm. Google doesn't need to charge its users for its services because the internet changed the rules, creating a different environment for communicating information - and for advertising. So Google is funded by the advertisers who pay for a linked presence on the internet.This business model got it up and running, and indeed funded years of extraordinary growth and development. Then last year Google floated on the stock exchange in New York and brought in massive amounts of money for future development - and for its two founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin. Page and Brin are normally described as 'geeky computer nerds' but they obviously have commercial as well as technological nous.In terms of developing a brand, they gave clarity and commitment to an idea at the heart of their business. That idea was to make searching for knowledge easy using the internet. Business scepticism greeted their idea but they stuck to it and, 10 years on, their successful IPO   proved them right. Now, in the 'knowledge age', what idea could seem more right? A large part of their success can be attributed to the fact that they have created a real brand - despite their protestations of innocence: 'We never promote our brand.'What makes Google a brand is that it operates in an environment (a virtual one, the internet) where it has many competitors. If you want to carry out an internet search you can choose a number of search engines (Yahoo, Ask Jeeves, AOL - carry out a Google search to find out). Most people use Google. Google gets people coming back to it because it obeys the first principle of branding (get your product right and   keep improving it) and has developed its own distinctive approach (building a strong perception of its brand).Neil Taylor's new book,  Search Me , tells the story of the Google brand for the first time. In it he explores what makes Google distinctive - its brand values,   philosophy and tone of voice. There's an attractive irreverence imbedded in Google's every move - from the legendary place of work called Googleplex to the only 'official' statement of purpose: 'Don't be evil.'It all started with a name that has itself become a dynamic source of innovation, stories and customer loyalty. We all now google. 'We' includes the Plaid Cymru MP who got the idea to impeach Tony Blair through a Google search, the heart attack victim who survived by diagnosing his symptoms on Google, the Iraqi kidnappers who released a journalist when a Google search proved he was Australian and not American. The stories spread in the way of Google itself, magically, through the ether.The challenge for Google will be holding onto its sense of self as it continues to grow and expand into new product areas. Will we still mean it in the future when say we Google, or will we mean that we do the equivalent of hoovering   with a Dyson? Brands that become generic terms always face a particular challenge: a cultural success can easily slip into a commercial failure through overfamiliarity.The dark shadow over Google's continuing progress is Microsoft. Google is hardly a small company - the IPO valued it at $24 billion - but it is still plausibly seen as a quirky, perky little David up against the lumbering Goliath of Microsoft, which undoubtedly has the resources to take on Google (and just about anyone else in the internet world).As John Naughton pointed out in these pages a few weeks ago, Microsoft is now getting serious about dominating every internet category, including search engines. But Microsoft will not have its customary advantage of operating system monopoly to help it. Google can still out-manoeuvre it by being quicker, sharper and more likeable. The best defence Google has is its brand - the brand that will keep its users loyal, that   will keep people talking about it, that will become the organising principle for future growth.In terms of future growth, Google has been churning out ideas and imaginative developments faster than seems feasible for a publicly listed corporation. Does it not have the management structures in place that so often put a check on such frenzied creativity? It seems not (or such is the power of the story that the brand has created around itself). So now we have the realistic prospect of the world's greatest libraries being instantly available online, of any published book being brought up as an extract on your computer screen to see whether you would like to buy it. Of its own email system (done) or its own internet phone system (coming). And much, much more.This might make Google seem, in prospect at least, a Goliath in its own right. But for the time being we're prepared to trust its new-age roots enough to go along with it as the loveable new kid on the block. Neil Taylor compares it to a swan, calm and graceful on the outside, while underneath its feet are paddling furiously. The reason for the furious paddling is the predatory Microsoft. How will Google fare? Will it be able to use its brand principles within its new corporate status? Given the pace of change in this area, we won't have to wait decades to find out.
Dotcom frenzy is back. Blue-chip investment banks are queuing up to explore multibillion-pound flotation opportunities and investors are chomping at the bit to back technology businesses.Five years after the dotcom bubble burst, a new breed of internet firms is set to storm markets.There is, though, one big difference from the last bubble. These e-businesses are from one specific sector - gambling. They are based almost without exception in tax havens and are wildly profitable. What's more, they are only at the foothills of a growth curve that could soar, over the next five years, to unimaginable heights.The City's love affair with internet gambling began last January. Then Party Gaming, which owns Partypoker.com - the world's biggest internet poker firm with 5 million registered users and a 55 per cent market share - intimated it was looking to float. Based in Gibraltar, it is expected to issue shares in May creating a &#163;3 billion public company and, in one leap, enter the FTSE 100.Its four owners - all in their thirties - include the former internet porn businesswoman, Ruth Parasol. Between them they stand to share well over &#163;1bn, depending on how much they intend to plough back into the business.Party Gaming is likely to be the first major internet business to float. Snapping at its heels will be Cassava Enterprises, which owns another poker site, 888.com, and could raise close to &#163;1bn. It is owned by two Israelis and is again based in Gibraltar, escaping tax.The firm has Credit Suisse First Boston advising it and Cassava's management believes the presence of so-called bulge-bracket banks in the sector shows internet gambling has come of age.Meanwhile it emerged last weekend that Betfair, the betting exchange that allows allows punters to be bookies, has hired NM Rothschild to advise it. Betfair is the gambling business success story of the decade, the the Ebay of its field.While many see its move to hire Rothschilds as a precursor to a float that could   see its founders - ex-City trader Andrew Black and former investment banker Edward Wray - share a &#163;700 million windfall, most gambling industry experts believes there needs to be more certainty over its potential tax liabilities before this can happen. The Treasury is currently exploring whether to tax those who lay a bet with it in the same way that high street bookies are taxed. This would dramatically undermine its appeal to punters.But as a measure of how powerful internet gambling can be, Sportingbet last year paid $297m (&#163;156m) for rival website Paradise Poker. The move saw its share price double.The electronic gambling bandwagon could still have a long way to go. There are two new frontiers. The first is China. The rocketing growth of Macau as a casino destination has internet gambling bosses drooling. The tiny enclave on the south-eastern coast is only a 90-minute boat trip from Hong Kong.The Chinese have taken to gambling with gusto. It is said that the &#163;100m   investment stumped up by billionaire Sheldon Adelson in the Macau Sands casino has been paid back almost within a year of opening. He now plans to recreate the Las Vegas strip in Macau.Just 6 per cent of the Chinese population has access to the internet, but as technology spreads so the num bers tempted to gamble will spiral.China is currently cracking down on illegal operators and is concerned at losing money from cross-border casinos. Despite this, representatives of the leading operators are all in regular contact with Chinese authorities. Progress is   slow, but one boss of a leading poker site said they were prepared to operate under a heavy tax environment because the volume of trade would be immense. Another says: 'There will be relaxation. It will be gradual. It will be masterminded by the authorities. We'd obviously like the pace to be quicker.'The second frontier is America, although there are huge legal hurdles to overcome. The US attorney-general has said internet gambling businesses taking cash from American citizens is against the law. If internet firms open businesses in America they will be arrested. But this does not stop most companies taking cash off American internet poker players.The industry appears to be playing a high-risk game of 'chicken' with the US authorities. At any stage they could act against internet gaming firms. But since a number of major US banks are advising internet firms on the potential to float in London, the US could be forced to clarify its position.The British government, meanwhile, wants the UK to be the world's hub for internet gambling. It wants to tempt businesses who pay no tax in Gibraltar back to Britain, in return for a kite mark that will act as a confidence boosting measure for punters. The current Gambling Bill would regulate internet gambling for the first time, bringing it under the auspices of a new Gambling Commission.If the bill is passed, the Treasury would then create a tax environment for businesses which currently pay no tax. To get them onshore, this would have to be less than 5 per cent.In return, the government would get employment, corporation tax and VAT. Whether this would be enough to tempt what is still regarded as a shady industry onshore is still unclear.
ConstantinePS2, XBOXNot content with reinventing carcinogenic, blonde, scouse comic book anti-hero John Constantine as Keanu    Reeves, and transporting the whole sorry spectacle to Los Angeles, the pain wrought by Hollywood's routine mangling of    much-loved intellectual property has now been extended to a game. The aptly named Constantine: The Videogame is a soulless, by the numbers run-and-gun game. Except Keanu's onscreen avatar can't run, making it more a walk-and-gun game, a bit like The Punisher without its gruesome sense of humour. Savour the Dolby Digital sound effects and the opening CGI - it's all downhill after that. If you are a fan of the graphic novels, for God's sake pretend this isn't happening.&#183;SCI, £40Full Spectrum WarriorPS2As well as learning how to shoot people, soldiers also need to learn how not to get shot. Full Spectrum Warrior is the US Army's answer to teaching MOUT (that's Military Operations in Urban Terrain for those not currently dressed in camouflage) to its infantry without all that tedious messing about with instructors. The consumer-friendly remodel is now available for PS2, and despite a slightly jerky frame rate, commanding your alpha and bravo fire teams into action in a fictitious dusty    Middle Eastern city is just as effective and enthralling as it was in the slightly smoother Xbox and PC remixes. An accomplished and    utterly involving tactical war simulation in which you never pick up a gun yourself.&#183;THQ, £40 (also on Xbox, £40, and PC, £30)Wario Ware: TouchedNintendo DSIf you're a fan of life uninfringed by padded cells and lengthy interrogation by NHS psychiatric staff, there is a set of micro-games in Wario Ware: Touched, Nintendo's latest outing on the DS, that you should avoid when in public. These involve blowing forcefully into your Game Boy one minute before whispering to it the next, making you appear dangerously mentally unstable. The rest of the 200+ micro-games, while also completely unhinged (shred cabbage, capture kiwis, snip snot, blow up the solar system), have the decency to require only stylus-based interaction. At least as dementedly inventive and compelling as previous Wario Ware games.&#183;Nintendo, £40
The director of Superman Returns, Bryan Singer, is contributing a video blog of the film's progress to fansitebluetights.net, while you can get the latest scoop on Batman Begins atsuperherohype.com.But not all superheroes are big budget extravaganzas.localsuperheroes.comcelebrates superhero activity unearthed in local newspapers, accompanied by doodles;spiderman.nicanordavid.comfinds an 18-inch high Spiderman toy touring the globe; whilebriansdriveintheater.com/superhero.htmldocuments pre-technology superhuman crime slayers.internationalhero.co.ukis a database of lesser-known superheroes from around the globe, including the UK's Supergran and Italy's Video Boy. Finally, proving that all comic book fans are not geeks,superdickery.comdoes an excellent job of highlighting Clark Kent's pitiful behaviour towards Lois Lane.
Yesterday, Google announced "Google Gulp (BETA)™ with Auto-Drink™ (LIMITED RELEASE), a line of "smart drinks" designed to maximize your surfing efficiency by making you more intelligent, and less thirsty."Google's blurbalso says:From time to time, in order to improve Google Gulp's usefulness for our users, Google Gulp will send packets of data related to your usage of this product from a wireless transmitter embedded in the base of your Google Gulp bottle to the GulpPlex™, a heavily guarded, massively parallel server farm whose location is known only to Eric Schmidt, who carries its GPS coordinates on a 64-bit-encrypted smart card locked in a stainless-steel briefcase handcuffed to his right wrist. No personally identifiable information of any kind related to your consumption of Google Gulp or any other current or future Google Foods product will ever be given, sold, bartered, auctioned off, tossed into a late-night poker pot, or otherwise transferred in any way to any untrustworthy third party, ever, we swear.Oh yes, here's a good place to search for more info:Yagoohoogle.com.The Mac Observer had a nice almost-believeable story,Apple Adopts Windows Media for iTunes, iPod. By contrast, The Register'sApple founder Jobs joins IKEAsounded pretty unconvincing but the execution makes it well worth the trip.My favourite read of the day (excerptedherein The Guardian) was the Scientific American editorial,Okay, We Give Up. This admitted being swayed by mountains of scientific evidence into endorsing Darwinism instead of giving equal time to "scientific creationism" and similar rubbish.There are dozen's more April Fool links collected atUrgo.org.
Google is celebrating the first birthday of its free email service Gmail by doubling users' capacity to two gigabytes, with a promise to boost its email storage further in future.According to an announcement on the Gmail site: "To celebrate our one-year birthday, we're giving everyone one more gigabyte. But why stop the party there? Our plan is to continue growing your storage beyond 2GBs by giving you more space as we are able."Our goal is to make sure storage is no longer an issue for Web mail users," said Marissa Mayer, Google's director of consumer web products.Ms Mayer said Google could offer so much capacity because of the way the company had set up its computer systems, but she declined to provide any more detail.In a reprise of thejokey press releasewhich launched Gmail on April 1 last year, Google today adorned its email service's login page with details of what it called "our new and top secret Infinity+1 storage plan". A graph, supposedly scribbled by Google engineers, who were "toiling away furiously" on "napkins and empty pizza boxes", shows Gmail's storage capacity climbing from one gigabyte to "infinity+1".Below, Google admits: "we've always loved a good joke. We know we won't reach infinity, butcheck out what we will do".Gmail's offering at launch one year ago was unprecedented, trumping Gmail's two main rivals in the free email market, MSN's Hotmail and Yahoo!. They gave users 2MB and 4MB of storage space respectively: Gmail's free storage package was 250 to 500 times bigger at one gigabyte.Gmail remains an invitation-only service in beta or public test mode. A Google spokesperson told Guardian Unlimited that there are plans for a public release but a date has not yet been set because the company is still working on new and as yet unannounced feature.Since its launch, some of Gmail's features have been taken up by its competitors, who have  been playing catch-up for the last 12 months in what is a fiercely competitive market. Yahoo! announced last week that it would boost storage on its free email accounts to match Gmail's one gigabyte.The Gmail launch was not without controversy, however. A clutch of privacy groups complained to Google that Gmail raised "significant and troubling questions" about how users' data would be used and stored.Twenty-eight groups - including the US-based World Privacy Forum, the Electronic Privacy Information Centre and the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, as well as the UK-based Foundation for Information Policy Research - wrote an open letter to Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin.They called on Google to suspend plans for the free Gmail service until it had addressed concerns about its privacy and data retention policies.At the time, Google told Guardian Unlimited that it had "the highest regard" for the privacy of users' information, adding that it was confident Gmail was "fully compliant with data protection laws worldwide".
From goody bags that fail to please to the lord of first person shooters aiming at mobiles. There's a lot that's been happening this week in games-land. Read on for your one-stop shop.TuesdayEdinburgh Interactive goes liveDual Shock infringes on Immersion's tech - Sony required to cough up $90mCarmack gets mobileSamsung eyes sideways-looking gamersTrain your brain with LuminesWednesdayBaby named after EverQuest characterClinton says gaming=badVirtual sword theft results in real-life retributionWarcraft addictsOwn goalCoded Arms and the future of PSPThursdayTwo-player Tetris on your TV'MUD not dead', says WiredPSP: good or evil?ReviewsFridayOf 733t-ism and the future of World of WarcraftStar Wars Ep III
I've just been to the launch event for theStar Wars Episode III game. Darth Vader, stormtroopers, security guards preventing filming/photography/criticism - they were all there. There's an embargo on online coverage for a couple of weeks, presumably so that IGN or Gamespot can splash the news, but suffice to say the game is everything you expect. Slow-paced strategy title this ain't. The goodie bag was interesting. A DVD boxset of the original movies was accompanied by seemingly whatever the marketing team could snaffle from the cupboard - namely a t-shirt for Rogue Squadron III (released 2003) and an unbranded 16mb USB flash disk. Er, thanks guys. The presentation, with added movie footage was nice, although again the Lucas security police will be knocking on the door tonight if I say any mor...
Gamesindustry.bizhas reported that World of Warcraft will be officially re-opening its currently closed doors on 15 April to new entrants of their tremendously successful (and critically acclaimed) virtual world. There are currently over 620,000 copies of the game out there, translating into hundreds of thousands of players of WoW on the European servers, some of whom have already reached the dizzying heights of the highest-level characters attainable, however since join-up was supposedly frozen a few weeks ago, no new players have entered the world. The floodgates are about to open. Hmmm...This unlikely topic was raised yesterday over a casual lunch with Stephen Reid, Content and Community Manager atNCSoftandWonderland's Alice Taylor. I was pleased to hear Reid talk about in-game elitism in their massively multiplayer online role playing game (MMOG)City of Heroes. His point was that, to counteract variations of in-game prejudice, City of Heroes' European community message boards dissuade players from making any statements about the levels of theirs and others' characters.The way it's described, in-game elitism is a phenomenon that makes perfect sense within the context of a game which is reliant – as most MMOGs are – on gaining skills which translate into access to bigger and better things. That's what so much of the wholeeBayeconomy is based upon and, what academicT.L. Taylorargues createssocial power structures. Boiled down, high-level players have more stuff, have more personalisation, have greater access to parts of the world and have more knowledge than new or mid-level characters. They have cool things,like tattoos, which set them apart as characters to be revered because of their experience and their information. Some have even developed celebrity status because of their association with a particular group or item (although a MMOG-based version ofheatorHellois probably too much to expect at this point).Indeed, this is exactly why I have chosen to use MMOGs in my PhD research: the presence of such social systems within a virtual space, reflective of our own offline lives, with all the social psychology that comes into that, makes them ideal environments through which to watch the development ofcommunitiesand the emergence of social phenomena. It's not a novel idea. Others have said it,conferenceshave been built upon it andresearchuponresearchuponresearchhas been and continues to be conducted because of it.So given that a section of "733t" (or "elite") power gamers have already attained super-high status in a title like World of Warcraft and that the lowly "n00b" (new player) has little to no social currency, what will happen when the currently frozen floodgates into the Blizzard title re-open on 15 April (complete with 10-day free trial), letting masses of n00bs into the thriving world currently populated by high-status players? Clever Alice posed this question at lunch and we all paused to think for a second about it. As usual, more questions than answers result.Will it turn the tables topsy turvy when thousands of fresh n00b ignoramuses enter the living, breathing virtual society with its established social norms, unspoken rules and power structures? Will there be mass exploitation of the newcomers, like in some cases of The Sims Online where new players weremuggedfor their purses of start-up in-game currency, eventually used to feed the coffers of theSim Mafia? Will it split the new characters from the old ones, creating a rift in the game where the two form separate cultures and societies, ultimately ending in all-out battles for control over the virtual resources? Will this 733t-ism become more apparent, with high-level players displaying extremely obvious indicators of status and low-level characters kow-towing? Will leadership roles grow out of this, or cults and religions develop based around famous players?Sure, some – if not all - of this already happens in MMOGs, but as the release of new virtual real-estate has devastating effects on in-game (and subsequently out-of-game) economies, what will the mass importation of new players bring to the existing social balance of World of Warcraft?
"The Mountain View, Calif.-based Web giant on Friday plans to double the free storage on Gmail from 1GB to 2GB, said Georges Harik, Gmail product management director. After that, Google will add a yet-to-be-determined amount of extra storage daily, with no plans to stop," reportsCNet.""One gigabyte did seem like a lot, but it turns out there are a lot of heavy users of mail," he said. "They send attachments, share photos. It all adds up." He said Google discourages customers from using Gmail as a vast storage locker for music and video files. He said Google does not disclose the storage patterns of its users, but said a small but not insignificant number of users were close to exceeding the 1GB limit."The increase is announcedhere.Update:Guardian Unlimited also covered the story,Gmail celebrates birthday with extra gigabyte, and there are lots of comments on theNewsblog.Comment:Nice, but I bet the vast majority of people are still using less than 5% of their Gmail storage, so giving everybody 100GB wouldn't make any real difference.Much more important is the announcement thatGmail now supports a standard HTML interfaceinstead of downloading masses of JavaScript. At long last, people with antediluvian computer systems will be able to use Gmail, and this includes Guardian journalists!
A new unit to tackle paedophiles who groom children online or send pornographic images of youngsters over the internet will be set up within 12 months, the home secretary, Charles Clarke, announced today.The centre for child protection on the internet will have around 100 staff and will start work by April next year as part of the new serious organised crime agency (Soca), the so-called "British FBI".It will be the first organisation in the world to see police, the telecommunications industry and child welfare groups working together to combat paedophiles on the internet, a government expert said.Staff will monitor suspicious websites and users round the clock and offer information and advice to victims and potential victims, examine intelligence on sex offenders and carry out investigations to identify high priority targets.Workers will include around 50 investigators as well as child protection and internet industry experts."Protecting children is a key priority for the government, and that applies online as well as offline," Mr Clarke said."Online abuse by definition crosses geographical police force boundaries, so it makes much more sense to tackle the problem at national level. The new centre I am announcing today will protect children online, help the police do their job more effectively and catch and prosecute child abusers who target children through the internet."The centre will take on the child protection role currently carried out by the national crime squad's hi-tech crime unit.Government spending will remain at about £6m a year but a Home Office spokesman said industry partners were likely to provide an extra £1m in technological support and seconded workers' salaries."This national centre marks a big step forward in tackling online child abuse," said John Carr, of NCH, the children's charity, and a member of the government's internet task force."It's the first example anywhere in the world of the police, the industry, child welfare bodies and the government working together under one roof to tackle   internet child abuse."As broadband technology has come within reach of almost all British households, child protection experts have expressed fears that children could be in danger."The growth of internet use has led to an explosion in the distribution of child pornography and, with the advent of new technology, children are at greater risk than ever before," said the NSPCC director of services for children, Wes Cuell."Placing the new centre within Soca puts online child abuse as a national police priority for the first time and sends out a strong message that the internet is no longer a market place for abusive images of children."
"On the first and third Sunday of every month, Mr Ko, 34, a mechanical engineer from nearby Santa Clara, organizes Segway polo matches with friends and colleagues, most of whom work in the Silicon Valley, all of whom belong to the Bay Area Segway Enthusiasts Group," reportsThe NewYork Times."Their matches have some of the trappings of traditional polo. Players wear jerseys -- actually, colored T-shirts -- and use mallets to knock a ball into a goal. Score is kept. And there is an umpire, although players feel free to ignore his calls."Comment:See, they were bound to find a use for it eventually....
"Two decades ago, when the famous Betamax case set a precedent that protected the VCR, it was consumers versus the studios and record labels. But now there's an equally important third party: the creative amateurs - people like you and me who not only consume but also produce content. And they're on the side of Grokster and the extraordinary power of the new distribution networks," writes Wired's Chris Anderson,here."As anyone who's played with the software now shipped with any new PC or Mac knows, the same tools that allow you easily to copy and share music and video also allow you to make your own. As a result, we're seeing the rise of a peer-production generation, such as teenagers using Apple's GarageBand to create or remix their own music, and snowboarders distributing highlight videos of their tricks to, yes, bloggers like me."The piece concludes:The Supreme Court should recognize that there is a silent majority in this case, made up not of pirates or the pop stars but the millions of individual talents who risk getting caught in the crossfire.
This is the cycle of the Web. Stage One: somebody creates something that's good, and people like it because it's useful and it works pretty well. Stage Two: a big company buys it. Stage Three: the idiot web designers are let loose and redesign it, thereby making it dramatically worse. Stage Four: users leave in droves.Hotmail is a classic case of a service that was good when it started but, after Microsoft bought it, was made markedly worse by repeated redesigns, to the point where it would now be overly kind to describe it as rubbish.Now it looks as though Yahoo! has applied its own design idiots to Yahoo Groups, with entirely predictable results.There's already a petition with more than 23,000 signatures that pleads:PLEASE CHANGE the New Yahoo Group Look back to the Original...Still, I do admit to finding it pretty funny that, just as the geeks are belatedly "rediscovering"The UnGoogle (Yes, Yahoo!), the wheels could be starting to fall off.
This week'sreviewsare dominated by a game, "so good it makes you stop feeling sorry for Gamecube owners". Yes,Resident Evil 4is that good. In fact Steve Boxer, when not admiring the "stunning" graphics, offers it the highest praise. "The best game of the year so far", he said. But you know what?Viewtiful Joe 2isn't too far behind. If you missed the original then don't make the same mistake twice. "A retro-tinged revelation", was my description and if you fancy something a little different than a GTA rip-off or shoddy footy title, give this a look. Last, and least, isThe Punisher, THQ's violent Max Payne facsimile. But if you've had a bad at the office then the "Special Interrogations" may help you let off steam. Reviewer Mike Anderiesz described them. "They involve the carefully timed use of chain saws, slamming windows and even hand grenades thrown into sealed caskets". So not much subtlety in the games reviewed this week then, but certainly a lot of entertainment.
There's beena whole heck of a lot of lovefor the PSP since it launched in North America a couple of weeks ago. After all, with a few hacks, the darn thing can do everything except make a cup of tea. However, the question that's posed on tonight's new episode ofSouth Park(in the U.S. only, I'm afraid) begs a response: is the PSP good or evil?Gosh, that Kenny got in quick with his cultural references.For a scathing comparison of Sony's media device and Nintendo's DS, head toIGN.Viaboingboing.
This one came in from our chief political correspondent, Patrick Wintour, and it's worth pointing out: apparently, there is going to be a£10m prize on offer for UK's most e-aware city.A £10m competition to create a city of e-technology on a par with the city of culture title is to be announced tomorrow by Tony Blair as part of an attempt to transform public services and close the growing digital divide in Britain.The government hopes the prize, to be awarded in 2008, will encourage cities and local councils to transform the delivery of public services.With greater social mobility one of the themes of the Labour manifesto, ministers argue the technology barrier is opening up a new class divide.The government believes too many public bodies, including local authorities have responded to the communications revolution simply by putting existing services, such as tax returns or NHS direct, online rather than using technology to be truly innovative.We've written about thedigital dividehere on the blogquite a bitrecently; but what will this prize actually mean in concrete terms? Will it encourage low-tech councils to make the change, or will it encourage councils already engaging to push further - therefore increasing the divide?And here's the other question: who would be your winner right now?
Mobile networkOrangetoday revealed its new mobile music strategy: new handsets, partnerships with bands and promoters, new download deals and a bunch of other stuff.They let you book priority tickets for gigs, remix tracks and make your own ringtones, and there's even a deal with dance gurus Faithless to release a branded phone. There's more in press releaseshereandhereif you're interested.It's also the first time that mobile downloads are being included in the Official Download Chart (something that "3" music downloads, for example, can't claim).This morning I went along withCharles Arthurof the Independent to give the Orange execs a grilling, and very enlightening it was too.Orange's head of music, Mark Ashford, said that there were more than 1 million active users of the network's OrangeWorld Music service - and with a little prodding, they came up with the figure of 50,000 music downloads a month. That's not exactly on a par with iTunes (Apple claims around 1.25 million sales a day worldwide), but it's hardly small fry.We talked a lot about whether there was space in the market for mobile networks with Apple's dominance in online music sales. They were keen to stress that iTunes was not a rival (after all, if Motorola ever produces its iTunes phone, it could well be picked up by Orange) but despite claims that "at the moment they are different products for different markets", observers could ask themselves where the mobile music market can go.Although Orange's content seems fairly strong, the ultimate problem in the UK is going to be price: why pay £1.50 for a music download that you can only use on your mobile when you can pay 79p for an iTunes download that is -whatever its other flaws - more flexible?"We saw the value in being mobile," said Julian Diment, head of partnerships for Orange UK: the premium is paid because you can download it anywhere. "This is a stage on a journey. We've take a genuine look at what music means to our customers and we're giving them something special, something different."Fine words butter no parsnips, however, and the question must be whether that premium is worth it. And it will be the consumer who makes that decision.
As you know, we persist in the belief that dead-tree media is worth the while, and each Thursday we roll out a print edition of Online from the presses and push it into your palms.This week's no different, and there's a nifty new edition ofGuardian Onlineto excite and infuriate you. As usual, the whole thing's on the website too.We lead with an article by some bright spark on how therace for faster broadbandis finally off the mark in Britain, which will be good news for consumers across the country.As I mentioned yesterday, we've also got aninterview with Stewart Butterfield, the creatr of Flickr and one of Yahoo's most recent new employees. On the subject of Yahoo,Ben Hammersleywonders whether the web's golden oldie is succeeding in itsfightback against Google.Incomment, Jack Schofield watches out for theorganisation of gossipand Michael Cross looks at the government's latest move tolet doctors pick their own IT systems.We're also watching forproblems at Novell, looking atthe latest gadgetsand sayingHappy Birthday to Gmail. Oh, and much more.Click herefor a full run-down of this week's edition.
Yahoo is the new Google. Google is the new Yahoo. Up is down, and black is white. This spring has been very strange. Google, it seems, has jumped the shark. It has been overtaken, left standing, and not by some new startup of ultra smart MIT alumni or by the gazillions in the Microsoft development budget, but by the deeply unhip and previously discounted Yahoo.Google's reputation comes from three things: the quality of its search results, the cutting-edge research and prototypes it produces, and the interfaces it provides for other programs to tap into, known as their application program interface (API). Search, up to a point, is a matter of brawn over brains - throw more money and machines at indexing the web, and you'll get a better result. So it was the last two that really set Google apart.Google's Labs and API were held up as exemplars of a modern internet business, while Yahoo was seen as floundering in a sea of accountants, pop-up ads, and Britney Spears. But Yahoo has learned its lesson. Research.yahoo.com, launched last month, is the same idea as labs.google.com - a showcase for new and interesting projects - but it's better. Unlike Google, Yahoo publishes its papers, names its researchers and says what it is up  to. One-nil to Yahoo.Google's API was also a thing of beauty when it launched. For programmers, the ability to query Google from inside your own programs was immensely useful. And just as Amazon and eBay have done with their APIs, the Google API produced an ecosystem of applications and programming techniques that relied on, and fed, Google's success. It was unique.But not now. Yahoo's own API is out, and it's better. It has more features, it's more complete, it's technically more elegant, and it's easier to use than Google's alternative. Two-nil to Yahoo.How about products? Last month's launch of Google Maps was impressive, but not as cool as Yahoo's placing of live traffic conditions on its map this month. Google's webmail product, Gmail, caused a fuss by offering accounts capable of storing a gigabyte of mail, four times that of Yahoo Mail. No problem, said Yahoo last week, Yahoo mail users can have a gigabyte too. Google's purchase of Blogger gave them a place at the blogger's table, but it has done little with it. Yahoo's blogging tool, Yahoo 360, launches this month, allegedly fully integrated with the  rest of the content they produce.Google has an image organising application in Picasa, sure; but Yahoo just bought Flickr, perhaps the smartest and richest online application ever written. Yahoo has a rich site summary (RSS) aggregator, Google does not. Yahoo has a search engine for online movies, Google  does not. Yahoo has quietly launched search.yahoo.com/cc, a search engine engineered to find and index Creative Commons material. To do this, Yahoo must be indexing the web for data called RDF - a highly advanced, potentially powerful technology that Google has said it isn't going to touch. Three-nil to Yahoo.Yahoo isn't just back in the game - it's winning. How weird is that?
A nice littlearticleon Wired magazine's website today looks at how text-based MUDs are managing to survive despite the onslaught of EverQuest and its graphically rich contemporaries. It's surprising how this genre never mutated and took off on mobile phones, surely the perfect recipient given our love of text-messaging. A few companies did try to create choose-your-own-adventure style games back in the booms days of WAP, but the scene quickly fizzled out. I'm certain a gossipy, Sims Online-like title which works across all networks on all levels of handset hardware would attract quite an audience, even without visuals. Indeed, the whole pleasure of MUDs, and similarly of text messaging, is the collision of imagination and communication. Perhaps the demands of text-only interaction are too great for today's visually motivated mainstream gamer.
Mobile games developer, Denki, has developed a new version of Tetris for Sky Gamestar, which allows owners of Sky's digital TV service to play videogames via their remote control. The faithful port of the block-sorting classic features single-player and now a new head-to-head mode using Sky's new Liveplay service:"Liveplay Tetris™ includes all of the classic Tetris™ features as well as a number of new options including an 'instant drop' button and a 'holding area', where a piece can be stored until needed. Liveplay Tetris™ also features a 'chat' option, which allows players to communicate by choosing messages to send to their opponent. Congratulations, commiserations and curses are all included to ensure every eventuality is catered for," explains the press release.It seems that, quite stealthily, iDTV is becoming a major casual gaming platform. Like mobile, it requires no specialist hardware investment from the player and it offers a quick, user-friendly experience. The only problem is going to be nipping over to play Tetris during ad breaks and then missing the rest of your programme as the old addiction kicks back in.
On a cold, dark early morning, when most people are still getting up, some 40 businessmen and women are tucking into a hearty breakfast at a hotel in Harrow-on-the-Hill.At 7am sharp, the meeting comes to order. The chairman issues a brisk "Good morning everybody". Back comes a chorus of "Good morning" as the Bentley chapter of BNI, a networking company with its roots in the US, gets down to business.An eclectic mix, the Bentley chapter covers a disparate range of businesses: a multimillion pound accountancy firm; a dentist; a jeweller from Hatton Gardens; a travel agent; an outside caterer; a decorator; a graphic designer; a plumber; a carpet cleaner and a garden machinery supplier. Most of the businesses are in services and most of the members are men, with a sprinkling of women.There is a strong sense of camaraderie, a spirit of generosity and the wisecracks fly thick and fast. But it is clear that the participants are here to do business, albeit in as cheerful a way as possible.The chapter members meet every Thursday with one sole purpose: to generate business for themselves and for each other. Chapter members act as a sales force for each other."Anyone in business will know 1,000 people," said Martin Lawson, BNI's national director for the UK. "Someone who belongs to a BNI chapter is getting access to 40,000 contacts."For the next hour, each chapter member gets 60 seconds to describe his or her business and to make a specific business request. Despite all the larking around, the chairman keeps a tight rein of proceedings and the time-keeping is strict. As soon as the 60 seconds are up, it's on to the next speaker.Some of the participants make general requests for more business. Others voice highly specific requests. David Phelops, who runs a car firm wants to know if one of the chapter members can put him in touch with the ground transportation manager at GlaxoSmithKline so he can make a pitch for a car contract.The highlight of the meeting comes when the chapter members announce the number of referrals they have notched up for each other. Double figures elicit a round of applause.BNI, or Business Network International, was founded 20 years ago in the US by Ivan Misner, a management consultant, who also happens to be an amateur magician and a blackbelt in karate. Misner worked with firms that needed help in strategic planning and organisational development.As a business consultant, he received most of his work through referrals, but dissatisfied with the types of business groups that existed, he put together his own highly structured networking group complete with the mantra "givers gain". That organisation became BNI, which now has 3,400 chapters, 68,000 members and is still growing. Last year, BNI generated over 2.8m referrals, worth a total of $1.2bn (&#163;629,892).At the moment, about 70% of BNI's chapters are in the US. Misner is confident that the way BNI is growing outside the US, the organisation will soon be larger beyond the US."The growth in the number of chapters shows no sign of slowing down. By the end of the decade, I believe we will have more than 5,000 chapters worldwide," Misner wrote on the BNI website last month.After growing rapidly in the US, BNI has gone international. It is now operating in 30 countries and growth has been particularly fast in the UK in the eight years it started here. In 2004, BNI had 12,000 members in Britain, generating 540,000 referrals worth &#163;170m.Joseph Soleiman, a jeweller in Hatton Gardens, joined the Bentley chapter two years ago, after being badgered by a friend, who was already a member. Soleiman was thinking of opening a shop but was put off by the security risks. He decided to pay the subscription of about &#163;400, thinking that joining the chapter would be a good way of getting private clients."At first I was sceptical, but then I really liked it," says Soleiman. "I was very nervous initially, having to speak in public for 60 seconds. It was nerve-wracking, but it has built up my confidence. It has really worked out. You can have a laugh, it has a relaxed atmosphere and the business I gained paid off my subscription fee in the first month."Andrew Rhodes, a partner from Sobell Rhodes, an accountancy firm, has been a member of the Bentley chapter for seven years. In that time his BNI colleagues have helped generate &#163;1.7m for his business."BNI has been the main route for us to acquire clients," says Rhodes, "by creating strong relationships, building up trust. The people there acts as our sales force and we all try to help each other."Not everyone gets business straightaway. New members have to earn the trust of their colleagues because established members will not necessarily refer business to a stranger. But the referrals do come thick and fast once you have become accepted.A big advantage of becoming a member of a chapter is that you will not find competition in that chapter. Each chapter will include only one representative from a particular profession. Membership, therefore, can bring a big competitive advantage, something each BNI chapter emphasises to drum up membership.Lawson sums up the BNI concept: "It's a way of generating business and locking out competition out of the group."&#183;Business Network Europe:www.bni-europe.com
The Guardian's review of the PSP was easily digestible (Ahead of the game, March 24), but wrong on one front - the Nintendo DS is anything but a toy.http://jonchoo.blogspot.comI find the prospect of Canon, Olympus and Nikon having to produce phones just to stay in business (Get the picture, March 24) quite interesting.http://biffasblog.blogspot.comSending data over your skin (Kiss and tell, March 17) is definitely an interesting technology, but my first thought was "bump into the wrong person, and lose your identity".http://sholden.typepad.com
It has been a long time coming. For all the talk of a broadband revolution over the past few years, Britain has seen slow progress towards its high-speed promised land. Finally, though, things could be on the move.Last month, BT upgraded its standard broadband customers to a two megabits per second (Mbps) service - a fourfold increase on what they were already paying for - at no extra cost. The announcement struck most consumers as a pleasant surprise, but this red letter day was no accident: in fact, it marks the start of a momentous change for Britain's internet industry.BT's move came in the wake of fast services being launched by smaller internet service providers, such as UK Online, Bulldog and HomeChoice. Some of these new services reach speeds of up to 8Mbps - 16 times faster than most average broadband connections and about 150 times faster than narrowband dial-up access.By this summer, there will be some kind of broadband availability across almost 100% of the country, even in the most remote rural areas. Government cheerleader Mike O'Brien, minister of state for energy and e-commerce, recently boasted that the UK leads the G7 nations in terms of access to high-speed services. But the case for Britain's broadband success is more complex - and some are concerned that the nation has pushed for wide coverage at the expense of good services."To be fair to BT, they've done extremely well in terms of increasing availability - the exchange registration scheme is a world-leading initiative," says Ian Fogg, broadband and personal technology analyst for Jupiter Media. "But in terms of speed compared to other countries - even in Europe, comparable countries like France - we actually compare very badly."Despite high levels of broadband reach, British uptake of fast digital subscriber line (DSL) connections has been lagging behind other nations, even discounting the advanced networks of Japan and South Korea.The reason? Prices are too high and connections are too slow. In France, which has traditionally trailed the UK in terms of internet take-up, consumers are enjoying an unprecedented boom. For those living in major urban centres, it is not difficult to get an 8Mbps connection, combined with free local and national telephone calls, and access to TV channels delivered through DSL, for &euro;30 - less than &#163;21 - a month. Similar deals in Britain would cost at least twice as much. But if recent changes in the British broadband market are any indicator, these low-cost deals could be on their way."What's really driven this French success is DSL through unbundled local loops," says Fogg. "This allows providers to differentiate products more clearly: speeds become increased and price points fall quite dramatically."Unbundling is the process that allows companies to fully control the lines connecting a customer to their local telephone exchange, rather than leasing the line from another provider. It's the difference between renting and owning your own home - but, since it involves stripping away control from former state monopolies, the deregulation process can be painfully slow. French telecoms regulator ART, however, took strong action several years ago and the results are now clear: high levels of competition, faster speeds and, ultimately, better deals for consumers."We've been unbundling via our parent company, Easynet, since 2001," says Chris Stening, general manager of UK Online, one of Britain's pioneering service providers. "Because you own the network from end to end, you can provide a much better service. We'd been providing high-speed access for businesses for a while by installing new lines, but for consumers the costs are too much. Over the last year or so, regulation changes from Ofcom have made it economic to provide consumer services over existing lines."Despite Britain being behind France by about 18 months in terms of development, progress is starting to be made. At the end of 2003, there were 1.7m broadband DSL lines in Britain. A year later, that had increased to 4.1m. Combine that with about two million customers receiving high-speed broadband through cable services, such as Telewest's Blueyonder, and the speed of change is clearly quickening.Knowing that customers are becoming more choosy, few internet service providers are resting on their laurels. NTL and UK Online, for example, are looking at ADSL2+, an improved technology that would allow speeds of about 20Mbps. And BT, which said last month that revenues from its "new wave" businesses (such as broadband) had risen 35% over nine months, is running trials of its own 8Mbps services."We're trialling in London and Strathclyde, with a larger trial in the summer and a technical pilot starting in April," says John Petter, chief operating officer of BT Retail's consumer division. "The intent is to roll it out by the end of the year. We're keen to future-proof our customers."Despite the great leap forward, some consumers remain unimpressed by fast speeds. After all, what good is a faster connection when you only use the web to check your email?Sceptics, however, could do well to remember that similar arguments were used when traditional dial-up moved towards faster, always-on connections. That marked a seismic shift in internet use, and changes in speed could prove to be just as important.The crucial thing is not that they encourage you to spend more time on the web, but they allow the transfer of data at usable rates. Instead of taking 30 seconds to download a page, it is almost instantaneous. Instead of the videos you send to your family taking hours to download, it takes just a few moments - and lets you do other things at the same time."I think the more people use it, the more they'll see the benefit," says BT's Petter. "Around 70% of households on the internet have a digital camera, and 40% have an iPod or another sort of MP3 player. These really change the way people tend to use broadband. Upgrading to 2Mbps gives them the ability to download an album faster than boiling an egg."Higher speeds also have the ability to alter and improve social patterns. Working from home becomes less of a chore if you have a fast connection, particularly if it is coupled with wireless access in your home. And it also allows you to run multiple computers accessing the web concurrently, which is useful if you live in an internet-rich household with family or friends all using the same data pipe. But some of the biggest changes could come in terms of home entertainment and communication."The ability to get true video on demand is a really big thing," says Stening. Providers like HomeChoice are already delivering on-demand services through telephone lines, but faster speeds make this a stronger proposition - and one that could even challenge mainstream broadcast networks. "It's the promise that cable and satellite always made - being able to watch what you want, when you want. That has never quite materialised, but it becomes a possibility with really high speed services."It takes about a 3Mbps connection to run DVD-quality video, leaving plenty of bandwidth for other activities, such as audio streaming or using the net to make phone calls. Further speed increases would simply let these data-rich services groweven further. Being able to provide niche products over a fast connection (some form of TV or high-quality video conferencing, for example) could make the trailblazers very successful indeed.The BBC is already putting video content on the web - and with its Internet Media Player, plans to do even more - and BT last week revealed that it was testing a service that connects customised set-top boxes to stream on-demand entertainment services via broadband."This feels like an extremely fast-moving and competitive market," says Petter. "Eventually people will see the data pipe that is going into homes in the same way as electricity or water. People will want to know that it's going to work for them.""Broadband Britain" may finally get what it has been promised for so long. And, says Ian Fogg, it could take technology to places customers have always wanted: "I think the words dotcom crash have finally been put to rest."High speed deals:&#183;UK OnlinePackages up to 8Mbps, with 500GB monthly cap, &#163;39.99 per month plus &#163;50 setup fee&#183;BT Yahoo Broadband2Mbps with 15GB monthly cap, &#163;26.99 per month&#183;Blueyonder4Mbps uncapped, &#163;50 per month - can include TV and phone&#183;Pipex2Mbps with 2GB monthly cap, &#163;19.99 per month&#183;HomeChoice4Mbps with 45GB monthly cap, &#163;45 per month including on-demand digital TV&#183;Bulldog4Mbps uncapped, &#163;29.50 per monthInformation correct when going to press. Does not include promotions.Links:ADSL Guidewww.adslguide.org.ukKelkoohttp://computing.kelkoo.co.uk/b/a/c_100015813_broadband.html
The government has revealed how it plans to fill in the biggest missing piece in the jigsaw of electronic public services - how to prove our identities online. By the end of this year, if all goes well, we should all have a single user name and password for dealing electronically with officialdom. In theory, we will be able to use it for reserving a library book from the local authority or checking whether we qualify for a state benefit.The so-called "authentication" problem has been looming ever since the government announced its ambition to make all public services available electronically by the end of 2005. While some government transactions do not need proof of identity, many of the most important do, especially if they involve claiming money from the state.The original solution, dreamed up by the Cabinet Office at the height of the dotcom boom, was that citizens would adopt electronic signatures. In 2001, the Office of the e-Envoy (now the e-Government Unit) launched a system called the Government Gateway (www.gateway.gov.uk) to authenticate transactions signed with electronic signatures and route them securely to the appropriate public body.Technically, the Gateway was a success. It has been widely adopted by central government departments, led by the Inland Revenue, Customs and Excise and the agriculture department. However, digital signatures turned out to be much less popular with citizens and small businesses than expected. And the Gateway architecture, designed and driven by Whitehall, ignored that 80% of the public services that matter to citizens are run by local, not central, government.Local councils were invited to connect their systems to the Gateway so that residents could carry out secure sensitive transactions, such as checking how much council tax they owed. However, only a handful signed up. Even if councils agreed with the principle of their citizens' identities being vetted by Whitehall, Gateway technology was complex and had unpredictable costs - the plan was to charge councils by the number of transactions made through the system.The solution unveiled last week turns the architecture of authentication on its head. The idea, called Government Connect, is that local councils validate their citizens' identities and issue user names and logins that can be used across government for transactions requiring the same level of authentication.Details are revealed in a prospectus that the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, working with the Cabinet Office and local councils, published last week. Phil Hope, minister for local e-government, said Government Connect would allow citizens to complete sensitive transactions online without having to send documents such as passports, driving licences or utility bills by post or turn up in person with them.In a significant gesture, the organisation leading Government Connect is a local authority: Bolton metropolitan council, Greater Manchester, which has been working on authentication procedures for issuing council smartcards.The prospectus says that the Gateway will continue to have a role in authenticating identities, but will be only one of a hierarchy of procedures.The most basic is called GC Register. This is a "toolkit and common technology" to enable local authorities to authenticate the people and organisations with whom they communicate. Customers will have a single username and password for all transactions that require a certain level of security. GC Register will be invisible to the customer and will not allow organisations to share data without the customer's consent.The second tier of security, GC Exchange, will allow citizens to connect to back-office systems belonging to different local authorities. It is based on free, open-source messaging software developed by councils with funding from central government.Unlike with Gateway, Government Connect's costs will be predictable, the prospectus says. It quotes Ian Paterson, corporate head of programme management at Birmingham city council, as saying: "The old pricing model led to potentially very high costs, and in particular an open-ended risk of escalating costs."The prospectus invites local authorities to apply for membership of Government Connect now. Its target is for all councils to register by December, and for all to be using the service by December 2007.There is little doubt the vast majority of councils will come on board - all have a strong incentive to persuade their citizens to take up "self-service" government. Long-term success, however, depends on whether central government bodies, such as the Department for Work and Pensions, trust councils enough to guard the gates to their back-office IT systems.For all the rhetoric about joined-up government, Whitehall departments may be happier playing for time until the national ID card, with its centrally run National Identification Register, becomes reality. However, if Government Connect does take off, it will open the question of whether we need a national register at all.LinksGovernment Gatewaywww.gateway.gov.ukGovernment Connectwww.govconnect.gov.uk
When an attacking army hits an unexpected pocket of resistance, the wise general bypasses it. This is exactly what the government did last week with the &#163;6bn NHS IT programme. It announced that family doctors would be allowed to pick systems from any approved supplier, rather than those chosen for their region by the programme's uber-contractors.Although described as a U-turn, the announcement is a sensible recognition that computerising the NHS is difficult enough without a frontal assault on the strongest bastion of healthcare IT. Most GPs have been computerised for 10 years or more, and feel the rest of the NHS has little to teach them about the subject.This realisation came as a shock to the programme, despite the impressive and expensive brain-power mobilised to run it. When management consultants looked at GPs' systems, they saw a market stuck in the 1980s. Doctors were running their surgeries with expensive, standalone systems supplied by obscure local companies. Surely GPs would love to upgrade to industry-standard packages that would not require data to be re-entered every time a patient moved practices?The trouble with this picture is that it ignores NHS politics. At the time, one branch of the NHS was drawing up an IT programme based on "ruthless standardisation", another branch was negotiating a service contract with GPs that promised a choice of systems.As small businesspeople, GPs are suspicious of central government's ability to choose what is good for them. This suspicion was confirmed by the initial choice of software suppliers for the national programme. The two firms contracted to develop standard clinical software knew little of the GP market and were stretched by other commitments. Without their own software, they had to work with existing suppliers, notably Leeds-based Phoenix, to make any headway with GPs.Last week's announcement does not mean the national programme - renamed Connecting for Health - has abandoned its ambitions. GPs will have to pick systems that have passed tests for interoperability with other NHS software and are hosted on shared data centres rather than a box under the desk - important strides towards seamless NHS computing.The government's hope is that, now doctors can have their say on what brand name appears on their screens, they will cooperate with the bigger aims of the IT programme: electronic booking, prescribing and sharing patient data across the national health records "spine".However, it is possible that the concession will embolden other opponents of the national programme. If GPs are to be allowed to choose their systems, why not hospitals? Several "foundation trusts" are unhappy with the risk and disruption of switching to nationally mandated systems. But the national programme, and its prime contractors, are very nervous about allowing a free-for-all. The trouble with bypassing too many pockets of resistance is that you forget where your front line is.
Staggeringly goodResident Evil 4GameCube, &#163;39.99Capcom, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Since Shaun of the Dead, zombie flicks are enjoying a return to popularity, so the latest instalment of this survival horror franchise is very timely. But Resident Evil 4 is no cultish indulgence. It raises the dispatching of the digital undead to an altogether higher plane. It is so good that it temporarily stops you feeling sorry for GameCube owners.This time around, the emphasis is on third-person shooting - although there is puzzle-solving to be done, it takes a backseat. At first, Resident Evil 4 seems fearsomely hard; the waves of zombies you meet will chuck axes, slice your head off with chainsaws or run you through with pitchforks. After a few grisly deaths, you begin to work out new techniques, though. For example, if you just miss a headshot, you can advance towards a still-staggering zombie and kick it (which also scatters the surrounding undead). There is some great weaponry (you can even buy a chainsaw-shaped controller for the game) and the usual herbs, which heal you and increase your maximum health.Resident Evil 4 impresses in several ways. It looks stunning - much better than you would think possible on the GameCube - with a bizarre, decaying style, heavy on the browns and greens. It has some brilliant boss-battles, which combine survival and shooting with button-bashing and countless mini-sequences. The best game of the year so far.Steve BoxerCan I be Frank?The PunisherPlayStation 2, &#163;39.99Volition/THQ, &#42;&#42;&#42;As a comic, Marvel's The Punisher borrowed heavily from the Dirty Harry and Death Wish movies, and as a game it owes everything to Max Payne. So, expect all the action movie and third-person cliches; one-liners (check), bullet-time (check), as much gratuitous violence as you can get away with on a 15 certificate (check), and gameplay unlikely to last you more than a weekend (check).What you get here is the chance to crash through the underworld, dishing out righteous justice to crime lords, drug dealers and muggers. Frank Castle's motives are never deep and his methods rarely subtle; so expect a bit of stealth, an awful lot of killing and a selection of special moves to tie the two together. Many of these (such as grabbing opponents from behind and using them as human shields) we have seen before in the Splinter Cell games, others are gruesomely original and guaranteed to get the tabloids into a frenzy. So-called Special Interrogations, for instance, involve the carefully timed use of chain saws, slamming windows and even hand grenades thrown into sealed caskets to scare the truth out of suspects. These   sequences are more suggestive than explicit, but we suspect the Daily Mail may take a different view.The Punisher was never going to win any awards for originality, but it plays surprisingly well and it is a lot more fun than the hugely disappointing movie.Mike AnderieszHitman and herViewtiful Joe 2PlayStation 2, &#163;39.99Capcom, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Ridiculously monikered he may be, but Viewtiful Joe is one of gaming's brightest new stars. The original release was a slap in the face to overwrought 3D epics and anal car simulations. An insanely colourful 2D - yes, 2D! - fighting/puzzle game, VJ was a retro-tinged revelation.The game involved dispatching enemies in increasingly stylish ways, leaping around a wonderfully realised environment. This was normally achieved by slowing time and using one of the visual effects (VFX) abilities. Kicking an enemy in the chops never looked so good.For the sequel, the action is as joyfully intense as before, but with a few differences. The main one is the addition of a new female character who works alongside Joe. Switching between the two is straightforward and because she has different talents and weapons, tactics become increasingly important. Button-bashing will only get you so far - this is all about using your skills in the right situations. The puzzle element of the game has been upped too, with some nice conundrums that offer a break from the anarchic action. Viewtiful Joe 2 really stands out. The 2D combat may not have all the depth you'd want, but it's hard to be critical while leaping in the air through gaudy comicbook locales. Our only real complaint is that it is too similar to the original game.Greg Howson
Mobile phonesFor all the tools of your life's tradeNokia's Lifeblog software, now in version 1.6, is an attempt to combine the growing popularity of blogging with the ubiquity of mobile phones. It's essentially an information management tool that integrates your mobile, PC and weblog - if you have one. The software synchronises with your Nokia smartphone (the range of compatible phones is limited, so be sure to check before you buy) and pulls down all your photos, text messages and weblog posts into a desktop application. These are displayed in a rich horizontal timestream and, once you have linked it to your blog, can be published on the web with a click.Even if you don't want to let other people see your photos, it is a fantastic visual way to organise your data, and look back on pictures and messages.The scope of the software is limited - it does not work with Macs, and only supports Type Pad - but for users with the right hardware, it is more than handy at just &euro;29.95 (&#163;20.65).www.nokia.com/lifeblogTailored for tunesIt might not have exhibited its eagerly awaited iTunes-compatible mobile phone, but at the M3 music conference in Miami last week, Motorola did unveil a new music-based handset. The E680i, expected to debut in the summer, is a candy bar-style Linux-based smartphone, complete with a large 240x320 pixel touchscreen display. In keeping with its billing, the handset offers Motorola's 3D surround sound speaker system and is also compatible with the Bluetooth wireless headphone the company will also launch later this year. Other features on the phone include an SD card slot and a VGA camera.www.motorola.co.ukWhat's in storeThe day when British mobiles sport hard disks for storing large amounts of music and video files came a step nearer to being reality this week, after Toshiba announced the impending launch of a 4GB 0.85in hard disk specifically for phones and MP3 players. The company will begin mass production of the hard drive in April, several months earlier than previously expected.Samsung, however, is likely to be the first to debut a UK phone with a hard disk when it launches the 3GB SGH-i300, which uses its own HDD, later this year. Nokia is also rumoured to have a hard-disk handset planned for later this year.www.samsung.co.ukGet to businessFollowing on from the launch of the Blackberry-compatible SK65 last month, Siemens is once again targeting the corporate phone market with the SP65, pictured below left. The phone, due out in April, has a 65k colour screen with 176x132 pixels, tri-band facilities and battery life of five hours talk time and up to two weeks standby.It also boasts many business-friendly features - it is compatible with Outlook Express and Lotus Notes, features Bluetooth and has its own personal information management system. It is one of only a handful of mid-range phones not to feature an integrated camera.www.siemens.co.ukRadioListen inThe Archers edged out Chris Moyles as the most popular online radio show for the BBC last month, it has been revealed. Unprecedented demand for its Radio Player, which relaunched at the end of January, saw more than 9m requests from listeners in February. The system, which relies on RealPlayer, lets listeners hear shows from the last week, and served more than 11m hours of listening across the corporation's network. The Archers topped the chart with more than 350,000 web listeners - but there were more than 270,000 downloads of podcasted programmes, including Radio 4's In Our Time and Five Live's Fighting Talk.www.bbc.co.uk/radioplayerHardwareSound the alarmUS gadget retailer the Sharper Image has unveiled a pair of travel alarm clocks that boast some very innovative features. The Spy Camcorder Clock, on sale for about $200 (&#163;107), has a motion-activated video system that automatically starts shooting moving images in VGA resolution when someone approaches it. Users can store up to 21 minutes of video on the bundled 64MB storage card. The Sound Soother, retailing for $99, includes an integrated radio and speaker. It is designed to be easily connected to an iPod and other personal audio players.www.sharperimage.comA little light musicGuitars with built-in flashing lights might seem a little like the worst excesses of Spinal Tap, but the new Optek Fretlight Guitar, pictured below right, says it's all in the name of education. It claims to be the world's first computer-powered teaching guitar, with LEDs that light up to help amateur axe merchants get their bearings. The package comes bundled with its own Windows-only software that hooks up to the guitar through a USB cable. It promises to help you emulate the likes of Carlos Santana, who apparently has his own guitar - though whether it can teach him much remains to be seen. It looks like a useful buy for bedroom musicians who want to get some fret-fiddling practice in - although the &#163;499 price tag seems a little steep for those who simply want to dabble rather than leap in feet first.www.emittor.co.ukStat of the weekWhere does spam come from?Few surprises in recent figures showing that the world's largest internet populations are the biggest originators of spam. The UK measured as the source for 2.7% - but different research found that a quarter of all spam-sending bots were on hacked British computers.&#183;Contributions from Ashley Norris and Bobbie Johnson
