WikiLeaks is fighting back in an escalating war with both Google and the US government, threatening legal action the day afterdemanding answers for the tech giant’s wholesale handover of its staffers’ Gmail contentsto US law enforcement.The targets of the investigation were not notified until two and a half years after secret search warrants were issued and served by the FBI, legal representatives for WikiLeaks said in a press conference on Monday.“We’re looking at legal action not only with Google but to those who actually turned in the order,” said Baltasar Garzón, the head of Julian Assange’s legal defence team. Calling the order illegal and arbitrary, Garzón said insisted “any information that would be used from the taking of documents [this way] will be considered as biased, illegal and will cancel the whole proceedings.”“I’m not sure what craziness – what desperation – went into the US to make them behave this way, but this is … a clear violation of rights,” Garzón said.“Our policy is to tell people about government requests for their data, except in limited cases, like when we are gagged by a court order, which sadly happens quite frequently,” a Google spokesperson said in a statement to the Guardian. “We’ve challenged many orders related to WikiLeaks which has led to disclosures to people who are affected. We’ve also pushed to unseal all the documents related to the investigation.”Michael Ratner, a member of the Assange legal team in the US and president emeritus of the Center for Constitutional Rights, said that WikiLeaks had sent a letter to Google’s executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, asking why the company waited so long before notifying the targets of the warrants.On Monday, Ratner went further, saying that WikiLeaks would decide on what legal action to take depending on Google’s response to the letter, which he said was expected within a week.The notification of the court order was sent by email from Google to WikiLeaks on 23 December 2014 – just before Christmas, a typically quiet time for the news cycle – and was published on WikiLeaks’ site. Google said the legal process was initially subject to a nondisclosure or “gag” order that prohibited Google from disclosing the existence of the legal process.Ratner told the Guardian that there were several questions as to what that legal process entailed. “Did Google go to court at all?” Ratner said. “Would they have notified us that that ‘we went to court and we lost?’ I don’t know.”“If they didn’t go to court, that would not be a great move by Google, because you would expect them to litigate on behalf of their subscribers,” he said.“Perhaps after the Snowden revelation, Google got nervous and decided to go to court,” Ratner added. “My big thing is: did they go to court initially? If they didn’t, I would consider that a real failure.”The Google court order targeted three WikiLeaks employees: journalist Sarah Harrison, spokesperson and journalist Kristinn Hrafnsson and editor Joseph Farrell.The wide-ranging scope of the order meant that all email content, including deleted emails, drafts, place and time of login, plus contact lists and all emails sent and received by the three targets – for the entire history of their email account up to the date of the order – had to be handed over to the FBI.In a press conference, Harrison said that nobody at WikiLeaks would use Gmail accounts for sensitive information, but that the US government was “blanket going after a journalist’s personal account, fishing for something that could help them”.Legal representatives from WikiLeaks on Monday repeatedly pointed – as an example of best practices for technology companies responding to US government requests – to Twitter, which in 2011 notified the target of a similar demand from law enforcement so that the warrant could be fought in court.While the attempted challenge ultimately failed, Twitter was able to immediately notify its subscribers that their data had been handed over, and provide them with a copy of everything that had been provided to law enforcement.In its statement to the Guardian, Google’s spokesperson said: “We continue to argue for surveillance reform which would enable us to be more transparent.”
IBM has issued a strong rebuke to a report that it is preparing to cut more than a quarter of its global workforce.A US technology blogger claimedon Forbes.comthat the US technology giant was about to announce plans to slash 110,000 jobs under a scheme known internally as Project Chrome.“To fix its business problems and speed up its ‘transformation’ … about 26% of IBM’s employees will be getting phone calls from their managers. A few hours later a package will appear on their doorsteps with all the paperwork. Project Chrome will hit many of the worldwide services operations,” wrote Robert Cringely wrote, claiming that the dismissals will take place by the end of next month.IBM said it did not comment on “ridiculous” speculation, but strongly suggested it was inaccurate.“IBM does not comment on rumors, even ridiculous or baseless ones,” the company said. “If anyone had checked information readily available from our public earnings statements, or had simply asked us, they would know that IBM has already announced the company has just taken a $600m charge for workforce rebalancing. This equates to several thousand people, a small fraction of what’s been reported.”Last week, Chief Financial Officer Martin Schroeter told investors on IBM’s fourth-quarter earnings conference call that the company was taking restructuring charges of around $580m (£384m), but he did not specify the number of jobs affected.“We are not going to replicate the same level of restructuring that we had last year,” Schroeter said in response to a Wall Street analyst’s question. “It will be a lower amount.”IBM’s fortunes contrast starkly with those of rival Apple, which is expected to unveil bumper sales of its iPhones and desktop computers on Tuesday.Known as Big Blue for its once-ubiquitous corporate logo, IBM struggled to make the transition from manufacturing computers and microchips to the world of cloud computing.Last week, Ginni Rometty, chief executive since 2012, reported quarterly profits below analysts’ forecastsand an 11th straight quarter of falling revenues.Annual revenue fell to $93bn (£62bn) last year from $107bn three years earlier as the company shed businessessuch as its unprofitable chip design and manufacturing arm. IBM, once an industry pioneer, is still the world’s biggest computer technology company, but it has failed to produce income from consulting, security software and analytics to make up for declining revenues from its old operations.The company last year scrapped a $20-a-share earnings target. The goal was set in 2010, shortly before Warren Buffett decided to invest $10bn in IBM.
Rooster Teeth, Our 2nd Life, Nash Grier and Cameron Dallas are among the most prominent success stories of YouTube’s world of short-form video. Now they’re setting their sights on long-form success: films.They’re all making movies for Fullscreen Films, a new division of multi-channel network (MCN) Fullscreen that is planning to launch a series of films starring popular creators from YouTube and Vine.Rooster Teeth’s film plans are not a surprise:the studio raised nearly $2.5m(£1.7m) on crowdfunding site Indiegogo in 2014 to make Lazer Team, with its plot in which “four small-town losers stumble across an alien crash site”. The film is currently at the post-production stage.Our 2nd Life was a hugely-popular group of American video bloggers (vloggers) who split up in 2014. Fullscreen is producing a documentary called #O2LForever about their final North American tour.Grier and Dallas, who both have large audiences on Vine and YouTube, will co-star in a baseball movie called The Outfield, which will be directed by Fullscreen’s own chief content officer Michael Goldfine.Can popularity in short-form YouTube clips (or even shorter-form Vine skits) that are watched for free translate to success in feature-length films that are paid for? Actually, yes: it can, and not necessarily on cinema screens. Goldfine should know more than most.He produced Camp Takota, a film released in 2014 starring YouTubers Grace Helbig, Hannah Hart and Mamrie Hart. According to Fullscreen,the film sold “hundreds of thousands” of copieson iTunes and other digital stores.Another YouTube star, Shane Dawson,saw his Not Cool film become a top-five hit on iTunesin September 2014 too, whileCameron Dallas topped the same chart in Decemberwith his film Expelled.Fullscreen will be hoping that his online popularity, together with that of the other stars working with its new division, will fuel similar success in 2015.Rooster Teeth’s main YouTube channel has more than 8 million subscribers, while Our 2nd Life’s has 2.9 million while individual members Connor Franta, Sam Potorff, Trevor Moran, Ricky Dillon, Jc Caylen and Kian Lawley have millions more on their own channels.Meanwhile, Dallas has 3.1m YouTube subscribers and 6.8m Vine followers, while Grier has 4.1m and 10.9m respectively on those services. These online audiences are an ideal base to drive purchases on iTunes – and perhaps increasingly bums on seats at cinemas too.•Who were YouTube’s top stars in 2014?
A leading third-party Twitter app has been pulled from the Mac App store after hitting a cap imposed by the social network on the number of users it can have.Tweetbot for Mac, which launched on the Mac App Store in October 2012, is the latest application to fall foul of Twitter’s ongoing rule limiting new clients to a total of 100,000 users, ever.But a day later, Tapbots, the app’s developer announced that it would be reviving Tweetbot for Mac after working with Twitter:We&#39;ve worked with Twitter to resolve Tweetbot for Mac authentication issues. The app should be back on the Mac App Store soon.&mdash; Tweetbot by Tapbots (@tweetbot)January 26, 2015The rule dates back to August 2012, when Twitter announced that any new app which was mainly used to access the users’ timeline would needexplicit permission to have more than 100,000 users. That announcement was also the source of Twitter’s infamous “quadrant” guidance, when the company attempted to explain which uses of its application programming interface (API) were acceptable, and which weren’t.The post was widely seen as an attempt to kill off third-party Twitter clients, and eventually force users onto the official Twitter app. Twitter cannot display adverts on third-party apps, and it has no control over which of its new features get rolled out when.Although the company grandfathered in permission for already existing apps to have more than that user count – and grow until they have at most twice the users they had in August 2012 – Tweetbot for Mac was one of the first high-profile apps to launch after the limit was put in place.The bulk of development had occurred before the app was released, leaving Tapbots with an uncomfortable choice: how best to release an app with a lifetime maximum of 100,000 users? In the end, the company decided to increase the price of the app far beyond the norm for Twitter apps, charging users $19.99 – a hard sell, especially given Twitter’s own app for Macs is free.But two and a half years later, the choice has seemingly been proved right. Despite a constrained usersbase, and ongoing limitations from Twitter in terms of what third-party clients can access through the API, the app is viewed fondly by many users. It’s even managed to be more actively maintained than the official Twitter app over the same period.Tweetbot’s developer, Tapbots, did not return a request for comment. The company makes one other Mac app, CalcBot, as well as a number of iOS apps.Updated 27 January to include Tapbot’s tweet.
Call a company “Shazam”, and it needs to be doing something magical.Last week, the 15-year-old British business managed that, at least in part: a $30m (£19.9m) investment for just under 3% of its shares. That meant it became one of only half a dozen UK technology startups valued at $1bn or more – joining Powa, Wonga, Monitise, Zoopla and, as of Monday, money transmission business Transferwise.Some 100 million people every month see Shazam fulfil what seems a magical task: answering the question “what’s that tune?” Founded in 2000 by Chris Barton and Philip Inghelbrecht, who were soon joined by Dhiraj Mukherjee and Avery Wang, the original idea was identify songs, and then “to make audio clickable, just like a web link”, according to Barton.Shazam’s service is a mobile app which in the UK listens to a song and almost instantly tells you the track and artist name. It does so by identifying “spectral peaks” in the sound – a fabulously complex scientific problem, made even harder by tiny phone mics used in noisy pubs – and then offers you the chance to download it from iTunes, play it on Spotify, Deezer or Rdio, look up details about the artist and even buy a ticket to their next gig.But when the entire music business worldwide is worth around £6bn, how can Shazam be worth one-ninth of it?Andrew Fisher, who has been at the company since 2005 and is now executive chairman, insists the valuation is no magic trick. The simple description – an app for identifying songs – misses out the £200bn worldwide TV advertising market the company is targeting, starting in the US. It’s an equally simple idea: you’re watching an ad, and it says “Shazam now for more”. You activate the app, and get taken to a customised link.“We now support every TV show on 160 channels in the US,” Fisher told the Guardian. “We can identify 85% of adverts, and we’re also looking at retail, where the public address system can say, for example, ‘Shazam this song now and get 25% off jeans on the second floor’, and also cinema.”It’s that potential that investors are keen to back, he explains – not just the music-tagging service.Shazam has come a long way since its earliest days, when the cutting edge of mobile phones was the Nokia 3210, with its greyscale screen and giant buttons. Scepticism about whether the service would work initially ran high; song identification was done by text message costing 50p and one executive at the 110 venture capital firms originally approached for funding said firmly: “I don’t see why anyone would ever use this”.As it has turned out that statementranks alongside the record label executive who declared that “guitar bands are on the way out” after hearing the Beatles.As of October 2014, Shazam had been used 15bn times to identify songs. Like Google, the company name has morphed into a verb. For a Hammersmith company that predates the iPod, iTunes and modern smartphones, that’s no small achievement.Apart from Wang, who remains the chief scientist, the founders have now left and don’t have substantial holdings in the company.But will people really pull out a phone to identify an advert? Fisher insists they do: “It’s starting to come through in the UK – we’ve had good results with Jaguar, Jeep and Cadbury’s,” he says.It’s ideal for advertisers, he says, because there’s barely a pause between the viewer’s desire to know more, and interaction. “If you see an insurance ad, you might think ‘oh, I should get a quote’,” Fisher says. “But with Shazam, you see it, use our app, and you can connect right away.”It’s most effective with live TV such as X Factor, but he says there are huge possibilities too in all sorts of adverts. The company is even looking at image recognition to increase that potential.Yet for all the talk, Shazam made an operating and net loss in the year to December 2013, the most recent for which accounts are available, and revenues were down 45%. Fisher blames the investment required in that ad-identifying future – hiring people on both the sales side (to bring advertisers on board) and technology. “We were profitable in 2013 on EBITDA [earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation],” he says. “In 2014 we grew from 150 people to 250. We could turn profitable by stopping hiring. But right now we want to build to the biggest scale we can.”That suggests that a stock market listing could be a couple of years away as it grabs for revenues before others such as Google, Facebook or Twitter can compete – though Fisher says Shazam has no direct competitors. But the company’s shift away from its roots, and into advertising, has ruffled some feathers. Former staff, speaking on condition of anonymity, told the Guardian that the hiring of ex-Yahoo staff in the past few years hurt morale in tight-knit teams, and that below-average salaries made recruitment difficult.In addition, the focus on making money out of TV advertising, rather than music, has shifted some jobs to the US – diluting what was a strongly UK-based culture. Meanwhile, Shazam remains one of the most popular apps on all mobile, and claims to be responsible for one-tenth of all download sales through links in the app when a song is identified.Fisher insists that the move to streaming, which is supplanting downloads is not a problem because Shazam’s in-app links are a valuable billboard which companies pay to appear on.Apple, Spotify, Deezer and Rdio all jostle for position, so that in different countries you’ll be offered different services on a song result, depending who has paid: “It’s very lucrative for us,” Fisher says of the streaming services’ positions in its app.The future for Shazam now looks a long way from its origins.• The 20 most-Shazam-ed songs1Avicii – Wake Me Up2Robin Thicke feat. T.I. &amp; Pharrell – Blurred Lines3Gotye feat. Kimbra – Somebody That I Used To Know4Passenger – Let Her Go5Clean Bandit – Rather Be6Macklemore &amp; Ryan Lewis feat. Wanz – Thrift Shop7Macklemore &amp; Ryan Lewis feat. Ray Dalton – Can’t Hold Us8Daft Punk feat. Pharrell Williams – Get Lucky9OneRepublic – Counting Stars10P!nk feat. Nate Ruess – Just Give Me A Reason11Lorde – Royals12Katy Perry feat. Juicy J. – Dark Horse13Capital Cities – Safe And Sound14Lilly Wood &amp; The Prick &amp; Robin Schulz – Prayer In C (Robin Schulz Remix)15Milky Chance – Stolen Dance16Martin Garrix – Animals17Pharrell Williams – Happy18The Lumineers – Ho Hey19will.i.am feat. Britney Spears – Scream &amp; Shout20John Legend – All Of Me
YouTube is massive. More than one billion people visit its site and apps every month, watching more than 6bn hours of video. Its top channelscount their annual views in billions.That’s why even though some grumble about the amount of money they make from ads on YouTube, for now the idea of those stars ditching Google’s online video service for a rival isn’t a serious prospect.That’s whyVessel, whichlaunched last week in beta, is very carefullynotpositioning itself as a direct rival to YouTube.Instead, the US startup is pitching itself as complementary: a “first window” for online video that wants creators to launch their new clips exclusively on Vessel for three days before making them available on YouTube and other sites.The pitch to those creators is that they’ll earn much more money during that 72-hour exclusivity period than they would on YouTube, because Vessel will charge people $2.99 a month to subscribe to its service, with those revenues being shared with creators as well as income from advertising.The pitch to those viewers is that they’ll be able to see new videos from their favourite online stars first, whether they’re using Vessel’s website or its smartphone and tablet apps – iOS for now, but with Android to follow soon.Signing up well-known YouTube stars and brands will be crucial to Vessel’s chances of persuading people to part with their money, but so will the quality of its service. I’ve been testing it out since Vessel launched its beta to see how that’s shaping up.When compared to other ways to watch online video on a tablet, from YouTube to BBC iPlayer, Vessel’s iPad is very slick. The first time you load it up, the app asks you about your preferences, from categories (comedy, geek, music, news etc) to individual creators. That quick questionnaire creates your initial list of channels and genres that you’re “following”.You browse your feed of Vessel channels by swiping between them.There are two ways to browse Vessel. One involves simply swiping down through a feed of your follows, with each getting a screen showcasing either a single recent video, or a selection of three. It’s made for relaxed browsing on the sofa, with a single tap playing the video full-screen.Icons at the bottom enable you to mark a video as liked, or join the conversation around it by posting a comment. One of the potential strengths of Vessel – albeit unproven for now – is that its community of paying subscribers may foster a commenting culture that’s less... toxic than the worst elements on YouTube.It’s very early days though: most videos I’ve watched have a handful of comments at best. For example, British creator Marcus Butler’s video “Relationship Goals” launched on Vessel on 22 January, and has four comments at the time of writing.The YouTube versionreleased on 25 January has more than 1,400.The disparity is unsurprising so soon after Vessel’s beta launch, but it does mean it’s way too early to tell how its commenting culture will evolve.The second way to browse Vessel is via a pop-out menu on the right-hand side of the screen. There, you can find a list of the channels and subjects that you’re following, as well as options to browse by New Releases, Popular and directories of categories, channels and shows, and music artists.It’s a handy way to get quickly to a particular channel, rather than swiping down the main feed of videos to find it. You can edit the list to put your favourites at the top, too. Once you navigate to a channel, you can browse its grid of videos, sortable by date of release or popularity.You’ll see two kinds of advertisements while using Vessel. The first are animated, full-screen ads as you scroll down your main feed.They usually contain a call to action of some kind: the ad for Charity: Water gets you to tap through to an in-app browser with a website explaining how to start a campaign to raise money for it, for example, while ads for Vessel creators prompt you to tap through to their channels.One of Vessel’s full-screen ads.The second kind of Vessel ad are pre-rolls shown before videos. These only last for five seconds, usually with an unobtrusive “Learn more” button taking you through to the in-app browser. Note, you’ll still see some ads even if you subscribe.Vessel’s iPhone app looks and feels very similar, with the main difference being that you scroll through your feed of videos and channels in portrait orientation, before turning the device to watch them in landscape mode. Meanwhile, the website follows suit, with minimal clutter.It works nicely, then. What is there to watch? You can divide Vessel’s content into two categories: music and everything else.Through a deal with music videos service Vevo, pretty much every major music artist has a channel on Vessel, although that means official videos and interviews rather than fan-uploaded clips – a good or bad thing depending on your preferences.For now, the music section can feel limiting if your tastes aren’t weighted towards the mainstream. For example, the World Music category has just eight artists, Metal has nine, and even Electronic/Dance has just 28. This will surely grow in time, but for now it pales next to YouTube’s wide and deep music archives.Non-music videos? Vessel has already signed up some popular YouTube channels and networks – in the latter case, Machinima for games and comedy, Tastemade for cookery and DanceOn for dance.There are well-known shows like Epic Meal Time, Nerdist and Unbox Therapy, and YouTubers including Connor Franta, Brittani Louise Taylor, Jack Vale, Smosh, Rhett &amp; Link, Shane Dawson, Marcus Butler, Ingrid Nilsen and Caspar Lee.Vessel’s iPhone app.More? Alec Baldwin’s Love Ride show sees the actor dispensing relationship advice in a taxi; Scott Ian of metal band Anthrax has a Blood &amp; Guts channel exploring horror makeup and special effects; Jay-Z’s Decoded channel digs into the lyrics of music tracks with their writers; and there are channels for media brands from BuzzFeed and PopSugar to National Geographic, the Financial Times, Fortune and the Wall Street Journal.It’s a real grab-bag of stuff, with plenty of gems to discover even if you don’t fall into Vessel’s main target audience of 14-24 year-olds. It’s not just a sea of vloggers, make-up experts and let’s-play games videos for teenagers, in other words.Here, too, it’s very early days for Vessel, which has signed up a small subset of even the very top YouTube creators. I’d expect many more to join in the coming months if Vessel picks up steam, especially if it signs up a really big YouTube star – PewDiePie, for example.As its catalogue grows and its algorithms get to know more about individual users’ preferences, Vessel will also face an interesting challenge of discovery: whether it can successfully recommend new and newly-added channels to users based on their viewing habits, rather than just expecting them to find these manually.If it can become not just a way to watch the YouTube channels you already know, but also a quality filter cutting through the clutter to find you new things to watch, Vessel will start to becomereallyinteresting.Especially if, as the company’s founders hope, its payouts to creators are high enough that they can start spending more money on the quality of their videos – from better cameras, sound and editing kit to investing in new, more ambitious kinds of shows that stretch the creative boundaries of online video.But that’s all for the future. For now, Vessel is an impressive app and website offering a slick complement to YouTube – not a replacement for it. Once its initial month-long free trials are up, we’ll find out whether that’s enough to persuade people to pay for it.•YouTube stars Rooster Teeth, Our 2nd Life and Nash Grier set for films
Pirate Bay’s revival seems certain after the torrent site has started to display a logo of phoenix with a timer counting down to 1 February.The timer was unveiled last week along with arevived but non-functioning site. Now the phoenix, a symbol of rebirth used by the Pirate Bay in previous relaunches of the site, has replaced the iconic battleship logo and the animated waving pirate flag.On the homepage, the Pirate Bay battleship travels towards a cartoon of an island harbour named “welcome home”, now positioned overlapping the island.Pirate Bay sailing.The countdown timer indicates that the site will relaunch on 1 February, although no official announcement has been made by the lose collective of “30 to 50 people from all over the world” who apparently run the Pirate Bay.Rising from the ashes, againThe Swedish investigation, which followed the police raid in December thattook the site offline, is still ongoing. The Pirate Bay’s operators claimed they“couldn’t care less”about the raid and site’s shutdown, while one of the site’s founders Peter Sunde suggested that it had outstretched its usefulness andshould remain offline.Rivals including competing piracy site IsoHunt had attempted to revive the site themselves,posting backup copies of the original Pirate Baydatabase and setting up clone sites.The phoenix logo was last used by the site in 2006 when the site wastaken offline by a police raidon a data centre in Stockholm. When the site came back online shortly after the raid the Pirate Bay used the logo to indicate its rising from the ashes.•Pirate Bay co-founder arrested in Thailand•Pirate Bay co-founder Peter Sunde: ‘In prison, you become brain-dead’
After several years of tumultuous change, the games industry is set to have a quiet 2015, according to one analyst. Nicholas Lovell, founder of news siteGamesbriefand author of freebusiness book The Curvetold the Guardian that the next year will be one of consolidation rather than revolution for developers and publishers.“My general thesis is that nothing is going to happen in 2015, it’s going to be really, really dull,” he said.“Over the last five years, the games industry has seen a series of seismic shifts. Free-to-play hit the mainstream, tablet and smartphone games have come into the ascendent, we’ve seen Facebook gaming rise and fall, we’ve seen the growth of completely new genres like the moba, and we’ve seen the emergence of eSports. Now I’m looking at 2015 and thinking, ‘nothing massive is going to change’ ”.He sees the controversial free-to-play (F2P) business model – in which games can be downloaded for free, but then make money through adverts or “microtransactions” – continuing its growth. Most successful smartphone titles, such as Angry Birds, Candy Crush Saga and Clash of Clans use the model, and it is slowly edging into console gaming.“There’s plenty wrong with it, but it’s clearly working,” says Lovell. “The industry just has to make some tweaks. It’ll be about a lot of companies working hard to change things incrementally over the next five years. Eventually we’ll look back and say, ‘I can’t believe how primitive those F2P games were in 2014’”.The biggest change could well be established publishers re-thinking their strategy to the F2P model. The likes of Electronic Arts, Activision and Ubisoft have all been exploring the use of free downloads and microtransactions, with varying degrees of success. “There are a lot of triple A studios who think they’ll know how to make F2P games, so they pile in and end up losing their shirts,” said Lovell. “They need to learn humility; they need to learn how to make F2P games and then bring their triple A sensibilities, brands and skills into a world that they don’t understand. They have to be humbled first.”Meanwhile, for seasoned F2P developers, the big change could be altering the points at which gamers tend to pay. In titles like Candy Crush Saga, fans will often reach points where they get stuck and have to purchase power ups to continue. Lovell says this can breed negative connotations.“Developers need to learn how to get gamers to spend money to feel better rather than spending money to stop feeling bad,” says Lovell. “In the long term, when you’re paying to stop feeling frustrated, your brain begins to associate paying and feeling bad. That’s eventually going to stop working as a business model, which is great because we’re not going to be monetising at pain points anymore, we’ll be monetising feeling awesome.”“We need to get better at iteration and responding to the community in a cost effective way that doesn’t destroy what you’ve already got. But again, none of this is as big as ‘we need to work out how to give our game away for free’ which was an absolutely phenomenal change. That has already happened.”Lovell does, however, predict that this could be the year the F2P model really breaks into the hugely popular PC gaming download service Steam. “It is moving toward a free environment,” he said. “It will take a while but its heading in that direction - prices are being pressured.”As for other areas of the games industry, Lovell doesn’t see virtual and augmented reality as major new advances – despite the hype building around devices such as the Oculus Rift and Microsoft Hololens.“VR is going to be interesting this year, but more for journalists than mass markets,” he said. “Even if VR becomes really important, I don’t think of it as a seismic shift in the same way as the tablet was. That represented a fundamentally different way of gaming than you see on console, PC or even smartphone. I do think that VR is going to be a meaningful niche, like consoles, it could be a very big niche. But it could take a long time for it to happen. Ultimately, it could be like Kinect or Move: important but not fundamentally transformational.”In effect, the industry is heading into a year of consolidation and iteration, rather than revolution. “It’s like learning to play the piano,” sais Lovell. “The last few years has been about learning new tunes, now the industry just has to practise scales and arpeggios again and again until it’s really good. That’s what the next year is about.“That’s not to say there won’t be an interesting games or experiences, but I’m not seeing any really big changes to the development landscape or the fundamental structures of the industry. Nothing’s going to blow our minds this year.”
From Angry Birds and Candy Crush Saga to Draw Something, Clash of Clans and SongPop: the mobile gaming world has had its fair share of crazes since Apple and Google launched their app stores in 2008. Now you can addTrivia Crackto the list.The game has only just launched in the UK, but it’s already hugely popular in the US and Latin America, with more than 100m downloads so far and currently around 800k more every day.So what is Trivia Crack, and why is it proving so popular? It’s the work of Argentinian developer Etermax, which launched the game in its home continent in late 2013, before adapting it for English-speaking players in mid-2014.The game – currently available for Android, iOS and Windows Phone – is a trivia quiz where players answer questions in subjects including entertainment, art, science, history and geography, chosen by spinning an on-screen wheel.As they answer more questions, they unlock virtual characters, while competing head-to-head against other players. It does for trivia what Draw Something did for scribbling and SongPop did for music, essentially.Trivia Crack is free to download, and makes its money from a blend of advertisements and in-app purchases of spins, coins and boosts to the number of “lives” a player has. They can also choose to buy a premium version of the game that removes the ads.Trivia Crack is the latest mobile gaming craze.Etermax is hoping that its localised questions – the new UK version of Trivia Crack includes questions on Prince George, Cheryl Cole and other local figures – will prolong its popularity around the world.The company is also tapping its community of players to keep the questions fresh: they can submit their own and rate those of other players, as well as translating questions into their own language. Trivia Crack currently has around 1m active questionsaccording to Recode, with 2,000 more added every day.This is not the first trivia game to take the mobile apps world by storm. Icelandic developer Plain Vanilla had a big hit with its QuizUp game in 2013, and raised $22m of funding that December to continue growing.By June 2014 it had 20 million registered users, but Trivia Crack’s growth puts that in the shade. On Apple’s US App Store, for example, Trivia Crack is currently the most popular free app, the premium version is the most popular paid app, and they are respectively 11th and 12th on the top-grossing chart.QuizUp has dropped out of the top 200 in all those charts, which illustrates the dangers of mobile gaming crazes – players can tire of them.Draw Something and SongPop’s fleeting moments in the spotlight offer further warnings that while Trivia Crack may be popular now, Etermax’s challenge is to ensure it’s not a different story a few months down the line.•Adventure Time: new game gets kids to create their own levels
The iMac with 5K retina display is Apple’s attempt to do what it did with smartphones and tablets and redefine what a computer screen should be. If so it has hit a home run.From the outside the new iMac looks like the old one. A slim aluminium frame with a slab of glass on the front, a curved foot-style stand and an Apple logo. It’s a familiar sight from US TV shows and art departments across the country.It’s a refined design that makes the best of a screen and a computer combined, taking up as little space as possible. But it’s the 27in screen that’s the step forward for desktop computers.A new screen standardTilting the screen is the only adjustment possible with the default stand.Photograph: AppleThe new iMac has a 5K screen, exactly double the resolution of the non-5K 27in iMac, with 5120 x 2880 pixels. That is seven times the number of pixels on screen compared to a 1080p full HD television screen. But those are just numbers, what it really means is that the screen is super crisp; as sharp as a modern smartphone screen.The iMac automatically detects the type of content on screen and displays it at the correct resolution. Photos and video is played at native resolution. For text, however, four pixels are displayed for everyone one defined by the site. The text remains the same size on screen but is pin sharp. This is the same system Apple has been using on its iPhones, iPads and retina MacBook Pros for years.Arguably the 5K screen is designed for editing 4K video and 8-megapixel images at full size while still having tools, timelines and scrubbers on-screen at the same time. For everything else, it’s about how crystal clear the screen looks and what that does to the computing experience.Smartphone classIf you compare a smartphone such as an iPhone 6 or a Samsung Galaxy S5 to a regular computer monitor or laptop screen there is a clear difference in the clarity and sharpness of images, text and icons.The 5K screen makes everything appear as sharp as we are used to on our smartphones and tablets. That may not sound like a big leap, but five minutes in front of one and it’s clear that no other screen will look the same again – it is like night and day.Reading text, writing documents, browsing sites and even balancing a spreadsheet are all enhanced by just how crisp everything looks. Eye fatigue is reduced, and on-screen reading becomes much more enjoyable.It’s like a ratchet, however. As with smartphone, tablet and even HDTV screens – once you go high resolution and crispness like this it’s very difficult to go back.SpecificationsScreen:27in IPS 5K retina display (5120x2880)Processor:3.5GHz quad-core Intel Core i5 (up to 4.0GHz quad-core Intel Core i7)Memory:8GB 1600MHz DDR3 (up to 32GB)Graphics:AMD Radeon R9 M290X with 2GB of GDDR5 (up to R9 M295X)Storage:1TB fusion drive (3TB fusion or up to 1TB SSD available)Operating system:OS X 10.10 YosemitePorts:4x USB3, 2x Thunderbolt 2, Gigabit ethernet, SDXC card reader, headphone portWireless:802.11ac Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 4.0Camera:FacetimeHDSize:51.6 x 65 x 20.3cmWeight:9.54kgAll-in-oneThe iMac comes with a Bluetooth keyboard and choice of mouse or trackpad.Photograph: AppleThe new iMac is exactly the same as previous generations in use. Video editors will likely want to pay for a higher-specified model to ensure peak performance with 4K video editing. But even the base model will be fast enough to do almost anything. It runs silently until the graphics processor is pushed by a game or while rendering video, at which point the fans are audible but not deafening.Set up is very easy. It comes with a wireless keyboard and mouse or trackpad out of the box. Plugging one power cable in and putting batteries in the accessories is all that is required. Within five minutes the computer is ready to go with a straightforward user account set up using the latest OS X Yosemite (Windows 7, 8 and 8.1 can also be run).Anyone who has used a Mac before will be familiar with the process, others will not have any difficulty following the simple instructions.Not everything is irritation free, though. There is no DVD drive – those that need to read CDs and DVDs will have to buy an extra, external drive.The sleek design also relegates the computer’s ports to the back. It keeps things tidy, but makes difficult to plug USB cables and SD cards into the computer without spinning it around. It might not be something you do more than once a day, but it quickly becomes grating.The iMac also doesn’t have any height adjustment, only tilting on the stand. The top of the 27in screen starts at 48.9cm from the desk, which is higher than most would have their monitors and means users will have to adjust their chair height to make it ergonomic.GamingMacs have never been spectacular gaming machines and the iMac is no different. Most PCs can’t handle 4K gaming, let alone 5K, as pushing that many pixels is very demanding on graphics processors.The game library for OS X is small compared to Windows, but those that are available such as Bioshock Infinite the iMac will struggle to run at native 5K resolution. Reducing Bioshock Infinite to 1080p resolution with high detail level produced solid 60 frames per second video, however.Switching to Windows using Boot Camp, games run slightly better and can achieve similar results with resolutions up to 2560x1440.The display really comes into its own with text and images, which are pin sharp, colourful and pristine.Photograph: ApplePriceThe base model of the 27in iMac with retina 5K display costs at £1,999, which is £550 more than the starting 27in iMac without a 5K display and with poorer specifications. That cost climbs to £3,519 for the top model without accessories.A 27in iMac without a retina 5K display but with similar specifications costs around £110 less than the base 5K iMac.For the equivalent PC, 27in 4K monitors from Dell and others are available costing around £500. Monitors with a 5K resolution cost upwards of £1,300. A computer similar in specification to the new iMac would cost around £800 to build with a copy of Windows 8.1.VerdictThe 27in iMac with 5K retina display is the first desktop computer that has induced awe in on-lookers. Everyone who has set eyes on the screen has been bowled over by it, and it is very impressive.The sheer clarity of the text and images – you can put nose to screen and still not see the pixels – makes it a joy to use every day and that’s not something I ever thought I would say about a computer.Specifications, processors, memory and storage all change very quickly, but the 5K screen is likely to be the best display you’ll see for some time.It isn’t perfect. The only thing you can change on it is the memory and it’s very expensive for a general desktop computer. But if you can afford £2,000 for such a Mac the retina iMac is the one to buy.Just don’t use one, don’t even look at one, unless you can afford it, as once you see it the sheer crispness will ruin everything else.Pros:fantastic screen, sleek form factor, simple set up, powerful computer, excellent for editing video and photosCons:expensive for a general computer, non-height adjustable, ports difficult to reach, non-upgradable components (apart from RAM)
Men! Don’t you just hate it when you search for a manly male man-watch online, and get presented with a screen full of female-focused timepieces for delicate lady-wrists? But thankfully, this 21st-century problem will soon be just a bad memory.Enough snark: Pinterest’s announcement that men searching for watches will now only see watches for men is actually a useful indicator of how the image-focused social site is evolving.Most of its users are still women, but with men its fastest-growing demographic, Pinterest is trying to ensure it serves up relevant results to both those genders – especially for products (like watches) that may help fuel its ambitions to become a key player in the online shopping world.Pinterest engineer Pei Yin explained the changes that the company has been making to its “guided search” technology,in a blog post:“If you do a lot of searching on Pinterest, you may already have noticed the results you’re seeing are better than ever. For example, say you’re looking for a new watch. Before when you searched Pinterest for “watches,” your results would include mostly women’s timepieces.But now, men will see Pins and guides inspired by what other guys have Pinned, and everybody’s results should feel a lot closer to what they’re looking for. Of course if you ever want results for another gender, like if you’re shopping for a gift for someone else, you can always use the guides to fine-tune your search.”According to Yin, similar filters can now be used for searches in areas including hair, shoes and health, as long as people have told Pinterest their gender in its settings pages – a choice of Male, Female and Unspecified, so it’s unclear how much the new filters will improve search relevancy for people identifying within the latter, extremely broad group.The changes are about making Pinterest searches more relevant for everyone, not just men, but Yin’s stress on the latter group illustrates Pinterest’s wider priorities as it tries to prove that it’s not just for women.TechCrunch notes that71% of Pinterest’s US visitors are women, but points to recent claims by the company that a third of its new signups are men, with that growing to around half outside the US. Even in the latter country, Pinterest says that its number of male users grew by 73% in 2014.More relevant searches should help Pinterest continue to grow.The company was valued at $3.8bn in October 2013, when it raised a $225m funding round – despite its revenues being miniscule at the time. Itraised another $200m in May 2014, valuing it at $5bn.However, it has since been pressing on with a strategy of making money from selling advertisements –“promoted pins”which appear within users’ feeds of other images and products, and which stimulate online shopping.•Ben Silbermann: the modest genius behind Pinterest
London-based peer-to-peer foreign exchange service TransferWise has become the latest company to join Silicon Valley super-venture-capitalists Andreessen Horowitz’s portfolio.The company raised $58m in a fundraising round led by A16Z, in which the company’s existing investors such as Richard Branson, Index Ventures and Seedcamp also participated. The Series C funding round is thought to value the company at almost $1bn, although it refused to confirm or deny the figure.TransferWise operates a foreign exchange service which uses an element of peer-to-peer funding to cut costs for users. The company directly pairs up users wanting to buy a currency with those wanting to sell it, avoiding the need to actually convert money – and saving on expensive foreign exchange fees.TransferWise cofounder Taavet Hinrikus said Andreessen Horowitz’s interest showed how ripe financial services are for disruption. “For too long legacy providers’ dominance of the market has allowed consumers to be hoodwinked into paying huge hidden charges for services as basic as currency exchange.”Ben Horowitz, one of A16Z’s co-founders along with former Netscape founder Marc Andreessen, will be joining TransferWise’s board following the investment, and Hinrikus said the company was “excited” to have him. “His experience will help us take our revolution in financial services across the globe, starting with the US offices we’re launching,” he added.It plans to use the investment to boost its global expansion, opening an US office in February and offices in Germany and Australia after that. But as it grows, its unique business model could find it difficult to scale up.Its business model relies on a relatively even flow of money to and from countries in which it operates, although it smooths out temporary imbalances by buying supply from conventional financial markets.Some worry that as the company grows, and it introduces more currency pairs, the imbalance of money flows may become difficult to manage. If that happened, “TransferWise would have to resort to financial markets to fill the gap and lose the cost-advantage of the P2P model, or keep fund flows balanced but limit market growth,”suggests analyst Wayne Wong.“The latter option does not sound too bad considering how the pie for international money transfer is huge and there are existing inefficiencies in remittances that TransferWise could iron out.”The fundraising follows the success of London’s Shazam, which became the latest British startup to hit a $1bn valuation in mid-January. It raised $30m from unnamed parties,despite having not turned a profit for at least eight years.
When Microsoft unveiled Windows 10 last Wednesday, the company had something else to show the assembled press – just in case a new operating system wasn’t exciting enough. This was the Hololens, a stand-alone augmented reality heardset, capable of projecting computer generated objected into your real-world environment. Look through its futuristic screen, and you may see a dinosaur on your coffee table, or a monster on your sofa.The device seemingly uses an array of motion senses, as well as a Kinect-style camera so that it knows where the wearer is in the room, and can also recognise objects. Imagine, for example, a horror game where a zombie could crash through your own living room window. Add in both gesture and voice controls, and you have both a compelling alternative to fully immersive virtual reality headsets like Oculus Rift and Sony’s Project Morpheus, and the Magic Leap augmented reality headset that counts Google among its many excited investors.So what do seasoned virtual reality developers make of the new technology? We asked a selection of experienced VR experts about this new AR interloper – and the future of a platform that promises to bring the world – or even the universe – into your living room.Hrafn Thorisson, CEO,Aldin DynamicsFor a prototype it certainly seems like they’ve done a very good job on producing the illusion of a solid object appearing before you — and that’s really exciting. It’s one of the things that good AR systems need to be able to do well, and has been very hard to achieve.We see Hololens as a benefit for the VR industry — if only because there’s so much crossover in the technologies that power augmented reality and virtual reality systems. Both have to deal with similar performance and design concerns in terms of user experience and interface. An easy to understand example is how users want to be able to reach out and interact with objects like you would in the real world. To do that you need a specialised combination of hardware and software that tracks the user’s hands and understand how virtual objects should behave when they’re interacted with. Natural user input is one of the key areas where consumer virtual reality systems need to improve, so hopefully we’re going see faster advances as more hardware manufacturers enter this space.Nick Pittom, VR developer, FirePandaIt seems like a natural extension of Microsoft’s Kinect research in many ways: sort of like sticking a Kinect on your head – but you are not tracked, your room is. If they can also solve the “transparency” issue (images appearing ghostly rather than solid) and get a bigger field of view then it could really be quite special. By all accounts the tracking is excellent.There’s a lot of potential to deliver “turn your living room into Mario World” type AR games, where characters run about on your sofa, or cars race on your desk, or mini planes dog fight in the air. Table-top experiences where players can lean into them to get a different perspective could also be exciting. Sim City as a mini-city on your living room floor is an enticing thought. Microsoft will need to learn the lessons of Kinect and ensure the software is there to justify the existence of the hardware. Skype and Minecraft will only get them so far.Katie Goode, developer, Triangular PixelsThe lack of a controller has its pros and cons. In an ideal world, players will not only be able to pull off all the organic interactions they want to do, but also feel a feedback response. The Hololens concepts I’ve seen so far are missing any sort of touch feedback, so developers will have to work especially hard compensating with visual and audio clues. Also, users with movement difficulties may struggle with applications that only use just gesture control.Turning any room into a virtual environment will be incredible. I can’t wait to be able to use the device as my virtual projector, have my e-wallpaper update with movies and photos, or play games where my favourite characters stand full height inside my room. AR interactive stories will start to become a thing, where you can sit in your living room and have characters act out scenes in front of you – your own personal theatre production. And AR board games! Having pieces come to life will be magical.There’s a lot to think about though. How many different room shapes are there in the world? The player may not have the space to move at all. Different real world lighting, materials, colours can affect the art style of the game. What if the players have guests or pets? A lot more variables come into play and it’s going to be a challenge just to think of them all, as well as come up for solutions for them.Daniel Ernst, VR developer,The Shoebox DioramaAugmented reality is less imposing that virtual reality: andIthink VR is harder to do in the living room; it’s more vague how it will reach consumers. And my mom still thinks VR is scary. Microsoft is probably trying to reach the audience Nintendo left behind when it went from the Wii to the Wii U.The biggest plus AR has, is that it can be a social experience. Imagine a dad playing Minecraft with his kids – with AR, he’d be able to interact directly with them and help them to build a castle. You could have a game of Dungeons and Dragons where your environment changes before your eyes on the whim of the Game Master. You could go on a quest around your home to find pokemon, or play a real-time-strategy game where each player sees a “fog of war” on their opponent’s side of the room. The possibilities are endless.Henrique Olifiers, co-founder, Bossa StudiosMicrosoft got it spot on with the form factor. Moving the processing into the HMD itself, making it wireless, is something we’ve been keen to see introduced into VR for some time now. Finding design and technical solutions to deal with the weight, heat and power issues related to this approach is a big challenge, so it’s very exciting to see they’re tackling it with Hololens.VR is extremely processing intensive, requiring a lot of CPU and GPU power. AR, on the other hand, can be done with lighter hardware. So if you’re going for a wireless, self-contained HMD, AR is the best option with the current technology. On the surface, AR also enables more social interactions as illustrated by the Hololens Skype demos, while VR’s strengths lie in full immersion at the expense of the reality around you. From a content point of view, AR also makes it much easier to deal with issues such as motion sickness by keeping real reference points in view, so developers may enjoy more freedom as creators.Dan Page, developer,Opposable GamesIt seems like Microsoft has cracked one of the key challenges with augmented reality by providing a headset that understands the user’s environment.I’m very much of the mindset that VR and AR will complement each other beautifully. Seeing the recently-revealed Leap Motion quick-switch, which allows users to switch between VR and reality, had my imagination running wild, and not being tethered to a chair is clearly useful.In terms of device specifics, I’m really interested in the holographic display itself, and would love to know a little more about what kind of technology it’s using. I’m sure details on the GPU, CPU, etc, are a long way away.There’s huge potential for gaming, engineering, planners, architects and a ton of other industries. Opposable Games is already working with engineering companies on augmented reality so we can see the benefits it has to offer first-hand.I predict we’ll see a swathe of social gaming experiences ranging from animated 3D board games, to truly interactive Warhammer fantasy games, moba titles and, what I’m personally looking forward to the most: strategy titles like Command and Conquer or Supreme Commander. Directing tiny armies and spaceships around your living room is going to be tremendous fun.Microsoft’s HoloLens: holographic revolution or another hollow promise?
One of Google’s Android security experts has explained why the company has stopped providing patches for some exploits in early versions of the software, and advised users of those versions to switch to the Chrome or Firefox web browsers on their devices.News that Google hadstopped providing patches for exploits in the WebView technologythat rendered web pages on devices running versions up to and including Android 4.3 “Jelly Bean” emerged earlier in January.The company’s new policy was to implement patches if they were provided by security researchers who’d discovered new security loopholes in the technology, or to pass their research on to device manufacturers for them to implement.Adrian Ludwig, who works on Google’s Android security team,addressed the issue in a post on the company’s Google+ social network, explaining the challenges of providing security patches for older versions of WebView and the WebKit technology used for web browsing on Android.“WebKit alone is over five million lines of code and hundreds of developers are adding thousands of new commits every month, so in some instances applying vulnerability patches to a two plus year old branch of WebKit required changes to significant portions of the code and was no longer practical to do safely,” wrote Ludwig.“With the advances in Android 4.4, the number of users that are potentially affected by legacy WebKit security issues is shrinking every day as more and more people upgrade or get new devices.”According to Google’s own stats, 60.9% of Android devices currently in use are running Jelly Bean or earlier versions of the software. That number may be shrinking, but it’s still the majority of Android users. If you’re one of them, Ludwig has some useful advice on how to ensure your web browsing remains secure:“Using a browser that is updated through Google Play and using applications that follow security best practices by only loading content from trusted sources into WebView will help protect users.When browsing on any platform, you should make sure to use a browser that provides its own content renderer and is regularly updated. For instance on Android,Chrome[http://goo.gl/elSkZX] orFirefox[http://goo.gl/Q5X6e3] are both great options since they are securely updated through Google Play often: Chrome is supported on Android 4.0 and greater, Firefox supports Android 2.3 and greater.”It’s important advice, because Android users vary so much in their technical knowledge and upgrade habits. Less tech-savvy users who haven’t upgraded their smartphone for three or four years may require a nudge to switch web browsers.•How can I keep my Android tablet or smartphone secure?
Hurray, it’s Monday!
Modelled on SNES-era RPGs,Citizens of Earthrecalls one of the console’s true classics,EarthBound. Both take the traditional genre formula – building a team, levelling up through turn-based battles and uncovering a vast, complex story – but abandon the usual fantasy aesthetic for a mirror of everyday life.Citizensgoes further, exhibiting a sense of absurdist humour and gentle political satire throughout.As the newly minted vice-president of the world, your post-election vacation is interrupted by a series of unusual occurrences with unusual characters – a coffee shop manager turned robot, a bear made of honey, and mutated deer, to name a few. Uncovering the cause involves recruiting more than 40 townsfolk, each offering amusing twists on typical RPG abilities (the baker burns enemies, for instance). And while it features too many repetitive battles, aficionados of the genre will be likely to overlook this and enjoy the comedic quests and atypical setting.
Essentially, everySkylanderstoy is a physical piece of downloadable content. What makes the Light and Dark Element packs noteworthy, though, is their additions to the base game – in this case, whole new elements, with perhaps the best game-changing comparison being if Pokémon added the fire type after release. Each adds a new playable Trap Master Skylander– the main characters, capable of opening elemental gates in the world – plus a new chapter in the game.The Light pack sees Knight Light battling through Sunscraper Spire, while Dark has Knight Mare saving the Midnight Museum. Each campaign is about an hour long, a decent length for a kids’ audience. In keeping with this year’s enemy-trapping theme, each pack also comes with a matching elemental trap, allowing you to capture and play as new villains Luminous and Nightshade. As toys, Knight Mare enjoys the better sculpt, but both packs cram in a lot of content.
Google took almost three years to disclose to the open information group WikiLeaks that it had handed over emails and other digital data belonging to three of its staffers to the US government, under a secret search warrant issued by a federal judge.WikiLeaks has written to Google’s executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, to protest that the search giant only revealed the warrants last month, having been served them in March 2012. In the letter, WikiLeaks says it is “astonished and disturbed” that Google waited more than two and a half years to notify its subscribers, potentially depriving them of their ability to protect their rights to “privacy, association and freedom from illegal searches”.The letter, written by WikiLeaks’ New York-based lawyer, Michael Ratner of theCenter For Constitutional Rights, asks Google to list all the materials it provided to the FBI. Ratner also asks whether the California-based company did anything to challenge the warrants and whether it has received any further data demands it has yet to divulge.Related:The war on leaks has gone way too far when journalists' emails are under surveillance | Trevor TimmGoogle revealed to WikiLeaks on Christmas Eve – a traditionally quiet news period – that it had responded to a Justice Department order to hand over a catch-all dragnet of digital data including all emails and IP addresses relating to the three staffers. The subjects of the warrants were the investigations editor of WikiLeaks, the British citizenSarah Harrison; the spokesperson for the organisation,Kristinn Hrafnsson; andJoseph Farrell, one of its senior editors.When it notified the WikiLeaks employees last month, Google said it had been unable to say anything about the warrants earlier as a gag order had been imposed. Google said the non-disclosure orders had subsequently been lifted, though it did not specify when.Harrison, who also headsthe Courage Foundation, told the Guardian she was distressed by the thought of government officials gaining access to her private emails. “Knowing that the FBI read the words I wrote to console my mother over a death in the family makes me feel sick,” she said.She accused Google of helping the US government conceal “the invasion of privacy into a British journalist’s personal email address. Neither Google nor the US government are living up to their own laws or rhetoric in privacy or press protections”.The court orders cast a data net so wide as to ensnare virtually all digital communications originating from or sent to the three. Google was told to hand over the contents of all their emails, including those sent and received, all draft correspondence and deleted emails. The source and destination addresses of each email, its date and time, and size and length were also included in the dragnet.The FBI also demanded all records relating to the internet accounts used by the three, including telephone numbers and IP addresses, details of the time and duration of their online activities, and alternative email addresses. Even the credit card or bank account numbers associated with the accounts had to be revealed.Alexander Abdo, a staff attorney and privacy expert at the American Civil Liberties Union, said the warrants were “shockingly broad” in their catch-all wording.“This is basically ‘Hand over anything you’ve got on this person’,” he said. “That’s troubling as it’s hard to distinguish what WikiLeaks did in its disclosures from what major newspapers do every single day in speaking to government officials and publishing still-secret information.”Google has not revealed precisely which documents it handed over by the deadline of April 2012. But it has told the three individuals that it provided “responsive documents pursuant to the Electronic Communications Privacy Act”.Google told the Guardian it does not talk about individual cases, to “help protect all our users”. A spokesperson for the company said: “We follow the law like any other company.“When we receive a subpoena or court order, we check to see if it meets both the letter and the spirit of the law before complying. And if it doesn’t we can object or ask that the request is narrowed. We have a track record of advocating on behalf of our users.”The data grab is believed to be part of an ongoing criminal investigation into WikiLeaks that was launched in 2010 jointly by the US departments of Justice, Defense and State. The investigation followed WikiLeaks’ publication, initially in participation with international news organisations including the Guardian, of hundreds of thousands of US secrets that had been passed to the organisation by the army private Chelsea Manning.The vast stash of leaked documents includingembassy cables, war logs from Afghanistan and Iraq, and a video of an Apache helicopter attackthat killed civilians in Baghdad.The warrants were issued by a federal judge in the eastern district of Virginia – the jurisdiction in which a grand jury was set up under the criminal investigation into WikiLeaks. The investigation was confirmed to be still active and ongoing as recently as May last year.Testimony given during the prosecution of Manning indicated that at least seven “founders, owners or managers or WikiLeaks” were put under the FBI spotlight in the wake of Manning’s disclosures. Manning was sentenced to 35 years in military prison for crimes related to the leaks and is currently being held in Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.The WikiLeaks warrants cite alleged violations of the 1917 Espionage Act and the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act – the same statutes used to prosecute Manning. The data seizures were approved by a federal magistrate judge, John Anderson, who a year laterissued the arrest warrantfor the former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden.Julian Assange, WikiLeaks’ founder and editor-in-chief, said the search warrants were part of a “serious, and seriously wrong attempt to build an alleged ‘conspiracy’ case against me and my staff”. He said that in his view the real conspiracy was “Google rolling over yet again to help the US government violate the constitution – by taking over journalists’ private emails in response to give-us-everything warrants”.Julian Assange sought political asylum in Ecuador’s London embassy in June 2012.Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesThe FBI warrants will be presented to the United Nations human rights council in Geneva on Monday by the Spanish judge Baltasar Garzón, who is director of Assange’s defence team. Assange remains in asylum in the Ecuadorian embassy in London, facing extradition to Sweden following sexual assault and rape allegations that he denies and for which he has never been charged.Google’s behaviour stands in stark contrast to Twitter, which has challenged similar US government demands. In its letter to the search giant, WikiLeaks notes that “Twitter challenged the government so it could notify its subscribers of the orders, and prevailed”.In Twitter’s case, the Justice Department demanded access to thesocial-media accounts of Birgitta Jonsdottir, an Icelandic MP and former Wikileaks volunteer who was part of the team that released the secret Apache helicopter footage.Twitter informed Jonsdottir that the US government had asked for access to her messages, allowing her to mount a legal campaign to stop them. In July 2012 an appeals courtruled against Jonsdottirand two other defendants, allowing the Justice Department to keep secret information about its attempts to obtain their information without a warrant.All the major tech companies now disclose how many requests they receive from US authorities for users’ information but it is extremely rare for them to divulge specific targets of those investigations and in most cases they are limited in what they can disclose.In the first six months of 2014, Google received close to 32,000 data requests from governments, an increase of 15% compared with the second half of 2013, and two-and-a-half times more than when Google first started publishing it’s semi-annualTransparency Report, in 2009.
When not disrupting an industry, growing his company or pitching prospective clients, Shubham Banerjee can be found meeting his board, brainstorming with engineers or knocking on the doors of venture capitalists. Such is the life of a Silicon Valley entrepreneur.He is 13 years old.“Yes, I started young,” he said this week, as his father drove him from school, still in his navy blue uniform, to meet a potential investor. “But you see, I’ve been playing with Lego since I was two years old.”Others may consider Lego a toy but Shubham, precocious even by Silicon Valley’s standards, considers it a tool for technological innovation.The eighth-grader used Lego to create a low-cost Braille printer that he designed over long evenings at his family’s kitchen table in Santa Clara, an hour south of San Francisco. The idea is to print Braille reading materials from a personal computer or electronic device on to paper using raised dots instead of ink.His startup, Braigo Labs, has received undisclosed seed capital from backers who think it could shake up the market for the visually impaired.Shubham wants to develop a desktop printer that costs around $350, rather than the usual $2,000, and weighs just a few pounds rather than 20. He also hopes – though this remains science fiction for now – to develop refreshable digital Braille, so the blind can read tablets and laptops.The founder and public face of Braigo Labs is too young to sign documents or write cheques so his mother is the official chief executive. His father, Niloy, originally from India, serves as the board.Shubham devised the idea as a school science fair project last year, after he asked his parents how blind people read. “Google it,” they replied.He said he was shocked to discover that a market of 200 million people, most in developing countries, relied on clunky, expensive equipment. “I decided to hack it,” he said.He used a Lego Mindstorms EV3 kit robotics kit to build a prototype which won a county fair contest and generated local buzz. His father, himself an engineer and serial entrepreneur who works at Intel, invested $35,000 to get Braigo Labs off the ground last summer.Shubham built a more sophisticated 2.0 version using an off-the-shelf desktop printer and Intel computer chip which can translate electronic text into Braille before printing.Intel executives then invested an undisclosed sum for a share in the company, making the schoolboy one of the youngest entrepreneurs to receive venture capital. (Mark Zuckerberg was a relatively crusty 19-year-old when he launched an embyronic version of Facebook.)“He’s solving a real problem, and he wants to go off and disrupt an existing industry. And that’s really what it’s all about,” Edward Ross, director of Inventor Platforms at Intel,told the Associated Press.The Banerjees are using the money invested to pay about five outside engineers to work on the product.Shubham hopes to launch the third version this summer, starting by sending about 25 models to blind institutions for feedback before scaling up production. Representatives from the Royal National Institute of Blind People are due to fly out from Britain to review the technology.“Every other day after school we’re meeting investors,” Shubham said.His father brimmed with optimism. “It’s a great product,” he said. “We’re focused on bringing this to market so real people can benefit.”Shubham’s favourite subjects at school are maths and science. Classmates were “pretty chilled” about his entrepreneurial sideline, though some sensed opportunity, he said. “A few have asked if they can be part of my company.”Shubham also debates, plays guitar and American football – he’s a quarterback. He said his heroes were his parents and business icons Steve Jobs and Bill Gates.But becoming a billionaire is not necessarily on the agenda. “I think I’d like to be an engineer or a surgeon,” he said.
Last week was Davos week, the time of year when 2,900movers and shakers(only 17% of whom are women, incidentally) congregate in a small town in Switzerland to talk the talk. It also means that it’s the week in which Facebook issues its annual Bullshit Report, claiming that it is not only a Force for Good but also one of the world’s economic powerhouses. In 2012the report claimedthat Facebook – an outfit which then had a global workforce of about 3,000 – had indirectly helped create 232,000 jobs in Europe in 2011 and “enabled” more than $32bn in revenues.Now, two years on, Facebook has more than 1.3 billion users, and its claims have become correspondingly more extravagant. This year’sBullshit Reportasserts that in the year ending October 2014 the company’s “global economic impact” amounted to $227bn – which is roughly equal to the gross domestic product of Portugal – and that Facebook accounted directly and indirectly for 4.5m jobs.These numbers were plucked out of the air by Deloitte, the consulting company regularly employed by Facebook’s fantasy economics division. I use the word fantasy advisedly, having read the disclaimer at the head of Deloitte’s document: “The information contained in the report,” it says, “has been obtained from Facebook Inc and third party sources that are clearly referenced in the appropriate sections of the report. Deloitte has neither sought to corroborate this information nor to review its overall reasonableness. Further, any results from the analysis contained in the report are reliant on the information available at the time of writing the report and should not be relied upon in subsequent periods.”Quite so. But the fact that Facebook feels obliged to go through this annual exercise is instructive. Could it be, one wonders, a sign of unease among its leadership that the world might one day wake up to the fact that thedigital sharecroppingand comprehensive surveillance that lies at the heart of the company’s activities are not necessarily socially beneficial? In which case, would it not make sense to get its retaliation in first, asWillie John McBridefamously recommended when he was captain of the British Lions rugby team?If that is indeed what lies behind Facebook’s economic posturing, then one should at least give Mark Zuckerberg and his colleagues some marks for perceptiveness. Up to now, the internet and technology giants have had an astonishingly easy ride on the back of a narrative that portrays them as innovative, user-friendly, unstuffy (all those jeans and hoodies), disruptive (in a good way, of course) and ethical (“don’t be evil” etc) – not a bit like oil companies, telecoms firms, mining, banking and other nasty, old-style capitalist enterprises, which destroy the environment and grind the faces of the poor. In the process they have successfully diverted public attention from the fact that they are, in fact, just the latest version of the large capitalist enterprise: John D Rockefeller 3.0, as it were.This uplifting narrative has been dented a bit by the Snowden revelations about the extent of corporate as well as state surveillance, by the extent of tax avoidance by the technology companies and by growing unease about the dominance of US firms in the internet space. So it was interesting to see that the mood music at Davos this year is less favourable to the tech industry than it used to be. “Large technology companies,” reported Gillian Tett of theFinancial Timesin a dispatch from the Swiss resort, “will experience the same collapse in reputation as banks have endured in recent years unless they rapidly change their approach, say business leaders.”In particular, the tech industry’s implacable hostility to government regulation is beginning to grate even on the Davos crowd. “Self-regulation, no matter what you do, is just not going to be good enough,” said Paul Achleitner, chairman of the supervisory board of Deutsche Bank, told company leaders, before going on to point out that the self-regulatory role previously favoured by the banks had failed to quell a political backlash againsttheiroverreach. “Never assume that because something has been common practice in the past it will not be judged harshly in the future,” he said. Just as bankers had been astonished by the speed with which political attitudes towards them had changed during the 20th-century banking revolution, technology companies might have the same surprise in store in the 21st century.Herr Achleitner is right. There will, eventually, be a backlash. And when it comes, it will take more than Facebook’s fantasy economics to quell it.
The adult content filters being rolled out by some internet providers under a scheme championed by David Cameron are blocking the websites of businesses and charities and are a “distraction” for parents seeking to protect children from online pornography, claim campaigners.TalkTalk announced this weekend that it would follow Sky and become the second of the UK’s four major internet providers to roll out automatic filters for all its customers unless they specifically ask for them to be turned off. It plans to begin applying the blocks to all users’ accounts next month.New customers will have the filter set on by default and will have to ask TalkTalk to allow pornographic and other adult content websites, including gambling, to be visited through their internet connection. Existing users can head to the company’s website to opt out.TalkTalk’s HomeSafe, provided as a free option, can already stop internet connections from being used to access violent content and gambling websites, as well as pornography, if customers opt in for their household.Sky said that its Broadband Shield software, which is provided to all of its customers, would be automatically switched on unless users had opted out.Sky’s brand director, Lyssa McGowan, said the mandatory filters would be rolled out over the next 10 days. “Knowing our customers and the internet as we do, we believe this is the right and simplest solution to a problem we all know is out there,” she said.The remaining two major providers, BT and Virgin Media, are coming under pressure to follow suit with content blocks. The prime minister has said that internet companies must do more to protect children.BT said it is consulting its customers to ask them whether they want to have the tool introduced.Virgin Media gives its users the opt-in option – to turn on the software if they want it.The company has been sending its current customers on-screen messages about the filters which have been available since the summer, but voluntary take-up has remained less than 10%.A Virgin Media spokesperson said the company was not reviewing its opt-in system: “We believe people should have the tools and advice to make the decisions that are right for them. This is why we invested in our Switched On Families guide and all our customers have been offered free parental controls, but it is their choice as to whether to use them.”A report from Ofcom last July said that on average only 13% of new internet users opted to turn on filtering software that was offered to them.But campaigners say that it is misleading to suggest these filters are just about blocking pornography, and that they block a range of content, such as drugs, sex, alcohol, tobacco and anorexia.The Metropolitan police are currently producing a list of websites for the filtering services which they regard as terror-related.A website discussing the legalisation of cannabis found itself blocked, as did several small wine dealers, said Pam Cowburn of the transparency campaignOpen Rights Group. Last year research by the group found that 54 registered charities had their websites blocked by one or another of the filters.Several were offering support and services to young people escaping abuse or alcohol dependency. One such charity, Alcohol Support, based in Aberdeen, called it a “big brother” approach.“It’s still a problem; it isn’t being tackled in the rush to block what is deemed unsuitable.“But it’s very simplistic: URLs with Sussex or Essex in them, for example, are blocked. It’s arbitrary and a blunt tool.“There is no guarantee that all porn sites can be blocked, so parents can have a false sense of security that will actually stop them doing what they need to do, which is to talk to their children about the internet and about internet safety.”Vicki Shotbolt, CEO and founder of social enterprise project the ParentZone, said: “Filters are at best a distraction from the most important way to look after your family online.” Open conversations and keeping informed were the way forward, she said.
Before games were multimillion-pound 3D extravaganzas with surround sound and Hollywood stars, there was Nintendo’s Game &amp; Watch series: humble LCD devices, each of which played one highly addictive game. These days they’ve become such sought-after items that Austrian game collectors David Gschmeidler and Gerhard Meyer have written a book about them. The Unofficial Game &amp; Watch Collector’s Guide was published in English last summer, but despite being partial to collecting the odd antique Game &amp; Watch myself, I’ve only just discovered its existence. Cataloguing every edition ever made, its completist approach stretches to rarity guides for each game and graphs of their price at auction since 2007. Whether or not you lose sleep to early hours eBay bidding wars, it’s a fascinating read and a beautifully made book. You can buy a copy online atgameandwatch.at.
Waking up at the top of a bell tower, unarmed and without any of the skills you’ve earned during the main game, your job is to reach a designated extraction point alive. And you’ve only got 30 minutes to do it. Completing side missions rewards you with extra time, weapons and skill points, but if you die you’ll need to start the whole process again. The mix of serious challenge and time pressure is complemented by leaderboards that encourage you to refine your approach, gradually recovering skills and improving tactics until you can shoot your way out.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKPapers, Please, iPadWhen your name’s drawn in the Arstotzka labour lottery, you gratefully accept your role as border agent, checking the documents of visitors and returning residents. To start with, that means denying entry to those without an Arstotzkan passport, but you’ll soon be checking work permits and diplomatic visas, as well as foiling the plans of criminals. Although checking people’s papers at a fictitious communist state border doesn’t sound like the sort of fun you’d pay to have, this is an exquisite and poignant journey, with the iPad version adding a body scanner and multi-touch control to the award-winning PC original.3909, £5.99Resident Evil HD, Xbox One, Xbox 360, PS3, PS4, PCThe original Resident Evil put you in the slightly sweaty boots of a special agent during a zombie outbreak, its claustrophobic camera angles, wilfully awkward controls and eerie sound effects conspiring to make it surprising and frightening. Although this HD remastering of the 2002 remake can no longer rely on shock value, its tense and interesting exploration offers up a couple of new areas and puzzles. It may be deliciously nostalgic but the awfulness of the controls is a lot less forgivable in 2015 than it was in 1996.Capcom, £15.99
A Toyota Yaris was my first and only car. I entered the dreary world of MOTs, road tax and parking tickets two years ago when I moved to Manchester to be the Guardian’s northern editor. Reluctantly accepting that I was no longer going to be able to cycle everywhere, I sought counsel on which model to buy. I wanted something small and reliable, but big enough to fit a bike in the back with the seats down. Ideally it would have one of those clever parking sensors which beeps like an increasingly frantic morse code machine when you’re about to back into someone’s bumper.A secondhand Yaris without the beeps was the compromise. Five doors, manual, petrol driven. I’ve never loved it. You can’t love a Yaris. It would be like loving socks or carrier bags. It does the job, traversing the M62, M6, A1 and Snake Pass in all weathers – but you can’t get too excited about it.The hybrid version looks much the same, with a few unwelcome additions. They’ve moved the speedo from the middle of the dash to behind the steering wheel, along with the clock, making both harder to read. And while the boot remains the same size, the seats don’t fold down to make one level surface, but an irritating two-tier arrangement. There’s a touchscreen analogue radio, which ought to be digital in this day and age. And what’s with this daft trend for having “on” buttons instead of key-driven ignitions, when you need a key fob to open the car? Pointless.I’ve always been irritated by how noisy my Yaris is on the motorway, and little has changed with the hybrid. It doesn’t have brilliant acceleration either, but cruised along at 70mph once we got there. It’s really a town car, which makes the hybrid a tricky sell at six grand more than its petrol equivalent. To get the cost savings you’d need to be doing decent mileage and it’s not a terribly good motorway vehicle. It is exempt from the London congestion charge, however, if you are foolish enough to own a car in the capital.Still, mine came with not only a parking sensor but a camera, which came into its own when reversing into the spot I’d usually drive straight past, filing under “not a chance, sunshine”. I’d taken my 84-year-old neighbour shopping, and had nipped into Max Spielmann to pick up Enid’s prints (she has an iPad but she’s not ready for digital photography). When I got back, she was sitting still as a statue in the passenger seat. “It started going by itself,” she said, “I decided not to move a muscle in case it lurched forward.” I saw what she meant when she popped in to a friend’s house while I waited outside, having put the automatic gear stick into “P” mode but not pressed the stupid power button. Suddenly it reared into life, giving me a right fright. I won’t be upgrading.Toyotal Yaris HybridPriceFrom £16,195 (mine was £17,890)Top speed103mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.8 secondsCombined fuel consumption85.6mpgCO2 emissions75g/kmEco rating7/10• Zoe Williams is away
Christopher Poole, the founder of the anarchic image-board site4chan, told users on Friday his retirement had been “a long time coming”.“This is it for me,” he said. “This is goodbye.”Addressing more than 40,000 people via a live YouTube broadcast, Poole, who is known as “Moot”, said he felt deeply proud of the community he created.On Wednesday, in a post on the front page of the site, Poole announced he would be moving on. “I look forward to one day returning to 4chan as its Admin Emeritus or just another Anonymous,” he wrote.“The journey has been marked by highs and lows, surprises and disappointments, but ultimately immense satisfaction. I’m humbled to have had the privilege of both founding and presiding over what is easily one of the greatest communities to ever grace the web.”Poole founded the site 11 and a half years ago, when he was 15. It quickly grew into one of the internet’s most influential – and chaotic – communities, spawning memes and jokes that spread far and wide. Today, it has a base of more than two million active users and more than 20 million “lurkers” every month.Related:White House rickrolls Twitter user who complains of 'dull' feedThe site has often proved controversial over its no-holds-barred approach to posts, especially in the /b/ (random) board. /b/, the site’s first forum, is infamous as the sweaty engine room of the internet; the dank primordial ooze from which most internet culture, at one point or other, emerged.Rickrolling – the now-infamous practice of tricking people into clicking alinkto Rick Astley’s Never Gonna Give You Up – originated here. So did LOLcats. Anonymous, the powerful hacktivist collective, is thought to have taken its name from the label that accompanies posts by users – known as “anons” on 4chan.4chan was also one of the sites at the centre of the leak of naked pictures of celebrities hacked from Apple’s iCloud in September. The month of the leak, Poole said, was a difficult one.Related:Gang of hackers behind nude celebrity photo leak routinely attacked iCloud“It took a toll,” he said. “We had close to a billion page views that month. I was completely overwhelmed.” He said he “got many a legal nastygram from firms representing the actresses, spent a shitload of time on the phone to lawyers” and spent tens of thousands of dollars in legal bills.He said he had been considering retiring long before that.One anon asked Poole if there was any board on the site he hated. “There are no boards I hate,” he said. “I find it’s very tiring to hate people on the internet.” Asked about his state of mind, Poole said that he had found “a kind of zen” and was “in a good place”.“For people who are angry on the internet,” he added, “I hope that one day you find the beauty in things.”On Wednesday, on /b/, a thread was started that called for tribute. “Let us all rejoice in this final calling to Moot”, the original poster wrote. Before the board disappeared, a chorus of anons had joined in joyous ululation – more than 63,000 shouts of “Moot!”It was a fitting fanfare.
Wikipedia’s arbitration committee, the highest user-run body on the site, has voted to ban a number of editors from making corrections to articles about feminism, in an attempt to stop a long-running edit war over the entry on the “Gamergate controversy”.The editors, who were all actively attempting to prevent the article from being rewritten with a pro-Gamergate slant, were sanctioned by “arbcom” in its preliminary decision. While that may change as it is finalised, the body, known as Wikipedia’s supreme court, rarely reverses its decisions.The sanction bars the editors from having anything to do with any articles covering Gamergate, but also from any other article about “gender or sexuality, broadly construed”.Editors who had been pushing for the Wikipedia article to be fairer to Gamergate have also been sanctioned by the committeeMark Bernstein, a writer and former Wikipedia editor, said that, “This takes care of social justice warriors with a vengeance — not only do the Gamergaters get to rewrite their own page (and Zoe Quinn’s, Brianna Wu’s, Anita Sarkeesian’s, etc); feminists are to be purged en bloc from the encyclopedia.”The conflict on the site began almost alongside Gamergate, a grassroots campaign broadly targeting alleged corruption in games journalism and perceived feminist influence in the videogame industry. Even the title of the article was fought over: Gamergate itself is taken by an article about a type of ant, leaving the article about video games to move to “Gamergate Controversy”.At one point, Wikipedia’s founder, Jimmy Wales,was drawn into the debate, telling a student who had emailed him over perceived bias in the article that “Gamergate has been permanently tarnished and hijacked by a handful of people who are not what you would hope.”Wales’ advice for Gamergate supporters who wanted to change the Wikipedia article was to be constructive, and present a vision for the article which they wanted to read rather than engage in a war with feminist editors who were trying to maintain their vision.Arbcom’s rulings don’t mean the war is over, but for some editors it’s still giving cause for concern. Abigail Brady, a former Wikipedia editor, left the site over its treatment of the page for whistleblower Chelsea Manning, which was kept under Manning’s old name, of Bradley Manning, for months after she came out as transgender.There’s a crossover between the two conflicts. One of the five editors banned from editing articles on gender had previously been an active edit-warrior in the debate over whether or not to move Manning’s page – but arguing against the move. He “was a major anti-Chelsea editor who then came out as false flagging,” Brady explains. In other words, he was arguing against moving the page in an emphatically hostile manner, in order to discredit the people genuinely holding that view.“I think what this shows is how poisonous Wikipedia politics has become,” Brady says. “It’s a game of provocation chicken, both sides try to work as close to the ill-defined edge of acceptable behaviour to provoke the other into crossing it.“All the arbcom does is play its part, it never looks at its role in creating that climate. And the wider Wikipedia community isn’t going to fix it because most of them are exactly the sort of toxic people who weren’t driven out.”The byzantine internal processes of Wikipedia are incomprehensible for many, but they serve to shape the content on the site,the seventh biggest on the internet. Its reportedly unpleasant internal culture and unwelcoming atmosphere for new editors has long been blamed for an overwhelmingly masculine make-up –just one in ten editors are thought to be female– which in turn contributes to which topics get featured on the site.Asthe Wikipedia article on Wikipedia’s systemic bias explains, “research suggests that the gender gap has a detrimental effect on content coverage: articles with particular interest to women tend to be shorter, even when controlling for variables that affect article length. Women typically perceive Wikipedia to be of lower quality than men do.”Updated on 28 January 2015:ArbCom issues statementIn the wake of the proposed decision, ArbCom released a statement reaffirming its intention to ensure that “the editing experience is civil”.“Our preliminary decision found that many contributors were in violation of English Wikipedia policies on user conduct,”the unsigned statement reads. “The proposed decision imposes broad sanctions against a wide range of individuals, however this decision is subject to change, and proposed sanctions have not taken effect. These sanctions are intended to allow the restoration of normal editing processes to the topic area and facilitate constructive contributions. Our investigation and findings do not pass judgment on the content or quality of the articles in question.“An accurate characterisation of the Arbitration Committee’s preliminary decision is as follows. The committee found that editors on various sides of the discussion violated community policies and guidelines on conduct. The committee’s preliminary decision currently includes broad recommendations for, and endorsements of, community sanctions and topic bans for editors on various sides of the dispute.”In a rare move, the Wikimedia Foundation, the non-profit which oversees Wikipedia as well as affiliated sites such as Wiktionary and Wikisource,also released a statement on the issue.Philippe Beaudette, Wikimedia’s director for community advocacy, said that the committee’s decision “is not a statement on who is right or wrong regarding theGamergate controversyarticle. It is not a referendum on whether Wikipedia supports or rejects feminists. The committee’s mandate is to uphold a civil, constructive atmosphere that furthers Wikipedia’s mission. At the Wikimedia Foundation, we support that objective and are taking active steps to create and maintain a civil atmosphere for editors of all backgrounds. We ask all our editors to do the same.”This article was amended on 28 January 2015. An earlier version gave the impression that the bans had been finalised, and a quotation suggested that no pro-gamergate editors had been banned from the site, and that no feminist editors remained active.Wikipedia: meet the man who has edited 3m articles
Teleportation has been the holy grail of transport for decades, ever since Mr Scott first beamed up Captain Kirk and his crew in the 1966 opening episode of Star Trek. Now the technology may have been cracked in real life … sort of.Scientists from the Hasso Plattner Institute in Potsdam have invented a real-life teleporter system that can scan in an object and “beam it” to another location.Not quite the dematerialisation and reconstruction of science fiction, the system relies on destructive scanning and 3D printing.An object at one end of the system is milled down layer-by-layer, creating a scan per layer which is then transmitted through an encrypted communication to a 3D printer. The printer then replicates the original object layer by layer, effectively teleporting an object from one place to another.Teleporting physical objects - Scotty in action.“We present a simple self-contained appliance that allows relocating inanimate physical objects across distance,” said the six person teamin a papersubmitted for the Tangible, Embedded and Embodied Interaction conference at Stanford University. “Users place an object into the sender unit, enter the address of a receiver unit, and press the relocate button.”The system dubbed “Scotty” in homage to the Enterprise’s much beleaguered chief engineer, differs from previous systems thatmerelycopy physical object as its layer-by-layer deconstruction and encrypted transmission ensures that only one copy of the object exists at any one time, according to the scientists.Real-world applications are pretty short for this kind of destruction and reconstruction. But the encryption, transmission and 3D printing objects could be key for companies wishing to sell goods via home 3D printers, ensuring only one copy could be made per purchase – effectively digital rights management for 3D printed objects.Those looking to cut their commute by simply beaming into the office will have to wait at least another decade or two.•Hey, McFly! Hoverboard available on Kickstarter for $10,000
What happens if a significant proportion of all the web traffic in China gets directed to one server? Perhaps unsurprisingly, the answer is “that server dies a rapid death”.Craig Hockenberry, the senior software engineer for developers Iconfactory, in the small university town of Greensboro, North Carolina, learned that the hard way. On Tuesday, he woke up to discover that the main server for his company was receiving around 13,000 requests per second, “about a third of Google’s global search traffic” – and all the traffic was coming from IP addresses located in China.“There was also a lot of requests that looked like they were intended for CDNs, YouTube, Facebook, Twitter and other places that were not the Iconfactory,”Hockenberry said. “Clearly there was some kind problem with traffic being routed to the wrong place. The most likely candidate would, of course, be DNS.”DNS (Domain Name System) is the system which translates web addresses, such as google.com, into an IP address, such as 74.125.224.72/. A network requires the latter to actually access a website, but if the look-up system gets confused, it can give the wrong IP address – which appears to be what happened in the Iconfactory’s case. Except that rather than one DNS server messing up, it was the server for the whole of China.Hockenberry reports that in the end, he was forced to block all traffic coming from China in order to keep the site up and running. “I’m a big believer in the power of an open and freely accessible internet: I don’t take blocking traffic from innocent people lightly. But in this case, it’s the only thing that worked.“If you get a DDOS like what I’ve described above, this should be the first thing you do.”He believes his site isn’t the only one to be hit. “Other site owners are seeingsimilar behaviourstarting in early January. I took some comfort in knowing thatwe weren’t alone… But at the end of the day, every machine in China has the potential be a part of a massive DDOS attack on innocent sites. As my colleagueSeanquipped, ‘They have weaponised their entire population.’”From the point of view of a Chinese netizen, the DNS error which took down the Iconfactory’s server was an hours-long outage. TheRegister reportsthat a similar error left users “unable to visit websites or use social media and instant messaging services as a result.”Many experts see the DNS infrastructure as a vital weak point of the internet. The EFF warns that “when it is compromised or censored, users will have difficulty accessing certain sites and domains, unless, in some instances, they can use alternate DNS servers and proxies”.In early 2014,Facebook’s URL was taken overby the Syrian Electronic Army after they attacked the DNS servers and redirected lookups to their own address.
The owner of the mobile network Three has confirmed it is in exclusive negotiations to acquire O2 UK from Spanish telco Telefonica.The deal for £10.25bn in cash, including an initial amount of £9.25bn followed by a deferred £1bn, blocks Sky’s reported bids for the network and will make the combined Three and O2 operator the biggest in the UK with a 41% share of the market.“O2 and Three in exclusive talks to create UK customer champion,” saidO2 UK chief executive Ronan Dunne.“The deal remains subject to satisfactory due diligence over O2 UK, agreement on terms, signing of definitive agreements, and obtaining required corporate and regulatory approvals,” said a Hutchison Whampoa spokesperson.‘Win-win for both companies’The merger will make the Hong Kong-based tycoon Li Ka-shing and his conglomerate one of the biggest foreign investors in the UK. The resulting operator will swell from Three’s 7.5 million customers to 31.5 million with the addition of O2, ahead of both EE and Vodafone.Three made a similar deal in Ireland, where O2 Ireland was merged into the Three Ireland brand, which puts a question mark over the future of the O2 brand in the UK. In Ireland O2 was the smaller partner, but in the UK O2 is was the second biggest operator after EE.“The agreement is a win-win for both companies which were looking increasingly vulnerable as pure-play mobile operators in a market rapidly transitioning towards multi-play,” said Kester Mann analyst for research company CCS Insight.Pure-play operators only sell mobile services, while multi-play operators sell other services such as TV as well.As the deal will see the number of operators in the UK reduced from four to three, it will be subject to significant regulatory scrutiny. The UK’s telecoms watchdog Ofcom will likely play a role, but the European Commission is expected to make the final decision.“Having agreed a similar deal in Germany last year, it may have set a precedent that could see the deal receive the green light, albeit with significant concessions,” said Mann. “One possible scenario is that the new company is forced to open its network to virtual providers. This could offer an opportunity for Sky, which lacks a mobile presence.”Consolidation and ‘quadplay’The merger is just one of a wave of consolidation across the European telecoms industry, where reducing operator margins and regulatory pressure has seen major industry players strive to maintain customers and generate additional revenue.Many have rushed to compete with bundled packages providing broadband, landline, mobile and pay TV or “quadplay”, which promises to attract subscribers with savings on other services beyond mobile or landline phones.BT’s move back into the mobile phone operator market with its purchase of EE for £12.5bn has put pressure on Virgin Media and TalkTalk, both of which already offered quadplay with mobile service running on either EE’s or Vodafone’s networks.Europe has been approving consolidation with caveats as the price paid for the rise of 4G and the investment required in building out the new mobile and broadband infrastructure to support increasing bandwidth demands.The challenge facing the Commission and regional regulators in ensuring consolidation results in investment in the networks, rather than cost savings propelling rising profits, and maintenance of competitive pricing for consumers.“The deal might not necessarily be good news for consumers,” said Mann. “Evidence in other European markets shows that mobile tariffs tend to rise following in-market consolidation. Regulators will be keen to ensure this is not the case in the UK.”“Three is known for campaigning on behalf of its customers, much like O2. We are confident that an agreement will mutually benefit the customers of both companies, as well as drive better value, quality and investment in one of the most digitally competitive countries in the world,” said an O2 spokesperson.•Wave of merger mania could change the face of UK telecoms industry
It’s time. From the four corners of the globe they come. The orcs, the elves, the goblins. Drawn, as though by a mage, to this annual Blood Bowl extravaganza. The Blood Bowl live draw.No one really knows what it is, or what everyone is doing there, but by the Dwarven hammer of Glatchlocx, something will be drawn today and lives will never be the same again.They shall whisper of this day through the ages. Be strong, draw well.
Musician Zöe Keating has criticised YouTube for threatening to block her channel unless she signs up to new terms covering its recently-launchedYouTube Music Keyservice.Keating is one of the most prominent artists releasing music herself, rather than through a label. She is therefore not covered by a deal between YouTube and indie labels licensing agency Merlin, which was signed in 2014 following asimilar dispute over contractual terms for Music Key.“My Google Youtube rep contacted me the other day. They were nice and took time to explain everything clearly to me, but the message was firm: I have to decide. I need to sign on to the new Youtube music services agreement or I will have my Youtube channel blocked,”wrote Keating in a blog post outlining her concerns.Keating’s YouTube channel has 19 videos with a total of just under 520,000 views since she joined the service in 2007.However, her blogpost explains that she also uses YouTube’s “content ID” system to get a credit and sometimes a share of ad revenues from the nearly 10,000 videos uploaded by other people that feature her music.Those videos were watched 250,000 times in the last month alone, according to Keating, who claims YouTube has told her she will lose the ability to use content ID if her channel is blocked.She also sets out the terms that she is being asked to sign up to for Music Key:1) All of my catalogue must be included in both the free and premium music service. Even if I don’t deliver all my music, because I’m a music partner, anything that a 3rd party uploads with my info in the description will be automatically included in the music service too.2) All songs will be set to “montetise”, meaning there will be ads on them.3) I will be required to release new music on Youtube at the same time I release it anywhere else. So no more releasing to my core fans first on Bandcamp and then on iTunes.4) All my catalogue must be uploaded at high resolution, according to Google’s standard which is currently 320 kbps.5) The contract lasts for 5 years.Keating adds that she had a phone call with YouTube in 2014 to discuss her concerns when its plans for Music Key were first announced, and did not enjoy the experience.“The meeting was similar to one I had with DA Wallach of Spotify a couple years ago. Similar in that I got the sense that no matter how I explained my hands-on fan-supported anti-corporate niche thing, I was an alien to them. I don’t think they understood me at all,” she writes.Keating worked as a software developer in San Francisco earlier in her career, which she believes gives her an insight into the approach of technology companies like Spotify and YouTube that is far from a luddite’s distrust of the new.She sells musicdirectly from her own page on Bandcamp, and has regularlypublished details of her digital earningswith the aim of sparking more debate about what changing digital music business models mean for musicians.“A lot of people in the music industry talk about Google as evil. I don’t think they are evil. I think they, like other tech companies, are just idealistic in a way that works best for them. I think this because I used to be one of them,” she wrote.“The people who work at Google, Facebook, etc can’t imagine how everything they make is not, like, totally awesome. If it’s not awesome for you it’s because you just don’t understand it yet and you’ll come around.They can’t imagine scenarios outside their reality and that is how they inadvertently unleash things like the algorithmic cruelty of Facebook’s yearly review (which showed me a picture I had posted after a doctor told me my husband had 6-8 weeks to live).”In her blogpost, Keating indicates she is in two minds over whether to accept the terms offered by YouTube, or let it block her channel.The Guardian understands that YouTube’s policy is not to block or remove artists’ channels if they do not agree to its Music Key terms. They can still upload videos, but they cannot make money from advertising around them, nor can they claim third-party videos that include their music via the content ID system.Keating would still be able to get those tracks removed if she chose, but without content ID she would have to first find them herself, and then submit individual “takedown” requests for each video – a time-consuming process, especially for a self-released artist.YouTube also says that artists who sign up to its Music Key service remain free to release music earlier on other platforms, although this appears to contradict the terms that Keating has blogged about receiving.•How digital music companies can win over artists: ‘Just include us’
The current wave of interest in virtual reality technology may be fuelled by games, but Vice News is hoping that VR can play a role in news broadcasting too.The online broadcaster has teamed up with digital artist Chris Milk and filmmaker Spike Jonze for a “virtual reality news broadcast” filmed at December’s Millions March protest rally in New York.Initially delivered via Milk’s ownVRSE app for iPhone and Android smartphones, the Vice News VR: Millions March film was shot using a 360-degree camera system that followed Vice News correspondent Alice Speri through the march, which came after thedeath of Eric Garnerwhile he was being arrested by police.Viewers can watch the film on their smartphones, including slotting the devices in to Google Cardboard virtual reality headsets for a fuller VR experience. Vice News says that the film will eventually be available for other headsets too – for example, the Facebook-owned Oculus Rift.Gimmick? Not according to Jonze, who is creative director at Vice News’ parent company alongside his cinema projects. “Chris and I have been talking a lot about the possibilities and future of VR filmmaking over the last year,”said Jonzeas the app went live.“One of the areas we are excited about is documentary and news, to create the experience of being there in the middle of events that are happening.”Milk is no stranger to the technology, having shot a concert by musician Beck and released it as a VR film –Hello, Again– for Oculus Rift. He’s planning to work with Vice News on more “VR journalism” projects, with Vice having invested in his company VRSE.farm.“If you combine their tenacity with the immersive power of virtual reality, what you get is an intense connection between audience and story,” said Milk. “My hope is that VR is the tool we need to stir more compassion for one another. I think VR holds the potential to fundamentally change journalism.•Toyota Oculus Rift app uses VR to explain distracted driving•Disabled boy learns to play piano with his eyes using VR headset•Paul McCartney launches free virtual-reality concert app
In a rebuke to a legion of online supporters and what the journalist and one-time member of Anonymous called a “dangerous precedent”, Barrett Brown was sentenced to 63 months in prison by a federal judge in Dallas on Thursday.Brown’s backers from across the web had hoped he would be able to walk free with his 31 months of time served for what they insist was “merely linking to hacked material”. But the 33-year-old, who was once considered something of a spokesman for the Anonymous movement, will face more than twice that sentence. The judge also ordered him to pay more than $890,000 in restitution and fines.In a statement released after his sentencing, Brown was sarcastically upbeat: “Good news!” he wrote. “The US government decided today that because I did such a good job investigating the cyber-industrial complex, they’re now going to send me to investigate the prison-industrial complex.”Kevin Gallagher, the director of the Free Barrett Brown campaign, whom Brown personally singled out for thanks in his pre-sentencing statement, told the Guardian that his first reaction was that the judge had got it wrong. “I was shocked and disappointed,” he said.At one point, Brown was facing a possible combined sentence of over 100 years. But after prosecutors dropped several charges against him following a plea deal, Brown’s sentencing parameters were reduced.Gallagher warned that the long sentence would nonetheless set a precedent for journalists. “Basically,” he said, “if you share a link to publicly available material without knowing what’s in it – maybe it could contain stolen credit card info – you could be prosecuted.”“Any journalist that uses hackers as sources is extremely chilled by this,” Gallagher added.Gallagher said that he spoke to Brown on Wednesday and found him in high spirits. “We thought he’d get between 30 and 40 months,” he said. “I think he’s just as upset as we are.”An investigative journalist, essayist and satirist who has written for the Onion, Vanity Fair and the Huffington Post,as well as for the Guardian, Brown claims to have split with Anonymous in 2011, and the leaderless structure of the collective makes the idea of a “spokesman” difficult to even imagine.Related:Barrett Brown statement: 'This is not the rule of law, it is the rule of law enforcement'Brown also founded Project PM, a crowdsourced investigative thinktank dedicated to looking into abuses by companies in the area of surveillance.In September 2012, Brown was arrested by the FBI for allegedly threatening a federal agent in a video posted to YouTube. In October 2012, after being held for two weeks without charge, he was indicted on charges of making an online threat, retaliating against a federal officer and conspiring to release personal information about a government employee.Two months later, he was indicted on 12 further charges related to the hacking of private intelligence contractor Stratfor in 2011.Jeremy Hammond, the hacker who actually carried out the Stratfor breach, was sentenced to the maximum possible 10 years. Writing for the Guardian from prison in December, Hammond bemoaned that Brown“continues to await his sentencing for merelylinkingto hacked material”.Brown, who was accused of sharing a link to the data Hammond obtained from the breach (as well as several further indictments related to withholding or hiding evidence and obstructing the FBI), at one point faced a possible sentence of 105 years.He will reportedly be eligible for supervised release after one year, and once released will have his computer equipment monitored. The $890,250 in restitution payments will go to Stratfor and other companies targeted by Anonymous. He will pay $225 in fines.Ladar Levison, who ran the Lavabit email service used by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden, was in court for the verdict. Levison shut down his service rather than hand over the encrypted keys to Lavabit to the FBI.Levison told the Guardian he was galled by the sentence. “It’s the type of verdict which leads honorable men to take up the quill and pen strong statements. I fear that for some people words will not be sufficient,” he said.In his statement to the judge before his sentencing, Brown expressed regret for posting the threatening videos which led to his arrest, calling them “idiotic” and reiterated his defence’s contention that he made them in a manic state brought on by drug withdrawal.But he also criticised the government’s methods in pursuing his case, and expressed concern that contributors to Project PM might be “indicted under the same spurious charges” as he had been.In his statement following the judge’s ruling, Brown struck a different tone. “For the next 35 months,” he said, “I’ll be provided with free food, clothes and housing as I seek to expose wrondgoing by Bureau of Prisons officials and staff and otherwise report on news and culture in the world’s greatest prison system.”This article was amended to reflect Brown’s prison sentence to date. He has served 31 months, not 28.
The sight of people hurriedly crisscrossing streets, hopping from one foot to the other and clutching their crotches could become a thing of the past.A new app calledAirpnpclaims to have solved the age-old problem of needing to urinate at short notice by imitating the model of the better-known appAirbnbto connect people to facilities, sometimes for a small price.For Airpnp, this means allowing toilet owners to advertise their toilets to people who might need to use a toilet, potentially solving a problem everyone can empathise with – especially those with children or elderly relatives.So does it work? Yes, in the sense that the app is functional and displays bathrooms, some with pictures. No, in the sense that there seem to be very few bathrooms actually available for use.There was nothing within a mile radius of the Guardian’s New York office, for example. (Our office does, thankfully, have bathrooms of its own.)Airpnp: a feline might watch you pee.Photograph: AirpnpIndeed, in New York City as a whole, there is only a grand total of 16 toilets available on Airpnp. Bladders can hardly breathe a sigh of relief just yet.So far, at least in New York, Airpnp seems to function in many cases as a public service to advise people on where they can urinate for free.“There is a restroom on the lower level, to the right behind where you come down the escalator. It’s moderately clean,”ryandpaul advisedof a spot in the Flatiron district; the restroom was at a Home Depot. Jon G was another user posting a “$0” location: thebathrooms at Paragon Sports. Sweetpe184 continuedthe anarchic theme: Speedy’s has a “secret bathroom downstairs!” they advised. “Two stalls. Pretty clean.”Haziq L, on the other hand, had a rather optimistically pricedbathroom, at $1,000 per visit. “It’s a bathroom with a toilet, toilet paper, sink, and paper towels,” he bragged.In Queens, Ramon Q advertisedhis bathroom– “Lil Ray Ray’s Humble Abode” – for a mere $1, but as so often is the case, there is a hidden cost attached. Here, it was potentially having to converse with Lil Ray Ray. “You are welcome to come use the bathroom and stay to chat. Refreshments provided.”Airpnp – then just a website – was launched at last year’s Mardi Gras carnival in New Orleans. One of Airpnp’s founders, Max Gaudin, claimedin a blogpostthat they ended up with 40 residences on offer for attendees: from “port-a-potties to marble-lined porcelain paradises”.Co-founder Travis Laurendinetold the New York Postthat the app’s most popular cities were New Orleans and Antwerp. So far, there are 28 listed bathrooms in New Orleans and too many to count in Antwerp – but only six in the whole of the UK.Interestingly, one of the toilets posted in New Orleans is advertised as “Jason Williams for City Council member-at-large”. It seems that for no cost, Big Easy visitors or residents may do as they wish inWilliams’ “high quality” bathrooms. You do not necessarily even have tovote for him.
A new UN agency for data protection and data security is needed to protect the confidential and personal information of citizens around the world, the European commissioner for digital economy told delegates at the World Economic Forum on Thursday.Günther Oettinger said the recent Sony hack, which exposed swaths of confidential and personal information, had shown Europe the need to radically reshape the way data is used.“We are in a digital revolution, and we need a data revolution in parallel,” Oettinger said in a panel alongside Sir Tim Berners Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, and Yahoo’s boss, Marissa Mayer. He said the stream of revelations following Sony’s data breach had shown that Brussels must take a lead in restoring trust in tech companies.Edward Snowden’s revelations about the extent to which government agencies have been intercepting their citizens’ digital communications have pushed data security high up the agenda at Davos this year.Mayer told Davos that Yahoo had immediately changed the way it handled and encrypted data when the Snowden revelations came to light. Asked how Yahoo would handle a request for data access from an oppressive regime, she replied: “What we have seen from the Snowden allegations is that whether they’re coming through the official channels or not to access the data, they’re accessing the data.”Berners-Lee said that the battle between privacy and security should not be a pendulum, swinging between giving agencies yet more or less access to data. At the moment, he warned, there is no way of testing what someone does with data if granted permission to obtain it through the courts.“I want to break out of that pendulum,” he said. “So let’s go down the way of accountability, so we can say yes, you can have the data, but I’m going to talk to the people who are overseeing you about how you use it.”Berners-Lee told delegates that the tech industry needed to pay more attention to whether its actions were actually good for users. He cited the example of applications that sprung up to let iPhone users turn on the flashlight. Many would then immediately request access to other applications to access data.“Their whole model is to steal data, and build models, and not help you at all,” Berners-Lee said. But the man who created the first protocols that underpin the web more than 25 years ago warned that a new architecture would be needed to guarantee privacy.Oettinger said the first priority was to ensure that companies and organisations in Europe were properly transparent, before then pushing on for a credible global common understanding on the issue. “We need a UN agency for data protection and data security,” he declared.Oettinger outlined a two-pronged approach, where governments implement clear, pragmatic regulation, and the technology industry designs products that actually guarantee users’ privacy.Michael Fries, the president and CEO of cable giant Liberty Global, questioned Oettinger’s vision for a new global deal on data.“It is not possible in the near term. I think it’s going to take several years,” Fries warned.Bosses of technology companies also asserted that there was a social good for technology. Sheryl Sandberg, the boss of Facebook, said technology “gives voice to someone who has traditionally not had that”. She said giving women access to technology in developing countries was more beneficial than men as they passed the knowledge on to their children.“Women will not have the same opportunity to participate as men, it takes an active and different role than we’ve had before,” she said to applause. But, she said the only way to make access available was to make it cheaper. “Sixty percent of the internet today is not in English,” she said, which showed that it lacked diversity.Eric Schmidt, the chief executive of Google, said improving broadband, and making it more accessible, would solve “almost all of the problems we face”.
When one of my cousins died, I didn’t hear about it until months later. I was sad about this, because we had played together as children. So why not compose a posthumous email entitled “I have died”, to be sent to everyone in my address book? Perhaps it will become the fashion? At the bottom left-hand corner of my desktop my executors will find the file. As to what it says, you are going to have to wait and see. I was inspired to write it after an incident in the remotest Congo in which I had taken off in a tiny plane, whereupon its windscreen had become covered in oil, causing the pilot had to stick his head out of the window and land in a very great hurry. He had left the cap off the sump of his engine. A vivid intimation of mortality. We need to adapt our traditions to the opportunities of new technology.Maurice KingLeeds
The allocution I give today is going to be a bit different from the sort that usually concludes a sentencing hearing, because this is an unusual case touching upon unusual issues. It is also a very public case, not only in the sense that it has been followed closely by the public, but also in the sense that it has implications for the public, and even in the sense that the public has played a major role, because, of course, the great majority of the funds for my legal defense was donated by the public. And so now I have three duties that I must carry out. I must express my regret, but I must also express my gratitude. And I also have to take this opportunity to ensure that the public understands what has been at stake in this case, and why it has proceeded in the way that it has. Because, of course, the public didn’t simply pay for my defense through its donations, they also paid for my prosecution through its tax dollars. And the public has a right to know what it is paying for. And Your Honor has a need to know what he is ruling on.First I will speak of regret. Like nearly all federal defendants, I hope to convince Your Honor that I sincerely regret some of the things that I have done. I don’t think anyone doubts that I regret quite a bit about my life including some of the things that brought me here today. Your Honor has the Acceptance of Responsibility document that my counsel submitted to you. Every word of it was sincere. The videos were idiotic, and although I made them in a manic state brought on by sudden withdrawal from Paxil and Suboxone, and while distraught over the threats to prosecute my mother, that’s still me in those YouTube clips talking nonsense about how the FBI would never take me alive. Likewise, I didn’t have the right to hide my files from the FBI during a lawful investigation, and I would’ve had a better chance of protecting my contacts in foreign countries if I had pursued the matter in the courts after the raid, rather than stupidly trying to hide those laptops in the kitchen cabinet as my mother and I did that morning. And with regard to the accessory after the fact charge relating to my efforts to redact sensitive emails after the Stratfor hack, I’ve explained to Your Honor that I do not want to be a hypocrite. If I criticize the government for breaking the law but then break the law myself in an effort to reveal their wrongdoing, I should expect to be punished just as I’ve called for the criminals at government-linked firms like HBGary and Palantir to be punished. When we start fighting crime by any means necessary we become guilty of the same hypocrisy as law enforcement agencies throughout history that break the rules to get the villains, and so become villains themselves.I’m going to say a few more words about my regrets in a moment, but now I’m going to get to the unusual part of the allocution. I’m going to make some criticisms of the manner in which the government has pursued this case. Normally this sort of thing is left to one’s lawyers rather than the defendant, because to do otherwise runs the risk of making the defendant seem combative rather than contrite. But I think Your Honor can walk and chew bubble gum at the same time. I think Your Honor understands that one can regret the unjust things one has done, while also being concerned about the unjust things that have been done to him. And based on certain statements that Your Honor has made, as well as one particular ruling, I have cause to believe that Your Honor will understand and perhaps even sympathize with the unusual responsibility I have which makes it necessary that I point out some things very briefly.I do so with respect to Your Honor. I also do it for selfish reasons, because I want to make absolutely certain that Your Honor is made aware that the picture the government has presented to you is a false one. But it is also my duty to make this clear as this case does not just affect me. Even aside from the several First Amendment issues that have already been widely discussed as a result of this case, there is also the matter of the dozens of people around the world who have contributed to my distributed think tank, Project PM, by writing for our public website, echelon2.org. Incredibly, the government has declared these contributors – some of them journalists – to be criminals, and participants in a criminal conspiracy. As such, the government sought from this court a subpoena by which to obtain the identities of all of our contributors. Your Honor denied that motion and I am very grateful to Your Honor for having done so. Unfortunately the government thereafter went around Your Honor and sought to obtain these records by other means. So now the dozens of people who have given their time and expertise to what has been hailed by journalists and advocacy groups as a crucial journalistic enterprise are now at risk of being indicted under the same sort of spurious charges that I was facing not long ago, when the government exposed me to decades of prison time for copying and pasting a link to a publicly available file that other journalists were also linking to without being prosecuted. The fact that the government has still asked you to punish me for that link is proof, if any more were needed, that those of us who advocate against secrecy are to be pursued without regard for the rule of law, or even common decency.Your Honor, I understand that this is my sentencing hearing and not an inquiry into the government’s conduct. This is not the place to go into the dozens of demonstrable errors and contradictions to be found in the government’s documentation, and the testimony by the government. But it would be hypocritical of me to protest the government’s conduct and not provide Your Honor with an example. I will do so very briefly. At the September 13th bond hearing, held in Magistrate Judge Stickney’s court the day after my arrest, Special Agent Allyn Lynd took the stand and claimed under oath that in reviewing my laptops he had found discussions in which I admit having engaged in, quote, “SWATting”, unquote, which he referred to as, quote, “violent activity”, unquote. Your Honor may not be familiar with the term SWATting; as Mr. Lynd described it at the hearing it is, quote, “where they try to place a false 911 call to the residence of an individual in order to endanger that individual.” He went on at elaborate length about this, presenting it as a key reason why I should not receive bond. Your Honor will have noted that this has never come up again. This is because Mr. Lynd’s claims were entirely untrue. But that did not stop him from making that claim, any more than it stopped him from claiming that I have lived in the Middle East, a region I have never actually had the pleasure of visiting.Your Honor, this is just one example from a single hearing. But if Your Honor can extrapolate from that, Your Honor can probably get a sense of how much value can be placed on the rest of the government’s testimony in this case. Likewise, Your Honor can probably understand the concerns I have about what my contributors might be subjected to by the government if this sort of behavior proves effective today. Naturally I hope Your Honor will keep this in mind, and I hope that other judges in this district will as well, because, again, there remains great concern that my associates will be the next to be indicted.I’ve tried to protect my contributors, Your Honor, and I’ve also tried to protect the public’s right to link to source materials without being subject to misuse of the statutes. Last year, when the government offered me a plea bargain whereby I would plead to just one of the eleven fraud charges related to the linking, and told me it was final, I turned it down. To have accepted that plea, with a two-year sentence, would have been convenient. Your Honor will note that I actually did eventually plea to an accessory charge carrying potentially more prison time – but it would have been wrong. Even aside from the obvious fact that I did not commit fraud, and thus couldn’t sign on to any such thing, to do so would have also constituted a dangerous precedent, and it would have endangered my colleagues each of whom could now have been depicted as a former associate of a convicted fraudster. And it would have given the government, and particularly the FBI, one more tool by which to persecute journalists and activists whose views they find to be dangerous or undesirable.Journalists are especially vulnerable right now, Your Honor, and they become more so when the FBI feels comfortable making false claims about them. And in response to our motion to dismiss the charges of obstruction of justice based on the hiding of my laptops, the government claimed that those laptops contained evidence of a plot I orchestrated to attack the Kingdom of Bahrain on the orders of Amber Lyon. Your Honor, Amber Lyon is a journalist and former CNN reporter, who I do know and respect, but I can assure Your Honor that I am not in the habit of attacking Gulf state monarchies on her behalf. But I think it’s unjust of them to use this court to throw out that sort of claim about Miss Lyon in a public filing as they did if they’re not prepared to back it up. And they’re not prepared to back it up. But that won’t stop the Kingdom of Bahrain from repeating this groundless assertion and perhaps even using it to keep Miss Lyon out of the country – because she has indeed reported on the Bahraini monarchy’s violent crackdowns on pro-democracy protests in that country, and she has done so from that country. And if she ever returns to that country to continue that important work, she’ll now be subject to arrest on the grounds that the United States Department of Justice itself has explicitly accused her of orchestrating an attack on that country’s government.Your Honor, this is extraordinary. Miss Lyon isn’t the only journalist that’s been made less secure legally by this prosecution. Every journalist in the United States is put at risk by the novel, and sometimes even radical, claims that the government has introduced in the course of the sentencing process. The government asserts that I am not a journalist and thus unable to claim the First Amendment protections guaranteed to those engaged in information-gathering activities. Your Honor, I’ve been employed as a journalist for much of my adult life, I’ve written for dozens of magazines and newspapers, and I’m the author of two published and critically-acclaimed books of expository non-fiction. Your Honor has received letters from editors who have published my journalistic work, as well as from award-winning journalists such as Glenn Greenwald, who note that they have used that work in their own articles. If I am not a journalist, then there are many, many people out there who are also not journalists, without being aware of it, and who are thus as much at risk as I am.Your Honor, it would be one thing if the government were putting forth some sort of standard by which journalists could be defined. They have not put forth such a standard. Their assertion rests on the fact that despite having referred to myself as a journalist hundreds of times, I at one point rejected that term, much in the same way that someone running for office might reject the term “politician”. Now, if the government is introducing a new standard whereby anyone who once denies being a particular thing is no longer that thing in any legal sense, then that would be at least a firm and knowable criteria. But that’s not what the government is doing in this case. Consider, for instance, that I have denied being a spokesperson for Anonymous hundreds of times, both in public and private, ever since the press began calling me that in the beginning of 2011. So on a couple of occasions when I contacted executives of contracting firms like Booz Allen Hamilton in the wake of revelations that they’d been spying on my associates and me for reasons that we were naturally rather anxious to determine, I did indeed pretend to be such an actual official spokesman for Anonymous, because I wanted to encourage these people to talk to me. Which they did.Of course, I have explained this many, many times, and the government itself knows this, even if they’ve since claimed otherwise. In the September 13th criminal complaint filed against me, the FBI itself acknowledges that I do not claim any official role within Anonymous. Likewise, in last month’s hearing, the prosecutor accidentally slipped and referred to me as a journalist, even after having previously found it necessary to deny me that title. But, there you have it. Deny being a spokesperson for Anonymous hundreds of times, and you’re still a spokesperson for Anonymous. Deny being a journalist once or twice, and you’re not a journalist. What conclusion can one draw from this sort of reasoning other than that you are whatever the FBI finds it convenient for you to be at any given moment. This is not the “rule of law”, Your Honor, it is the “rule of law enforcement”, and it is very dangerous.Your Honor, I am asking you to give me a time-served sentence of thirty months today because to do otherwise will have the effect of rewarding this sort of reckless conduct on the part of the government. I am also asking for that particular sentence because, as my lawyer Marlo Cadeddu, an acknowledged expert on the guidelines, has pointed out, that’s what the actual facts of the case would seem to warrant. And the public, to the extent that it has made its voice heard through letters and donations and even op-eds in major newspapers, also believes that the circumstances of this case warrant that I be released today. I would even argue that the government itself believes that the facts warrant my release today, because look at all the lies they decided they would have to tell to keep me in prison.I thank you for your indulgence, Your Honor, and I want to conclude by thanking everyone who supported me over the last few years. I need to single out one person in particular, Kevin Gallagher, who contributed to my Project PM group, and who stepped up immediately after my arrest to build up a citizens’ initiative by which to raise money for my defense, and to spread the word about what was at stake in this case. For the two and a half years of my incarceration, Kevin has literally spent the bulk of his free time in working to give me my life back. He is one of the extraordinary people who have given of themselves to make possible this great and beautiful movement of ours, this movement to protect activists and journalists from secretive and extra-legal retaliation by powerful corporate actors with ties to the state. Your Honor, Kevin Gallagher is not a relative of mine, or a childhood friend. This is only the third time I’ve been in the same room with him. Nonetheless, he has dedicated two years of his life to ensure that I had the best possible lawyers on this case, and to ensure that the press understood what was at stake here. Your Honor, he set up something on Amazon.com whereby I could ask for books on a particular subject and supporters could buy them and have them sent to me. And he spoke to my mother several times a week. During that early period when I was facing over a hundred years worth of charges, and it wasn’t clear whether or not I would be coming home, he would offer support and reassurance to her, an effort that I will never be able to repay. He knows how much I regret the pain and heartbreak that my family has suffered throughout this ordeal.A few weeks ago, Kevin got a job at the Freedom of The Press Foundation, one of the world’s most justifiably respected advocacy organizations. And, according to the government, he is also a member of a criminal organization, because, like dozens of journalists and activists across the world, he has been a contributor to Project PM, and the government has declared Project PM to be a criminal enterprise. I think that the government is wrong about Kevin, Your Honor, but that is not why I’ve brought him up. And although I am very glad for the opportunity to express my gratitude to him in a public setting, there are some gifts for which conventional gratitude is an insufficient payment. One can only respond to such gifts by working to become the sort of person that actually deserves to receive them. A thank-you will not suffice, and so I am not bringing him up here merely to thank him. Instead, I am using him in my defense. Your Honor, this very noble person, this truly exemplary citizen of the republic who takes his citizenship seriously rather than taking it for granted, knows pretty much everything there is to know about me – my life, my past, my work, from the things I’ve done and the things I’ve left undone, to the things I should not have done to begin with – and he has given himself over to the cause of freeing me today. He is the exact sort of person I tried to recruit for the crucial work we do at Project PM. I am so proud to have someone like him doing so much for me.Your Honor, the last thing I will say in my own defense is that so many people like Kevin Gallagher have worked so hard on my behalf. And having now said all those things that I felt the need to say, I respectfully accept Your Honor’s decision in my sentencing.Thank you.
If you didn’t play with theSodaconstructorwebsite in the early years of this century, you were probably getting some proper work done.Launched by British creative agency Soda in 1998, it was an online physics simulator where people could create, play with and share virtual models made of masses and springs.The site won a BAFTA Best Interactive Art award in 2001, with nearly 300,000 users creating just under 1m models using the site since then. Now its creators want to relaunch it as an app for Android and iOS devices.Soda has built a “proof of concept version” of Sodaconstructor as native and web apps for modern mobile devices, and isseeking £25,000 on crowdfunding website Kickstarterto finish it off and import that million-model database into it.Why? To stop them being lost to current and future generations of internet users. “The game runs on Java, and is slowly losing compatibility with modern browsers due to Java’s security issues,” explains its Kickstarter listing. “Unless we act now, Sodaconstructor will soon become unusable!”If successful, the new app will be launched under Soda’s umbrella Sodaplay brand, which also includes racing simulation Sodarace and children’s creativity site Moovl.Soda will make the iOS and HTML5 versions of Sodaconstructor, but the company has also set “stretch goals” including a native Android version of that, and new versions of Sodarace and Moovl if it raises more than £25,000.Other stretch goals include customised educational versions for children, new learning and physics simulations, and “a virtual world of free ranging Sodaplay models”.“We see a bright future for Sodaplay and have a rough roadmap for how we are are going to build on our achievements and educate and entertain large new audiences,” explained the company in the Kickstarter listing.•Quirkbot helps kids build hackable robots – from drinking straws•British ‘nano drone’ Zano reaches £2m of Kickstarter crowdfunding
Google and O2 have joined Microsoft and IBM in a government drive to train primary school teachers who will deliver England’s new computing curriculum.Education secretary Nicky Morgan announced five new training projects during her keynote speech at the BETT education technology conference in London, along with the £3.1m of funding already announced for training schemes by the British Computing Society and Computing At School.Google is co-funding a consortium led by Queen Mary University to publish 16,000 booklets on “computing-related thinking” for teachers, as well as developing the University of Oxford’sTurtle Systemtool to teach programming.Google is matching the Department for Education’s £25,000 contribution to the project, as well as funding computing teacher-training scholarships for the same amount alongside Microsoft, IBM and Facebook.O2, meanwhile, is providing £50,000 of funding – also matched by the Department for Education – for a new system of badges to reward teachers who develop their skills in teaching programming.It might be the first example of the technology industry’s enthusiasm for “gamification” making its way into the education system. “To claim badges teachers will have to complete badge missions tasks and challenges contained within a badge and upload evidence of their skill development,” the department said.The other three projects include Raspberry Pi matching £42,000 of DfE funding for Our Lady’s Catholic High School’s programme of events for computing teachers; a computer science training program run by the Titan Partnership; and a massive open online course (MOOC) from the Centre for Educational Consultancy and Development at Oxford Brookes University.“We know a significant number of jobs in the future will be in the tech industry, which is why we are committed to supporting tech companies to connect with our schools - preparing young people to succeed in the global race,” Morgan said.Education secretary Nicky Morgan.Photograph: Ben Stansall/AFP“I am delighted that once again top industry experts have taken an active role in helping develop these projects, and I look forward to seeing them pay dividends in our classroom.”There is no doubt that more training is needed. The technology industry welcomed the new computing curriculum when it was introduced last year, including programming lessons for children as young as five.However, critics have argued that many teachers were unprepared for the changes – especially if they had never learned programming themselves, let alone taught it to children.Bringing in the likes of Google, IBM and Microsoft to participate in these schemes will spark further debate about what role large technology companies should play in the British education system - even if their aim of building a base for better-qualified students seeking work in the tech industry is hardly hidden.Their training partners argue that tapping tech industry resources as well as government funding is important, particularly as the new curriculum has already been introduced.“The DfE’s computing matched fund, and the sponsorship it has attracted, is enabling us to support the new computing curriculum quickly and effectively, with software that encourages creativity and a web community that provides both teaching materials and a coursework platform, all free to teachers and students,” said Professor Peter Millican of Hertford College, Oxford.“Without the fund it would have taken several years to do what we are now doing within months, and it would have been impossible to achieve the same standards.”•A parent’s guide to England’s new computing curriculum
BlackBerry’s chief executive has called for net neutrality regulations to force application developers to make their apps available for his company’s platform.John Chen, who became BlackBerry’s head in November 2013, made the request in a letter and blogpost sent to the chairmen and members of several US government committees on commerce.Chen noted that net neutrality is a widely contested term, and that most discussion “has focused on telecommunications carriers and how they operate and manage their physical networks”.Instead, he argued, “policymakers should demand openness not just at the traffic/transport layer, but also at the content/applications layer of the ecosystem. Banning carriers from discriminating but allowing content and applications providers to continue doing so will solve nothing.”“Unfortunately,” he continues, “not all content and applications providers have embraced openness and neutrality… Netflix, which has forcefully advocated for carrier neutrality, has discriminated against BlackBerry customers by refusing to make its streaming movie service available to them. Many other applications providers similarly offer service only to iPhone and Android users.“This dynamic has created a two-tiered wireless broadband ecosystem, in which iPhone and Android users are able to access far more content and applications than customers using devices running other operating systems. These are precisely the sort of discriminatory practices that neutrality advocates have criticised at the carrier level.”Chen’s comments have not been well received. “Chen’s freestyling redefinition of neutrality equates two highly distinct industries and conflates a whole bunch of issues into a specious, and utterly warped, argument,”argues the Verge’s Vlad Savov.“As he rightly puts it, internet service providers are ‘like the railways of the last century, building the tracks to carry traffic to all points throughout the country’ and apps are ‘the railway cars travelling on those tracks.’ But asking for neutral tracks simply means non-intervention on the part of the carriers, whereas trying to achieve neutral railway cars would require app developers to code their apps multiple times over to cover every mobile OS out there.”But web developer Terence Eden argues that Chen is “right, but for the wrong reasons”.“The web works everywhere,” he says. “Even the worst BlackBerry from years ago can display HTML, CSS, and run JavaScript. The more recent browsers do it just as well as iOS, Android, and Windows.“We’re fast entering a situation where just about any app can be run as a website. Yet we see large services like WhatsAppbalkanising the ecosystem by only blessing certain phones and browsers.“I believe in network neutrality - and think that governments should mandate it. I don’t think they should mandate open standards for private companies - but I would hope that the economics of a diverse portfolio of devices would encourage companies to develop open standards to let their products flourish.”Net neutrality: what is it and why does it matter?
Kim Dotcom’s encrypted file sharing service has added free end-to-end encrypted voice and video chat through the browser.MegaChat, which promises to keep video chats secure and private, has been developed by the Mega “Conspiracy Team” and is being described as a “Skype killer” by Dotcom.“We are releasing #MegaChat beta step by step. Starting with video calling today. Text chat &amp; video conferencing will follow soon,” said Dotcom.MegaChat does not require software beyond a web browser to operate, unlike many other similar services, although plugins for Google’s Chrome and Firefox are available for “faster loading and added resilience against attacks”.‘No US-based online service provider can be trusted’The system allows users to share encrypted files having previously shared a personal decryption key with them.Dotcom claimed that “no US-based online service provider can be trusted with your data” and that “Skype has no choice. They must provide the US Government with backdoors”.Revelations from the Snowden leaks showed that Microsoft handed the US National Security Agencyaccess to encrypted messages.Related:Microsoft handed the NSA access to encrypted messagesMegaChat is being positioned as a secure alternative to Skype that cannot be snooped on by security services using end-to-end encryption to maintain privacy. The service is based in New Zealand.Dotcom also promised encrypted video conferencing, email and text chat would roll out at a later stage.Mega’s security credentials have been questioned in the past. Passwords were stolen from the service shortly after its launch in 2013, leading security researchers to question whether Mega could live up to its security promises.To quell those fears, Dotcom launched a bounty for security flaws, offering to reward bug spotters.#Megaoffers a security bounty again. Please report any security flaw to us. We&#39;ll fix it and reward you. Thanks for helping.&mdash; Kim Dotcom (@KimDotcom)January 22, 2015•Kim Dotcom sees off US attempt to have him remanded in custody
Five years ago a scintillating rumour crept across gaming news sites and forums – a rumour that satisfied deeply entrenched beliefs held throughout the industry.The story goes that Microsoft was once considering introducing cross-platform play between PCs and Xbox 360s. It had the technology and the software infrastructure in place, and the idea looked like a nice way to boost the then-fading market for big desktop Windows computers.But there was a problem. When the very best console gamers were pitted against teams of average PC owners in a series of gameplay tests, the Xbox kids were destroyed. A console controller, to paraphrase Han Solo, was no match for having a good keyboard and mouse combo at your side, kid.The rumour of this abandoned concept wasstarted by VoodooPC founder Rahul Soodand was repeated throughout the gaming press. It was popular because it confirmed long-held beliefs that console players just couldn’t cut it against PC players.Ostensibly, this was about the differences in user interfaces: the mouse affords a level of directional freedom and accuracy that even an analogue joypad controller cannot hope to compete with.Also, if we’re going to look at this in terms of technical specifications, then sure, a high-end or even middling modern PC will out-perform a current-gen console, both in terms of frame rate and graphical fidelity. But that’s not really what it’s about either.PC and not PC, that is the problemLet’s be honest: PC gamers just sometimes feel, well, superior to console gamers.There is a sort of belief amid some computer owners (and I can’t stress the word “some” enough) that the PC is for people who are “serious about their hobby” while consoles are for people who like to play Call of Duty in their pants on a Friday night. When PC Gamer recently suggested that its readers should maybestop self-identifying as “the PC Master Race”, a lot of people werereally unhappy.Whatever the case, the cultures are different. For 20 years, the console industry has been guided by the design maxims of Japanese manufacturers and developers. The likes of Nintendo, Capcom, Namco, Sega, Konami and Squaresoft once dominated the console industry, and built the success of the Mega Drive, SNES and PlayStation machines around arcade-originating fighting games, racers and hack-’em-ups. Even now, those dynamics – built around immediate accessibility, highly choreographed violence and hyper-real visuals – guide console game design to a degree.In the PC world, however, the culture has largely been defined by Western developers. The long-dominant first-person shooter genre has mostly strived for increasing visual realism, rather than the aesthetic experimentalism of Japanese studios. And the real-time strategy genre has become complex and intimidating to many casual players. Although there are certainly big games that do well on both PC and console, there are often profound and complex differences between titles build specifically for console, and titles made only on PC. Divided many years ago, they have evolved along different lines, driven by the natural selection of their contrasting market places.So now, Microsoft has revealed its plans to bring Xbox functionality and compatibility to Windows 10 PCs. Xbox Live will be “seamlessly integrated” into the Xbox Windows 10 app allowing cross-platform social communication – and gaming. The company has also announced that long-awaited role-playing sequel Fable: Legends will be the first title to support true cross-platform play. Furthermore,the Xbox Wire news siteconfirmed that PC developers can get full access to the Xbox LIve API so they will be able to create their own console-vs-PC titles.Basically, is this peace in our time?Cross-platform, cross-cultureIt should be pointed out that there have been experiments in this direction for a number of years. Veteran US developer Valve implemented cross-platform play into its first-person puzzler Portal 2 – although that was co-op focused. The developer also had the feature working on its famed online shooter Team Fortress 2, butchose not to widely release it. Other titles like the role-playing fantasy Phantasy Star Online and the shooter Shadowrun have implemented cross-platform play too; the latter, released in 2007, did a pretty good job, with developer Fasa Corporation introducing slight handicaps to PC interfaces as well as auto-aiming for Xbox players. Some computer users compained about their controls being “gimped”, but an active community grew up around the game, challenging long-held prejudices.Of course, for many genres, including racing, third-person action adventures and moba titles like League of Legends, there should be no real interface advantage for either side. It comes down to the will of developers to make it happen – and those developers will have different concerns than us gamers.“The ability to use the Xbox Live API on Windows 10 devices is certainly an exciting prospect and it does open up our games to a lot more possibilities,” says coder Byron Atkinson Jones, who has worked for EA, Sega and Lionhead. “My biggest question is if there is going to be some kind of approval system for cross-platform games like there is for Xbox titles where you have to go through technical requirement checks – I would imagine there would have to be, just in case there was a way to bring down an Xbox game though dodgy coding on the PC version.“That adds an extra layer of complexity and it leads into asking whether the testing process is free or not. In other respects the technical difficulties would no different than trying to develop a network game for PCs playing against each other and having different specs. I’d also like to know where the games can be played from: is there going to be some kind of dedicated Windows 10 store or could we make a game that uses the service and can be sold on Steam?”The age of openDevelopment issues aside, it seems incongruous in our era of “device agnostic” digital communications, that we can’t just play games with both our console and our PC-owning fiends. The big social media platforms have brought in expectations of compatibility and syncopation that make closed infrastructures seem delightfully old-fashioned. At the same time, the cultures are merging; traditional genres are fading, and open-world, super-social, emergent, persistent experiences are becoming the norm.At the same time, it’s interesting that one of the first titles to support the feature – Fable: Legends – features asymmetrical multiplayer. In the game, while four players can join a party to raid dungeons and explore the landscape, another can compete against them as a sort of dungeon keeper, spawning enemies and setting traps. Perhaps in our glorious cross-platform future there could be different roles and experiences that align with the preferences of different sorts of gamers? Or maybe that’s too reductionist?I don’t know. But what Idoknow is that while the idea of PC and console owners competing against each other was once seen as ridiculous and impractical, it now feels weird that they’re not. Can’t we all just get along and shoot at each other in peace?
Uber has raised a further $1.6bn from investors as the car-hailing service accelerates its plans for global domination.The company, the world’s most valuable venture-backed start-up, was already worth about $41bn (£27bn) before the latest injection of funds from clients of Goldman Sachs’ wealth management service.Uber remains in talks to raise $600m from hedge funds and other investors to add to the $1.2bn raised in December, according to aBloomberg report. It has now raised some $4bn since being founded in 2009.The service is now available in 270 cities around the world but has varied its offering in a bid to comply with varying local regulations. In London it offers a minicab-style taxi hire, but ride-sharing in Paris and carpooling in the San Francisco Bay Area.Nevertheless Uber has been hit with court injunctions in Belgium, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain for violating taxi licensing rules.On Thursday South Korea stepped up its legal battle against the company, with its telecom watchdog reporting Uber to prosecutors for violating communications rules.European ‘jobs’ promisesThe move came a month after prosecutors indicted Travis Kalanick, Uber’s American founder and chief executive, along with its Korean partner MK Korea, for operating an illegal cab service.Uber began operating in Seoul in 2013, sparking angry protests from taxi drivers. “Go-slow” protests were staged by cab drivers in cities including Paris and London last year.Seoul regulators are offering a 1m won (£600) reward to those who report drivers offering rides through Uber.Kalanick said this weekthat Uber would seek out new partnerships with European cities as he claimed that the venture would create 50,000 jobs this year and reduce traffic congestion.Uber chief executive Travis Kalanick speaks in Beijing in December 2014.Photograph: Kim Kyung-Hoon/ReutersHowever, Uber would not be employing workers directly given that its drivers are regarded legally as independent contractors in cities where it operates as a minicab firm, which as London.Since 2010, Uber has created the equivalent of 35,000 full-time jobs in its four largest markets - San Francisco, New York, London and Paris, Kalanick said.Uber released figures on Thursday about the composition of its drivers, with just over half of those working for UberX being behind the wheel for less than 30 hours a week - if they choose to work at all.Theresearchfound that more than 80% liked the flexibility that working for Uber affords them: “Driver-partners are using the Uber platform in many different ways, from earning a full-time income to supplementing their salaries at other jobs.”About half have worked in the transportation industry before, and a quarter are more than 50 years old.The promise of a new approach in Europe is a change of tack from Kalanick, who has become known for striking hard bargains with cities that attempt to force Uber to comply with what it regards as outdated or protectionist regulation.Uber has faced regulatory scrutiny and court injunctions since its inception in San Francisco.It has also been criticised for aggressive responses to rivals and critics as well as questions over whether the company has enough safeguards in place to ensure the physical safety and privacy of passengers.• Why the sharing economy could be the internet’s most divisive revolution yet
WhatsApp can finally be used on something other than a smartphone: a desktop web app.The new platform allows WhatsApp’s 700m users to send and receive free text, picture and voice messages through Google Chrome on a computer, but only if they use WhatsApp on an Android, Windows Phone or BlackBerry. iPhone users need not apply.“Unfortunately for now, we will not be able to provide web client to our iOS users due to Apple platform limitations,” said WhatsApp in a blog post.iPhone users are excluded because of the way WhatsApp relies on a constant connection between the smartphone and desktop web apps. It differs from rivals including Facebook Messenger by using end-to-end encryption to protect messages from snooping.Jan Koum, WhatsApp chief executive, said: “Our web client is simply an extension of your phone: the web browser mirrors conversations and messages from your mobile device. This means all of your messages still live on your phone.”‘Messages remain on the smartphone’To log intoWhatsApp on the web, users need to scan a QR code using the WhatsApp smartphone app. The smartphone then needs to remain connected to the internet; if the phone runs out of battery or loses an internet connection, the web app ceases to operate.The messages remain on the smartphone and are not stored on the web.The system works very well on the desktop, with messages sending and arriving seamlessly with the smartphone. Messages sent from the desktop appear exactly the same as those sent from a smartphone.The WhatsApp web client works well in Google Chrome.Photograph: Samuel GibbsDesktop users can reply to group messages, but cannot establish a new group without doing so on a smartphone.The Facebook-owned service recently announced that it had 700m monthly active users who send more than 30bn WhatsApp messages a day. It has added about 25m users a month since August 2014.WhatsApp’s main rivals include Facebook’s own Messenger app, which reached500m active usersin November and can be used through a web browser without a connection to the smartphone, along with Chinese messaging app WeChat, which reached438m active users in August.•The 10 best messaging apps
Can I play all types of games – including low- and heavy-quality games – without a graphics card on my PC? I have no graphics card at the moment.HatimThere are, very roughly, three types of games: serious games, casual games, and old games written for slower processors. Casual games and old games should be easy, but serious games represent a challenge. That doesn’t mean you won’t be able to run “heavy quality” games, but if you don’t have a graphics card, you won’t be able to run them in high resolution, with enhanced effects, at a high frame rate. You may still be able to run them at a low frame rate, with a lower level of detail.So, there isn’t a simple answer to your question. You have to decide which serious games you want to run, and how much you are willing to pay for the option.Integrated graphics v GPUsOver the past three decades, Intel has been moving more and more silicon chips into its microprocessors. Today’s CPUs (central processing units) include the maths co-processor, cache memory, and one or more GPUs (graphics processing units), among other things. These may take up more space on the die than the actual processor.It’s much cheaper to have a CPU with “integrated graphics” sharing your PC’s memory than to have a card with a separate GPU with its own memory. Also, integrated graphics take up less physical space, and consume less battery power, both of which are important in the laptop and tablet markets where thinness is more important than performance, reliability, expandability, connectivity and repairability.The graphics performance of mobile CPUs has improved over the years, thanks to built-in routines for video processing in particular. But they still fall a very long way short of the CPUs designed for desktop PCs – where chips can run at much higher temperatures – and the GPUs on graphics cards aimed at gamers.One example is theNvidia GeForce GTX 970with 4GB of memory, which is available in versions from many different companies for about £250 to £320. In a suitable desktop PC, this should be able to run most serious games in Full HD (1080p) resolution at 60 frames per second with high-end settings. A top-of-the-range card can cost more than£2,500. Anyone who is thinking of buying this kind of card should search for benchmarks of its performance running their most important games.Some gamers buy graphics cards with two GPUs, and some run PCs with two graphics cards. It really depends how much performance you need, and how much you are willing to pay. The one thing I can guarantee is that you will never have quite enough power, and that there will always be some new thing that needs more – currently, it’s ultra-high-res screens.Still, if you have a desktop PC, you will almost certainly be able to get much better gaming performance by installing a cheap mid-range graphics card. This month,Tom’s Hardwarerecommends the newGeForce GT 730 64-bit cardfor £45 to £55 or theAMD Radeon R7 250Xat around £35 to £90. Either way, get 2GB of RAM and, before you buy, search for benchmarks for your most important games. This is a volatile market.Laptop gamingIf you’re buying a laptop for gaming – even if it’s just for Minecraft – it’s better to get one with a dedicated graphics processor, such as theAsus X552CL-SX037Hwith its GeForce GT710M (£385) or theGigabyte P15F V2-CF1with its GeForce GTX 850M (£789). You won’t find many to choose from, but any dedicated GPU is likely to be better than none.Of course, there are gaming laptops for people who are really serious. Two Taiwanese companies, Asus (Republic of Gamers) and MSI are leading suppliers, and Dell’s Alienware range may also be worth a look. But they’re expensive.If you already have a laptop, it’s rarely practical to install or even to upgrade a graphics card: you don’t know if the laptop will survive the extra heat generated. However, if your laptop has an ExpressCard or mPCIe (mini-PCIe) or Thunderbolt port, then in theory you could use an external graphics card. This is not a popular option, and I’ve never tried it, but there’s a long-running discussion ofDIY eGPU experiencesat Tech Inferno.Otherwise, it’s probably better to buy or build a new desktop PC for gaming: it would be cheaper than buying a laptop with the same performance. Alternatively, you could buy a Microsoft Xbox 360, Xbox One or Sony PS3 or PS4 for playing the heavier games. When Windows 10 arrives, you will be able to stream Xbox One games to your PC, and your PC will be able to play some Xbox games on Xbox Live.Speeding up your laptopAgain, if you already have a laptop, you can improve its performance for gaming. I don’t have space to go into details (someone could ask it as a separate question). However, the best ways to speed up Windows are to add more memory, to swap the hard drive for an SSD (solid state drive), and to remove any background programs and services that you don’t need. You can also upgrade to Windows 8.1, which is generally snappier than earlier versions. Unfortunately, the extra cost may be more than your laptop is worth.There are some free optimisations that anyone can make. As mentioned, remove any programs and services you don’t need, such as indexing, or don’t use, and upgrade your graphics drivers and DirectX to the latest versions. Also, go to Windows’ system services and optimise for performance rather than appearance. For more tips, see Microsoft’s help page,Optimize Windows for better performance.Giving your hardware and software a spring clean won’t make a huge difference, but with gaming, every little helps.
There are no egg-stealing pigs in the latest spin-off from games firm Rovio Entertainment. Angry Birds? Well, given that it’s a series of young-adult (YA) novels with a piratical theme, perhaps there’ll be a few parrots.Storm Sistersis the latest project from the Finnish company, as it expands further into the book publishing world. Written by Mintie Das, the first novel The Sinking World will be published in late 2015 or early 2016.The book is one of 12 being showcased at the Books at Berlinale event in February, which touts upcoming books to film companies for possible adaptation.Rovio is describing Storm Sisters books as “a high action pirate adventure with a female twist”, focusing on five 11-17 year-old girls disguised as “girl pirates” in the late 18th century.“After the tragic events of what has become known as the Day of Destruction - a day when they were intended to die along with their families - Charlie, Sadie, Liu, Raquel and Ingela sail the high seas all alone. In the 1780s, in a world filled with pirates, hurricanes and disbelievers, that’s not an easy task. What’s more important: Survival or truth?”A second novel, The Frozen Seas, will follow the first. Author Das lives in Angry Birds’ home city of Helsinki, having been born in India then raised in the US.This being the company behind Angry Birds, are there apps for that? Nothing has been announced so far, but it would be surprising if Rovio wasn’t planning to take the Storm Sisters tales to smartphones and tablets in some form – either games or book-apps.This is far from the first foray into book publishing for the company, though. Angry Birds hasspawned a series of booksand comics, including some published through partnerships with Penguin and National Geographic.“It’s important for kids to read. I don’t care where they read or how they get interested in reading. It’s more important that they do get interested in it,” Rovio’s vice president of book publishing Sanna Lukandertold the Guardian in February 2013.Storm Sisters also represents the latest attempt by Rovio to build new brands beyond Angry Birds – this time leading with print books, rather than mobile games. It is also another example of Rovio targeting girls in particular, following 2014’sAngry Birds Stella game and animation series.•Angry Birds has lost 63m players since 2012 (but still has 200m)
Cloud storage firm Dropbox has hit the ground running in 2015: opening a new office in London, launching its first app for smartphones and tablets running Microsoft’s Windows software; and buying Israeli mobile startup CloudOn.The company says its London office will aim to capitalise on the fact that the UK is one of its fastest-growing markets.“We now have well over 300 million users worldwide, including 120 million users in EMEA [Europe, the Middle East and Africa], and the UK is one of our biggest markets: it’s growing faster than the US,” Dropbox’s chief operating officer Dennis Woodside told the Guardian.“Tens of thousands of businesses in the UK and close to a quarter of all British internet users are already using Dropbox. And the number of teams and companies using our Dropbox for Business service doubled in the last year.”Woodside added that Dropbox expects that 5m British companies will be using at least one cloud service by the start of 2016, which is why his firm chose the UK as its latest country expansion, following new offices in Dublin, Sydney and Tokyo.“This is the moment for us to double down in the UK,” said Mark Van Der Linden, formerly of Google but poached to run Dropbox’s London office. “It’s also our moment to get close to London’s tech ecosystem, which is one of the best in the world.”Dropbox is holding a hackathon event in east London later in the week to court some of those developers and startups. Van Der Linden pointed to existing deals with British companies including taxi-app firm Hailo and design studio Pipers as its blueprint for further partnerships.Dropbox’s expansion is not stopping at the UK, though. It has a new office in Israel too, through the acquisition of mobile productivity startup CloudOn.The company made apps to edit documents and spreadsheets on mobile devices, claiming 9m users.CloudOn has told those usersthat it will be shutting down its current service on 15 March as part of its transition in to Dropbox.According to the Wall Street Journal, Dropbox will use CloudOn’s office in Herzliya as the base for “aggressive hiring” in a country with its own flourishing technology market.In a busy week for Dropbox, the company alsolaunched its mobile app for Windows Phones and Windows-powered tablets. They join the company’s existing apps for Android and iOS devices.Woodside expects Dropbox’s growth – it reached the milestone of100 million users in November 2012, then200 million a year later, and300 million in May 2014– to continue in the months and years ahead.“We believe the opportunity we’re going after is all three billion connected people on the planet. We believe all of them are going to migrate to a cloud-based platform in the next five to 10 years. It’s a pretty big opportunity, and an important one,” he told the Guardian.The number of companies paying for the Dropbox for Business service has grown from80,000 in July 2014to 100,000 now.Despite reports in October that the company’s systems had been hacked –denied by Dropbox– and the ongoing debate about security agencies’ desire to tap cloud services as part of their electronic surveillance programs, Woodside said security continues to be a selling point for Dropbox.“The businesses are realising the advantages that are conferred by the cloud greatly outweigh any concerns they might have. The security that can be delivered through a cloud service is, in many cases, greater than what they can provide on the premises,” he said.“We have the resources to dedicate entire teams to security, and a lot of companies just don’t have that.”•Dropbox and Microsoft team up, placing Office in the cloud
The founder of Ship Your Enemies Glitter, a single-purpose website that lets customers anonymously ship their enemies glitter, has sold his business for US$85,000 less than two weeks after starting it.Mathew Carpenter, a 22-year-old Australian, launched the site with little but a PayPal account and some well-written advertising copy. But a week later, he was swamped by orders, leading him to put the whole thing up for sale in an attempt to rid himself of what he described as a “horrible product”.The site was sold on Flippa, an online marketplace where entrepreneurs can trade in start-ups, domains or toolkits for building a business from scratch. Bidding rapidly rose to $70,000 in the first days on sale, before stalling until the last hours, when a further $15,000 was added on the price.The buyer, who is currently anonymous, is believed to be legitimate, having spent $83,000 on the site previously.In the four days Carpenter ran the site, he says he took more than $20,000 in sales, far beyond what he was expecting for a website launched “as a bit of a joke”. As a result, he closed the ability to make new orders, and later decided to be shot of the whole site.The site gained fame, in part, because of its tone. “We fucking hate glitter,” is how its pitch opens. “People call it the herpes of the craft world. What we hate more, though, are the soulless people who get their jollies off by sending glitter in envelopes.”Shortly before closing orders, he took to start-up news site Product Hunt toask potential users to stop. “Hi guys, I’m the founder of this website. Please stop buying this horrible glitter product — I’m sick of dealing with it. Sincerely, Mat.”In the meantime, he is continuing to fulfil older orders, although, in an email sent to customers, he warned that “there will be a bit of a delay with delivery times, as the site somehow got popular.”Whoever has bought the site will find themselves with more competition than Carpenter experienced, however. A number of copy-cat sites have sprung up since he closed orders, including British-basedGlitterbombsand America’s “Mat Won’t But We Will”.
Here is Thursday. Have you pre-ordered a Microsoft HoloLens then?
Online video startupVesselhas launched a beta version of its service, which will charge viewers $2.99 a month for early access to shortform videos from a variety of YouTubers, musicians and production companies.Announced in December, Vessel is targeting top YouTube creators, striking deals that grant it 72-hour exclusives on their new videos, with the promise that they’ll make much more money from its blend of subscriptions and advertising than they would on Google’s video service.Vessel is launching with a website and apps for Apple’s iPhone and iPad, with an Android version to follow in the coming months, as well as plans to make it available through games consoles, set-top boxes and connected TVs.The “consumer beta” will be opened up to people who have registered to try Vessel, with a 30-day free trial before they have to decide whether to start paying $2.99 a month for full access, or stick with its free version with more ads and without the early access to new videos.Vessel will charge for subscriptions through its website, but also as in-app purchases through iOS’ App Store, where despite Apple’s 30% cut of all in-app revenues, the $2.99 monthly price will remain the same.In December, the company announced that it had already signed up popular YouTubers Rhett &amp; Link, Shane Dawson, Marcus Butler, Caspar Lee and Ingrid Nilsen among others, as well as multi-channel networks Machinima, Tastemade and DanceOn; TV firm A+E Networks; music label Warner Music Group; and actor Alec Baldwin.Since then, it has added more creators and brands including Brittani Louise Taylor, Connor Franta, Nerdist and Jack Vale – all of whom have seven-figure followings for their YouTube channels.From Alec Baldwin to Shane Dawson, Vessel is recruiting a range of creators.Vessel was co-founded by two former executives from online video service Hulu: chief executive Jason Kilar and chief technology officer Richard Tom. It is backed by $75m of funding from venture capital firms Benchmark Capital and Greylock Partners, as well as Amazon chief executive Jeff Bezos’ personal investment firm.“We think Vessel can empower creators to build unusually valuable video businesses online. If you look at the history of the internet, so far a number of people have been able to build popularity and a following, but nobody’s yet been able to build a very valuable video business,” Kilar told the Guardian.The company is telling creators that they’ll be able to earn around $50 per thousand views of their videos during their 72-hour exclusive period on Vessel – which they can extend further – compared to the sub-$3 figure that it claims has become standard elsewhere online.Kilar said that Vessel is aiming to create a “first window” for online short-form video, inspired by the models used in the television and film industries, where early access – on pay-TV channels and in cinemas respectively – is where viewers pay the most to watch new content.Vessel is not pitching itself as a direct rival to YouTube, however. “Everybody we’re working with today, we’re strongly encouraging them to keep doing the business in the free window that they’re already doing,” he said.“We think the combination of the two windows is very important. So, if they release new videos on the free web every Tuesday, we’re saying ‘don’t change that, just make it early-access to your biggest fans [on Vessel] starting on Saturday’.”Initially, Vessel will use two different ad units within its apps. One, which Kilar described as “brand motion posters”, is a full-screen ad that people will encounter as they scroll through their feed of channels. The second will be five-second pre-roll ads shown before individual videos.“Our target market out of the gate is ages 14 to 24, but as we grow, just like television and film-making, we think there’ll be something for everyone. It will be mostly short-format stuff though: two minutes, seven minutes, 12 minutes long,” said Kilar.“Not the kind of stuff you’d find on television in terms of sitcoms or one-hour dramas. We see this as a missing part of the media ecosystem, and we think it’s inevitable that a smart and savvy player is going to fill that gap. We want it to be Vessel.”•YouTube multichannel networks stake claim to the future of TV
