Samsung’s latest phablet is a modifiedGalaxy Note 4, but the Note Edge’s has one crucial difference: a screen that curves around the edge on the right hand side.It isn’t the first curved screen phone that Samsung has produced – the bowed screen Galaxy Round had that honour – but it is the first smartphone with a rounded edge that increases functionality and displays useful information – such as news tickers or app controls, acting in effect as a second screen.Note 4 plus curveThe Note Edge is essentially the Note 4 with a curved screen and a slightly smaller battery.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianAlmost everything about the Note Edge matches the Note 4. It has Samsung’s much-improved metal frames, solid build quality and keeps the fake leather plastic back.At 5.6in versus 5.7in for the Note 4, the Edge has a slightly smaller screen. The display has the same resolution and looks just as crisp, bright and colourful as the Note 4, making it one of the best available at the moment.The Note Edge is 2.2mm shorter, 3.8mm wider, 0.2mm thinner and 2g lighter than the Note 4. The dimensions make the smartphone difficult to hold and use with one hand, as with any large phablet, but the hard metal edges provide a solid grip for fingers and thumbs.The curved screen on the right hand side is smooth and seamless with the main screen, forming a pleasant-feeling part of the grip area where a thumb or fingers rest. The stylus docks in the back of the device just left of the curved screen.The Note Edge has the same plastic back at the Note 4, which feels like a hard pleather sofa.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSpecificationsScreen:5.6in quad HD Super AMOLED + a 160 pixel curved screenProcessor:2.7 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 805RAM:3GB of RAMStorage:32GB plus microSD slot supporting up to 128GB cardsOperating system:Android 4.4.4 with Samsung TouchWizCamera:16-megapixel rear camera, 3.7-megapixel front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE, IR and GPSDimensions:151.3 x 82.4 x 8.3mmWeight:174gSmooth runningThe screen forms part of the grip surface, ignoring thumb and finger contact.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe internal components of the Note Edge are equally similar to the Note 4. The Edge has the same processor, 3GB of RAM and 32GB of storage with a micro SD card slot, which means it performs equally as well.The Note Edge is a very capable smartphone, running smoothly even with two apps side-by-side on screen. The battery, however, doesn’t last quite as long as the Note 4. The Note Edge will easily see out a day with heavy use, but not two.Edgy softwareThe screen can be flipped upside down with virtual buttons for left-handed use.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Note Edge runs the same customised TouchWiz version of Android 4.4.4 KitKat – not the latestAndroid 5 Lollipop– as the Note 4, but has additions for the curved screen including a left-handed mode that flips the screen and provides virtual Android buttons to replace the hardware buttons.The edge is used for a variety of functions. It can run apps, including a word game, a Twitter ticker and some apps from Yahoo for sports scores, stocks and news. Samsung bundles 12 pre-installed edge apps, but more can be downloaded from the Galaxy app store. Swiping left or right on the screen switches the app.Play games on the side of the screen without disrupting work on the main screen.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianWhen not running an app, the pane can be used as a dock for apps, a multi-tasking switcher, or a notification tray with calendar appointments and the weather. The rolling ticker notifications normally displayed at the top of the screen on an ordinary Android phone roll down the side.Most apps ignore the screen, which shrinks a little, turns black and displays “Galaxy Note Edge” in white text. The pane also gives quick access to a ruler, stopwatch, timer, torch and voice recorder.Some of Samsung’s apps use the edge as a place to display icons. In the camera app, for instance, the shutter button and settings buttons sit on the edge out of the way of the viewfinder. It’s a useful addition, but not something totally revolutionary – a two-stage physical shutter button would have been better.The camera app makes good use of the edge screen.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianStylus, camera, heart rate sensor and fingerprint scannerThe Note Edge’s “S Pen” stylus and camera are the same as the Note 4. The stylus is decent, providing as good as a writing experience as can be had on a relatively small screen. It docks neatly in the back and can be safely ignored until the odd occasion where scribbling a note or drawing on a photo is required.The stylus is one of the best available on any phablet or tablet, with pressure sensitivity that makes writing feel closer to pen on paper.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/the GuardianThe camera is equally solid. Images are sharp with good detail, with decent low-light performance and the interesting rear camera and wide selfie modes. A heart-rate sensor sits just under the camera lens, which works well for occasional use.The fingerprint scanner, like the Note 4’s, is very good with an accuracy of around 95% in my testing, making unlocking the phablet easier. It can also be used to secure apps like LastPass, and authenticate purchases through Samsung’s app store.PriceThe Note Edge costs approximately £650 without a mobile phone contract, which is £20 more than the Note 4 and £30 more than the iPhone 6 Plus.VerdictThe Samsung Galaxy Note 4 is one of the best phablets available, which makes the Note Edge a very solid, well made and powerful device.The edge screen is interesting, and I’m glad Samsung is trying something innovative. Having virtual buttons and quick-access apps, tickers and notifications is handy, but it isn’t the next evolution of smartphone design just yet. It does show what’s possible with alternative screen technology, though, and one day soon phone screens could bend around both sides, possibly even the back too.If you’re looking for a smartphone that draws attention and is unique, the Note Edge is a great phone. But most people should buy the excellent Note 4 instead, if you’re looking for a phablet.Pros:fast, powerful, great screen, unique curved edge screen, great camera, good fingerprint scannerCons:too big for comfortable one-handed use, battery life not as good as competition, left-handed use is awkwardOther reviews•Samsung Galaxy Note 4 review: big, powerful and Samsung’s best yet•Samsung Galaxy S5 review: bigger, faster – but still plastic•Motorola Moto X review: listening out for your dulcet tones•HTC One M8 review: a lightning-quick, five-star phone•LG G3 review: the most usable phablet to date•Google Nexus 5 review: a flagship smartphone that costs the same as a mid-range device•Sony Xperia Z3 review: great battery life and quality camera•Apple iPhone 6 Plus: it’s a very big phone and it feels great - review•Nokia Lumia 930 review: the best Windows Phone yet
Despite criticism from fellow musician Billy Bragg that Taylor Swift had ‘sold her soul to Google’ by making her albums available on its new YouTube Music Key service, it has emerged that the star’s back catalogue will not be on it.With the first batch of invitations having been sent out for Music Key, early adopters are discovering that while they can play Swift’s singles – those that have videos on YouTube – her full albums are not available on the new service.Here’s a comparison of what those users will see when they search for Taylor Swift compared to another major artist, Beyoncé:Taylor Swift’s albums aren’t on YouTube Music Key.Note the “Albums” tab on Beyoncé’s profile within YouTube Music Key, and the lack of one on Taylor Swift’s profile. Clicking through to the former’s albums pops up full-album playlists with a mixture of music videos and static artwork for non-single tracks.One implication: Bragg’sFacebook criticism of Swiftfor seeming to have done a deal with YouTube needs to be reassessed.“She should just be honest with her fans and say ‘sorry, but Sergey Brin gave me a huge amount of money to be the headline name on the marquee for the launch of You Tube Music Key and so I’ve sold my soul to Google’,” wrote Bragg.“If Ms Swift was truly concerned about perpetuating the perception that music has no value and should be free, she should be removing her material from You Tube, not cosying up to it.”Bragg has nowpublished a new Facebook postapologising to Swift: “I now realise that I was mistaken in this assumption and wish to apologise to Ms Swift for questioning her motives,” he wrote.“The time will surely come when content creators have to band together to challenge deals done between rights holders and service providers, details of which are kept from artists and their representatives. If Ms Swift is going to lead that fight for transparency, she will have my full support.”More interesting, though, is why Bragg got the idea that Swift had done a deal with YouTube in the first place. His Facebook post linked toan Observer feature– mine – about Swift’s current dispute with Spotify, which included this statement:“Swift’s albums were made available through Spotify’s latest rival, Google’s YouTube Music Key, which launched last week – despite it having the same free and paid tiers, and a similar hardline policy on labels not being able to restrict music to the latter.”At the time those words were written, they were correct: Swift’s back catalogue – all her albums bar her latest one ‘1989’ – were accessible through Music Key on Wednesday 12 November, when it was demonstrated to journalists in London.Later that day, Google confirmed to the Guardian that the albums were available on Music Key, in response to a specific enquiry about Swift’s music. Her label, Big Machine, has not responded to a similar question asking for clarification from its side.It was a puzzling situation, as Swift and Big Machine had made it clear in public statements that her albums would not be available on free streaming music services: the reason for her back catalogue’s recent removal from Spotify.“I just don’t agree with perpetuating the perception that music has no value and should be free,”Swift told Yahoo in an interview. “We determined that her fan base is so in on her, let’s pull everything off of Spotify, and any other service that doesn’t offer a premium service,”said Big Machine boss Scott Borchettain a separate radio interview.This week, YouTube confirmed to the Guardian that the albums are nownotavailable on Music Key, and that the demonstration shown to journalists before launch was an internal-only version of the service.Reading between the lines, Swift’s albums were pulled in between those demos and the launch, although there must now be strong doubts that there was ever a licensing deal in place to have them available on Music Key in the first place.At least she’s not suing YouTube. The company may not be so lucky with music industry veteran Irving Azoff, whose Global Music Rights (GMR) firm isdemanding that the company remove more than 20,000 tracksfrom Music Key by its roster of songwriters including Pharrell Williams and The Eagles.GMR claims YouTube does not have the necessary licensing deals in place for the songs, and claims that if the company does not either strike deals or remove the tracks, it will be committing “wilful copyright infringement”.•YouTube Music Key takes on Spotify as streaming battle heats up
It’s the end of free apps for iOS! Well, sort of. Apple quietly made a design tweak to its App Store yesterday, replacing the “Free” button for apps that are free to download with “Get”.So, no change to the actual price, but the new wording is one way of sidestepping the debate around “free” apps not actually being free if they use in-app purchases – an issue that regulators in various parts of the world have been looking into.Now, freemium apps will have the new “Get” button, as well as a prominent “In-App Purchases” notification, to ensure that people know they’re downloading something that will, in some way, be hoping for some of their money at a later point.Is “Get” a good choice of wording in this case? You might argue that it makes it harder to tell that an app is free to download, although iOS users will surely pick that up by noticing other apps still have prices on their download buttons.The comments section is open for your thoughts on Apple’s change, and the rise of freemium apps in general.What else is bubbling in the technology world this morning? Some links:Senator Al Franken has some questions for UberUber’s bad week just stepped up a notch: US senator Al Franken has written to its chief executive Travis Kalanick with some pointed questions about the company’s privacy policy, statements by senior executive Emil Michael about using private information to target journalists, and its “God View” tool for tracking users. “I would appreciate responses to these questions by December 15...”Chrome now has 400m monthly active mobile usersGoogle has announced new stats for mobile usage of its Chrome web browser: 400 million monthly active users. That’s impressive growth given that it was on 300 million as recently as the company’s I/O conference in June.DOJ: children will die due to Apple encryptionAs arguments why technology companies shouldn’t introduce new encryption features go, this is pretty startling, from the US Department of Justice: “Mr. Cole offered the Apple team a gruesome prediction: At some future date, a child will die, and police will say they would have been able to rescue the child, or capture the killer, if only they could have looked inside a certain phone...”Jolla tablet crowdfunding campaign is soaringFinnish firm Jolla is pitching its tablet as “the world’s first crowdsourced tablet”, and there are plenty of people rushing to pledge their money for one. The company launched an Indiegogo crowdfunding campaign earlier this week with a target of $380k, and is already past $878k in pledges.Firefox switches Google for Yahoo as search supplierMozilla has signed a five-year deal to make Yahoo the default search engine for its Firefox web browser in the US – a big win for the latter company, given the 100bn+ annual searches by Firefox users. Meanwhile, Yandex is now its default in Russia, although users can of course still switch to an alternative if they prefer.Family makes $7k a month from Disney covers on YouTubeThe Bagley family in Utah are proving quite the hit on YouTube with their cover versions of Disney songs: 86m views of their Do You Want To Build A Snowman? cover alone so far. Tubefilter notes that their income is more than $7k a month from an average of 18m views a month.Barbie Computer Engineer book causes a stirA book that sees Barbie turning computer engineer hasn’t gone down well. “Barbie is featured in the book as a stylishly pink-clad computer engineer that somehow breaks everything and doesn’t know how to code. She does draw puppies though...” Mattel has pulled it from Amazon and apologised.Dive in below the line with your own link recommendations and comments on the stories above.And, yes, Guardian Tech has switched to the new website design: if you’re having trouble finding the daily post, theTechnology Blog tag homepageis the quickest route – the latest open thread should be at the top left every day.
The artist Mark Farid is preparing to become someone else for a month. In a fascinating experiment, currently seeking supporton the crowd-funding site Kickstarter, he plans to take up residence in a London gallery, don a virtual reality headset and noise-cancelling earphones, and give over his senses to a single incoming feed.This feed will be provided by “the other”, a volunteer who will wear a pair of spectacles equipped with cameras that record everything they do from the first-person perspective and send this live to Farid’s headset. The artist will have no other contact with humans. He will live in the experience of this other person.The point is discover how adaptable the brain is to another physical body – and whether our sense of self comes from inherent personality or cultural identity. It is, of course, a question philosophy has toyed with for hundreds of years: is the body a mere sensory vessel for the brain, or is identity inextricably linked to its physical manifestation?Us in cyberspaceThe internet has afforded us all the chance to create disembodied identities; the people we are on Twitter, on Facebook and in multiplayer fantasy games like World of Warcraft may not align at all with the people we are in “real life” – we have become skilled at adopting virtual personas.But virtual reality is an interesting further step in the question of whether our sense of self is a malleable construct. For the past decade, cognitive neuroscientists have been studying the concept of “body transfer illusion”, the idea that the brain can be “tricked” into taking ownership of a body or body part that it is not one’s own. Through affordable VR headsets such as the Oculus Rift and Sony’s forthcoming Project Morpheus, we may all soon be given the chance to project our identities beyond cyberspace; to inhabit different bodies. It could be that this experiment, although extreme, may signpost where we’re all heading.Already there are thousands of programmers and designers creating immersive VR experiences with the Oculus Rift development kit. At the recent Gamescom exhibition in Cologne attendees got the chance to try a VR version of the game Alien: Isolation, a thriller in which Amanda Ripley, the daughter of Ellen Ripley from the Alien movies, confronts the deadly xenomorph monster on a deserted space station. Many attendees found the experience of inhabiting the sci-fi universe frightening, but others were more interested in the sensation of being in Amanda’s body. Players could look down and see their arms, legs and torso – but it was both theirs and not theirs. When Oculus Rift and Project Morpheus launch next year, this is likely to be a common gaming experience.Indeed, it is through games, rather than art experiments that we’re likely to truly discover how adaptable we all are to new physical identities. Games have been putting us into immersive virtual environments for decades – and as gamers we tend to spend many hours, even weeks or months in worlds like Skyrim, Grand Theft Auto and Warcraft. The adoption of virtual reality input into any of these games will very quickly provide researchers with many millions of prolonged virtual embodiment test cases.Should we be worried? Some psychologists have expressed concerns over the Farid experiment, and its possible effects on his sense of self.Quoted in the Independent, Barbara Sahakian, a professor of clinical neuropsychology, said: “It could be extremely disturbing and it is unclear whether any potential damage to Mark’s mental health could be repaired.”However, there have also been interesting experiments into virtual embodiment that have suggested positive outcomes and experiences. In 2010, researchers at Barcelona University,gave 24 men a virtual reality headset that allowed them to see and hear the world as a female character. They found that subjects very quickly developed a profound physiological identification with the onscreen body, even flinching when their virtual avatar was slapped by another character. This concept has also been fascinatingly explored in the art installation The Machine to be Another, which allows two participants to virtual swap bodies through VR headsets and cameras.Researchers at Barcelona suggested that this kind of VR representation could be used to treat stroke victims how to re-use their bodies. But the exploration of body representation and displacement could have other interesting ramifications. This year, Yifei Chai, a student at the Imperial College London, created a virtual reality experiment in which one person wearing a VR headset was given control over the body movements of another person wearing a head-mounted camera and an electrical stimulation suit.Although some participants,including a New Scientist reporterfound the experience unsettling, Chai spoke of his belief that the system could be used to teach people about empathy, by literally putting us in someone else’s shoes. Last year, the virtual reality researcher Tabitha Peck rana VR experimentin which she found that racial bias decreased when white participants embodied a dark skinned body.Being is presenceInterestingly, the difference between all of these experiments and Farid’s project is a sense of control. Farid will be viewing rather than participating in the feed from The Other and it’s questionable whether the results will provide an analogue of the interactive VR experience. The cyberpsychologist Berni Good argues that true presence in a virtual environment can only come about through interactivity.“There is a difference between living a life and watching someone living their life without having control over the interactions,” she says. “In VR gaming, the individual is able to control their surroundings and this ability is key to enable presence and immersion. An individual will develop their own social constructs as they move through their lives, these will influence how they think and behave. But with this project there is an assumption that a shared visual experience will equate to a shared psychological one.”Although brave and perhaps even transformative, Farid’s experiment could turn out to be a pale imitation of the phenomenon we’re all likely to experience first-hand through virtual reality games. Immersive game spaces have always allowed us to experiment with different notions of self. Amy Bruckman, a professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology, researched multiplayer online games throughout the 1990s, referring to them as “identity workshops” where players could explore socialor gender roles. Virtual reality is likely to accentuate this sense of games as venues for exploring experimental personas.In the near future, we may all become identity tourists, swapping between bodies in different games, experimenting with our sense of selves as each world dictates – and maybe learning to better empathise with others in the process. In his groundbreaking book Virtual Reality, Howard Rheingold spoke to VR researcher Eric Gullichsen who talked about the fundamentally malleability of human nature. “As you conduct more of your life and affairs in cyberspace your conditioned notion of a unique and immutable body will give way to a far more liberated notion of ‘body’ as something quite disposable and, generally, limiting,” he said. “You will find that some bodies work best in some situations while others work best in others.”And we may not be restricted to human archetypes. In the early ‘90s virtual reality pioneer Jaron Lanier experimented with “homuncular flexibility” – the ability of the brain to adapt to very different physical bodies in VR simulations. Seeking to test its limits, he created a controllable lobster in a virtual space and found that participants quickly learned to inhabit and control the creature, even though it had extra limbs. It led himto ask, if the brain can cope with somethingthisweird, what will future VR experiences have to offer? Games will be the first to answer this. Games will doubtless make us into dragons and aliens.Farid, then, is really only scratching the ontological surface of where virtual reality could take us in the coming years. Interactive virtual entertainment will very quickly overtake this experiment as gamers transfer their playing habits into VR worlds. Many players may never be quite themselves ever again.The identity paradox: why game characters are not us, but should beAre you ready for the virtual reality revolution?
It's Thursday.
As an investor in Uber, it’s no surprise that Ashton Kutcher is unhappy with some of the coverage of the company in recent days. But a series of tweets he posted this afternoon are likely to fuel more controversy.Uber has been under fire afterBuzzFeed reported on commentsmade by its senior vice president of business Emil Michael at an event.Michael suggested that his company would be prepared to spend up to $1m on investigating the personal lives of journalists who criticised the company, with specific reference to Sarah Lacy, co-founder of tech news site PandoDaily.“What is so wrong about digging up dirt on shady journalist?” asked Kutcher in the first ofa series of tweets addressing the controversytoday.“I believe we live in a day were the first word has become ‘the word’. Rumors span the globe before anyone has an opportunity to defend them selves. Everyone is guilty and then tasked to defend themselves publicly. Questioning the source needs to happen... Always! So as long as journalist are interested and willing to print half truths as facts... Yes we should question the source.”Kutcher went on to stress that he was speaking his own views rather than on behalf of Uber, before commenting on the likely response. “This should be fun... Here comes the part where journalist explain why they should be exempt from ridicule and judgement and probing...”What is so wrong about digging up dirt on shady journalist?@pando@TechCrunch@Uber&mdash; ashton kutcher (@aplusk)November 19, 2014So as long as journalist are interested and willing to print half truths as facts... Yes we should question the source.&mdash; ashton kutcher (@aplusk)November 19, 2014This should be fun... Here comes the part where journalist explain why they should be exempt from ridicule and judgement and probing...&mdash; ashton kutcher (@aplusk)November 19, 2014U r all right and I&#39;m on the wrong side of this ultimately. I just wish journalists were held to the same standards as public figures.&mdash; ashton kutcher (@aplusk)November 19, 2014Yep, here it comes. First, what makes Lacy “shady”? She has been a prominent critic of Uber, including an opinion piece in October titledThe horrific trickle down of Asshole culture: Why I’ve just deleted Uber from my phone, about a sexist advert launched by the company’s French office.If criticising a company’s business practices and corporate culture is shady... well, I don’t know what word is best used to describe responding to that criticism with threats to investigate the writer’s family and personal life. A reminder of Michael’s comments:Over dinner, he outlined the notion of spending “a million dollars” to hire four top opposition researchers and four journalists. That team could, he said, help Uber fight back against the press — they’d look into “your personal lives, your families,” and give the media a taste of its own medicine...At the dinner, Michael expressed outrage at Lacy’s column and said that women are far more likely to get assaulted by taxi drivers than Uber drivers. He said that he thought Lacy should be held “personally responsible” for any woman who followed her lead in deleting Uber and was then sexually assaulted.Then he returned to the opposition research plan. Uber’s dirt-diggers, Michael said, could expose Lacy. They could, in particular, prove a particular and very specific claim about her personal life.In this situation, it’s pretty clear where the shadiness comes in, and it’s not the journalist.Kutcher is right: journalistsshouldbe subject to probing and judgement and questioning, especially if they’re writing “half-truths as facts”. But it’s their work – their articles, their sources, their conclusions – that need probing. Not their personal lives.I have a lot of sympathy for Kutcher, who has endured intrusive, speculative and doubtless usually half-true (at best) journalism about his own personal life, and that of his family.Few tech journalists can ever know what it’s like to have the bones of their marital relationship picked over in the tabloids, or to regularly run the gauntlet of aggressive paparazzi with their loved ones. Few would blame Kutcher for having an extremely negative view of journalism in general as a result.Even so, harassing or printing lies about a celebrity is a very different kind of journalism to criticising – no matter whether you put “asshole” in the headline – a technology company that they’ve invested in.In the age of corporate blogs and social media, Uber had plenty of “opportunity to defend themselves” that didn’t involve private investigators and personal dirt-digging.All journalists – celebrity and tech hacks alike – are on notice that if our journalism is bad, we can be called out publicly. Often by one another, in fact, but also by the companies and people that we write about. It’s a hugely positive development.Judging by Michael’s comments and the separate controversy about the companyaccessing a reporter’s personal data without permission, Uber’s natural inclination was to choose another path.“U r all right and I’m on the wrong side of this ultimately. I just wish journalists were held to the same standards as public figures,” he tweeted, presumably after reading some of the feedback.I suspect more journalists share Kutcher’s views on standards than he thinks, but when that leads them to criticise companies in his portfolio, that doesn’t make them shady.•Is Uber the worst company in Silicon Valley?
Uber is investigating its New York general manager for privacy violations, after he accessed a reporter’s personal data at least twice without her permission.In November, Josh Mohrer, the head of the firm’s New York office, had arranged an interview with Johana Bhuiyan, a reporter for BuzzFeed News. Bhuiyan arrived in an Uber car to find Mohrer waiting for her, holding an iPhone. “I was tracking you,” he told her.In September, Bhuiyan says Mohrer had emailed her a list of notifications the Uber app had sent her over the previous two weeks, “to make a point about questions [she] had asked about ride-share competitor Lyft.” The notifications show the date and time her car arrived.Buzzfeed now reportsthat Uber is investigating Mohrer’s actions.On Wednesday, the firm released its privacy policy for the first time, although it says it has always been in effect internally but simply never published. It refers to a “strict policy prohibiting all employees at every level from accessing a rider or driver’s data” except for “legitimate business purposes”.The debate over Uber’s approach to privacy has exploded after Emil Michael, an executive for the firm, was reported suggesting that it should hire an opposition research team to dig dirt on journalists. Although the company has now apologised for Michael’s comments, they have led many to reassess the company’s previous actions.For instance, it has come under renewed fire for a blogpost in 2012 in which it tracked, in aggregate,Uber riders who appeared to be having one-night-stands in six US cities– a use of data which appears to stretch the definition of “legitimate business purposes”.And the company’s US-specific privacy policy, a different and more complex document from the plain-english policy posted on Wednesday, reveals that even users who delete their accounts can’t remove their data from the service.“Even after your account is terminated, we will retain your personal information and usage information (including geo-location, trip history, credit card information and transaction history) as needed” to comply with regulations, prevent fraud, resolve disputes, “and for other business reason [sic]”,the document reads.The company’s global privacy policy does not contain that passage.Although Uber is an international firm, it has markedly different business practices in most cities it operates in, a legacy of the need to comply with varying regulation on the taxi market. In New York and London, the firm operates nearly exclusively as a for-hire cab company, although in both cities it also lets users hire the cities’ traditional yellow or black taxis. But in cities with looser regulation, the company has other business methods, letting unlicensed drivers join up, or letting customers share rides to save money.Is Uber the worst company in Silicon Valley?
For children, digital and physical play and/or learning don’t have to be mutually exclusive concepts. British startupNight Zookeeperis the latest company exploring the idea of blending the two areas.It started life in 2007 as a project in schools where then-teacher Paul Hutson got children to draw magical animals for an imaginary “Night Zoo”. More than 500,000 children have since taken part through a mixture of in-person and online sessions.As a company, Night Zookeeper diversified into apps: 2012’sNight Zookeeper Drawing Torchencouraged children to create their magical animals with digital tools in response to “drawing missions”, before 2013’sNight Zookeeper Teleporting Torchexpanded the idea, complete with a dashboard for parents to get involved too.In 2014, the company is trying something new: a website version that also runs on touchscreen devices, which besides getting children to draw, includes more gaming elements and encourages its users to write stories.The new site soft-launched in October, and is free to use for children, with no advertising. Instead, it will make its money from a“fan club” featurewhere parents pay £5 a month or £27 for lifetime membership.For that, they get unlimited access to the website, more stories, weekly suggestions for educational activities, and fan club packs for their children with stickers, t-shirts and a letter from the fictional Night Zookeeper welcoming them.Night Zookeeper gets children to draw magical animals.Photograph: PRIt’s aimed at 5-11 year-old children, with the hope that their parents will get involved too. “Everything your child does, they can email it to you in a very safe, secure and locked-down system,” managing director Joshua Davidson told the Guardian.“Parents can play along passively or actively. They can look at the emails and reward them with orbs – the in-game currency – or they can be very active and help them create animals and write stories about them.”Note, the orbs can only be earned: there are no in-app purchases in the world of the Night Zookeeper. But there is plenty of sharing: children are able to go to its “Midnight Market” to browse one another’s animals, and collect them for their own zoo.“I am the proud owner of the first magical animal marketplace for kids!” said Davidson, who wrote the original story that became Night Zookeeper. “If you do a really good drawing and people collect your stuff, you get extra orbs. So this is a currency that’s all about effort.”Back to that online/offline aspect. Children can draw their animals using the Night Zookeeper website, or draw them on paper then scan them in. Meanwhile, Davidson says that his company’s own research suggests that at least a fifth of children who experience Night Zookeeper at school “come home and start writing stories” – something that he hopes will also happen with the new website.Stories are a big part of the site, too. “Children unlock the story as they illustrate. Each zone of the world has a storybook attached, which they unlock by doing drawings,” said Davidson.“So you’re getting to illustrate a book, but there’s also another side where kids write stories about their animals. We want to provide a huge amount of inspiration for story writing and character creation.”Children’s drawings are placed into stories as they go.Photograph: PRThe gaming elements also tie in to this, as children have to defend their zoo against monsters who periodically attack it. The game part takes place on a hexagonal map, with children also sorted “in a Harry Potter way” into unions with their own leaderboards and communities.In some ways, Night Zookeeper is following the path of a conventional tech startup: for example, it waspart of Telefonica’s Wayra startup acceleratorin 2012, then raised £150k of seed funding in 2013 and afurther round of £440kin 2014.Davidson said that the company is focused on far more than profits and potential exits in the future, though. “We’re an education company trying to make something that’s going to entertain kids, as opposed to an entertainment company trying to get into education,” he said.“One thing we’ve done in forming the company is to make ourselves a social enterprise, for example. Our articles of association say we’ll always have a free offering for schools, and we’re trying hard to reach disadvantaged kids.”That’s one reason for shifting focus from native iOS apps to an HTML5 website that can be accessed from more devices through their web browsers. “Our guys are using HTML5 to do increasingly interactive, engaging experiences,” he said.“You can’t beat the accessibility of the web, and if you’re building something you want maximum exposure for, and you can build it on a platform that’s accessible to as many people as possible, why wouldn’t you?”Night Zookeeper hopes parents will be part of its fun.Photograph: PRDavidson is also hoping that parents will appreciate the fact that Night Zookeeper’s real potential is about the real-world interactions with their children, rather than purely digital entertainment that separates the generations. Although it’s not just apps that get in the way of parents spending time with their children.“If you’re at work until 7pm, your daughter might be sending yuo drawings, or writing a story about the flying hippo-bat that she’s created. And you can be taking part in that,” said Davidson, who also pitched Night Zookeeper as a healthy alternative to freemium mobile games like Candy Crush Saga, which some children’s apps firms have suggested are the real competition for their work.“You don’t have to make these fruit machine-style massive addiction games. Kids love them, but they’re not bringing them the same inner emotional-soul rewards that playing with their parents in any capacity or form would do,” said Davidson.“If you look at Candy Crush, Clash of Clans and other success stories out there, that’s our competition. We will fail if we can’t compete and make something better in that sense. But even what we do isn’t any substitute for a bit of one-on-one time with a parent when a child is getting their full attention.”Shared creativity is the big pitch for Night Zookeeper, though. The company recently commissioned a survey of 1,000 British parents with 5-11 year-old children, and found that while three quarters of parents worry that modern computer games don’t allow creative freedom in children, roughly the same amount think that modern technology can provide a vehicle for creativity.The company’s job now is to attract enough children, and persuade enough parents to pay for the fan club, to provide competition for those bigger, established brands in the children’s apps space.“A lot of the digital success stories in the children’s space haven’t come from stories: they’ve come from pieces of interaction. Temple Run, Angry Birds, Moshi Monsters... They weren’t initially stories,” said Davidson, although he stressed his respect for those brands, and their creators’ efforts to add storytelling as time has gone on.“I think the brands people fall in love with in the children’s space are the ones that have an emotional character-driven experience behind them. We hope there is an emotional journey in Night Zookeeper, as well as the fact that children are actually creating the characters. Now we just want more people to fall in love with that story.”•Pre-school app Hopster TV takes on Netflix with The Gruffalo•Nosy Crow: fairytales, reluctant readers and game-like apps•Me Comics app digitises comics for kids•Moshi Monsters maker pitches PopJam app as Instagram for kids
Apple has been fined more than $20m in Texas after a court found that the iPhone infringes patents granted on ancient pager technology in the 1990s.The six patents in question were filed between 1992 and 1997, and all cover technology used in the SkyTel two-way pager network, run by Mobile Telecommunications Technologies (MTel).Although some of them have since expired, the law allows MTel to claim up to six years’ back-payments for infringement that occurred while they were valid.MTel had claimed in court that Apple’s iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch, as well as its Airport Wi-Fi routers, infringed the patents, particularly through the firm’s iMessage feature and its email apps. Apple disagreed, saying the firm was trying to claim ownership of everything from emoji to calendar invitations.The awardof $23.6m was a tenth of what the firm was claiming: it wanted $1 for every infringing device sold, which would have totalled $237m, according to Apple’s lawyer Brian Ferguson.“A damage award of $237m is not common sense. It’s not logical,” Ferguson said in court.Last month Apple won a different case in California, which also accused it of using another company’s pager technology. GPNE had sued the firm in 2011 over two patents, and was seeking $94m in damages. Apple described it as a “patent troll with no active business other than patent litigation”, which had previously demanded payment from “everyone from truckers and farmers to roofers and dairies… Apple invents products that revolutionise industries, and relies upon the US patent system to protect our innovation.”In the MTel case, Apple wasn’t able to paint its opponent as a patent troll. Also known as a “non-practicing entity”, patent trolls buy up broad patents and sue for payment, without making anything themselves using the technology. But MTel still co-owns and runs the SkyTel pager network, used by firefighters and paramedics.Amongthe patents in question is one from 1993 for a “nationwide communication system” using base transmitters and receivers to broadcast messages throughout a wireless network, andone from 1996for a “method and device for processing undelivered data messages in a two-way wireless communications system”.With the precedent behind it, the next few months could be profitable for MTel. Samsung is also heading to court, accused of infringing the firm’s patents.
Twitter has made every public tweet made since the service started in 2006 available through itssearch engine, making everyone’s first, second and third embarrassing tweets viewable by anyone.The search index includes100s of billions of tweetsgrowing by several billion more each week. Tweets covering a variety of historical events, including the Arab spring, the Scottish referendum and the London 2012 Olympics are all discoverable.But included in that huge archive of the world’s important news, thoughts and opinions, it’s now possible to find the inane, the embarrassing and the tweets we hoped had gone forever. Even the drunk ones.Just as with that old MySpace or Bebo page, perhaps now is the time to give your Twitter timeline a bit of a scrub before someone digs up something you’d rather remained buried.Take drastic actionThe drastic option: deleting your account entirelyPhotograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThere are several options for scrubbing tweets from the internet. The first is the potential overkill ofclosing your Twitter account entirely. After deactivating a Twitter account, the data remains in Twitter’s archives for 30 days before being permanently deleted.Logging into the account at any time in the 30-day window will reactivate the account. Before deleting the account, changing the username and email account associated with it can free up the handle to sign up with a fresh account.Deleting the entire Twitter account is the most thorough way, but will mean all the accounts’ followers will be lost, even if another account with the same username is set up.Remove your first tweetIf deleting an entire account is a bit extreme,manually deleting tweetsis possible, if laborious. Finding your first tweets is now straightforward thanks to the new search engine, but Twitter’s#FirstTweetservice is even easier. Repeatedly using it and deleting the associated tweet is a good way to quickly remove your earliest posts.Checking out the incredible Black Mesa Trailer, truly can&#39;t wait to play that next year. It&#39;s going to be worth Boot Camping it!&mdash; Samuel Gibbs (@SamuelGibbs)December 1, 2008My first tweet may have been a bit optimistic, but at least Black Mesawasfantastic when it was released in 2012 and it was worth installing Windows on a Mac to play.Delete specific tweetsThe Twitter archive is easy to peruse through a web browser, and can be interesting in and of itself to look back at your history.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianTwitter allows users todownload an archive of their tweets, which creates an easy-to-browse local file that opens in a web browser and is organised month by month, including a search engine.Each offline tweet has a link to the live copy on Twitter, meaning incriminating tweets can be quickly found and removed. The same thing can be accomplished via the newadvanced search engine, using the “from:username” command to narrow it down to tweets from a particular account, but the archive makes it easier to browse.Delete whole years of tweetsWhen the only option is to mass delete your tweets.Photograph: Felix Clay for the GuardianIf deleting specific tweets isn’t enough, but removing the account isn’t an option, then various free third-party services will automatically delete tweets for you.Web apps such asTweet Deleteallow users to automatically delete tweets after a certain periods – a week, month, year or date. Other services includeTweet Deleter,Twit Wipe,Delete All My TweetsandTweet Eraser. All of them require logging in with Twitter credentials, which means access to your account and carries a certain amount of risk, depending on how much you trust the service.A couple of mobile apps are also available for hiding misguided tweets from an iPhone, with apps such asTweeticide, and Android withDlttr.Twitter imposes some restrictions on these apps, such as the fact that the tweet count can’t actually be reduced to zero, but these apps will normally get the job done well enough that a quick manual tidy-up will be all that’s required.Deleting tweets from Twitter doesn’t mean the potential evidence of indiscretion is guaranteed to be gone forever, however, as the US Library of Congress isarchiving every tweet sentfor official records. Indexing by search engines could still surface caches of the tweets too.•‘I’m now a Twit’: the eight best celebrity first tweets•The royal tweet: Queen sends first Twitter message•Twitter denies filtering abusive tweets for harassed Labour MP
It's Wednesday. And yes, we have a new design - which has made Chatterbox hard to find. Part of the change was the retirement of Games Blog - we just weren't using it anymore and it was a bit of a dated format - that means there's no actual set "home" for chatterbox right now.I'm working on making things clearer though, and the good thing is Chatterbox isn't going away – it's just… emigrating. But it hasn't emigrated properly yet. It's sort of crash-landed on a desert island. And we're sending a rescue party.
Twitter has denied using secret anti-spam tools to help an MP suffering anti-semitic abuse on the social network, after members of a white supremacist website complained that they were unable to send racial slurs.Luciana Berger, the Labour MP for Liverpool Wavertree, has been the target of a long-running campaign of anti-semitic abuse, which includedthe imprisonment of 21-year-old Garron Helm in Octoberafter he was found guilty of sending an offensive, indecent or obscene message.Ten days into the campaign, Berger got in touch with Twitter, asking the service for help dealing with the waves of harassment. The firm promised to support the MP, and shortly after, the abuse died down.Butas The Verge reported, that’s not because Twitter was following its usual protocol of suspending accounts or deleting abusive tweets. Instead, it seemed to be preventing them from being sent in the first place.“For a while, at least, Berger didn’t receive any tweets containing anti-Semitic slurs, including relatively innocuous words like ‘rat’,” reported Sarah Jeong. “If an account attempted to @-mention her in a tweet containing certain slurs, it would receive an error message, and the tweet would not be allowed to send. Frustrated by their inability to tweet at Berger, the harassers began to find novel ways to defeat the filter, like using dashes between the letters of slurs, or pictures, to evade the text filters.”The Electronic Frontier Foundation said they were concerned by the apparent pre-emptive censorship, telling Jeong that “even white supremacists are entitled to free speech when it’s not in violation of the terms of service”.Sources close to Berger have confirmed that the abuse dropped away noticeably in the weeks following the meeting with Twitter, following which the social network promised that it would permanently suspend users who were abusive or who serially created accounts.But while Twitter cited a number of projects it has started, including mandatory phone number verification for accounts which look like they might be abusive, and a larger safety team responding rapidly to user reports, none of its promises included the systems Jeong noted.The company says it has no new anti-abuse system in play, and suggests that the system which prevented Berger’s harassers from sending the abusive tweets may have been an anti-spam tool which was overstretching its boundaries.“We regularly refine and review our spam tools to identify serial accounts and reduce targeted abuse,” a Twitter spokesman told the Guardian. “Individual users and co-ordinated campaigns sometimes report abusive content as spam and accounts may be flagged mistakenly in those situations.”The situation seems to have reverted back to normal, and tweets sent to Berger using abusive language no longer trip the filter.But sources close to the MP were also concerned at how readily the apparent filtering was seized on as a free speech issue. They told the Guardian that they felt strongly that the co-ordinated attacks, stemming from white-supremacist websites that issued daily updates on how to circumvent any attempts to block them, was a very serious situation, which merited a serious response.
More than 600 million WhatsApp users are about to benefit from default end-to-end encryption, which should prevent any snoops spying on their communications.The security boost comes after the Facebook-owned messaging provider contractedOpen Whisper Systems, the creator of the TextSecure encrypted text app, to incorporate its technology into WhatsApp.The new feature is currently only available in the Android version of WhatsApp, but Open Whisper Systems co-founderMoxie Marlinspikeconfirmed to the Guardian an iOS alternative was in the works. There will soon be support for encrypted messaging for group chat and media messages, too.Systems that use end-to-end encryption are hard to break because the key that unscrambles communicationsis only stored on users’ phones. In previous versions of WhatsApp, those keys were also stored by servers as well as users’ phones, giving Facebook or WhatsApp admins access to messages.The TextSecure encryption protocol is particularly strong as it uses a form of what’s known as “forward secrecy”, which means a fresh key is created for every message sent.In ablog post, the Open Whisper Systems team said the WhatsApp project “represents the largest deployment of end-to-end encrypted communication in history”.The only other comparable service deployed on such a massive scale is Apple’s iMessage, which has one notable weakness, in that many people back up messages to Apple’s iCloud service,where data isn’t protected as efficiently.Though it has just created a rival, Open Whisper Systems will continues to work on its own products, which include RedPhone for Android for encrypted voice communications and the iOS Signal apps that do protected calls and messaging.Marlinspike and his colleagues want to make encryption the default on all devices. “We’re more excited about our own apps than ever. We’ll continue to use TextSecure as a place to advance the state of the art, and hopefully incorporate those gains into third-party products as they progress, like we’ve done here,” he said.WhatsApp’s new encryption feature may not tempt some users away from apps such as TextSecure and Signal to Facebook, especially if they are concerned about the metadata from their messages – who contacted whom, and when.When Facebook bought WhatsApp for $19bn earlier this year,co-founder Jan Koum sought to allay privacy concerns, by pointing out that he grew up in in the USSR during the 1980s, where surveillance was rife, and promised to make technology that would keep out spies.Marlinspike declined to answer questions surrounding WhatsApp’s use of metadata, and whether TextSecure was more secure as it wouldn’t share such information, only adding: “Yes, TextSecure will always be an app that is focused first and foremost on simple-to-use private communication.”Handing such strong encryption to hundreds of millions of users will likely irk law enforcement bodies, who have suggested encryption efforts from the likes of Apple and Google will only benefit terrorists and other serious criminals.“They [criminals] already have their own encryption tools, they’re just hard to use,” Marlinspike added. “People engaging in those kinds of activities are willing to put up with a cumbersome user experience, but regular people aren’t. Large-scale surveillance hurts us most of all.”•Experts call for ‘return to human intelligence’ after Snowden
It’s easy for the debate around digital music to be dominated by the big services, fromiTunesandSpotifytoYouTubeandSoundCloud. With tens or hundreds of millions of users, that’s no surprise.Actually, though, some of the most interesting digital music companies are operating at a smaller scale. Bandcamp, for example, has made independent artists $87m from direct sales to fans, and isnow helping them launch subscriptions.Zvooqis trying different forms of mobile music in Russia;MusicQubedis experimenting with £1 weekly subscriptions for downloadable playlists of popular music; andMixcloudis finding a healthy audience for DJ mixes and radio-like shows.US firm8tracksis in a similar vein to the latter, and has become an under-the-radar success: not just popular, but profitable too. Some achievement given that most streaming music services are losing money by the sackful.Eight million people listen to 30m hours a month of 8tracks’ “handcrafted music programming”, which takes the form of playlists uploaded by other users – or “DJs” as the company terms them. Thanks to its non-interactive radio licence, the company pays royalties on those tracks.“We’ve pretty solidly stuck to our guns in terms of being a radio-style, leanback discovery-focused service,” David Porter, 8tracks’ founder and chief executive, tells the Guardian.“We haven’t ventured down the on-demand licensing path, like so many seem to. Here in the States we compete against Pandora, but we’re nicely differentiated by taking the crowdsourced curation approach.”8tracks launched in August 2008, bootstrapped by its founders, and ran for three years with “a little bit of cash from angel investors to pay our royalty bills” before raising a $1.2m seed round in 2011, then another $1.4m in 2014. The basic service is free with advertising, but also offers a “Plus” tier for subscribers to pay $25 every six months to remove the ads“We are squarely in the college demographic. 50% of our audience is 18-24, and 75% is 18-34. We have a much more youthful audience than most, and we skew very indie – almost two thirds of our streaming comes from independent labels and artists,” says Porter.“People tend to like the fact that the programming is more specific. If you’re into a very specific type of electronic music, that only people in Berlin and London know, we probably have it. And a lot of it!”As 2014 nears its end, 8tracks is aiming to be a little bit more above the radar, with plans to do more (ie some) marketing to grow its audience further, and launching new features to make the site more accessible to those newcomers.“We’re trying to get more people through our proverbial doorstep, but we also need to be better about how we matchmake between listener and DJ,” says Porter, who adds that around 1% of 8tracks’ users are uploading mixes regularly.David Porter is 8tracks’ founder and chief executive.Among the new features are smarter use of the tags that 8tracks DJs have always used for their mixes to show genres, moods and other attributes, with the service now learning each user’s taste and suggesting relevant tags to help them find new playlists to listen to.“We’ve just hired a data scientist, so we’re getting a little bit more clever about these things,” says Porter. “It helps us be better on the push front, and not be so reliant on the pull front. The idea is people have to do less digging, because they are having more refined suggestions pushed to them.”8tracks has also launched new features for those DJs, including better analytics so they can see how their mixes are being listened to, as well as a notifications feed showing them likes and comments, to help them engage with their audience.Alongside all this, 8tracks is also trying to improve its advertising business, with Porter telling the Guardian that in September, the company’s “revenue per thousand listener hours” (RPM – a metric also used by Pandora) reached $33.Based on the 30m monthly listening hours stat, that suggests 8tracks is making just under $1m a month from advertising. Small in the music industry scheme of things, but according to Porter, growing steadily.Update:bad maths! 8tracks has clarified that the $33 RPM figure related to the US only, whereas the listening hours stat is global. So not just under $1m a month.“We’re still profitable!” he says. “Historically we operated in the States as a small pureplay webcaster, where we paid our royalties as a small percentage of revenue. Although now we’ve graduated to the large webcaster ranks, so we pay for a lot of our streaming on the same basis as Pandora.”Not all, mind. Some tracks are streamed from SoundCloud, viaan integration with that servicethat means for those songs “the artist or label has waived their royalties”. However, Porter says 8tracks thinks a lot about how it can be “a better friend” to independent labels in particular.“We’re working towards direct deals with labels, certainly on the indie side of things where there’s more flexibility than with the majors,” he says.“Some indie artists discover their traffic has blown up on SoundCloud, then find 75% of the new plays came from 8tracks. So their label will often send us a note: ‘this artist is resonating with your audience, so how can we work more closely with you?’.”While Pandora has become something of a villain for many artists and songwriters in the US, 8tracks is hoping to avoid that fate. “We really do think hard about how to be a real friend to the artists and indie labels.”•The future of music sales is here: how CAN artists make it pay?This article was amended on 19 November to clarify 8tracks’ advertising revenues.
Musicians, YouTubers and other creators are now earning more than $1m a month from crowdfunding websitePatreon, according to the US company.The site enables fans to sign up to donate small amounts of money whenever a creator produces a new piece of work, from songs and videos to comic strips and journalism articles.“In less than a year and half, over a 125,000 people have become patrons of creators on Patreon, paying them over $1m every month,”explained Patreon in a blog post.It highlighted two creators –illustrator Chris Ryniak, who draws a daily “friendly monster” for his patrons, andsinger/songwriter Danielle Ate the Sandwich– as examples. Ryniak currently earns $867 a month from 90 patrons, while Danielle earns $857 per video from her 145 supporters.Patreon was founded in 2013 by Jack Conte, one half of YouTube music stars Pomplamoose, who saw it as a way for artists to earn regular income from their fans, rather than separate crowdfunding campaigns for individual projects.The company signed up 15,000 creators in its first year andpaid out $1m to them– a sum it’s now distributing every month. Patreon takes a 5% cut of pledges, while payment transaction fees come out of creators’ share.Patreon itself has raised money from more conventional sources: venture capital firms and talent agencies, with a$2.1m round in August 2013followed by a$15m round in June 2014.Its investors include VC firms Index Ventures and Charles River Ventures; talent agencies UTA and CAA; and individuals including Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian and Facebook’s messaging boss David Marcus.In the new blogpost, Patreon suggested that its growth is a positive sign for anyone worried about creative industries: “It confirms a massive cultural shift that we all felt but had trouble describing. It’s a restless movement, developing simultaneously right now in arts communities around the world.”“The public is demanding to pay creators. As the cost of consuming digital media drops to zero, the masses are beginning to visualise the peril on the road ahead for creatives, and now they’re doing something about it.”Patreon’s growth is part of a wider trend. Fellow US firm Bandcamp has paid out more than $87m to musicians selling their work through its site, and is now lettingletting them sell subscriptionsto their keenest fans.The largest crowdfunding service, Kickstarter, hasprocessed $1.2bn in pledgesfor successful projects on its site, including $250.8m for games, $206.4m for films and videos, and $117m for music projects.YouTube is also getting in on the crowdfunding action, revealing plans in June tolaunch a tip-jar style featureso that “fans will be able to contribute money to support your channel at any time, for any reason”. The featurewent live in the US, Australia, Japan and Mexicoin September.•Kickstarter’s biggest hits: why crowdfunding now sets the trends
The story that broke earlier in the week about an Uber executive threatening to investigate critical journalists’ private lives rumbles on, with the company providing a couple of official responses yesterday.First, chief executive Travis Kalanick went on a tweetstorm with 13 tweets addressing the issue, although while it concluded with a direct apology to Sarah Lacy, the journalist targeted in the original comments,as Valleywag points out, there were several questions he didn’t answer.As time has gone by, journalists have been focusing on another aspect of theoriginal BuzzFeed reportthat kicked off this debate – the claim that an Uber exec had “accessed the profile of a BuzzFeed News reporter, Johana Bhuiyan, to make points in the course of a discussion of Uber policies” without their permission.Uber has now published a blog postwhich it says aims to “make very clear our policy on data privacy, which is fundamental to our commitment to both riders and drivers”. It refers to a “strict policy prohibiting all employees at every level from accessing a rider or driver’s data” except for “legitimate business purposes”.Technology journalists are, unsurprisingly, questioning whether Uber’s radar for what constitutes “legitimate business” has been malfunctioning for some time. But how are you feeling about Uber and other companies of its type, in regards to privacy?Do you worry about the way your data fits into the “sharing economy”, or do the benefits of services like Uber and Airbnb trump any concerns that your records will be used against you in the future? Is this a specific issue between journalists and Uber, or is this controversy going to put non-hacks off using the company too?The comments section is open for your thoughts.What else is worth discussing in tech today? Some links:11 things revealed by the Apple Watch SDKApple launched its SDK for developers wanting to make apps for its first smartwatch, and The Verge has been filleting its documentation to learn more about the Apple Watch. For example, it’ll be closely tied to the iPhone; there’ll be two resolutions for the devices; seemingly no support for video; and a brand new font called San Francisco.John Lydon spent £10k on freemium iPad gamesThe Sex Pistols and Public Image Ltd frontman had a severe free-to-play habit. “I wasted – you’re the first to know this – 10,000 fucking pounds in the last two years on apps on my iPad,” he told the Telegraph. “I got into Game of Thrones, Game of War, Real Racing, and I just wanted to up the ante. And like an idiot I didn’t check myself...”Twitter opens up its full archivesTwitter announced that it has now indexed every public tweet since 2006, using a search service that “efficiently indexes roughly half a trillion documents and serves queries with an average latency of under 100ms”. The blog post goes intolotsof engineering detail, but it’ll be interesting to see what people do with the archive now.Vainglory MOBA game launches for iOSHardcore gamers and free-to-play games are often pitched in opposition to one another, yet one of the most hardcore genres – multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) games like League of Legends and Dota 2 – are freemium. Now developer Super Evil Megacorp is trying to make the genre work on iOS with its Vainglory game: shown off at Apple’s last iPhone launch, and now available.Auto-lacing shoe technology is on KickstarterI’ve been finding out that teaching another human being – my seven year-old son – to tie shoelaces is a harder task than I thought. Maybe by the time he’s an adult, shoelaces will tie themselves though. Witness this Kickstarter campaign that’s trying to raise $650k for “the very first auto-lacing shoe technology”. Do they do children’s sizes?LittleBits launches a $249 Smart Home KitOne of the most interesting companies around at the moment is littleBits, with its electronics kits. The latest is the Smart Home Kit, which costs $249 and promises to “turn any household object into an internet-connected device: instead of buying a bajillion different smart products, you can reinvent the things you already have.”What else? The comments section is open for your own links, thoughts on the stories above, and (especially) for your advice on tempting surly seven year-olds away from velcro.
Aspiring superheroes may soon be able to climb like Spider-Man thanks to scientists working with the US military who have developed a material which enables a human to ascend a vertical glass wall.The researchers, inspired by the sticky toes of geckos, created hand-sized silicone pads covered with tiny ridges that are capable of adhering to smooth surfaces.They then built a harness with each hand pad supporting the weight of a foot rest, to which it is connected by a pole.The pads feature rows of microscopic slanting wedges that temporarily bond to the surface of the glass when weight is applied.Previous attempts to copy gecko feet failed but scientists at Stanford University, working with the US Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa), found a way of sharing the load between 24 postage-stamp sized tiles on each pad.This allowed researcher Elliot Hawkes, a biomimetics student at Stanford, who weighs 11 stone, to climb a 3.5 metre tall vertical glass wall.They now hope to develop the technology to allow climbers to move faster and more smoothly.It could eventually lead to gloves similar to those used by Tom Cruise’s character in the film Mission Impossible – Ghost Protocol to climb up the outside of the world’s tallest building, the Burj Khalifa in Dubai.Prof Mark Cutkosky, a biomimetic engineer at Stanford University who led the research, said of past efforts: “Unfortunately ‘spider suits’ ignore some basic ergonomic issues. People have much greater strength in their legs than in their arms.“Therefore we think one needs a system where the hands are used to gently attach and detach the adhesive tiles. A system of cables and links transfers the load to the feet.”The researchers developed the adhesive pads, which are not sticky and can be repeatedly reused, as part of the Darpa Z Man project – aimed at helping soldiers scale buildings and other obstacles more easily.They made the breakthrough after studying the way the Tokay gecko, a native of Asia, climbs. Their results are published in the Journal of the Royal Society Interface on Wednesday.Geckos use tiny bristles on their toes called setae, each of which is split into nano-sized tips called septulae. Weak electrical interactions between the molecules in septulae and the surface they are walking on provide grip that allows geckos to even climb upside down.Cutkosky and his colleagues developed adhesive pads from a silicone material called polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) that is moulded into microscopic slanted wedges.These grip the smooth surfaces, including glass, plastic, wood and painted metal, in a similar way to the gecko’s feet when they have a load pulling against the tips of the wedges. The adhesive pads can be removed by lifting the weight from the pads.Hawkes found that by using small tiles meant the pads could conform to a surface more easily than a single adhesive surface.He also found that sharing the load through a system of “tendons” and springs allowed the pads to support adult human weight – and even outperform geckos themselves.Cutkosky said: “As the load increases, the tendons and springs ensure that all tiles converge to the same maximum load.“Without this provision, one tile somewhere in the array will become overloaded and will fail. Then its neighbours will fail and so on. The failure proceeds like an avalanche across the entire array.”However, on rough surfaces the microwedge material does not perform well. Hawkes believes this could be overcome by using smaller tiles or adhesive materials better suited to rough terrain.He said: “The synthetic adhesion system may be able to outperform a gecko on relatively flat, smooth and clean vertical glass, on other surfaces, it has poor performance compared with the gecko.“To adhere to surfaces with more curvature, the tile size could be decreased at the expense of greater system complexity and for rougher surfaces, the adhesion system could be outfitted with one of the gecko-inspired adhesive materials that have been developed for use on these surfaces.“On contaminated surfaces, even geckos have trouble producing adhesion. The PDMS microwedge adhesive can be cleaned between steps by touching a material of higher surface energy like sticky tape and it may be possible to achieve self-cleaning.”The researchers believe their suit could find other uses beyond climbing and are also working with Nasa to develop ways to help grasp space debris. Cutkosky said: “Controllable dry adhesives are one of very few technologies that will work in space – they don’t require suction, they work at low temperatures and they don’t require external power.”
Is Uber the worst company in Silicon Valley? The taxi app company has proved to be one of the most aggressive of the new generation of tech startups – showing a willingness to take “disruption” to new heights. Governments, states, taxi drivers, tax authorities, rivals, even blind people – all have come up against Uber and lost.On Monday, the company stepped it up a gear when it was revealed that at least one senior executive at Uber hadconsidered a smear campaign against one journalistwho has had the temerity to question the company’s ethics.At a private dinner last week at Manhattan’s Waverly Inn, Uber’s senior vice-president of business, Emil Michael, suggested the company could spend “a million dollars” to hire “four top opposition researchers and four journalists” to “help Uber fight back against the press” by looking into personal lives of reporters who write unflattering stories about the company,BuzzFeed’s editor-in-chief Ben Smith reported.The meeting was part of a series of events apparently meant to be a “charm offensive” to woo the media. Among the attendees for at least one of the events were Uber chief executive Travis Kalanick, BuzzFeed’s Smithand Johana Bhuiyan, the actor Ed Norton, Arianna Huffington, and, reportedly, representatives of the New York Times, Business Insider, Capital New York and Newsweek. Smith was there as a guest of columnist Michael Wolff.When somebody at the table at the dinner suggested the plan could be problematic for Uber, he allegedly replied: “Nobody would know it was us.” Well, they do now.On Tuesday, Kalanicktweeted an apologyto Lacy and said Michael’s comments “showed a lack of leadership, a lack of humanity, and a departure from our values and ideals.” He said, however, that “folks who makes mistakes can learn from them … and that also goes for Emil,” suggesting that Michael would be remaining with the company.The revelation is just the latest in a series of escalating clashes between Silicon Valley and the press, regulators and politicians. After years of disrupting each others’ businesses, tech is looking outside the Valley for new businesses. And as it does, it is finding that assumptions people make in tech don’t always travel well.Michael singled out Sarah Lacy, editor of the tech blog PandoDaily, who has been a persistent critic of the company andrecently accusedUber of “sexism and misogyny” over a promotional deal in France that paired riders with “hot chick” drivers. Photos of women in lingerie appeared on the app for customers to choose from. “I don’t know how many more signals we need that the company simply doesn’t respect us orprioritize our safety,” she wrote, declaring she would delete the Uber app from her phone.In a piece titled ‘The horrific trickle down of asshole culture: why I’ve just deleted Uber from my phone’, Lacy pointed to comments from founder Kalanick about “how his company should be called ‘Boober’” in reference to his desirability among women.Lacy is rightly furious about Uber’s response to her criticism. As she pointed out in aPandoLive podcastshortly after the story broke, she has never discussed personal or family matters pertaining to Uber executives, and her criticisms were based on the actions of the company.“What’s astounding to me is that this is a ‘holy shit’, whistleblower moment that the culture of this company is so rotten that an executive was bragging about this to a journalist at dinner. They don’t even think there is anything wrong with this,” she said.Uber co-founder Travis Kalanick.Photograph: APIn what was almost an aside, Smith also said Uber had accessed the profile of a journalist to see she had traveled while using Uber, without permission. Given the picture that can be built from travel data, that news could arguably be the most alarming thing in his report. An Uber spokesperson told Smith this was against Uber’s policies.On Tuesday, Kalanick tweeted an apology to Lacy and called Michael’s comments “showed a lack of leadership, a lack of humanity, and a departure from our values and ideals.”Shocking as Michael’s comments are, they will not surprise many who have followed the company. In five years, Uber has managed to build itself into a company operating in more than 205 cities across 45 countries, and with a $25bn valuation, by cracking heads across the world as it attempts to disrupt the economics of the taxi industry.That valuation is built in large part on the idea that Uber will expand beyond its taxi app base into other services – and they too can expect the hardest of hardball tactics.The company is currently beingsued in San Franciscoby the family of a six-year-old girl who was killed by an Uber driver. The company claims its driver was not performing an Uber ride at the time, but the family argue he was on the road because he was working for Uber. The company has beensued by the National Federation of the Blindfor allegedly refusing rides once the driver saw the passenger had a service dog. The case alleges that one driver even put a service dog in the trunk of his car.In the UK and India Uber has been challenged on taxability of its activities. Overseas the company’s tax structure includes maintaining companies and partnerships in Bermuda, Ireland and the Netherlands. The Wall Street reported last month that Indian tax authorities wereraising questionsover the company electronically running transactions through another country.Last month Uber was referred to the UK tax authorities by London’s taxi and minicab regulator, Transport for London, after senior Labour MP Margaret Hodge said Uber was “opting out of the UK tax regime”.Its dirty tricks campaign isn’t restricted to journalists. Uber and rival Lyft have been engaged in an internecine battle for drivers and riders, which has seen both sides ordering cars only to cancel them in order to frustrate each other’s business. Verge reported in August that Uberwould request ridesfrom Lyft drivers only to cancel them en masse; Forbes, meanwhile, documented Lyft’saggressive attemptsto hire drivers away from Uber.For Kalanick, the company’s combative chief executive, this is all the price of doing business. Much of the heat on the company comes from local taxi lobbies and their supporters, he argues. And the libertarian boss sees it as his mission to fight the power. “We don’t have to beg for forgiveness because we are legal,” he told the Wall Street Journal last year. “But there’s been so much corruption and so much cronyism in the taxi industry and so much regulatory capture that if you ask for permission upfront for something that’s already legal, you’ll never get it. There’s no upside to them.”Worryingly, Kalanick’s sharp-elbowed approach works, as far as investors are concerned, and it comes as Silicon Valley eyes an ever larger share of the “1099 economy” – self-employed people often engaged in the service industry. Taxi drivers, laundry workers and home cleaners are just the first guinea pigs for a new breed of tech firms looking to make big business out of often low-paid workers. The trend is unlikely to stop there with other, even more regulated, industries like home help, even nursing, seen as lucrative markets.Lacygate may well be a turning point for Uber. The company has serious investors – Google Ventures and Goldman Sachs among them. David Plouffe, the former campaign manager for Barack Obama, recently joined the company to head policy and strategy. Even with Uber’s bro-ocracy there are some serious grown-ups in the room who will be pushing for the company to contain this scandal, not least to protect its astronomic valuation.But as Silicon Valley looks ever more closely at “disrupting” the real world economy, and the legislation that binds it, the culture wars look set to intensify.This story was amended on Tuesday 18 November to clarify that there were several events attended by Uber representatives and media. An earlier version of the story had mischaracterised several members of the media as having attended the dinner rather than an event beforehand.According to Ben Smith’s reporting, of the members of the media mentioned in the story, only Smith, Michael Wolff and Arianna Huffington attended the dinner.
A Canadian law firm will use data from a Fitbit fitness tracker for the first time in court as an objective measure of activity.The data will be provided by the plaintiff in a personal injury lawsuit in an effort to show life-affecting reduced activity post injury. But the case has implications for fitness trackers and smartwatches, includingMotorola’s Moto 360and Apple’s upcomingApple Watchthat can track movement.The information for the case will be willingly provided by the plaintiff and processed by data company Vivametrica, which collects data from wearables and compares it with the activity and health of the general population. The plaintiff’s lawyers will use the data in an attempt to prove the accident’s detrimental affects.“Till now we’ve always had to rely on clinical interpretation,” Simon Muller of McLeod Law firm in Calgary told Forbes. “Now we’re looking at longer periods of time though the course of a day, and we have hard data.”The implications of wearables and the lawThe case opens up the possibility that fitness trackers and other wearable computing devices could be used in future cases with a grander scope. Though the data is willingly being turned over by the plaintiff in this case, data from wearables could be subpoenaed by courts as evidence in more serious cases.“From photos on the go-to health and lifestyle tracking, these little devices perform some pretty major functions,”wroteNeda Shakoori, civil litigation lawyer with law firm McManis Faulkner. “These functions, in turn, generate data that is recoverable in litigation, raising the question of what implications exist relative to wearables in the context of litigation.”The development could see insurance companies, for example, insisting that claimants undergo assessment via fitness tracker. Some have already started looking at fitness trackers as a way of measuring relative fitness of subscribers. Corporate wellness plans have seen employees given fitness trackers as part of company encouragement to boost activity, as well as potentially reducing company insurance premiums.‘Only a matter of time before data from wearables is commonplace in litigation’Beyond simple activity, fitness trackers are capable of measuring sleep and other biological data. In 2015 they are set to become more sophisticated with devices capable of measuring heart rate and detailed information about sleep patterns going on sale. Smart clothing with advanced sensors is also expected to take off by 2016,according to data from Gartner, providing another avenue for data collection.“Wearables have the ability, among other things, to track an individual’s heart rate, workout regimens, as well as take photos and videos, and run searches on the web,” said Shakoori. “Additionally, most wearables mine geolocation data, such as running routes or the location where a photo was taken.”The privacy of data from wearable devices has already been identified by regulators as an issue, including the US Federal Trade Commission. However, where data is stored about an individual, traditionally in the cloud as well as locally in dedicated smartphone apps, poses questions around access by law enforcement or courts and how rigorously companies defend individual’s data privacy rights.“Although the law does not always keep pace with technology, wearables generate data and it is only a matter of time before the use of that data is commonplace in litigation,” said Shakoori.•Forget smartwatches - smartclothes are the future, analysts say•Jawbone’s Up3 fitness device monitors heart rate to track sleep cycles•Lumo Lift review: posture-tracking gadget is a straight shooter
With sales of more than 30m copies, Grand Theft Auto V was the biggest game release of 2013 by a considerable distance. Set in the vast city of Los Santos, a hyper-sleazy take on Los Angeles, the incendiary action adventure follows three criminals as they attempt a series of outlandish heists. Much of the fun however, is in the huge open-world map which players are free to explore, causing all manner of chaos, violence and traffic congestion.Originally released on Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, Rockstar has now updated its controversial yet critically acclaimed masterpiece and re-launched it on the new Xbox One and PlayStation 4 consoles.So is the refreshed version worth a look? Here’s what to expect.The visual overhaulNaturally, the world of GTA V is getting a makeover for the more powerful new consoles. Landscapes are more detailed, thanks to higher texture resolutions and improved anti-aliasing and tessellation on surfaces. Lighting effects have been updated to allow for more range in the day/night cycle, and the dynamic weather system brings in sudden rain storms which cover the roads in a glinting slick of water that also affects car handling. There is more traffic on the roads and a greater variety of wildlife in the deserts and mountains.Then of course, there’s the optional first-person view. GTA has historically been viewed from the third-person perspective so you can see the character you’re controlling on screen. In the new version of GTA V, you can play almost all of it (barring some mini-games) like a first-person shooter.According to reviewers, this leads to a much more intense experience, accompanied by a greater sense of culpability and sheer physical presence.Kirk Hamilton at Kotaku says:In terms of shooters, it feels closest to Far Cry, given that series’ commitment to putting you in the body of your avatar. But actually, GTA V’s FPS mode just as often reminded me of the 2008 first-person parkour game Mirror’s Edge. (I know!)However,Gamespot points outthat the cover system doesn’t really work in first-person and driving is extremely tricky, especially in chases or the more demanding car-based missions. Perhaps anticipating this, Rockstar has provided a variety of perspective switching options that will automatically put you into third-person view while driving or in cover.So how does all this play out in practise? Initial responses suggest the game looks gorgeous, especially with the improved draw distance allowing for ever more dramatic vistas. Apparently, the game is mostly maintaining its 30fps frame rate, but most game sites are reporting some slow down at busy moments.This from IGN:I’ve seen a few instances of objects, cars, and pedestrians popping into existence when the laws of real-world physics indicate they should not. The frame rate generally does a good job of maintaining a steady 30 per second, but maybe a couple of times per hour I notice a slight dip when I’m speeding through a crowded city street and come to a busy intersection – particularly when I happen to collide with something in said intersection.There are few reports so far on how the PS4 and Xbox One versions compare against each other, but both run in native 1080p at 30fps. tech site Gearnuke has producedsome comparison screenshotsshowing reasonable parity between the two versions.New contentPurchasers of GTA V on the new consoles will get all the free downloadable content that Rockstar has provided since the launch of the original version of the game last September. That’s a lot of cars, weapons, events and clothing options.On top of this, there will be new challenges and missions, extras vehicles like the brilliantly named Dinka Go Go Monkey Blista and Bravado Sprunk Buffalo, and, yes, yet more new weapons.The audio is getting an overhaul too, with more than 100 new tracks for the in-game radio stations.Bonuses for returning playersThe big question is whether the new versions of Grand Theft Auto V are worth purchasing for those who played on PS3 and Xbox 360. Rockstar is certainly trying its hardest to tempt veterans back.To begin with, saved characters from the previous versions of GTA V can be imported to the next generation updates. This means all the weapons and items you’ve unlocked and cash you’ve earned will be available on your new machine. In theory. News sites arecurrently reportingthat some players are having difficulties transferring their data, but Rockstar has said it is looking into the problem.There will also be extra content, exclusively available to returning players, including several mini-quests. There’s a murder mystery challenge in which Michael must solve a grizzly killing, and a wildlife photography competition where the prize is a personal submarine.On top of this are new vehicles including a blimp and a Cheval Marshall monster truck, as well as the Imponte Duke O’Death muscle car and the classic Dodo seaplane, both of which can be unlocked through completing challenges. Weapon nuts also get to play with a hatchet (ugh) and a rail gun.These are little extras rather than major, epoch-shattering additions, but they will add interest for those gamers who have bought the title simply to experience the refreshed visuals and immersive FPS mode.GTA OnlineGTA V’s multiplayer mode gets the first-person treatment, alongside the single-player experience. Rockstar is also increasing the player count to 30 in quests, races and the free mode, which should increase the chaos and competitiveness accordingly.The Creator Tool has also been updated allowing players to create much larger more ambitious challenges of their own, using vast open spaces and double the number of props. Character customisation is also being refreshed to offer a greater variety of personalisation options.Its worth noting, though, that GTA Online suffered significant technical problems when originally launched for PS3 and Xbox 360 last October, including disappearing saves and cash. Rockstar hasalready put a note on its Newswire serviceasking players to remain patient. So don’t expect things to be glitch-free from the outset.The critical reactionMost game sites are postponing their reviews of the new GTA V until they’ve had more time with the single-player campaign and GTA Online component. However, early reports are favourable.In its 9/10 review, Gamespot writes, “Even if you’ve played through GTA V once already, it’s worth going back just to be reminded of what an outstanding achievement it is.”It’s a view reflected by Kotaku: “In porting theiralready successful gameto new consoles, Rockstar could very easily have polished up the visuals, added a few new musical tracks, and called it a day. Instead, they chose to go well beyond that, and in the process have challenged what we should expect aGrand Theft Autogame to look, feel, and play like in the future.”So where’s the PC version?That’s coming in January 2015. Rockstar said it needed more time to get this right – and we can expect more new content, including support for 4K monitors.
Episodes of This American Life’s Serial podcast have been downloaded and streamed more than 5m times from Apple’s iTunes store alone, according to the latter company.The podcast, which focuses on the investigation into a murder in Baltimore County in 1999, has been a snowballing success online in recent weeks, through word of mouth and media coverage.According to Apple, it is the fastest podcast to reach 5m downloads and streams in iTunes’ history, having been a fixture in the company’s podcast charts in the US, Canada, UK and Australia, but also reaching the top 10 in Germany, South Africa and India.Serial was launched as an offshoot from US radio show This American Life, as an experiment in “audio storytelling” based on reporter Sarah Koenig’s investigation into the real-life murder mystery.High-school student Hae Min Lee went missing early in 1999, and after her body was found a few weeks later, her former boyfriend Adnan Syed was arrested and convicted of murder, before being sentenced to life plus 30 years in prison.“This is not an original idea. Maybe in podcast form it is, and trying to do it as a documentary story is really, really hard,”Koenig told the Guardian. “But trying to do it as a serial, this is as old as Dickens.”Serial’s success has led to an upsurge of chatter about podcasting, a decade after the most intense hype around the format in its early days.That hype may have died down, but people are still listening: Apple says that it expects iTunes and iOS users to listen to 7bn podcasts in 2014 alone, and that its store passed 1bn podcast subscriptions during 2013.Market research firm Edison Research claimed in September that1.7% of the time Americans spend listening to audio is devoted to podcasts, having noted earlier in the year that 15% of Americans – around 39m people –said they had listened to a podcast in the last month.It cited the growth of smartphones and the availability of podcasting apps as the key reason for growing popularity of the format.“We’ve tracked podcasting since 2006 in this research series, and I still remember the days of hunting down an RSS feed, copying it and pasting it into iTunes, downloading the podcast to my computer, and then syncing it to my iPod to listen to later,” wrote Edison’s Tom Webster.“Today, all that friction has been reduced to just one step, thanks to the convergence of broadband access, computing, and media server that is the modern mobile phone.”Besides iTunes,Serial is available to stream or downloadfrom its own website, as well as through other podcasting apps and aggregators.•Hooked on Serial: whodunnit as cultural phenomenon
TRUSTe, a provider of privacy certifications for online businesses, has been given a $200,000 fine by the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) after users were led to believe it was doing proper auditing of those given its stamp of approval.Though it claimed every website, app and cloud service that gained the TRUSTe Certified Privacy Seal would have to be re-assessed every year, in at least 1,000 cases between 2006 and 2013 that didn’t happen.Its icon, which is supposed to show the site in question is responsible when it comes to protecting users’ data, has been awarded to various big-name companies, including the theNew York TimesandApple.But security professionals have been scornful of such logos in the past, including the Norton Secured and PayPal Verified versions. The Australian security professional Troy Hunt, who previously lambasted icons in ablog post entitled Why I am the world’s greatest lover (and other worthless security claims), told the Guardian the icons were “entirely useless and appeal to the lowest common denominator of technology professionals”.“Their effectiveness in building confidence in consumers is questionable at best and deceitful at worst,” Hunt said over email.“Users should ignore any assertions like this made on the site itself. You simply cannot distill the broad landscape that is information security down into a logo on a page.”TRUSTe was also punished for failing to have its customers change their references to the accreditation provider as a non-profit organisation after it became for-profit in 2008.Its settlement with the FTC will force it to be transparent around its processes, but it won’t be obliged to tighten up the accreditation process itself.In ablog post, the TRUSTe CEO, Chris Babel, said the number of cases where it didn’t do proper re-auditing as promised represented “less than 10% of the total number of annual reviews”. He said the organisation had introduced annual reviews for all clients in January 2013.“TRUSTe promised to hold companies accountable for protecting consumer privacy, but it fell short of that pledge,” added the FTC chair, Edith Ramirez. “Self-regulation plays an important role in helping to protect consumers. But when companies fail to live up to their promises to consumers, the FTC will not hesitate to take action.”
A San Francisco court declared that Google can arrange its search results however it likes, in stark contrast to the decision of European regulators.Judge Ernest Goldsmith of the superior court of California in San Francisco declared that Google’s search results are protected under free speech laws in the US, dismissing a lawsuit that claimed Google biased its results to exclude theCoastNewswebsite run by Louis Martin.“The defendant has met its burden of showing the claims asserted against it arise from constitutionally protected activity,” wrote Goldsmith in his one-paragraph ruling, the first ruling since 2007 declaring search results as free speech.“Google’s search results express Google’s opinion on which websites are most likely to be helpful to the user in response to a query and are thus fully protected by the First Amendment,” lawyers Wilson Sonsini Goodrich &amp; Rosati representing Google wrote in a memorandum filed to the court.Slapp legislation ‘designed to protect free speech’The lawsuit was brought by Martin against Google, but dismissed under Californian law after being labelled a “slapp” case. Otherwise known as “strategic lawsuit against public participation”, slapp cases seen as attempts to censor, intimidate or silence critics.Goldsmith’s decision contrasts with European regulators, which are moving to take action to address Google’s domination of the search market. Google is under investigation in Europe for being anti-competitive and giving prominence to its own services over over rivals including Microsoft and Yelp.The European commission re-opened its four-year antitrust investigation into Google’s search and advertising business in September, after Joaquín Almunia, the EC’s antitrust chief at the time, said he received “very, very negative” responses from the proposed settlement with Google unveiled in the spring.The European competition commissioner, Margrethe Vestager, who took over from Almunia on 1 November, said she would take time to review the case with Google.“The issues at stake in our investigations have a big potential impact on many players, they are multifaceted and complex. I will therefore need some time to decide on the next steps,” Vestagertold a European parliament hearing.Google’s search results are also subject to European “right to be forgotten” legalisation that has seen search results for specific named persons removed from display, forcing Google to accept and analyse requests for search result removals.Freedom of speechIn the US, the Federal Trade Commissioncleared Google of search results biasafter a two-year investigation, but forced it to agree to legally binding changes around the way it presents some search results and advertising.In Europe, Google has presented its service as neutral owing to the algorithmic nature of the search engine, but in this and previous cases in the US Google has said that its search results are part of free speech.“Google’s opinions about the ranking of search results are constitutionally protected speech,” the company citied of a previous case in 2003.•Google’s grand European tour aims to map out the future of data ethics
It’s easy to patronise teenagers when it comes to technology, even with the best intentions.Nick D’Aloisio must know this: afterlaunching his Summly startupin 2011 at the age of 15, he was more likely to be asked when on stage at conferences about girlfriends and GCSEs than about the workings and implications of his news aggregation app – both topics he was eloquent and interesting about.That held true for the recent Future 8 awards, organised by SuperAwesome in partnership with the Guardian to identify and celebrate talented programmers, animators, filmmakers, makers and musicians between the ages of seven and 17.On the night of the awards, the winners all talked engagingly about what they do, why they do it, and what they plan to do next, with the focus firmly on their work.Three key themes emerged from the Guardian’s interviews: many of the skills shown by the winners were learned outside school; they were already building their networks of peers and industry contacts both online and in the real world; and they were willing to grapple with the business side of what they do.School’s outIn England, programming – or at least programming-like thinking - is nowpart of the national curriculumfor children as young as five. But for the Future 8 winners, their technology skills had largely been developed outside their regular schooling.“All my programming, my projects, they’ve all been self-taught. From a young age I made websites out of HTML, then I started making games. And I decided I would keep a notebook and write down all my ideas,” said Faheem Anwar.He won the mobile app category for his The Youth Booth idea for an app that helps children organise days out at attractions, and get collective discounts. Anwar said he’d been programming in HTML and making games “from a young age”, encouraged by his parents.“In the Irish school system, they don’t do much in animation. I guess the closest you’d get to it is with art, which is quite interesting, but that’s the closest you get,” said Jonathan White, who won the animation category. “You have to get tutorials off the internet and online forums.”Fin Moorhouse, who won the online video category, told a similar story of self-motivation. “There is a degree of space within other areas of study, but it’s mostly entirely up to me to do what I like to do really,” he said.“I taught myself everything I know about blogging and the publishing industry,” said Amber Kirk-Ford, who won the blogging award for herThe Mile Long Bookshelfsite.“A lot of people seem to think I paid for someone to design my blog professionally, which is definitely a compliment, but I learned how to code it myself and all of the graphics were designed by me. From personal experience, I think people – children and teenagers especially – are more willing to continue with a hobby if they’re left to experiment with it and essentially teach themselves.”Several winners caught the technology bug at dedicated “tech camp” events held in the summer holidays. “I went in there knowing absolutely nothing about coding. I came out and could make a website, and had made a top 40 UK music app,” said Seb Gallop, who won the Future 8 games category with his Lifeless City concept.Billy Timimi, who won the Maker category with his idea for a ConvertaDesk that shifts between soldering table and traditional workstation, also cut his teeth at a tech camp.“I got to learn about quite a lot really: I learned how to do some robotics and how to do some programming,” he said, adding that he also got his first sight of a 3D printer there.Building networksIt’s no revelation at all to suggest that teenagers are using social networks, but it was notable how many of the Future 8 winners are already using Twitter and YouTube as their public profiles, to forge contacts and (where relevant) promote their work.White has a YouTube channelwhere he shows off clips of his animations and games, whileMoorhouse prefers to use Vimeoto publish his films.“I’m publishing the majority of my films that are acceptable to watch on Vimeo. That’s one of the great things about film: that social aspect, sharing with people you’ve never met,” said Moorhouse.Natalie Shay, who won the music category, has built up a following through YouTube, whichshe uses to publish her videos. Like other YouTube musicians, she sees the service is an alternative way to build an audience to traditional routes, whether within the music or TV industries.“I’ve been scouted for X Factor so I could do that, but it’s very risky: if you don’t succeed in it, it can ruin everything,” she said. Instead, Shay has been running a YouTube channel since 2010.“I tend to want to go the organic route: it ensures a long career. Instant fame doesn’t always work that well,” she said.Kirk-Ford said that running her blog and its spin-off YouTube channel has also helped her forge relationships within the book publishing industry. “Especially in the last couple of years or so, I’ve definitely noticed the publishing industry getting more and more excited about book bloggers and booktubers,” she said.“I think because we dedicate so much time to books outside of actually reading them - so, making videos about them, writing blog posts about them - people can tell that we’re truly passionate about books and they know we can build a lot of buzz.”“For kids, the ability to upload to YouTube is now essentially the equivalent of basic literacy,” said Dylan Collins, chief executive of SuperAwesome. “That’s huge.”Thinking businessThe final thing that marked the Future 8 winners out was their willingness to get to grips with the business side of their chosen careers – or their side-careers, in the case of Anwar, who intends to become a doctor with a sideline in app development.“I hope to make apps, and the advertising revenue will be another source of income for me,” he said. The costs of medical education being what they are, that sounds like a wise decision, with Anwar keeping his options open. “I’ll go into gaming, I’ll go into a bit of social media. I’ve got a few ideas,” he said.James Corneille won the web development award for a website that’s already a business in its own right:Skizzie.com. It’s a site that teaches foreign languages to children using animation.“It initially started as Irish, then I decided to expand it so added English and French,” he said. “I’m going to hopefully expand it further, with tons of languages and different premium packages. I have tons of concept ideas for how to make money out of it.”Shay, meanwhile, has alreadyself-released her first single, which got to number 15 in the singer/songwriter chart on Apple’s iTunes store last year.“It was a completely independent project. Someone in the year above me at school filmed the video, I got it recorded by one of my friends, and then I did the whole promotion from home, online,” said Shay, who added that being a student at the Brit School for Performing Arts and Technology is providing business skills, not just creative skills.“They don’t distinguish between creation, distribution and monetisation: it’s just the same thing for them. Stuff like YouTube and the app stores on iOS and Android have created that paradigm,” said Collins.“You don’t see kids going round as much looking for a label deal for their music or a publishing deal for their app or game. What they’re interested is in someone paying attention to them, and they can get this stuff out there themselves to do that.”Getting out and aboutThese experienced business heads on young shoulders are also relishing the prizes at the Future 8 awards, which include visits to and mentorship from industry sponsors including Sony Music, Penguin Random House, WeMo, Outfit7, NOW Music, NaturalMotion Games, Stick Sports, Bin Weevils and 55Pixels.Another teenage stereotype – the surly work-experience student – was scotched by the winners’ clear intentions to use their prizes to further their careers, from White’s desire to study the workings of NaturalMotion’s games studio to Shay’s plans to use her time in a recording studio to polish off her next release.“It’s not just about seeing how a games company works and how they tick,” said Gallop, of his upcoming visit to Stick Sports. “The mentoring sessions are going to be really good, because I can understand how to be a games designer, not just how to try and be a games designer.”Kirk-Ford, whose prize includes mentoring sessions at publisher Penguin Random House, agreed. “I feel like the people in the publishing industry in general are really inspiring and I can’t wait to get the chance to talk to them in more detail.”Nobody talked about networking in a starry-eyed way: the winners were aware of the value of getting out and about within their chosen industries, rather than conforming to more stereotypes of teenagers cloistered in their bedrooms.“That’s a huge stereotype: that we don’t go out,” said Corneille, who recently drove up to Dublin from his home in Limerick for a Google networking event. “I know for a fact that isn’t true.”•Dan Snow: ‘Clearly an app is better than a book for history’
Maybe the row between Spotify and Taylor Swift is about more than streaming music royalties. Maybe it boils down to a deep disagreement over pets.That’s one (yes, ridiculous, butwait until you see the data) conclusion to be drawn from a comparison of these two brands on market research firmYouGov’s new Profiler web app, whichlaunched this week.It enables you to plug in any brand, person or thing to see what data YouGov’s surveys have thrown up on its typical customer or fan. It turns out Spotify fans are cat people, while Taylor Swift fans are dog people.There are more serious insights to be gleaned from the data when you plug in various technology brands, though.According to YouGov,Apple customers skew more female, are 25-39 years old, and tend to work in professions such as media and publishing, advertising, marketing and PR, and business.Their favourite sports are skiing, tennis and athletics; their hobbies include exercising, sports and cycling; their most likely pet is a fish; and they describe themselves as clever, funny and confident (but also control-freaky, headstrong and insecure).Apple fans’ favourite dish is grilled halloumi. Their general interests include mobile applications; fashion, design and cosmetics; and people and celebrities.How about Samsung, Apple’s great rival?They skew more maleand are between the ages 40 and 59, with typical professions including transport and logistics, consulting and information technology.Their favourite activities include DIY, looking after pets and computer programming; their favourite sports are ski jumping and acrobatic gymnastics; and their general interests are cars and motoring, computers and technology, and science.On the plus side, their most likely pet is a fish too. They find toilet humour quite funny, and describe themselves as polite, far-sighted and paternal, although also disinterested, difficult and untidy.There’s a wealth of data to be mined in the Profiler.Google fans? Male, 25-39 and working in education, IT and advertising, marketing and PR; favourite dish is miso soup; favourite hobby is trekking and hiking; general interest is “websites” and most likely pet is a cat.Microsoft? Male, aged over 60, and working in IT, engineering or consulting; preferring lamb shish and venison casserole; watching motorsports and rugby union, and interested in computers and technology, science, business and finance. They’re fish people too.Facebook? These are 25- to 39-year-old women, working in advertising, marketing, PR, media and publishing; eating guacamole; playing video games, swimming and enjoying “communicating with friends”. And cats.How about the Guardian? Left-leaning, cricket-playing, politics and women’s issues experts working in education, media and publishing, and chowing down on antipasti, aubergine parmigiana and braised endives with their cats.Which, I suspect we can all agree, takes this data into the realms of undeniable fact.•Like sweetcorn and Cliff? Market researchers reckon you’re rightwing•Who are you? YouGov profiles the nation’s newspaper readers
It's Tuesday!
The popularity of fitness-tracking wristbands will wane in the next 12 months, according to market analysts, as consumers opt instead for more versatile smartwatches and new smartclothing.Currently the domain of professional athletes, smart clothing will overtake the sale of fitness trackers by the end of 2016 as consumer products become available.The Polo Tech smartshirt by Ralph Lauren, which was shown off at the US Open in August, can measure heart rate and respiration connecting to a smartphone via Bluetooth. Just one example of technology integrated into clothing, the shirt could displace traditional chest straps and other wearable fitness gadgets for fitness enthusiasts and athletes.“Because smartshirts and other smartgarments can hold more sensors closer to the skin, they can collect more information and produce better data, like the full wave of the heart beat rather than just the pulse,” Gartner research director Angela McIntyre explained to the Guardian.“First-generation smartshirts have been available from companies like Adidas and Underarmour for a while now marketing them to professional athletes, but we’re starting to see interest from regular manufacturers of garments for a much larger audience,” she said.Smart garments to overtake wristbands during 2016In 2015, 10m smart garments will be shipped, but by 2016 Gartner predicts that shipments will increase to an estimated 26m – 7m more than smart wristbands that same year.A forecast 68.1m total wearable fitness devices, including smart wristbands and garments, sports watches, chest straps and other fitness monitors, will be shipped in 2015. That’s down from 70.2m in 2014, before increasing again to 91.3m as smart garments boom in 2016.Smartwatches that have fitness-tracking functions, such as Motorola’s Moto 360 and the upcoming Apple Watch, will cannibalise sales of fitness tracking bands including the Jawbone up in 2015, according to McIntyre, leading to a decline in the number of wristband fitness gadgets shipped.“Consumers will have more choices next year between wristbands and smartwatches that have similar functionality,” McIntyre explained. “But they will recover, due to a growing market for fitness and health monitoring and with people who don’t want to have two screens on their wrists and wear a wristband with a traditional watch.”Gartner predicts that 20m smart wristbands will be sold globally by the end of 2014, down from 30m in 2013, which will further decrease to 17m in 2015 as half of people considering buying a wristband opt for a smartwatch instead.Wristbands won’t entirely disappear, however, with a new flurry of potential for new kinds of use, McIntyre explained. She predicts a resurgence in 2016 with 19m sold by the end of the year.“We’re going to see quite a spectrum of designs and capabilities by 2016. There will be a market for what we see today, but what’s most exciting is this grey area between what is a wristband and a smartwatch,” said McIntyre. “The will also be other uses for wristbands including access control, identity, getting into buildings quickly without a corporate band.”Smartwatches will increase in shipments from 10m this year to 40m in 2015 and 60m in 2016. This increase is powered partly by Apple’s Watch, due for release in spring 2015 and Android Wear, but also driven by traditional watch manufacturers launching connected watches or smartwatches such as Casio and Fossil.“We could think of smartwatches as the evolution of the digital watch, there are 1.2bn watches sold globally, according to Statistics Brain, with 23% of those being digital watches,” explained McIntyre. “A certain percentage of those digital watches will become connected watches in the next year or so.”Whether users will stick with their new smart wearables is unclear, with half of Americans who own a fitness tracker no longer using it and one-third found to ditch wearableswithin six months.“People wear fitness trackers for various reasons and a good number of people may learn what they want to know after six months of using them,” explained McIntyre. “But there’s so much innovation happening at the moment with these wearable electronics it’s quite possible if one device doesn’t work for them they’re at a price point where someone could feel free to try something different or in a totally different category.”For McIntyre, the one feature that is likely to be the most interesting for new and existing users of fitness gadgets heart rate monitoring, which is making its way down into a new wave of more affordable gadgets in 2015.•Lumo Lift review: posture-tracking gadget is a straight shooter•Jawbone’s Up3 fitness device monitors heart rate to track sleep cycles•Smartwatches make up only 11% of wearables market, figures show
The government’s mandatory data retention bill places limitations on human rights that are “not proportionate” to the intentions of the proposed scheme,a scathing reportpublished on Tuesday by a cross-party committee says.Among its concerns, the joint parliamentary committee on human rights raised a warning about the length of time material could be kept, questioned how the information could be used, and criticised the lack of definition about what constitutes a reason for data to be kept.The report said: “While the committee acknowledges that the prevention and detection of crime may be regarded as a legitimate objective for human rights purposes, the committee is of the view that … the proposed limitation is not proportionate to the stated aims of the proposed scheme.”Last month the Abbott government announced measures to retain users’ phone and internet data, saying it would not collect the content of the information, just the digital footprint – the information that marks out movements online and on the phone, such as sites visited or numbers called.It was part of a suite of counter-terrorism bills introduced to parliament over the past few months.The committee’s report called for amendments to the legislation to inform individuals when an application to access their data has been made, except for investigations of serious crimes. It also wants targeted individuals to be able to “challenge” that access.Access to data retained should be granted “only on the basis of a warrant approved by a court or independent administrative tribunal”, a change that would also require a rewrite of part the data retention bill.The committee warned that the decision of the attorney general, George Brandis, to defer legislating on the definition of what constitutes metadata – the content intended to be retained under the bill – could mean the collection of content that falls beyond the stated intentions of the bill.Its report said without a proper definition, content collected may include names, addresses, dates of birth, location of communication, location of devices, length of communication, IP addresses and volumes of downloaded material.“The concern about the undefined types of data to be collected is compounded by the fact that what constitutes the ‘content’ of a communication (and would therefore be excluded from collection) is undefined in the bill, which could see data retained that does include aspects of content,” the report reads.The committee wanted the government to write a clear definition into the bills of what will be collected. “The committee therefore recommends that, to avoid the arbitrary interference with the right to privacy that would result from not defining the content that is excluded from required retention, the bill be amended to include an exclusive definition of ‘content’ for the purposes of the scheme,” its report said.,The cross-party committee that looks at whether incoming legislation impacts on human rights, noted that submissions made by law enforcement agencies say that data held longer for six months is rarely used in investigations, and questions whether it is necessary to retain data for two years, as is proposed in the bill.“The committee therefore requests the further advice of the attorney general as to whether the two-year retention period is necessary and proportionate in pursuit of a legitimate objective.”Furthermore, the report raises serious concerns about how the retained data would be applied, saying there is no threshold for the seriousness of crimes it could be used to investigate. The human rights committee said that the bill should be amended to restrict access to retained data “where it is ‘necessary’ for investigations of specific serious crimes such as major indictable offences or specific serious threats”.The committee echoesconcerns made by media organisationsand civil rights advocates that the bill will unfairly target journalists, lawyers and whistleblowers, saying that the effect on journalists if the bill is not amended will be “chilling”.Greens senator Scott Ludlam told parliament on Tuesday afternoon that Brandis is already backing down on data retention measures.“The government is on the back foot, such that it has delayed debate till 2015,” Ludlam said, adding that the legislation does not pass the “commonsense test”.But Liberal National party senator Ian McDonald said the legislation is “an essential tool” for catching would-be terrorists. He pleaded for a sensible approach to the debate.
This year has seen plenty of debate about the portrayal of women in games, but now Swedish trade association Dataspelsbranchen is launching an intriguing new project to analyse the topic.What’s more, the government-backed research could end in some kind of labelling scheme, althoughnews site The Local stressesthat it’s currently unclear whether this would be a rating for every game based on how well or poorly it portrays gender equality and diversity, or a badge for games that do it well.“I do not know of any other project in the world asking this question and of course we want Sweden to be a beacon in this area,” said Dataspelsbranchen’s Anton Albiin, who also had an answer for questions about whether focusing on this area would inhibit developers’ creativity.“Of course games can be about fantasy but they can be so much more than this. They can also be a form of cultural expression - reflecting society or the society we are hoping for. Games can help us to create more diverse workplaces and can even change the way we think about things.”Swedish government-funded innovation agency Vinnova thinks the research is worth a 272,000-kronor grant: so note for accuracy’s sake, this is a project to explore how the idea of these ratings would work, not a firm commitment (yet) to introduce them.What do you think about the idea of some kind of ratings system based on how games deal with issues of diversity? If it happens, should it be all games, or more a badge of quality? And what impact might it have if a game is given a negative rating in the former case? The comments section is open for your views.What else is on the technology radar this morning?Uber under fire for journalist ‘dirt digging’ claimsNo, not journalists digging dirt on Uber: the other way around.Comments made by Uber’s Emil Michaelat an event suggested the company might hire researchers to look into “your personal lives, your families” of critics in the media, including tech site PandoDaily’s boss Sarah Lacy.Here’s her blistering response.Snapchat launches Snapcash payments featureDisappearing-messages appSnapchat has a new feature called Snapcash, through a partnership with mobile payments firm Square. Users will store their debit card details, and then be able to send cash “directly to your friend’s bank account”. There are surely some uses for this that don’t involve paying for naked snaps. Aren’t there?WireLurker may have been closed downiOS malware WireLurker has been sending ripples through the Apple community since being uncovered earlier in the month. Now Chinese authorities claim thatsites hosting it have been shut down, and three arrests made. But worrying aboutMasque Attack malwareis the new worrying about WireLurker malware, by now.Is Nokia ‘the new Polaroid’?That doesn’t sound like a positive comparison, but Polaroid has been reinventing itself by licensing out its brand to other companies to make products. Now it seems Nokia – the Nokia left in Finland working on non-smartphone products, not the bit sold to Microsoft – isconsidering a similar strategy.Fitbit data is being used in a court caseCould that fitness tracker attached to your pocket / worn on your wrist / sloshing around in your washing machine while you swear like a trooper be vital evidence? Forbes has a story on what appears to bethe first court case relying on data from a Fitbit fitness tracker.A manifesto for startup acceleratorsPaul Smith runs the well-respected Ignite startup accelerator in Newcastle, and haspublished an interesting post on Mediumoutlining some of the ways companies can judge whether an accelerator is going to help them. “There’s a need amongst accelerators for accountability and transparency, so this is a first attempt at some basic terms that all programmes should feel confident agreeing to...”What else have you been reading this morning? The comments section is open for your links and feedback on the stories above.
Your article on Alan Turing (Turings triumph, 15 November, page 7) mentions Lorenz and Colossus. The Axis developed a more powerful machine, Lorenz, to replace Enigma. Although the Lorenz code was broken at Bletchley by Bill Tutte, the solution was so complicated that it took days to translate a message, by which time the message was out of date. Bletchley attempted to construct a machine to translate a Lorenz message more quickly, but failed to do so. A General Post Office engineer, Tommy Flowers,, seconded to Bletchley from the Post Office Research labs at Dollis Hill, volunteered to construct a machine but was rebuffed by those in charge at Bletchley. Flowers, on his own, then designed and had built a machine to translate Lorenz messages at the Post Office labs at Dollis Hill. Flowers paid for many of the parts out of his own money and Colossus, the world’s first programmable electronic computer, was built at Dollis Hill. When Colossus, about the size of a room, was transported to Bletchley they were amazed to find that it could translate messages in minutes rather than days. Bletchley then commissioned Flowers to build other versions.Colossus did extraordinary valuable work in translating Axis messages until the end of the war. It was regarded as so secret that Flowers was not allowed to mention its existence, and when the war ended could not get funding to proceed further – he had no proof that he had developed anything. For his pains, Flowers was given £1,000 in (part) recompense for his outlay in building Colossus, which he divided among his team at Dollis Hill. And that was all. There is a street named Flowers Close in NW2 and a Tommy Flowers building in Tower Hamlets, but I doubt that there are many who connect these with the man who designed and built the world’s first electronic programmable computer and who helped to shorten the second world war. So why no mention of Tommy Flowers?Michael H AbrahamLondon• As much as Benedict Cumberbatch gives an award-winning performance as Alan Turing in The Imitation Game (Reviews, G2, 14 November), again history and fact are left wanting. No mention of the genius of Tommy Flowers, who built the world’s first programmable computer, Colossus (named Christopher in the film). No mention of the Lorenz cipher, which was more complicated than Enigma. And nothing about HMS Bulldog, which by forcing U-110 to the surface and capturing the code books enabled the Enigma to be deciphered quickly. Films such as Enigma and U-571 (where the Americans capture the Enigma machine before they actually entered the war) have been made about the Bletchley Park codebreakers, but none do all these geniuses and unsung heroes justice. It’s time to put the record straight.Alan QuinnManchester
The new Android Wear smartwatch from LG, the G Watch R has a fully circular face and looks more like a chunky man’s watch than a gadget.The G Watch R runs Android’s Wear software, which is designed specifically for smartwatches, and acts as a second screen for an Android smartphone. It connects to a phone via Bluetooth and will display notifications for anything for calls, emails, calendar entries and any other app that can send notifications. It has no data connectivity of its own, relying on the smartphone for internet access.Users can also use Google search via voice from the watch, and connect it to a Bluetooth pair of headphones to play music stored on its internal 4GB memory without a smartphone.Round and chunkyThe G Watch R next to a Motorola Moto 360.Photograph: Hannah Jane Parkinson for the GuardianThe G Watch R is fairly large – bigger than most other Android smartwatches – and is about the size of a chunky man’s watch at 46.4 by 53.6mm. That said, it’s smaller than the super-size watches often seen adorning the wrists of sports stars.The watch is 9.7mm thick, 1.8mm thinner than the rivalMotorola Moto 360although it is 13g heavier at 62g.Samsung’s Gear Liveweighs 59g andLG’s square G Watch63g, by comparison.The circular 1.3in OLED screen is bright and vivid, although not as crisp and sharp as a typical smartphone screen and does not have automatic brightness control. It is also the first fully circular smartwatch screen as the Moto 360 has a flat-tyre shape.Always-on screenThe magnetic charging dock is the same size as the body of the Watch R.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe G Watch R comes with a small magnetic charging dock, which powers the watch using small metal pins. A complete charge takes about an hour and can be charged with the screen off at night, which others, like the Motorola Moto 360, can’t.Unlike the Moto 360’s “ambient display” mode, which only keeps the screen on for a short while when moving the wrist, Watch R has the option to have the display lit in a low-power mode all the time, which allows quick glances at the time before lighting the screen fully when moving the wrist to see the screen.With the screen on all the time, the Watch R will last two days without needing a charge, but if the screen’s off it will last longer by around another day. Pressing the button or tapping the screen turns it on.Directions on the wrist is just one of the built-in features, with hundreds of apps available to add new functions.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianHeart rate monitorAn optical heart rate monitor under the body of the watch will measure heart rate on demand, feeding the information along with activity and steps into Google Fit for review on the Watch R or theGoogle Fit appon a smartphone.PriceThe LG G Watch R costs £225, which makes it the most expensive Android Wear smartwatch on the market. The square LG G Watch costs £159, the Samsung Gear Live £169 and the Motorola Moto 360 £200.VerdictThe G Watch R on a woman’s wrist.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe LG G Watch R is a big, chunky watch and as such, may look silly on smaller wrists. It’s also very masculine, which makes it much less appealing to some.The round screen is excellent and the battery life is solid. Compared to the Moto 360 it is much faster and snappier and will last over twice as long, even with the screen on all the time. It isn’t as comfortable to wear and is more obvious on the wrist, however.Google’s Android Wear has been updated recently with more smartphone-independent functions like music playback, and the app selection is expanding with interesting apps being added all the time.The G Watch R is certainly one of the best Android Wear watches available. Whether a smartwatch is worth buying depends on how many notifications, calls and emails you get through the day. Having them appear on the wrist is less intrusive and saves having to pull the smartphone out of a pocket every time even is they’re not important.Pros:solid two-day battery life with everything turned on, always-on round screen, heart rate monitor, waterproofCons:big, bulky design, strap is very stiff, most watch faces unattractive, pricyOther reviews•Motorola Moto 360 review: beautiful smartwatch spoiled by poor battery life•Google smartwatches review: LG G Watch, Samsung Gear Live and Android Wear•Samsung Gear 2 and Gear Fit review: smartwatches on the up•Sony Smartwatch 2 review: a second screen for your Android phone•Pebble smartwatch review: doesn’t try too hard, but does what you need•Adidas miCoach Smart Run review: a personal fitness trainer on your wrist
The internet activist group Anonymous has responded to Twitter taunts from the Ku Klux Klan by taking over its US Twitter account.The Twitter spat began after the KKK allegedly threatened protesters in Ferguson, Missouri, as the area awaits animminent court decision over the killing of Michael Brown, an unarmed black 18-year-old, by a white police officer.The KKK began a war of intimidation by threatening to use lethal force against Ferguson protesters and handing out flyers in the St Louis area.The KKK passed out flyers in St. Louis (9/10/14)pic.twitter.com/eEDcoOov6d&mdash; NBN (@NEELYBYNATURE)October 10, 2014The group of hackers launched Operation KKK, using #OpKKK to respond to the white supremacist group’s online posts. Operation KKK revealed the identities of Klan members in the St Louis area.Just remember; This operation is NOT for fun. The reason of this operation is to bring freedom, respect, stop racism and violence.&#10;#OpKKK&mdash; #OpKKK (@OperationKKK)November 17, 2014The KKK responded with retweets and mocked Anonymous’s challenges: “Our Kommunity is not at all scared of the threats from anonymous. Just try us. You’ll regret it. #WhitePrideWorldWide.”Anonymous replied in true vigilante style on Sunday, by taking control of the KKK Twitter account and replacing the logo with its own.We have taken control of@KuKluxKlanUSA&#10;We told you we would attack back.&#10;#OpKKK#HoodsOff&mdash; #OpKKK (@OperationKKK)November 16, 2014Anonymous has tweeted sparingly from the account, but has confirmed it has access to direct messages that confirm the validity of the @KuKluxKlanUSA account and promised a further statement at 3am GMT on 18 November.
Customers of smartphone taxi app Uber will soon be able to stream music from Spotify during rides, after the two companies announced a partnership.People will be able tolink their Spotify and Uber accounts, then access their playlists from Spotify’s iOS and Android apps during Uber rides with drivers that have opted in to the feature.“Uber users who link their Spotify account to their Uber account can basically push a button and get a ride, and get into the car, and in the car their Spotify music, their Spotify station is playing,” said Travis Kalanick, Uber’s chief executive, during a conference call with journalists to announced the partnership.“For Uber, it’s the first time we’ve personalised the experience inside the car. And for music lovers, that’s nirvana. It’s a really awesome place to be.”Initially, the feature will be available in 10 cities: London, Los Angeles, Mexico City, Nashville, New York, San Francisco, Singapore, Stockholm, Sydney and Toronto, although Kalanick stressed that the new feature will be optional for drivers.Spotify and Uber are holding launch parties on Friday 21 November in those cities, featuring artists including Andrew WK, Professor Green and Diplo.Kalanick shared the call with Spotify chief executive Daniel Ek, describing him as “a fellow entrepreneur and a good friend”, before Ek talked about cars as Spotify’s third key device category, alongside mobile devices – smartphones and tablets – and computers.“One of the big things for us is how do we get into the car. Given that people’s average commute time is 30 minutes to an hour, how do we get into that space and allow people to play their music?” said Ek.“Instead of just doing car integrations, we thought ‘what’s the next generation of transportation system?’ Uber’s an obvious fit for us.”Spotify and Uber’s promotional video for their partnership.Both Kalanick and Ek declined to discuss whether the partnership involves one or both taking a share of the other’s revenues, although Ek suggested that the deal will help Spotify, which currently has 50 million active users, appeal to a younger audience.“The world is moving to having cars available on demand to you wherever you are, when you’re travelling. And Spotify is having your music on demand, whatever device you’re on,” he said.“More and more people are skipping even owning their own cars and going straight to Uber. This is a way for us to reach a younger audience: a more millennial audience in the cities who are taking up Uber in droves.”News of the partnership had leaked out over the weekend, after Uber sent invitations to journalists promising “a first-of-its-kind partnership”, complete with an illustration of musical notes.Technology site TechCrunch wasfirst to pinpoint the partner as Spotify, with leaked screenshots of the integration of the latter’s service in Uber’s smartphone app.Spotify has been enduring a rocky few days, afterTaylor Swift pulled her albums from the serviceand accused it of not fairly compensating artists and songwriters for streams of their work.“I’m not willing to contribute my life’s work to an experiment that I don’t feel fairly compensates the writers, producers, artists and creators of this music,” she told Yahoo in an interview.Uber has faced its own controversies in recent months, including allegations of anorganised effort to poach drivers from rival Lyft,demonstrations against the companyby taxi drivers in several European cities, anddeactivating one driver’s accountafter he was uncomplimentary about the company on social media.Both companies will be hoping the partnership helps their growth, as well as their valuations. Spotify’s last funding round in November 2013valued the company at $4bn, although that has likely increased since. But even that pales next to Uber, with itsmost recent valuation of $18bn.Business Insider claimed this week that Uber’s annual gross revenues areexpected to reach a run-rate of $10bnby the end of 2015 – so around $833m a month by the end of the year, if not $10bn for the 12 months to that point – with the company paying 80% of that back out to drivers.•Spotify: the future of music, but how CAN musicians make it pay?
A coalition of technology and internet companies is lobbying to curb US National Security Agency surveillance powers and for more transparency on government data requests.TheReform Government Surveillancecoalition, including Facebook, Google, Twitter, Microsoft and Apple, added its support for therace to pass a bill through the US Senatebefore the end of the year, which would inhibit mass data collection from emails and internet metadata.“The Senate has an opportunity this week to vote on the bipartisan USA Freedom Act,” said the coalition in anopen lettersent to the Senate. “We urge you to pass the bill, which both protects national security and reaffirms America’s commitment to the freedoms we all cherish.”The bill would also allow technology companies to disclose the number and types of data demands from government as part of the continued transparency push from the industry.If the USA Freedom Act fails to pass through the Senate before the end of the year the process will have to restart in January, and will be scrutinised by a new Congress controlled a Republican party more favourable to government surveillance.The USA Freedom Act was passed through the House of Representatives in May with bipartisan support and is now set for a vote in the Senate after Nevada Democrat and Senate majority leader Harry Reid filed a procedural motion to have the bill heard.Privacy advocates and technology groups championed the bill originally but many revoked their support aftercompromisesexpanded the definition of what data the government can collect.The Senate vote on 18 November will allow debate on amendments to begin on the bill, although whether enough senators will vote in favour is unknown.‘Lost contracts with foreign governments worth millions of dollarsGary Shapiro, chief executive of the Consumer Electronics Association, which represents hundreds of technology companies globally and hosts the largest electronics trade show in the world International CES,wrote an open letterurging support for the bill.“American technology companies have been hurt by reaction to the revelation of the US government’s bulk data collection,” wrote Shapiro. “Many companies have lost business, or face laws designed to restrict data flows, due to foreign governments’ fear that the US government can reach company-managed data at will.”“Several companies, including members of CEA, have already lost contracts with foreign governments worth millions of dollars. Further, several governments may now limit the free flow of data across borders, damaging the utility and functionality of the internet,” he wrote.Technology companies, including Apple and Google, retaliated to the NSA revelations by implementing end-to-end encryption and enhancing security on mobile devices, protecting personal data as standard.Pushback from technology companies, including Microsoft and Facebook, sawa limited transparency dealstruck with the US Justice Department in February, which the new bill will enhance allowing companies greater freedom to disclose security requests for user data.The Reform Government Surveillance coalition also recommitted to reforms beyond the USA Freedom Act, describing it only as a step in the right direction.“We will continue to work with Congress, the Administration, civil liberties groups and governments around the world to advance essential reforms that we set forth in a set of principles last year,” wrote the coalition. “Such reforms include: preventing government access to data without proper legal process; assuring that providers are not required to locate infrastructure within a country’s border; promoting the free flow of data across borders; and avoiding conflicts among nations through robust, principled, and transparent frameworks that govern lawful requests for data across jurisdictions.”•Microsoft, Facebook, Google and Yahoo release US surveillance requests
In 1978, in a computer lab at Essex University, two brilliant young students invented the future of video games. Roy Trubshaw and Richard Bartle were the creators of the Multi-User Dungeon – or simply MUD – a text-based adventure that ran on a giant DEC PDP-10 mainframe. They programmed the game in their spare time, accessing the computer labs in the evenings. If they hadn’t made it, massively multiplayer online adventures like EverQuest and World of Warcraft may never have happened.There had been other fantasy adventure games before MUD, of course. Will Crowther’sColossal Cave Adventure arrived in 1975, while work onZork, developed by a bunch of MIT students in the university’s dynamic modelling group, began in 1977. These single-player programs were, in turn, heavily inspired by the pencil and paper role-playing game Dungeons and Dragons, which had been hugely popular in student circles since its publication in 1974.Although Trubshaw wasn’t a fan of D&amp;D, Bartle played a lot, buying a copy from Ian Livingstone’s Games Workshop store for £6.10 as soon as it was available in the UK. Trubshaw, who started the programming for MUD alone, originally planned to create a virtual world rather than a game. However, when Bartle got involved, he was already a keen computer games player and wanted participants to play together in a similar way to D&amp;D. Consequently, when the first version of MUD uploaded to the university system in autumn 1978, it allowed multiple users to log into a mainframe and go on fantasy quests together.Bartle had been making games and programming computers since the mid-1970s. His formative experiences in coding were courtesy of the DEC PDP-10 owned by British Petroleum’s petrochemical works in Brough, East Yorkshire, near his home town of Hornsea. “In order to say sorry for filling the air with toxic fumes they let the local schools use their computer,” he told attendees at the recent GameCity festival. “We had to fill in these coding sheets, writing in letters using an actual pen. Then we’d send them off somewhere and someone typed them in.”Later, he attended Essex University to study mathematics, but quickly changed to computer science, a decision guided as much by intellectual pride as it was by interest. “There were 200 people studying maths at Essex and two of them were better than me,” he says. “But on the computer science course, there were none better than me so I switched to that and did my PhD in Artificial Intelligence.” According to Bartle, there were only three universities in Britain doing AI back then - Essex, Sussex and Edinburgh. The rest were apparently shut down because they’d been told by a professor of applied mathematics named Dr James Lighthill that AI was a useless subject that would never be important.Before Essex, Bartle had been experimenting with internet connectivity on BP’s computer, using an ancient 110 baud modem (“it could transmit roughly 11 characters a second. You had to be very efficient with your coding”); the programs he created were stored on paper tape. But Essex had a comparatively advanced set-up. “The computer was the size of a room,” he says. “It had false floor panels under it that were filled with 29 carbon dioxide canisters. If there was a fire they’d all go off at once to put it out really quickly. It would also have put out all the operators, too, but they were cheaper than computers.”Experimenting with this giant system, Roy Trubshaw discovered a mechanism for sharing code across separate teletype machines – an early version of the computer terminal – using an area of memory they weren’t supposed to be writing to. In short, it allowed several people to access the same program running on the mainframe at the same time. From here, the duo decided to create a fantasy adventure; Trubshaw wrote the physics, Bartle wrote the game code. The result was MUD.They called it a multi-userdungeon, because of Zork. “The version we all played ran in [the programming language] Fortran and was just called Dungen because you could only use six character words. Back then we thought all games would be called dungeons, so ours was a multi-user dungeon. Turned out they were all going to be called adventures so we should have called it MUA.”The duo ran the game over the university network, which was connected to British Telecom’s Experimental Packet Switching System, which could also be accessed by other UK universities. Bartle and Trubshaw used this to link in to the University of Kent, and from there establish a connection with the US-led ARPAnet, an early precursor to today’s global internet. “People had never played any sort of shared world before,” says Bartle. “You can’t imagine what it was like, you were playing a game and suddenly another real person would enter.”MUD spreadsVery quickly, keen computer hobbyists and hackers found out about the game and started dialing in to it from outside the university. The system couldn’t cope – Essex only had six modems and these were quickly overstretched. “The gamers clubbed together to buy the university a bank of 12 modems,” says Bartle. The computing press started paying attention – Bartle wrotea cover feature on the game for Practical Computing, explaining the creation of MUD and defining his hopes for the future of the genre:What I would like to see - and it’s a long, long way off - is some local or national network with good graphics, sound effects and a well designed set of worlds of varying degrees of difficulty. In this true meritocracy, you will forever be encountering new situations, new difficulties, new solutions, and above all new people. Everyone starts off on an equal footing in this artificial world.He was, of course, imagining the actual future of the massively multiplayer online role-playing game; the possibilities were always there in Bartle’s mind. But there was one thing he and Trubshaw never did. They never sought to copyright their game or their technology. Instead they shared it freely.“We encouraged people to write their own MUDs,” he says. “We made MUD because the real world sucked. We weren’t supposed to be at university - Roy was from Wolverhampton, I was from Yorkshire and sounded like I should be working on a farm. It wasn’t a great atmosphere; we were looked down on because other people were at university for intellectual subjects not mind-numbing technology. We raged against that.”“You shouldn’t have to be what the world defines you to be. You should be who you really are - you should get to become yourself. MUD was a political statement, we made a world where people could go and shed what was holding them back.”MUD did indeed proliferate. Other programmers at other universities took the basics of the network code and game design and evolved them. Through the 80s and 90s, several variations were developed and adopted including AberMud, TinyMud (which was more geared toward the social rather than gaming side of virtual worlds) and DikuMud.The latter, built by a group of students at the University of Copenhagen, was the most stable and easy to install – it was written in the common programming language C and could run on all Unix systems, so spread easily. It also neatly tied together all of the conventions of quest-based multiplayer role-playing games: players took on a specific class of character – fighter, wizard, thief, etc – then “leveled up” by killing enemies with a range of weapons and spells, before collecting experience points and loot.For Bartle, this structure was, itself, a comment on the stifling class system. But in MUD, progression was based on merit, not parentage. “If you saw someone was at a certain level, it said something about them - about their skill and strength of character,” says Bartle. “It was a way for players to understand their place in the hierarchy and to see that they could always progress - there were no glass ceilings. But it wasn’t really a meritocracy either because, if you didn’t care about your leveling up your character, you didn’t need to, you could still play. It was about freedom.”Politics aside, the raw structure of MUD would influence most subsequent graphical multiplayer online games such as Ultima Online, EverQuest, and World of Warcraft. And it was that initial decision not to protect MUD as an IP that secured its place as a key progenitor. As Bartle explains, “By the time the games companies got interested in making mutiplayer online games in the late 90s, there were 100 MUD experienced designers for every one who was experienced in one of the other multi-user games that had been invented, because it was all free.”Bartle is still at Essex University. He’s now a professor and senior lecturer in game design; he also consults in game development. He retains that pervading belief that games are positive and empowering. While society often wonders about their negative effects, he sees in them a model for tolerance and ethical behaviour.“The original hacker ethic was, you can do what you like as long as you don’t hurt anyone else. That fed into games and it has propagated outwards,” he says. “The more games you play the more sense you have of things like fairness - if you play an unfair game it’s no fun, it’s not a good game. I think that makes you more resistant to examples of unfairness in the real world. You may start to think, why shouldn’t gay people get married, what the hell, it doesn’t effect me?“I hope that some of the culture that came out of games has affected the real world.”Don’t let me buy Warlords of Draenor, please
More politicians need to be able to code if they are to legislate effectively on technology, Sir Tim Berners-Lee said on Saturday.Berners-Lee, who invented the world wide web in 1989, said it is crucial that politicians appreciate the technical capabilities of computers and that a knowledge of coding is key.Speaking at theEvery Second Counts Forum, the renowned computer scientist said: “Being able to code means that you understand what people can do with a computer. You need to be able to understand what people can do with a computer to make laws about it.“We need more people in parliament who can code, not because we need them to spend their time coding but because they have got to understand how powerful a weapon it is, so that they can make laws that require people to code to make machines behave in different ways.”Berners-Lee applauded the government’s decision to introduce coding into the national curriculum, which will involvechildren as young as five learning programming skills: “We need to introduce people to coding early so that the people to whom it appeals can then get as much time to do it as they need and really excel. We need more people to have done coding to actually end up doing it for a living.”Also speaking at the event, space scientistDr Maggie Aderin-Pocock, returning from a week covering the Rosetta mission in Frankfurt, said an introduction to science at a young age was also vital in kickstarting her career.Dr Aderin-Pocock said as a child she equated the cartoon characters known as The Clangers with the moon landings and that she first wanted to travel into space to meet thepink creatures: “Most sophisticated people grow out of desires like that but I still want to get into space and it’s been one of the driving forces of my life, which is really quite scary because it formed when I was three.”That impulse has served as a source of direction in her life: “So you’re sitting at the back of a class at school and you think: ‘Well, how can I get out of here? I need to find a way out.’ You don’t sit back on your laurels. You’ve got that goal ahead. You’re looking over the horizon and so I think that’s what has really driven me.”After spending the latter part of last week in mission control for thePhilae lander, Dr Aderin-Pocock used the session to defend the project from its critics. She said: “We have taken a piece of manmade equipment. We have sent it into space. It’s now sitting on a comet that is half a billion kilometres away from earth. How can we possibly call that a failure?“The whole Rosetta mission was a challenge. It was a risk and I think we should be encouraged to take more risks. This was a very, very daring mission. We’ve got 90% of the data we wanted. The last 10% was the icing on the cake.”Dr Aderin-Pocock commented: “It was quite an epitaph that after Armistice Day we were celebrating European union by putting a lander on a comet that is half a billion kilometres away.”Sir Tim Berners-Lee and Dr Maggie Aderin-Pocock were speaking at the Every Second Counts Forum, a celebration of innovation featuringthe Rolex Awards for Enterprise’s 2014 Young Laureates. Profiles of the laureates and their world-changing work can be foundhere.
Facebook’s latest tweak to its news feed algorithm will squeeze out posts that it sees as “overly promotional” from pages on the social network.Due to take effect in January 2015, the change means that even if people have liked a page for a brand or celebrity, they will be less likely to see posts from that page encouraging them to buy products, install apps or enter competitions.“As part of an ongoing survey we asked hundreds of thousands of people how they feel about the content in their News Feeds. People told us they wanted to see more stories from friends and pages they care about, and less promotional content,”explained Facebook in a blog post.“What we discovered is that a lot of the content people see as too promotional is posts from pages they like, rather than ads.”Ads were sure to raise their head at some point in the discussion of this particular change. One clear impact of Facebook’s upcoming change will be to nudge page owners towards paying to advertise on the social network, especially for promotional posts.“Beginning in January 2015, people will see less of this type of content in their news feeds. As we’ve said before, News Feed is already a competitive place – as more people and pages are posting content, competition to appear in news feed has increased,” claimed Facebook.“All of this means that pages that post promotional creative should expect their organic distribution to fall significantly over time.”Does this mean Facebook will be shoving more paid ads into people’s news feeds to fill the space left by those promotional posts? The social network says not.“This change willnotincrease the number of ads people see in their news feeds. The idea is to increase the relevance and quality of the overall stories – including page posts – people see in their news feeds,” claimed the company.“This change is about giving people the best Facebook experience possible and being responsive to what they have told us. While pages that post a lot of the content we mention above will see a significant decrease in distribution, the majority of pages will not be impacted by this change.”The move is likely to boost Facebook’s burgeoning advertising business, whichgenerated $2.96bn of revenues for the companyin the third quarter of this year – 92.5% of its overall income.It will also encourage some marketers to spend more time creating video for their pages. Facebook says that “native” video – clips uploaded directly to the social network rather than links to YouTube videos – is already generating more than 1bn daily views on its service.Several marketers have told the Guardian that native Facebook videos appear to currently be performing well in the social network’s news feed algorithm. That may not remain the case though: what price another official blog post in 6-12 months’ time hinting that video reach will also decline unless page owners pay to boost it?•Facebook at Work to take on LinkedIn and Google Drive
Happy Mondays!
Advanced Warfarepresents the biggest step forward forCall of Dutysince… well, let’s be honest, the last one. As the series strives to reinvent itself annually, it’s become increasingly sci-fi-influenced. This year’s entry is set in the 2050s, a time when soldiers rumble into conflict wearing exoskeletons, lay down silencer mines and can shoot highlighted targets through walls. It is, frankly, one step away from beingCrysis.However, developerSledgehammerhas actually succeeded in making the series feel fresh. It’s stillCoD, with all its heavy-handed statements on the nature of war and the role of the soldier playing out through its story campaign, but the new exo-driven abilities – enhanced leaps, boosts, shields, cloaking and more – allow an escalation of scale. Even in single-player, the sense of power is an improvement onGhosts.The exo-suits also dramatically change the experience in multiplayer. Bouts are faster and feel more evenly matched. It’s no longer just about pinpoint accuracy, but how well you can balance gun skill with your suite of exo-powers. Yet for all the additions, the core equation ofCoDremains unchanged. The new features aren’t new to shooters, only to this particular franchise. A great progression, then, but a safe one.
Facebook may control the social graph of 1.3 billion people, but now it has ambitions to stretch deeper into the workplace, according to the Financial Times’ report onplans for “Facebook at Work”.This isn’t about getting around corporate firewalls to ensure you can see which Frozen character your friends are, though. It’s a proper move to compete with services from Google Drive and LinkedIn to Slack, and become a serious working tool.“The Silicon Valley company is developing a new product designed to allow users to chat with colleagues, connect with professional contacts and collaborate over documents,” claimed the FT.“The new site will look very much like Facebook – with a newsfeed and groups – but will allow users to keep their personal profile with its holiday photos, political rants and silly videos separate from their work identity.”It might be a sensible move for Facebook, but how will workers (and bosses) feel about their data being shared and stored on the social network? Workplace collaboration in the cloud isn’t an alien concept for many businesses now, but I wonder how Facebook providing this will be received.What do you think? The comments section is open for your thoughts.Also on the technology radar today:Spotify and Uber team up for in-car musicUber is holding a press call with a “special partner guest” later today, but their identity is out: streaming music service Spotify. You’ll apparently be able to control the music played in your Uber car from your smartphone, with the tunes delivered from Spotify to the driver’s handset.Facebook to crack down on ‘overly promotional’ page postsIf you’ve liked Facebook pages that tend to pump out contests or “please buy our thing” posts, expect to see them less in your feed from January. “Pages that post promotional creative should expect their organic distribution to fall significantly over time,” explains the social network.Accusations of Tor smearing campaignA piece by Yasha Levine on PandoDaily, outlining the response from the Tor community to a previous article examining the relationship between the online anonymity tool and US intelligence agencies.Google’s Project Tango tablet hits the Play storeProject Tango is one of Google’s most interesting initiatives around mobile: 3D sensors and all manner of other tech to understand the world around you. Now the first tablet can be bought, although seemingly only if you ordered it at Google’s I/O conference earlier in the year.Kung Fu Robot crowdfunding campaignKung Fu Robot was one of the most characterful children’s apps I saw in the last couple of years. Now its makers are trying to raise $19,500 to turn it into a hardback comic anthology and a new app.Porn stars explain net neutralityFrom Funny Or Die, an alternative take on the debate that’s sparking up again in the US this month. Sort-of safe for work (SoSFW?) in that they’re nude, but the bits your boss might be cross at are safely masked out.
Facebook is taking aim at the likes of Google and LinkedIn with a bid to drive business users to the social networking site.The company is developing a site called Facebook at Work that will allow users to chat and collaborate on documents with colleagues, and connect with contacts, according to areport in the Financial Times.Thousands of companies use email, chat and collaboration tools offered by the likes of Google and Microsoft, while LinkedIn has become the most widely used site for professional networking.Many companies prevent their employees from logging on to their Facebook accounts on work computers, though the rise of smartphones has made that less of a barrier to using the social network during office hours.The new site is expected to look very similar to Facebook’s interface, with its newsfeed and groups, but allow users to keep their personal information entirely separate from their work profile.For the venture to prove a success, Facebook would have to win the trust of corporate IT chiefs and guarantee that information conveyed could not fall into the hands of rival businesses.It is understood that some development of Facebook at Work is taking place in London.Facebook, which was founded in 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg while he was a Harvard student, has some 1.35bn monthly active users at at the end of September, compared with 1.19bn at the same point in 2013.Some analysts believe that most people in developed countries who want a Facebook account already have one, prompting the company to explore other options for growth.Facebook is reportedly in advanced talks with satellite operator Avanti to provide free broadband to large parts of Africa under its Internet.org initiative, whose aim is to “bring the Internet to the two thirds of the world’s population that doesn’t have it”. Some have suggested that the drive is as much about creating more potential Facebook users as getting people in the developing world online.Google is also working on a project to provide internet access using high altitude balloons, while Facebook is also experimenting with solar-powered drones at would fly at 20,000 metres.Facebook did not respond to a request for comment.
Price £14,295MPG 58Top speed 103mphI have a confession to make. I’ve lied to a priest. Father Dominic recently sent me an email from his church in Italy, in a village near Cortona, asking for advice about a car. I imagined him tapping away in the crypt of the ancient chapel, a guttering candle throwing shadows across the stone floor, the organist practising next door, a wild boar piglet snuffling in the straw at his feet… Anyway, the padre was after a vehicle that was both rugged and reliable at coping with the dreadful rural roads yet small and tidy enough to squeeze along the hill town’s medieval streets. I figured he’d also need something Italian and that Pope Francis would approve of. Bugatti’s Veyron and Maserati’s Ghibli were out on the grounds of frugality and celibacy. There seemed to be only one candidate: Fiat’s Panda 4x4. The problem was that I’d never tested one. Could I really recommend a car I’d never driven – to a priest? I figured God would understand. Weeks later I received an ecstatic email from the padre. He loved it and now wanted me to recommend a car for his mother…So I thought I’d better find out what Father Dom liked so much about the Fiat Panda 4x4. It first appeared in 1983. Back then, as the world’s first small car to have all wheels driven, it was years ahead of its time. It shares the same boxy shape of the standard Panda, but the 4x4 is so much more than just a more agile Panda (if such a creature exists). It comes with steel bash plates to protect its delicate underside, chunky bumpers and high wheel arches to cope with its raised suspension, and a revolutionary electronic rear differential system that means it can roam wherever you want. Don’t think of it as a weedy Land Rover – it’s more a giant quad bike with a roof.Funky and fun with comfort: the Fiat Panda’s interiorThis model is the third generation of the car. It’s as fun and funky as ever, but it now also has the quality, comfort and technology of a much more serious vehicle. It’s hard to get your head around just how multi- talented it is: it seats five yet has a tiny road print; it’s short and narrow yet has a high roof, so it feels roomy; its small engine is economical yet it’s powerful enough to tow a caravan; it’s built for rough tracks yet feels very at home on motorways.Under the bonnet there’s a choice of an 875cc TwinAir Turbo or a 1.3-litre MultiJet 2 turbo diesel. Both come with start-stop technology and an indicator which tells you when to change gear in order to achieve the best economy. The car comes with “Dualdrive” electric power steering with a City function which means at slow speeds the steering is much lighter. An option you might want to invest in is a low-speed collision- mitigation system usually found only in much bigger cars. This reads the road ahead and when it detects an obstacle it slams on the brakes automatically. If you don’t think you’ll be needing the four-wheel drive system, the Panda Trekking model is for you: it has the same engines and chunky looks but is 2WD and £1,500 cheaper.Having spent a week with the Panda, I found it reliable when the going got tough, cheap to run and a lot cooler than you might guess… Everything you would hope to find in your local priest.Motorhome madnessEight of the best: the motorhome line-up.Photograph: PREarlier this summer I test drove theWellhouse Ford Terrier SEand loved it. But I’m not the only one who has fallen for its charms.Which Motorhome, the UK’s number one magazine for motorhome testing, has just completed an extensive group test of eight campervans, featuring four VW T5-based campervans and four key non-T5 alternatives. The VW T5 campervans featured were Bilbo’s Space, CMC Reimo Trio Style White Line, Hillside Birchover and the Volkwagen California SE. The other campervans tested were the Auto-Sleeper Wave (based on Mercedes Vito), Hillside Dalbury Action (based on Nissan NV200), Wellhouse Alphard (based on Toyota Alphard) and Wellhouse Terrier SE (based on the Ford Transit Custom). The test team looked at campervans that gave almost equal priority to everyday use as they do to living outdoors. They were looking for compact dimensions and the ability to get under car park height barriers, plus minimal camping facilities including a small cooker, fresh water supply, beds and storage. The winner? Wellhouse’s Ford Terrier SE, of course. Editor, Peter Vaughan said: “The VW T5 has dominated this sector to the degree that many customers simply say that they are looking for a Volkswagen camper. So for the Ford-based Terrier to come out on top speaks volumes about how good this campervan is.”Which Motorhomeis available from all good newsagents on the second Thursday of every month. For more information, go towhich-motorhome.co.uk. Digital issues and subscriptions are available atpocketmags.com.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visittheguardian.com/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place. Follow Martin on Twitter@MartinLove166
The remit ofBorderlands: The Pre-Sequel!is simple: why reinvent the wheel when you can blow it up? In space. With lasers. And cryonic beams. And lasers. It takes numerous baddies from2012’s cartoonishly ultra-violent loot’n’shoot co-op masterpiece, and makes them the heroes of a flimsy but fun episode from the past.Play as Athena the Assassin with her trusty shield, Nisha (aka The Sheriff), Wilhelm the cyborg or the newly weaponised Claptrap, who analyses a combat situation to six decimal places then summons up abilities completely at random. So whether you turn into a Gunzerking TankBot or a giant bouncing rubber ducky is in the lap of the gaming gods. There are countless new creatures to annihilate and now the extinction drive takes place on the moon, in minimal gravity. So the eternal quest for ammo and health is now a quest for oxygen too… And it turns out that in space everyone can hear you scream.
Back in the heyday of the old Soviet Union, a phrase evolved to describe gullible western intellectuals who came to visit Russia and failed to notice the human and other costs of building a communist utopia. The phrase was “useful idiots” and it applied to a good many people who should have known better.I now propose a new, analogous term more appropriate for the age in which we live: useful hypocrites. That’s you and me, folks, and it’s how the masters of the digital universe see us. And they have pretty good reasons for seeing us that way. They hear us whingeing about privacy, security, surveillance, etc, but notice that despite our complaints and suspicions, we appear to do nothing about it. In other words, we say one thing and do another, which is as good a working definition of hypocrisy as one could hope for.This sounds harsh, I know, but the data supports it. At the moment, much of that data comes from the US, but I don’t think things are all that different over here. Some of the most reliable information about people’s online behaviour comes from thePew internet and American life project, which conducts regular polling about Americans’ use of the internet. Last Wednesday, the project published the findings of a survey onpublic perceptions of privacy and security in the post-Edward Snowden era. And what the researchers found makes sobering reading.The findings were neatly summarised by theNew York Timesas“Americans say they want privacy, but act as if they don’t”. Or to put it less succinctly: “Americans say they are deeply concerned about privacy on the web and their cellphones. They say they do not trust internet companies or the government to protect it. Yet they keep using the services and handing over their personal information.”The Pew survey finds that distrust of online and phone communications has increased in the wake of Snowden’s revelations. Eighty one per cent of respondents do not feel secure using social media to share private information. More than two-thirds of them feel the same way about online chats, 59% about text messaging, 57% about email and 46% about talking on cellphones. Even landlines are suspect, with 31% of respondents feeling uneasy about them too.Survey respondents said that they were equally suspicious of their government and of the big internet companies. Yet more than half of them declared their willingness to “share” information about themselves with the companies in return for so-called “free” services and more than a third accept that these services are more “efficient” as a result of being able to exploit that personal information.Eighty per cent of those who use social networking sites say that they are “concerned” about advertisers and other third parties accessing the data they share on these networks. In fact, across the board, there seems to be a widespread lack of confidence among adults that online communication channels are secure and there’s not a single electronic channel that a majority of American users regard as “very secure” when sharing personal information with another person or an organisation.Overall, therefore, what comes across from the survey is that the vast majority of Americans regard online and phone channels as at best somewhat insecure. Yet these same people continue to use those channels. This suggests that most internet users suffer what psychologists call “cognitive dissonance”, ie, “the state of having inconsistent thoughts, beliefs or attitudes, especially as relating to behavioural decisions and attitude change”.So we have a mystery: why do we continue to use communication channels that we don’t trust? The conventional answer is our old friend Tina (There Is No Alternative). In some areas, we are trapped by the power of network effects – the force that convinces people that nowadays they must be on Facebook even if they don’t really like it. Tales of, for example, teenagers who are bullied because they don’t use Facebook don’t exactly encourage independence. In other areas, for example, webmail services provided by Google, Microsoft or Yahoo, people use them because they are unwilling to pay for email services.And although technology exists for protecting privacy, for example, by encrypting one’s email, most people don’t use it because it’s too difficult to implement; because, when push comes to shove, their privacy isn’t as important to them as they say it is.In that sense, could it be that what we’re getting is not the internet we say we want, but the internet we deserve? Technology holds up a mirror to human nature and what we see in it are, well, useful hypocrites.
Developer Double Fine returns with another sharp helping of trick-or-treat adventure played through the eyes of two children travelling through time with an array of magical costumes to foil the plans of Halloween-hating dentist Dr Orel White. Between exploring history and knocking on doors in hope of sweet rewards, combat is a combination of well-timed button presses and selecting the right costume for the appropriate special power. Simple enough stuff but pitch-perfect storybook presentation and dry wit carry the occasional dull moments and makeCostume Questan intriguing diversion for both young children and the fully grown.
5.14pmGMTThat’s all...Thanks for joining us for what turned out to be an inspiring afternoon of discussion!Updatedat 2.40pm GMT5.11pmGMTOlivier Nsengimana on stage.Photograph: Oscar Williams/Photo5.09pmGMTSome pictures from the proceedings...Tim Berners-Lee in discussion with Samira Ahmed.Photograph: Oscar Williams/Photos5.06pmGMT“Take risks, make a difference”A neat summary of what has driven many of today’s participants, John Mulholland closes the chat and Maggie and Tim leave the stage.Samira Ahmed praises the Rolex Young Laureates to bring the discussion to a close.4.54pmGMTEncouraging aspirations...“I love science and being a scientist. Getting people fired up about following a career in science seems like an amazing thing” - Maggie Aderin-Pocock“We need to introduce people to coding early, so people who do love it can really excel” - Tim Berners-Lee4.45pmGMTClosing chat...The Observer’s John Mulholland is now on stage, leading a closing discussion with Tim Berners-Lee and Maggie Aderin-Pocock.Maggie has attributed to her career as a space-scientist to a love of The Clangers.4.43pmGMTHosam closes his presentation, and with it the Rolex Young Laureates section. A quick reminder, you can see the five projects in much more depth in thisezine,do take a look4.39pmGMTHosam on antiobiotic resistance...“We want to educate people about using antibiotics properly. Misuse basically is fuelling antibiotic resistance. Diseases don’t respect borders”Updatedat 4.39pm GMT4.33pmGMTFrom Twitter...Some social media praise for Arthur and his project4.31pmGMTThe threat of superbugsHosam Zowawiis now on stage, discussing his work on the global threat of superbugs and antibiotic resistanceUpdatedat 4.55pm GMT4.29pmGMTThe power of ideas“You must be patient and never stop believing in your ideas.” A fitting conclusion from Arthur Zang4.28pmGMTLive streamKeep up with the Laureates, and a discussion with Tim Berners-Lee and Maggie Aderin-Pocock through ourlive streamIf you missed Maggies presentation, here’s a recent talk she gave for the Observer Ideas festival, on thepower of dreams4.23pmGMTMeanwhile, on Twitter...Lovely praise for Maggie Aderin-Pocock, definitely a hit with the audience here4.20pmGMTArthur ZangOur next Rolex Young Laureate,Arthur Zangis now on stage, discussing his cardiological health project in Cameroon4.17pmGMTWhat do you think?Any thoughts on the Rosetta mission, or any of the issues Maggie is discussing? Get in touch with us using the hashtag #EverySecondCounts onTwitter4.13pmGMT“This wasn’t a failure, we should definitely be celebrating”Despite the Rosetta batteries running out this morning, Maggie says that the mission has much to be proud of.4.10pmGMTStar dance...Maggie is now discussing this week’s successfulRosetta missionto put a probe on a comet, describing it as a “dance through the solar system”, and in a single sentence making intricate rocket science sound deeply poeticUpdatedat 4.12pm GMT4.05pmGMTSpace and disaster prevention...Dr Aderin-Pocock is discussion how space can help with major disaster prevention through observation, citing use in the aid effort following hurricane KatrinaUpdatedat 4.21pm GMT4.01pmGMTA quick aside...Some incredible job titles in the programme here. It’s been great to hear from a ‘space-scientist’ and ‘the inventor of the world wide web’3.57pmGMTWe’re back...Welcome back, Maggie Aderin-Pocock has just taken the stage, and will talk about “the desire to aspire” and “creating instruments of change”Updatedat 3.57pm GMT3.47pmGMTCoffee-break reading...As everyone takes a few minutes to grab some sustenance and discuss the first-half,here’s an interviewwith next speaker Maggie Aderin-Pocock3.32pmGMTTwitter comments...Some nice twitter feedback for all our speakers so far, such as this for FrancescoDo leave your feedback through @GdnMediaNetwork using the hashtag #EverySecondCountsUpdatedat 3.43pm GMT3.24pmGMTCoffee time...Samira takes us to the break now, after a stirring call to arms on internet freedom from Tim Berners-Lee, and three thoroughly engaging presentations from Rolex Young LaureatesNeeti,OlivierandFrancisco.After a coffee and pause for breath we’ll hear from space-scientist Maggie Aderin-Pocock, and the remaining laureates. See you in 5.3.22pmGMTWell, true to form ‘every second counts’ here, and luckily time has permitted Neeti to return to the stage to take a question from Samira regarding rural healthcare in India.“Water is running out for small farms, and people are moving to the cities. Technology can help to solve healthcare problems in remote areas”Updatedat 3.49pm GMT3.17pmGMTCloser to home than you think...Francesco specialises in exploring the Tepui caves of South America, but just mentioned that Yorkshire could be fertile ground for new discovery, raising a collective smile.Updatedat 3.19pm GMT3.08pmGMT“The underground is a continent waiting to be explored”Francesco Sauro, laureate for exploration is now on stage.Updatedat 3.19pm GMT3.02pmGMTOlivier Nsengimana on his project“It’s not only about saving cranes in Rwanda it’s about developing a conservation model for all countries”2.59pmGMTSome Twitter comments...Praise from TD Mitchell for Neeti’s presentation, leave your thoughts via the hashtag #EverySecondCounts2.55pmGMTThe Rolex Young Laureates are giving their presentations...We just heard from the first laureate Neeti Kailas, who spoke confidently on her work on infant healthcare. Olivier Nsengimana is now discussing his work on the conservation of cranes in Rwanda.Thisbeautifully-designed ezineprovides an in-depth look at all the 2014 Rolex Young Laureates, well worth exploringUpdatedat 2.55pm GMT2.41pmGMT“I’m happy to pay not to have ads on things online”What do you think? Join the discussion on Twitter, @GdnMediaNetwork with the hashtag #EverySecondCounts2.38pmGMTTim Berners-Lee on cyber security..“We have laws. Id companies disrespect your data and lie to you, that’s fraud. We need the web to remain a neutral space”2.36pmGMT“So much excitement”Tim was a fairly animated stage presence, as noted by Sofiya on TwitterUpdatedat 10.52am GMT2.33pmGMTTwitter responses...Nice summary of the end of Tim’s speech from @wood_ian via Twitter2.30pmGMTOn-stage action...Tim Berners-Lee in full flow.Photograph: John Still/Photos2.21pmGMTSomeone took notice...“Eventually I was given a space to work, when my memo came back with the comment ‘vague, but interesting’”2.20pmGMT“I sent the memo proposing the web in 1989 and again in 1990, no one took much notice for a few months” - Tim Berners-Lee2.11pmGMTUnderstatement?“The world wide web was a pretty successful project.”Not many would disagree with that2.10pmGMTTim Berners Lee is on stage, following an introduction from Samira Ahmed..2.05pmGMTThe man who invented the 21st Century...Tim Berners-Lee invented the World Wide Web, and as such is well-qualified to discuss some of the issues surrounding it, liketrolling,online privacyandweb democracyWe’ll be bringing you live updates from his keynote speech, which is currently underway, and is alsostreaming livevia the Guardian Media NetworkUpdatedat 2.13pm GMT2.01pmGMTThe hall is filling up nicely, we’re almost ready for the event to begin...1.54pmGMTGet in touchWant to get involved through social media? Follow@GdnMediaNetworkand get in touch using the hashtag #EverySecondCounts1.48pmGMTBackground readingBefore we get into the swing of things, here’s anoverview of what’s to comefrom the event, and therunning order1.43pmGMTBefore the storm...Everything set up and ready to go before we kick off at 2pmWaiting for speakers and audience at the Every Second Counts.Photograph: John Still/PhotosUpdatedat 1.44pm GMT1.31pmGMTWelcome to the Every Second Counts liveblog.We’ll be bringing you live updates from the event as it unfolds.The line-up includes space-scientist Dr Maggie Aderin Pocock, cyberspace pioneer Tim Berners-Lee, as well as presentations from the five 2014 recipients of the Rolex Awards for Enterprise
Set in the year 2054, Call Of Duty: Advanced Warfare adds powered exoskeletons, hover bikes and homing grenades to the world’s favourite first-person shooter. There’s a plot: Kevin Spacey is the boss of a private military contractor with an eye on world domination. You’re a tech-enabled mercenary who decides to try to stop him, an intervention that involves travelling around the world shooting people. The exoskeleton your soldier wears lets him jump long distances and hover briefly, making battles incredibly mobile, with maps designed over multiple vertical levels. Death now comes from all sorts of unexpected angles. Away from the frenetic but relatively short-lived single player campaign, multiplayer now has a Destiny-style loot-earning system, which gives new impetus to the perpetual online war. Apart from that, and the game’s artful level design, it’s business as usual for a franchise built on intense, chaotic multiplayer shooting matches. It’s possibly Call Of Duty’s best iteration since Modern Warfare.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKThe Muppets: Movie Adventure, PS VitaThe Muppets: Movie Adventure is a platform game with five themed levels. It starts with Captain Greenlegs (Kermit), before moving on to Princess Miss Piggy, Sheriff Animal in the wild west, The Great Gonzo fighting vampire vegetables and, finally, back to Kermit, this time in space. It’s absolutely abysmal. Although aimed at children, it’s frustratingly difficult, forcing you to repeat huge chunks of its bland, lifeless levels as you perish once again, either through cack-handedness or because of the game’s often grotesquely unfair collision detection. The introductory scenes aren’t animated and none of the Muppets’ voice actors were involved, it’s devoid of humour and the characters are so small onscreen that the game conveys none of their personality. In the 90s, it used to be fairly standard to label any old rubbish with a recognisable brand to trap the unwary or very young. These days it’s unforgivable. On no account encourage it by buying this garbage.Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, £22.99
Games out this week includeThe Last Of Us: Game Of The Year Edition(PS3), in case there are any PlayStation owners yet to experience the emotionally traumatic brilliance of this dash through the apocalypse;Pro Evolution Soccer 2015(Xbox 360, PS3, PS4, Xbox One) now has more than 1,000 footballers modelled for their appearance, style of play and even emotional response to events on the pitch;World Of Warcraft: Warlords Of Draenor(PC) lets you level up to 100 and build garrisons to recruit and send people on missions;Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham(Xbox 360, PS3, PS4, Xbox One, Wii U, Vita) celebrates Batman’s 75th anniversary with a plethora of comedic bat suits, some new and many from the caped crusader’s considerable history; andDigimon All-Star Rumble(Xbox 360, PS3) is a second-rate brawler in the style of Super Smash Bros.NG
If you want to get a sense of the insane speed at which things happen in Silicon Valley these days, you could pick one of the really prominent examples:Uber, say, which had no particular profile in 2011, yet in June this yearwas valued at a comical $18bn. Or you could pick one of many stories such as Leo Seigal’s. Seigal is a British entrepreneur who came to San Francisco halfway through a languages degree at Oxford. He let the university believe he was heading to France for his study year abroad; moved back in with his parents in London instead;co-founded a startup that helps celebrities run charity auctions online; then moved it to the US west coast. He’s now on his second company,Represent, a service allowing users to create branded merchandise online, which employs 26 people and has attracted more than $1m in venture capital funding. He tells stories of forging business relationships with everyone fromOne DirectiontoGeorge RR Martin, and makes pronouncements like an exhausted veteran: “Honestly,” he told me recently, squinting against the sun on the rooftop terrace of his LA offices, “if I’d known how hard it would really be, back then, I don’t know if I would have done it.” Seigal, it probably ought to be clarified, is 23 – “and a half,” he adds. “Back then” refers to his arrival in Silicon Valley – which was at the beginning of last year.There has never been an economy quite like that of west coast tech startups in 2014: no environment in which it’s been so easy for the right kind of person, with the right kind of idea, to go from nobody to worth millions in weeks, their app downloaded to a million smartphones. The results, as it’s often been noted, aren’t always that inspiring: an awful lot of companies seem to exist to solve the minor problems of privileged twentysomethings, such as ordering a takeaway more efficiently, or just to undertake actively cynical profiteering: there’s an app that sells restaurant reservations to the highest bidder. Still, there’s something undeniably intoxicating about eavesdropping on the excited conversations taking place inBlue Bottle Coffee, or the deals being discussed inMission Dolores Park(provided you can dodge the guy taking his drone for a walk). This pregnant sense of possibility is what prompts more than 13,000 people to migrate each year to Silicon Valley, from across America and the rest of the world. And it is what motivates a small but apparently increasing number of British people, each year, to abandon their plans for university, get on a plane, find an apartment-share, struggle with the ceaseless hassles of getting the right visa – and begin doing what the would-be billionaires of Silicon Valley do all the time, even when they’re not at work, which is work.“It’s the craziest thing, being out here,” Seigal says, sounding slightly astonished. He is wearing deck shoes, sporting a few days of stubble, and has just expressed his annoyance that his companies have finally hired an employee younger than him. “In most regular professions, I feel like it takes 10, 20 years to rise up, whereas we went from nobodies, who no one wanted to meet, to within a year, you’ve got such-and-such a celebrity [on board], and everyone’s suddenly interested. I’ve got friends who go into the entertainment industry, working in the mailroom, and now we’re working with their bosses.”The idea for his first startup, Prizeo, came from conducting charity auctions at university, specifically one involvingJeremy Clarkson. A wealthyTop Gearfan at an auction might bid thousands of pounds to go racetrack driving with Clarkson, Seigal realised, but a smartphone-based raffle system could raise far more cash by selling a shot at winning to far more people for a smaller amount, such as £5. (Prizeo profits by taking a percentage of funds raised.) A successful collaboration withJamie Olivercaught the attention of investors; later, the creator ofGame Of Thronesaccompanied one raffle-winner on a helicopter trip to a wolf sanctuary.“It’s ridiculous,” Seigal says. “I mean, I’m not easily starstruck, but when you’re emailing personally back and forth with George RR Martin…” Not that this was necessarily his most pinch-yourself moment. That came “when we went to meet our friend at Facebook, and it was really late at night, and there was no one else there – exceptMark Zuckerberg. And we were, like, oh my God.”People have been trying to become internet multimillionaires in Silicon Valley for two decades now, of course; but in the last six or seven years, something’s changed. Any one person’s shot at success is still a question of very long odds and huge luck. But the process of trying to discover the next Zuckerberg, or the next Twitter, has been systematised: the Valley has become a Darwinian machine for vacuuming up youngsters, giving them just enough cash to test their ideas, then injecting massive quantities of money into a handful of victors in an effort to force the birth of an Uber orAirbnbevery year or so. At the heart of this system is the startup incubatorY Combinator, founded by the British investor Paul Graham and based near Google’s headquarters inMountain View. Twice a year, in winter and summer, it accepts about 60 small teams, writes them each a $120,000 cheque in return for roughly a 7% stake in future earnings, then gives them three months – sharing apartments nearby, working every hour of every day – to build their projects. (During the selection process, Graham reportedly asks each team: “What’s your long-term plan to take over the world?”) The event at the end of this period, “Demo Day”, aDragons’ Den-style event in which each company showcases its work to the region’s leading investors, has become the stuff of legend.“It was incredibly stressful,” says Seigal, who was admitted to Y Combinator last year. “But at the same time, it was a haven. Especially coming from London, where you feel really abnormal – here you’re praised as what it’s all about. It felt like we could do what we were doing without being asked questions. It’s just accepted that we’d like to become multimillionaires, and that we might have a shot at it.” Like other British founders in the US, he strives to be diplomatic about “Silicon Roundabout”, London’s rival technology cluster. But he can’t conceal his feeling that the west coast is where it’s at. Things move too slowly in the UK (“I’ve always been obsessed with doing as much as possible as young as possible – I’m just extremely impatient”) and it is harder to get funding. “I don’t want to be too harsh on London, because I’d like to encourage people,” Seigal says. “But at the end of the day, the benchmark for success for companies is Silicon Valley: how quickly can you get there?”Not every British founder is so eager to get to the west coast as quickly as possible. Robyn Exton, the founder ofDattch, a dating app for gay and bisexual women, loved the atmosphere in London in her company’s earliest days. (Again, we’re talking the last couple of years.) “It was just so supportive,” says the 28-year-old, who grew up in Kent. They were supportive partly because “everyone was really desperate for there to be some big success stories”. Exton raised funds by working at a pub near her home in Hoxton, then was accepted toWayra, the startup incubator backed by the Spanish firm Telefónica, and then raised £100,000 in investment. Her goal was to establish that there was space in the market for a dating network aimed exclusively at women. “The way the female brain processes information, the things women are looking for, it’s so different,” she argues. Accordingly, Dattch emphasises certain features more than other dating apps, such as messaging (“Women want to talk so much more than men do before meeting up in person”) and downplays others, such as geolocation, because there’s less interest in impromptu hook-ups. But now that the network has launched in six American cities, Exton is shifting her focus, too; she spends half her time in the US and expects she’ll spend more. Silicon Valley’s magnetic force can be resisted for only so long.The Valley’s way of seeking the Next Big Thing naturally rewards a certain kind of person: ambitious, most often male, usually from a comfortable background and with sufficiently few attachments to drop everything and come to the Bay Area. One result is that the age of participants in schemes such as Y Combinator seems always to be falling; the year before last, west coast venture capitalists told Reuters they were funding more chief executives under 21 years old than ever before. “At a certain point,” the investor and Netscape founder Marc Andreessen was quoted as saying, “they can’t get much younger, or we’re going to be invested in preschool.”Peter Thiel, co-founder of PayPal and a well-known libertarian (he’s supported schemes for floating cities at sea, out of reach of tax authorities) has become the leader of a movement actively encouraging potential founders to jettison university and focus on business instead. This June, his foundation announced the latest batch ofThiel Fellows, 20 young people aged between 17 and 20, who’ll each receive $100,000 over two years for projects ranging from “accelerating how we learn” to curing cancer, providing they skip higher education.A strange consequence of all this is a surreal kind of ageism that views those in their late 20s as getting dangerously close to being past it: 32 is “the cutoff in investors’ heads”, Graham has said. (“I feel like I have maybe 15 years,” Seigal tells me; as with the other founders I speak to, the question of where he might end up beyond that seems too abstract to make much sense.) Earlier this year,a report in the New Republicnoted that Valley-area cosmetic surgeons were doing good business giving botox injections to men in their 30s and 40s.***“Every generation that came before us had to make a choice in life between pursuing a steady career and pursuing wild adventures,” Po Bronson wrote inThe Nudist On The Late Shift, his chronicle of the first dotcom bubble of the mid-90s. “In Silicon Valley, that trade-off has been recircuited. By injecting mindboggling amounts of risk into the stodgy domain of grey-suited business, young people no longer have to choose… More happens here and so quickly, satisfying anybody’s craving for newness. In six months, you might get a job, be laid off, start a company, sell it, become a consultant, and then, who knows?” Bronson’s book is a vivid, manic account of trying to make it at the epicentre of tech, yet in places it feels oddly nostalgic: some of his fresh-faced pioneers are almost 30, and their $1,400 monthly apartment rentals wouldn’t get you much in San Francisco today.Josh Buckley has no memory of the boom Bronson describes: he’d only recently learned to walk at the time. Now 22, the chief executive of the smartphone gaming companyMinoMonstersis the epitome of the youthful founder trend: at 16, he was a pupil at a state school in Maidstone; by 18, he’d been accepted to Y Combinator; within weeks of finishing, he’d raised $2m dollars in funding. Not that he was inexperienced, exactly: he’d been designing websites for cash since the age of 11, and at 15 surprised his parents by emerging from his bedroom one evening to inform them that he’d sold, for a six-figure sum, a games community they didn’t even know he was running. (The family’s income came from his father’s property business; the web wasn’t part of their equation. “They were shocked,” he recalls. “I just went to bed.”) He laughs when you ask about the first computer he ever owned, because it ran Windows 95.“There I am in Kent, going to school, and being bored, and then you’re dropped into this pool of the 50 smartest people in the world,” Buckley says, recalling his first days at Y Combinator. He talks so rapidly, he can occasionally be hard to understand, like a cliche of someone unwilling to lose a moment. “And I’m, like, holy shit! These people are so smart. Since I’ve been here I’ve constantly had that feeling: I’ve got to get better, I’ve got to get better. It makes you insecure. But you might as well take the productive reaction to it.” The productive reaction, in Buckley’s case, was “a secret new world of lovable pet monsters”, now with 7 million users, that evokes how Pokémon might look on your iPhone had Nintendo not taken the perverse decision largely to spurn smartphones. His offices, and the apartment he shares, with fellow co-founder Sasha MacKinnon, are in the same luxury building in downtown San Francisco, minimising the time he needs to spend neither working nor sleeping; there’s a spa pool on his roof terrace, and a hair salon and fitness centre in the building.Jack Dorsey, the hero-worshipped co-founder of Twitter, used to be a neighbour. In another hallmark of San Francisco today, the building overlooks a courtyard in which homeless people shout for money at passersby.Buckley is disarmingly upfront about his ambitions: his “first goal”, he explains, is to run the biggest games company in the world; the ultimate rivals he thinks about aren’t fellow app designers so much as Disney. His driving motivation is a typical one: the urge to test himself personally against the best possible competitors – so that success, if it happened, would mean more. “I’d feel frustrated if I was just comparing myself to a small pool of people in England. Here you’re not just comparing yourself to other people in Silicon Valley. This is the best in the world. Right here.” If you win, you really win; you don’t need to wonder if the victory was somehow only partial.What about the potential for a huge payday? Actually, Buckley says, money can only motivate so much: “You’re surrounded by billionaires, and you realise – these people’s lives are no better than mine. I have friends who buy Ferraris and McLarens, and they don’t even have time to drive them. Well, if that’s what being a billionaire gets you…” Besides – this is a refrain I hear from almost everyone I speak to – “starting up ishard. I can’t even tell you how hard it is to run a company here, let alone make it a successful one,” Buckley says, earnestly. “It’s just genuinely not worth doing it just for the money.”Exton’s account of “starting up” – teaching herself to code in her spare time while working at the pub, tolerating baffling statements from potential investors (“You can’t possibly be a lesbian, you’ve got long hair”), whittling sleep down to five or six hours a night, and not even having a co-founder to commiserate with – hardly sounds like unbroken fun, either. You need a solid motive to keep going. Among other things, Exton considers her potential users: “Imagine a woman who’s only just realised she’s gay, and is living in a village in Wyoming, and has absolutely no way to meet other gay women, who doesn’t understand what she’s supposed to do, where she’s supposed to go.” A well-designed app can make a real difference to real people’s lives.I wonder if Buckley ever thinks he should have gone to university instead, but the question registers only as a familiar kind he’s been asked by other oldsters. “Oh, you mean am I missing out on my youth and stuff? I thought that at some points.” His parents, initially hostile to his plans, sound amiably baffled by their son’s success: “They came out here once. They’re proud, I guess. But I think it might be hard for them to understand. I’ll call them every week, and sometimes I’ll have been banging my head against a wall, and they’ll say, why are you working these 18-hour days, why can’t you just be yourself? But then I’ll call them up one day and say, oh, I just raised $2m – that’s why I was doing the 18-hour days. I think they were quite impressed by that.”***For all the talk of “changing the world”, there’s a distinct sense that many of the highest-profile startups – if not necessarily the recipients of the most money – deal largely in trivia, the kind of thing that might lead a visiting Martian to conclude that the most exciting phase of innovation had been and gone. Making it easier for people to call a cab or rent out a spare room isn’t exactly revolutionary; nor is enabling people to send the message “Yo!” to each other’s mobile phones.Washboard, which promised to mail 25-cent coins, at a mark-up, for people to use in the coin-operated washing machines in their apartment buildings, might have been little more than a website launched partly in jest – but it made a certain point.The reasons for this are partly technological. At this point in the web’s evolution, we’re mainly just working through the implications of everyone having a broadband-connected phone in their pocket, so the easiest way to launch a new idea is to locate some mild annoyance of daily life and use smartphones to smooth it out. The explanation is also financial: to find the next breakout firm, investors would rather bestow multiple small sums around a large number of startups, whose ideas can be swiftly developed with a few months’ coding – which biases them in favour of lightweight ideas, not tackling big social problems.Harj Taggar, a British entrepreneur, former partner at Y Combinator and, at 29, now a relative Valley geriatric, tells me that, “The whole culture now revolves entirely around these outliers, these once-in-a‑decade companies” such as Uber, Airbnb andDropbox, which rise from nothing to dominating their industries within months. “There’s this expectation now that every year there’s going to be one of these outlier companies.” The latest isStripe, set up by two Irish brothers, Patrick and John Collison, which recently raised funds that valued it at $1.75bn. (Its big selling point is that it vastly simplifies the usually complex and annoying process of accepting credit card payments online.)This accelerated culture may also help portray startup life as a world unmoored from values, as if people are simply moving too fast to stop to think about the ethical implications of what they’re doing. Y Combinator’s motto is “make something people want”, reflecting the consensus that if there’s a market for something, it’s worth doing. Hence controversial services such as MonkeyParking, which lets drivers sell parking spaces they’re currently parked in to others who want them; or ReservationHop, which sells restaurant bookings the company has previously made. “Is this even legal? Is it ethical?” founder Brian Mayer wondered aloud after his product raised an outcry. “To be honest, I haven’t spent a lot of time thinking through these questions. I built this site as an experiment in consumer demand.” (Executives at Whisper, the anonymous messaging app, seemed similarly startled by the response tothe Guardian’s revelations about their tracking of users.) The helter-skelter pursuit of consumer demand may also help fuel the Valley’s poor record onsexual harassment, and an atmosphere that can be more generally hostile to women. “There’s this freewheeling libertarianism that allows a lot of things,” Elissa Shevinsky, a founder of the dating app Glimpse,told Businessweekmagazine earlier this year. She quoted a startup lawyer who told her “that startups are a [human resources] disaster. They violate a whole lot of laws” – especially concerning discrimination in hiring practices, it was implied – “and that’s overlooked”. Indeed, it’s taken to be “a good thing, because otherwise those companies couldn’t go to the next level”.Exton says she’s “never experienced conscious, overt sexism”, though she adds that this might be because her app is explicitly aimed at women. (It would take an especially oafish potential investor to question her suitability for her role on gender grounds.) Still, “angel investment”, the early financial injections on which startups rely, is a personal business, Exton says; people tend to invest in companies whose goals have some “personal resonance” – and very few of them are women. Bewildered potential investors have told her they find the entire concept of a lesbian app “bizarre”; only with Dattch’s growth across the US and UK have they begun to be persuaded that there might be something to it.And despite the widespread insistence that meritocracy prevails, privilege of various kinds still counts for a lot. “I couldn’t imagine being able to do this if I wasn’t from a privileged background,” says Seigal, who relied on a supportive family, an allowance from his parents, and the family home. “Not to take away from what I’ve done, because the vast majority of my privileged friends haven’t done startups. But most people just can’t afford to.” That said, being British, in this febrile atmosphere, can be a mixed blessing. On the one hand, the accent means people just assume you’re intelligent: “I think I’d have been sent home a lot longer ago if I didn’t have it,” says Taggar. On the other, a kneejerk tendency toward self-deprecation can be a disaster when you’re sitting opposite billionaire venture capitalists, trying to explain why you’re worth their money. “The best-case scenario is that they realise you’re joking, but they just think you’re odd for joking,” Taggar says. “The worst-case scenario is that they think you’re being serious: ‘Well, if he says he’s not very smart, then he must not be very smart…’”Perhaps the hardest thing for Brits in Silicon Valley is something that’s hard for everyone: the sheer effort involved in maintaining the facade that everything is going great, business-wise, all the time. In fact, near-constant failure is fundamental to how the place works: for every superstar, there are hundreds that go nowhere by definition. Yet “you go to these startup events, and it’s the weirdest thing,” says Buckley, over coffee just outside his building. “‘How’s it going?’ Everyone’s, like, ‘Killing it, man! Killing it!’ It’s so frustrating.” You have to do it, because “you don’t want investors thinking, ‘Oh, what’s going wrong?’ It’s a very small community – word gets around, and people talk. So you can’t really say, ‘Oh, dude, it’s so bad.’” But the truth is that “every startup’s a mess on the inside, in its own different way”.The 22-year-old sighs, briefly reflective, then resumes his fidgety, rapid-fire conversation – politely willing to keep talking to me, but eager to get back to the important business of becoming dominant in the world’s most competitive technology hothouse. He might succeed or fail, but he will never have to regret not having tried.Day in the life: Robyn Exton of DattchPhotograph: John Lee6amGet up, straight out to a breakfast meeting, usually around Old Street.8amGet to the office (Saturdays are my day off but I’ll most likely head in on Sunday).9amCatch up on all updates from the San Francisco office; we use some amazing tools, so we’re always in sync with what everyone is up to.10amMeeting with advisers to the business, to plan for challenges coming up.12pmLunch session with users, testing new features for the app and learning more about how we can improve the product for them.AfternoonBlocked off for focused work, sound-reducing headphones on.5pmCall with San Francisco office to plan for their day and let them know what we’ve been up to. We have a video stream always open, so we can chat into the evening as their day gets started.7pmLeave the office.8pmDinner with an investor.11.30-midnightBack home to bed (six hours’ sleep is fine, but not five).Josh Buckley of MinoMonstersPhotograph: John Lee7.15amWake up, go on a 5km run along the San Francisco pier (I try to do this three times a week).8.15amShower, grab breakfast and check email.9amHead to the office and meet with an investor.10amLeadership team meeting, check in on product status.11amCall with our licensing agent in London.12pmLunch with team.1pmMeeting with interview candidate at coffee shop.2pmDrive to Palo Alto for meeting with investor.4pmMeet with marketing team to set up new campaigns.5pmCatch up on email and finish any outstanding tasks.7pmHead to the gym (luckily in the same building!).7.45pmGo to dinner with a friend.9pmGo to a social mixer hosted by one of our investors.10pmGo home and read for an hour.11pmBed.Leo Seigal of RepresentPhotograph: John Lee7amWake up.10amReturn from Santa Fe where I had organized a cheque presentation ceremony for George RR Martin.10.30amBrainstorming with staff for our growing merchandise platform represent.com.11am-1pmEmail, lunch in the office.2pmCall with our chief operations officer in London, before he goes to bed.3.30pmTalking with the customer service team.4pm-5pmMore email.7.30pmLeave office, go to Mexican restaurant to say goodbye to an employee returning to the London office.12.30amBed.This article was amended on November 14 to correct factual errors about Josh Buckley’s business
British internet service providers have been accused of rushing into an ill-thought-out attempt to block political material online, after agreeing with the government on a system of filters for websites espousing extremist views.The four largest ISPs have independently agreed with the government to implement a system of blocks, similar to that used to keep child abuse material off the net. But civil liberties campaigners expressed fears that the move opened up a risk of political censorship.Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, said: “We need transparency whenever political content is blocked, even when we are talking about websites that espouse extremist views. The government must be clear about what sites they think should be blocked, why they are blocking them and whether there will be redress for site owners who believe that their website has been blocked incorrectly.”Downing Street’s proposal to the four ISPs – BT, Virgin, Sky and TalkTalk – is for a public reporting process along the lines of that already implemented to protect children from being exploited online. The Child Exploitation and Online Protection (Ceop) agency lets internet users report child abuse material directly to the police, who can then decide to act immediately if a child is in danger or to pass the information on to the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), an independent group.The Metropolitan police’s counter-terrorism internet referral unit (Citru) would play the equivalent role of Ceop under the proposal.A BT spokesperson said: “We have had productive dialogue with government about addressing the issue of extremist content online and we are working through the technical details.”An ISP industry insider admitted to the Guardian that Ceop buttons supposed to provide a hotline to the service for web users had faded from view on most of the major ISP’s websites. They said social networks such as Facebook and Twitter were the new focus of attention, given the proportion of both child abuse and extremist material that is sourced there.The Open Rights Group said that however extremism was reported – whether via a button on ISPs websites or a form on a social network – the important issue was what happens afterwards. “The issue is not about reporting extremism but whether reported content is added to secret lists of blacklisted sites,” Killock said.Another tech company insider said they would be “very wary of any government attempts to blur the line between child protection and extremist content”. Much automatic filtering of child abuse images happens by matching pictures and video to known databases, a concept that does not work when dealing with “extremist” messages.“Anyone who’s ever used a search engine will understand: computers do not understand sarcasm, they don’t understand irony,” the source said. “You can’t automate understanding human context around words.”Downing Street said it would continue to press internet companies to be more proactive in fighting the use of web technologies by extremist groups.
