Yahoo lost another two influential executives yesterday as the company continued to lurch from crisis to crisis following the board's decision to reject Microsoft's $47bn (&pound;24bn) takeover bid.The latest departures include the Delicious founder Joshua Schachter and Brad Garlinghouse, the search division's senior vice-president who wrote the infamous "peanut butter manifesto" that criticised the internet firm's strategy.Schachter's social bookmarking tool Delicious was bought by the web firm in 2005. He told the technology blog TechCrunch yesterday that he had no job to go to, but had decided to make the move because of the turmoil in the company.Delicious is regarded as one of Yahoo's strongest web assets, along with the photo-sharing site Flickr and the events tool Upcoming.The two Flickr founders, Stewart Butterfield and Caterina Fake, announced  this week that they were leaving the company, with Butterfield firing off a characteristically eccentric letter to Garlinghouse.It was revealed yesterday that Garlinghouse is also to leave. He caused controversy in 2006 when he criticised the firm in a leaked internal memo for spreading itself too thinly and trying to be everything to everyone.Qi Lu, a search advertising technology vice-president, and another senior vice-president in search, Vish Makhijani, are also leaving, anticipating a big restructure being carried out by the Yahoo president, Susan Decker.Yahoo's management has been criticised for failing to strike a deal with Microsoft, which had offered up to $47.5bn to take over the company. The board, led by co-founder and chief executive Jerry Yang, said the offer was too low and eventually agreed a search advertising deal with Google which was greeted with derision by parts of the industry, who viewed it as an admission that Yahoo cannot compete with the search company. Yang faces intense scrutiny and has to deal with the exodus of high-profile staff.The company said in a statement that it had confidence in its management team. "Yahoo continues to be a leader in our industry and remains a unique, exciting, and important place to work even as we experience the attrition that's to be expected in the internet industry."The fallout from Yahoo's deal with Google continued yesterday when it was criticised as anti-competitive and bad for advertisers by a senior Microsoft executive. Speaking at the Cannes International Advertising Festival, Kevin Johnson said advertisers were not likely to be well served by "the search industry consolidating around a small number of platforms". As a Yahoo executive described the deal as win-win, Johnson cut in: "If 'win' is consolidating 90% of the paid search market [in the US] to Google then that's a win."
MondayMGS4 impressionsKing of Kong: the competitionTech Weekly's coming to ManchesterEdinburgh Interactive Festival call for submissionsImitation and flatteryTuesdayLiving in a gameFallout 3 interviewWednesdayPSN gets Xbox lifestyle featuresLive at Glastonbury: Me!Codies founder goes roboticDS centres open across UKIs Tecmo on the ropes?ThursdayAge of Conan and other reviewsForbes bizarrely characterises Euro gamersFridaySongs that would make great games
Microsoft co-founders Bill Gates and Paul Allen feature in BBC timelineThe BBC Money Programme has a big interview with Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates telling his computer-life story to Fiona Bruce, and there's a12-minute cliponline now. It's not exactly a grilling, but at least it's not Terry Wogan.There's also an accompanyingTimeline: Bill Gates and Microsoftwhere you can have fun spotting the odd mistake.It's been two years since Gates announced he was shifting the focus of his time (he'llstillbe working for Microsoft), and it must by now have prompted several thousand articles. Indeed, I've done three this year forThe Guardian,PC Proand this week'sComputer Weekly. But it's probably not Goodbye Bill, really. I expect he'll want plenty of coverage for his charitable trust.Update: So, what did you think of the programme? It turns out to have been not much of an interview, but some of the archive material was great. (Somebody will do a loop of Bill jumping over a chair -- one of his party tricks.) In today's Guardfian review,Bill Gates: How a Geek Changed the World (BBC2), Sam Wollaston says:But I'm a bit disappointed how little of this Money Programme is taken up with the interview. So disappointed in fact that I decide to time it. Sad, I know. Guess how long he's on there for, talking to Fiona, in this hour-long progamme? Four minutes, 36 seconds, by my calculations. And that includes the bit where she stalks him outside 10 Downing StI thought Alan Sugar was pretty funny, but it was sad to see Mitch Kapor still whining when his overpriced and underwhelming 1-2-3 software hung on to its market share longer than it deserved, before finally being beaten by a better product. Somebody should have asked him how his open source Chandler project is going, and whether it will make it toversion 1.0this century.
Security holes can just sit there for ages until someone has the bright idea of playing around with them. So it is for the Apple Remote Desktop (ARD) agent hole.If you've got a Mac running 10.4 (Tiger) or 10.5 (Leopard) to hand, you can see it for yourself by going to the Terminal (in the Utilities folder) and entering the following line:osascript -e 'tell app "ARDAgent" to do shell script "whoami"'Edit:added trailing ' character - without it, the command just leaves&gt;, which is the machine's way of saying "Would you please close the quote so I can carry out the command?"The answer it'll give back:root.That should scare you. Does me. It means that someone can get access to everywhere on your machine via this program. Which was always sort of true about ARD, but the idea was that you would give your permission. Read on: it's not always going to ask your permission.The Slashdot threadMac OS X Root Escalation Through Applescriptdoes point (almost immediately) toinstructions for removing it.The weakness is that ARD has an Applescript dictionary (Applescript is a sort-of corollary of Microsoft Visual Basic), and via that dictionary you can execute Terminal instructions such as "rm -rf /" (this instruction will wipe your machine, so don't type it. Remember, you were warned.)Matasano Chargenpoints outthat this points to weaknesses in the way that Apple's programmers, likely brought up on the previous non-Unix form of Mac programming, will cope with the modern Unix-y world they find themselves in. Says Chargen:There's a crack team of security people at Apple doing an excellent job locking down an extremely complex operating system. But if you're lining them up against every Apple developer and giving the developer side the "SUID" bit, it's not a fair fight. It's whack-a-mole.You can see some kids figuring it outhere, about a week ago.And wouldn't you know it, SecureMac has nowidentified a trojanthat uses this trick, either as a downloadable script or a pre-compiled application, which likely sends back all sorts of yummy information. Keylogger, anyone?The Unofficial Apple WeblognotesthatUsers must download and run the scripts in order for their computer to become infected. The trojan will install itself in the /Library/Caches folder, and will set itself to run at startup.To protect yourself, use extreme caution when running AppleScript files or applications sent to you in an email, or downloaded from the internet.Which always made sense, but even more now. It will be interesting to see if Apple has a quick fix for this, because it's serious - one of the truck-driving-est holes in the OS found since it was introduced, I think. Perhaps the simplest way to fix it would be to eliminate the capability to run shell scripts by ARD. But one wonders if that will break any corporate systems.Update:and for those who like p*ker and use a Mac, there's awarning from Integoabout a trojan that disguises itself as a p*ker-playing program:The Trojan horse, when run, activates ssh on the Mac on which it is running, then sends the user name and password hash, along with the IP address of the Mac, to a server. It asks for an administrator's password after displaying a dialog saying, "A corrupt preference file has been detected and must be repaired." Entering the administrator's password enables the program to accomplish its tasks. After gaining ssh access to a Mac, malicious users can attempt to take control of them, delete files, damage the operating system, or much more.Oh, the fun just never ends.Update:you can at least protect quite easily against the ARD exploit, without having to play in the Terminal.Go to System Preferences -&gt; Sharing. There you'll find a list that includes "Remote Management". Click this on. You'll get a long list of possible things to be configured. Don't fill any of them in. Just click OK. -Below is a panel saying "Allow access for All users/only these users" (radio button). -Choose "Only these users". Leave blank. -Remote Management should now be ticked on. If not, tick it on (again).Now go to the Terminal and typeosascript -e 'tell app "ARDAgent" to do shell script "whoami"'[fixed spelling of osascript - thanks fred2] (this time I've got the trailing slash right). I gotexecution error: ARDAgent got an error: "whoami" doesn't understand the do shell script message.. It means that this isn't now a hole. One hopes Apple will sort this out soon..
Readers join in the fun at FSJ's blogWithFake Steve Jobstaking a bit of time off (or so he claimed), Fake Jerry Yang has stepped into the breach and he's already made more than a dozen posts. FSJ's site has been transformed into The Secret Diary of [Steve Jobs] Jerry Yang, with the new catch-line, "Dude, I created [the iPhone] Yahoo! Have you heard of it?"However, the trendy RJY-style "all lower case" style didn't last:btw fwiw i've asked katie to tell iulia and natasha to stop capitalizing my sentences before they publish my stuff because it's not the way i write and not the way i want my stuff to appear. they insist that all lower case looks bad and is hard to read.How long FJY will last is another matter....
Another headline pops up: "Scientists aim to make computer that thinks like a human". And I think no, No, NO! Don't, whatever you do, do that. Even ifRay Kurzweil is the one suggesting it's coming.Why don't I like the idea of a human-like computer? Am I creating a silicon ceiling beneath which I'm trying to keep our processing friends?Actually, no. I just think that humans are a terrible example to follow if you want to develop something that's conscious – which is generally what these efforts to create "human-like" systems are really about: to reach the point where the machine says "I am", and everyone falls about, stunned.My reasons are simple. We don't build skyscrapers based on the same principles as the human spine; if we did, then they'd be constantly falling down or showing signs of significant weakness. We don't build transport systems that work like the human body, using muscle-like elastic bands snapping back and forth to power them. We don't build cameras where the wires taking the signal from the CCDs runs in front of the CCDs themselves.Humans, though,arebuilt like that. The spine is well-suited for hanging a lot of organs off in a four-footed beast; but prettybadly adapted for bipedal, upright walking, because all the stresses are put in places where, over the course of years, they'll mess things up. Our relatively newly acquiredAchilles tendon is a significant point of weaknessduring running (ask anyone who's snapped one of theirs). The retina is a model of daft design, with all theblood vessels passingin frontof the rod and cone cells. That we're not aware of this is a tribute to the brain's ability to filter data.Haphazard constructionThat's the thing: evolution is a terrible designer. What it's good at (supremely good, of course) is finding what works best at a particular point in time in a particular environment. And the same applies with the workings of the human brain. This idea is wonderfully set out in a book calledKluge: The Haphazard Construction of the Human Mind, by Gary Marcus. He's professor of psychology at New York university, and examines carefully how the workings of our minds – not just brains – are as evolutionarily messy as our spines, tendons and eyes.The chapter headings give you a flavour: memory, belief, choice, language, pleasure, things fall apart; and true wisdom.For instance, when it comes to deciding what to do, Marcus argues that we have two systems operating in our minds: an "ancestral" system and a "deliberative" one. We've had the ancestral system for hundreds of millions of years, dating back before we came down from the trees (before "we" were "we", in fact). The deliberative system requires something closer to language; it's younger, and it and the ancestral system frequently disagree and fight like two cats in a bag. The older one, being better wired into our subconscious, often gets the upper hand.Take the real example Marcus describes of a Chicago law firm which, trying to drum up business, paid for a 48-foot three-panel billboard with "the torso of an exceptionally attractive woman, breasts all but bursting out of her lacy black bra; the torso of a man no less handsome, shirtless, with his well-oiled muscles bulging; and, just above the law firm's name and contact information, a slogan containing just five words: LIFE'S SHORT - GET A DIVORCE".Now, divorce is expensive, emotionally damaging, time-consuming, and can take years to recover from. Your deliberative system knows that (or has read about it). Yet you can be sure that at least some of the married people who saw that billboard heard a small internal yelp – their ancestral system saying "I'm missing out on hot sex!" Both pieces of knowledge are part of your mind. But why is the ancestral system even saying it? Can't the deliberative system hold it down? It turns out that no, it can't.Marcus also has an example of incest that causes no harm but which leaves you wanting to wash your brain out and at the same time wonderingwhy. It's a strange journey looking into the bizarre workings of your mind.Irrational decisionsSimilar problems circle around us every day. It's part of the reason why we need politicians: we need people who can find ways to use language in order to keep both our deliberative and ancestral systems feeling sated. People (neveryou or me, of course) make irrational decisions about all sorts of things: houses, clothes, cars, beliefs, money. Countless studies show that the human mind just doesn't work in a rational manner. Douglas Hofstadter, who is very much cleverer than anyone in pretty much any room,puts it another way: research to create computer models of the mind "helps remind me of the immense subtlety and elusiveness of the human mind".Well, yes, "elusiveness" is one way of putting it, I suppose.And yet we're keen to have computers that will mimic this? The thought makes me shudder. The much-missed Douglas Adams had it absolutely right throughout The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, where his "humanised" machines always suffered terribly for their "elevation" to our level:Marvin the Paranoid Android with his brain the size of a planet, who couldn't bear performing the menial tasks that his masters with their inferior intelligences demanded of him. (It would be like us being ordered about by our dogs.)Or the intelligent lifts – aka Happy Vertical People Transporters: "Not unnaturally, many elevators imbued with intelligence and precognition become terribly frustrated with the mindless business of going up and down, up and down, experimented briefly with the notion of going sideways, as sort of an existential protest, demanded participation in the decision making process and finally took to squatting in basements sulking."Is that really the sort of computer you're looking for? Because if it is, then I think we've got problems far bigger than the ones that people are trying to solve with these systems.No; while it's certainly interesting to ponder what might constitute machine consciousness, to try to create human-like "machine minds" is a mistake, and any attempt to reverse-engineer our jumble of evolutionary leftovers and stick it into a machine would be an act of amazing cruelty. Apart from anything, would you really want a machine that could remember what it did a month ago, but can't remember where it put that file it saved five minutes ago? Or can remember that it fed the dog, but not what it had for lunch five days ago?Let's get off that rollercoaster while we can. What we really want is machines that are asunlikehumans as possible. We want them to be rational, predictable, fast. And most of all I want them to remember where I left my keys. Because I sure as hell can't.
The people who handle the technology at the Wimbledon tennis championships are going to have an uneasy time on Sunday, just a day before this year's tournament starts. A team from the London Fire Brigade will be carrying out a safety inspection of IBM's scoring system.They could, in theory, shut the system down, though the chances are everything will be fine. Equipment is still arriving and it's like spaghetti junction in the basement of Centre Court where the computers are warming up by feeding scores from the qualifying rounds at Roehampton to the Wimbledon website.They are the engine that will underpin many of the interactive elements of the 2008 tournament. Wimbledon has never shied away from technological advances and this year it's pushing further than ever. Inevitablythe Wimbledon championships have their own Facebook page, although you shouldn't expect to see any famous tennis players online."It will be interesting to see how that goes," says Jeff Lucas, chief information officer for the tournament. There will also be blogs from an independent editorial team, he says."I think the real benefit will be the real-time scores: they're accurate, they're fast and a huge amount of traffic comes from that."The scores will be taken down by hand by someone watching a TV monitor in the bowels of centre court. They have a specially designed keypad with keys marked 'forehand serve', 'backhand serve' and other shots. The keypad has only Player A and Player B, so there's also a post-it note reminding them who the players are.Concentration will have to be intense – the objective is to get the score to the web before it is announced by the umpire, who has to wait for the crowd to quieten down.These scores feed into the website but also into theSlamtracker, which has yet to go live. "You can choose your own country through the interactive draw, and there's an interactive venue map," says Chris Lee, project director for IBM at the All England Lawn Tennis Club."When you roll your mouse over that, the real-time scoreboard updates, so you can watch your favourite players. We're doing a lot more personalisation this year." The site will use cookies to remember people's preferences.The biggest change for fans watching the matches at the ground – other than the retractable roof on Centre Court – will be the new screens. The displays that last year allowed viewers to see the Hawk-Eye system for tracking whether a ball was in or out have been replaced by larger LEDs."That's given us the opportunity to integrate the scoreboards, the line adjudication systemHawk-Eyeand a lot of other information," says Lucas.You can see the Hawk-Eye display in action in Dubai on YouTube.This means the crowd will for the first time be able to see the same game statistics, player biographies and other information that the TV viewers at home can see.For the second year running it's going to be possible – for a subscription fee – to watchlive games from Wimbledon online. This is more for the overseas market, though you can alsofollow the results on Twitter with the username Wimbledon2008. Last year's is still there, showing the result of the last match:Jamie Murray's mixed doubles win against Jelena Jankovic.When the website first went live over 10 years ago the organisers had web-based interviews with the players: tennis fans would log on and ask questions, while someone at the Wimbledon end relayed the questions and typed the answers. Lucas says this sort of interactivity isn't suitable any more, though at the time it was revolutionary."We were a bit ahead of our time with that," he says. "Only 60 or 70 people would actually log on."The success of this year's technological offerings depends on the efficiency of the IBM team under Centre Court. Already, explains Bill Jinks, client information technology architect, they're over the first pressure point: the servers arrived from Roland Garros in Paris (IBM handles all of the Grand Slam tournaments) undamaged by customs personnel. Equipment is being unpacked and the location being cleaned and dusted.The arrival of live tennis on the site last year brought an 83% increase in traffic and this year they're expecting even more. If the fire brigade passes them as safe, they're confident this will be the most technologically sophisticated Wimbledon ever.
So here's a turn up: Encyclopedia Britannica – that venerable, peer-reviewed and terribly old media source of knowledge – is to allow users to write theirown articles, a la Wikipedia.The news made me smile. A few years back, when I was working at the science journal Nature, colleagues and I asked experts to compare the accuracy of science articles in Britannica and Wikipedia. To our surprise, there was not much to separate the two publications. Our peer reviewers – each a leading academic expert – identified an average of four inaccuracies in Wikipedia entries and three in Britannica.The results generated headlines, but not as many as Britannica's reaction did. The opening salvo was 'Fatally Flawed', a 20-page rebuttal of our survey that was distributed to journalists and the posted online. Next came a letter to Nature's publishers, published as an advert in the New York Times, calling for the story to be retracted. The attacks worked. "How could a respected science publication make such a grave series of errors?" askedone commentator.It didn't matter that our survey was neither flawed nor in need of retraction (for those interested, detailed replies to Britannica's criticisms are attached to theoriginal story). Wikipedia was attracting attention and Britannica had profits to protect. It had been defending its position by claiming that Wikipedia's anyone-can-edit policy was causing reliability problems. Our survey undermined that claim, so Britannica set out to rubbish the article.But Britannica's problems were not really about Wikipedia. And they're not now. Britannica is a different beast from its crowd-sourced rival. It tries to be a source of record. For many people – journalists, students – it is. Wikipedia is not. And that's fine. Wikipedia remains a great way to get the gist of an idea (almost any idea)... but not the place people should turn to for fact-checked names and dates.It's like the difference between blogging and journalism. Many blogs are insightful and well-written. They're also free. That scares some journalists, because it's the type of content we're paid to provide. But most bloggers, particularly those working for free, don't want to report, check facts, provide balance or do any of the other things that good journalists do. They don't have to, because blogs don't replace news stories, they complement them.That's why reporters aren't turning all their news articles into blogs, and why Britannica should not react to Wikipedia's rise by letting the masses contribute. New media and old have different strengths. Britannica's value lies in the fact that it's expert led. Diluting that asset seems an odd way to proceed.Of course that's easy for me to say: I'm not responsible for Britannica's subscription sales, which have presumably been hit by Wikipedia.And there's the root of the problem. Wikipedia is not Britannica and most blogs are not well-reported news journalism. But the existence of both new formats threatens the finances of those that preceded them. Right now it's not clear where the salaries for professional writers, journalists or encyclopedia editors, will be come from.The Washington Post won six Pulitzers this April; a month later it announced a 40% drop in profit. I'm sure that the people who run the Post are worried. But I'm hopeful they won't dilute the qualities that made the paper famous.It's a shame that Britannica seems willing to do so.• Jim Giles is a science writer based in San Francisco
Following the announcement that Flickr's co-founders were leaving Yahoo, which Iblogged two days ago, Delicious-founder Joshua Schacter has also confirmed that he's going. He commented to the announcement onTechCrunch, saying:I was largely sidelined by the decisions of my management. So that was mostly the result rather than the cause, if that makes sense. It was an incredibly frustrating experience and I wish I was a lot more like Stewart [Butterfield] in terms of pushing my point of view.Yahoo hasnot been well managedfor some time, and it is currently in the process of a reorganization that is encouraging staff to think about their futures. AsThe New York Timespointed out today:A senior Yahoo executive said a reorganization "is the worse possible thing they would do at the moment. In a time of total instability, the last thing you want to do is make people nervous about their jobs." He spoke on condition of anonymity because, although he was also considering options outside of Yahoo, speaking out could jeopardize his employment.Naturally, Google and Microsoft are trying to capitalize on the situation by offering Yahoo's most talented staff new jobs. Microsoft took a full-page ad in the San Jose Mercury News to tempt Yahoo search staff to move to Microsoft's Silicon Valley campus.In a shortTechnology piecethis week, I wondered whether Jerry Yang would be able to hang onto his job as Yahoo's chief executive office, and said it seemed unlikely. High-profile departure announcements have flooded in since that was written, making it even less likely. As the NYT story says:The precipitous exodus is hollowing out Yahoo's senior management ranks. It is also raising new questions about the future of the company and its top executives. Analysts say that the departures suggest that Jerry Yang, the chief executive, and Susan L. Decker, the president, are increasingly isolated. . "Wall Street has lost all confidence at this point," said Ross Sandler, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets. "The senior managers have clearly lost confidence in the strategy and have lost confidence in Sue and Jerry, and that's not a good thing."If this is how things are going under Yahoo's co-founder Jerry Yang (who is in a similar position to Apple's Steve Jobs in returning to power to rescue a company in decline), then one hardly dare imagine how much worse it would be under Microsoft CEO, Steve Ballmer.I hope Ballmer is wiping his fevered brow and telling himself what a lucky break he got in failing to buy Yahoo (and also saving $40 billion in his bank account). But I bet someone is whispering in his ear that he could lower his offer now and get Yahoo on the cheap....
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
What's your favourite piece of technology?MyBosenoise-cancelling headphones.How have they improved your life?They shut out the sound of other people's technology – it helps a lot when travelling!When was the last time you used them and what for?I use them a lot when I'm going from place to place with work – the last time I remember them being my saviour was when I caught my flight to Tokyo for the Rambo premiere there.What additional features would you add if you could?A cloaking device.Do you think they will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I fear they already are because whenever you buy a new piece of technology, there's always something bigger and better out there already that you seem to have missed out on. I'm always too slow though – I find something, fall in love with it, and that's it for me … until it breaks.What tip would you give to non-users of noise-cancelling headphones?I guess it's difficult to give a tip on them – they're only headphones, but I guess I could say that if I can use them, anyone can.Do you consider yourself a Luddite or a nerd?I am the complete and utter definition of a Luddite.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've owned?My Luddite-friendly computerMac or PC?Mac – I have no idea what a PC is!What song is at the top of the most played list on your iPod?As Seen From Space, by BentWill robots ever rule the world?It seems like they already do. Technology is at the forefront of everything these days – communication, work. It's amazing and scary at the same time how robots have evolved, but I find it hard to believe that robots will completely rule the world. Not in my lifetime anyway.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I would really like to own an iPhone – predictable, but true. They are pure genius but so unavailable! Just the idea to have everything you need essentially stored in one piece of portable technology is very exciting.Graham McTavishplays the grumpy British mercenary Lewis inRambo, which is released on DVD on Monday
From the troubadours of Occitania to today's glut of folk-plundering female solo artists, narrative songs are entrenched in the musical canon. They have inspired dozens of movies. The 1976 film Ode to Billy Joe was a dramatisation of Bobby Gentry's lugubrious song of the same name; Sean Penn's directorial debut, The Indian Runner, had Bruce Springsteen's Highway Patrolman at its heart; and the concept behind J-horror flick, Densen Uta, originated in the infamousGloomy Sunday. There's also Sweet Home Alabama, Stand By Me and Blue Velvet, all of which made passing references, at least, to their namesakes.Games based on songs? Well, there have been lots of games based around music and musicians, of course. But a game inspired by, and bearing close narrative resemblance to, a specific track... Hasn't happened yet as far as I know.So which songs do you think would make great games, and why?I've got a few dodgy ones to start us off...Maxwell's Silver Hammer - The Beatles (1969)Imagine what Rockstar North could do with Paul McCartney's vaudeville oddity following the adventures of a murderous medical student. Has already been referenced in a game - it appears as a weapon inKingdom of Loathing.Run to the Hills - Iron Maiden (1982)Play as either an imperialistic white invader or a Native American in this historical oppress-'em-up, inspired by the Maiden's pummeling tale of colonial slaughter. Lots of galloping horses, savage fighting and, naturally, plenty of selling them whiskey and taking their gold, enslaving the young and destroying the old.Camouflage - Stan Ridgeway (1986)Vietnam-based shooter in which the player is occasionally aided by a benevolent ghost soldier. Co-op is cool these days, so there's a possible two-player angle, plus mingling shoot-'em-up and survival horror elements is becoming fashionable (see Project Origin for example).It Was a Good Day - Ice Cube (1993)In a sort of reverse of the usual gangsta shooter, this interactive rendering of the Ice Cube classic sees you trying toavoidusing your AK for as long as humanly possible. Wander the streets of South Central, playing basketball and dominoes, hooking up with girlfriends and munching on Fatburgers. But watch out for fools who may try and blast you - while the police roll right past you...
We don't like violence and we don't have time to play epic games. These are the astonishing assertions of a story entitledGames That Europe Loves To Play, currently taking up space on Forbes.com. From the piece:Guns and gore also don't sell as well in Europe because Europeans like short, so-called casual games, rather than the long, epic tales that keep gamers pounding on their consoles for hours at a stretch. Casual games also fit the European lifestyle better: People can play these short games on trains and subways on their way to work.Wait, don't at leasta fewAmericans go to work on subways and trains? And don't the staggering sales (and indeed the development of) Grand Theft Auto 4 in Britain challenge this rather general characterisation? True, Europedoeshave a wider demographic, and mainstream titles sell better here than in the States, but there's a chasm of deduction between noting the popularity of one genre and concluding general disdain for another.My favourite bit is the ending:Perhaps the biggest difference between the European and U.S. game markets is size: Sales of games in the two markets are nearly the same; both generated about $18 billion in revenues in 2007, despite the fact that Europe's potential market is twice as large.So look for game publishers to travel across the Atlantic in hopes of exploiting an untapped market.Do you hear that EA, Activision, Midway, THQ and Take Two? There's money to be made over in Europe apparently - Forbes has spotted it!
The reviews are in today with 18+ MMO (Age of Conan) rubbing shoulders with the child-friendlyKung Fu PandaandSoul Bubbles. No, I'd not heard of the latter either, but I could do with a bit of "easy-going" handheld gaming after spending the last week on the beautiful but intense Crisis Core. My review wasAge of Conan, the new(ish) massively multiplayer game from Funcom. MMO's are better looked at after a month or two when the dust has settled but such was the relatively smooth launch I thought it deserved an early review. And generally things are looking good. You can't knock the potential - although the constant zoning is a bore - and there is clearly a decent long-term offering here. But a decent PC is an absolute must for this one. And maybe that's why it has sold so well - hardcore PC gamers finally have a game to really show off their machines.
Google's YouTube was recently given a kicking by billionaire "blog maverick"Mark Cuban, who pointed out thatHulu is kicking YouTube's Ass. It doesn't have more visitors or serve up more videos, of course. However, Hulu has 100% legal premium content that it can monetize -- TV programmes such as Sex &amp; The City, The Daily Show and The Colbert Report, and movies such as Juno and Lost in Translation -- and YouTube, basically, doesn't. Indeed, if it did, YouTube could be forced to remove them.What makes it even better for Hulu is that it can exploit YouTube. As Cuban says:Hulu posts clips, not full episodes, clips on its YouTube channel and elsewhere on YouTube. Those clips are preroll AND overlays AND post rolls promoting Hulu and its full episodes of shows and movies. All of which costs Hulu the ginormous cost of ....nothing. From which it generates traffic to its Hulu site on which it sells, to the point of often selling out, display and preroll ads. That's the ultimate arbitrage. We pay you nothing, and you send us traffic that generates ad revenue for us.The economics are straightforward, and bad news for YouTube:the more traffic Hulu generates, the more money it makes. The more traffic YouTube generates, the more money it loses... Maybe they think they will make it up with even more volume?What YouTube can do, of course, is copy Hulu and offer longer, legal content that it can sell against. To this end, it has emailed its content partners as follows, saysSillicon Alley Insider:Long Form Content You now will be able to upload and monetize videos in your account that are longer than 10 minutes. This feature is exclusively for partners. Independent Film makers that partner with us will now be able to upload their feature films on our site. Please note that for long form content, the maximum file size is 1GB.That's enough for a full-length movie at YouTube quality. Whether these "independent film makers" will come up with enough good stuff to take on Hulu, which is backed by NBC Universal and News Corp, is another matter. It's better than nothing, which is pretty much what YouTube has at the moment.Comment(added later): Hulu is US-only and has a limited amount of content, but it is still new: it was officially launched just three months ago, on March 12, 2008. For more on the background seeHulu starts private beta, while NBC rubbishes iTunes business, below.
"'Strong', 'tough' and 'battle' are some of the words often associated with robots, but we wanted to break that stereotype and provide a robot that's sweet and interactive," said Sega Toys press officer Minako Sakanoue earlier this week.Sega's curvaceous new robot walks like a lady and blows kisses to her fans. The 38-centimetre-tall humanoid, called EMA (pronounced Emma) – short for Eternal, Maiden and Actualization – uses infrared sensors to detect nearby men and has more than sixty moves, including smooching whenever her programming kicks into "Love Mode".Unlike Sega's robotic musicians and pets, the diminutive damsel is mainly targeted at single males in their 20s. "EMA is very lovable. She's not a human, but can act like a real girlfriend," Sakanoue said, adding it would be perfect for shy people looking for a bit of companionship.Japanese men will be able to take EMA home for about US$175 by September, and Sega hopes to sell 10,000 of the adult-oriented androids within a year.
Never let it be said that the BBC's head of digital Ashley Highfield is behind the times.In aposting on the BBC website today, he ponders the question of net neutrality and whether ISPs should have any liability for illegal content that is being shared on their networks. A hot topic, to be sure.In his post he refers to theBPI's ongoing attempt to get ISPs to block filesharing traffic, and their call for a 'value recognition right' (a tax on ISPs). It seems to me that he's getting his wires crossed though: in fact it wasn't the BPI, but AIM (an alternative body) whichproposed the value recognition right, and they did sotwo years ago.Not only that, but the response he quotes at length from theOpen Rights Group, which he says was issued "last week" was actually from (yes)two years ago(July 2006, to be precise.In his defence, Ashley says that "this issue has been around for as long as the net has", which could account for why two years might seem like the blink of an eye - or perhaps it just explains the glacial pace of some the BBC projects he's championed...
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Ministers and civil servants have, you may have noticed, struggled to figure out good ways to deal with the explosion of information and, more particularly, interaction on the web. The civil service's weaknesses in this field were highlighted inThe Power Of Information review, a report written by Ed Mayo and Tom Steinberg (the latter of MySociety, theyworkforyou, etc fame) and published by the Cabinet Office.Among its recommendations was No.13: "To maximise the potential value of civil servants' input into online fora, by autumn 2007 the Cabinet Office Propriety and Ethics and Government Communications teams should together clarify how civil servants should respond to citizens seeking government advice and guidance online."Well, they worked on the clarification, but now it's been figured out, and set out in a new code, written by Cabinet Office minister Tom Watson (who we've written about before).The announcement of the new code was unveiled in aParliamentary question yesterday; and it's just appeared in the House of Commons library.It reads - in its entirety - as follows:Principles for participation online1. Be credibleBe accurate, fair, thorough and transparent.2. Be consistentEncourage constructive criticism and deliberation. Be cordial, honest and professional at all times.3. Be responsiveWhen you gain insight, share it where appropriate.4. Be integratedWherever possible, align online participation with other offline communications.5. Be a civil servantRemember that you are an ambassador for your organisation. Wherever possible, disclose your position as a representative of your department or agency.You have to admit - toan organisation that usually wraps itself in words and subclauses, this is going to come as a dramatic shock.Comprehensibleinstructions for how to behave online? A code so short you could print it on the back of a bus pass in legible font?We hope it's the start of something big between government and the rest of the web. Actually, it wouldn't go amiss as a general code of conduct anywhere, would it?BTW there are some interesting exchanges in the debate. Peter Bone, for the Conservatives, asks (in the aftermath of theHazel Blears hard drive theft):"Does the guidance to which the Minister refers extend to giving civil servants advice on sending sensitive material to Ministers, and do Ministers have responsibility for checking what they receive?"Watson replies:I can assure the hon. Gentleman that the guidelines cover civil servants and that no top secret documents will be placed on Facebook.You mean we still have to pay to go on trains to get that stuff?There's also the interesting point made by Susan Cramer, the Lib Dem Cabinet Office shadow, which is thatan early alert that senior civil servants were wandering home with key documents without authorisation appeared on the blog "Civil Serf". Will he confirm that in his guidelines he will not kneecap whistleblowers? Will he give us an assurance that the civil service will not sign up to the national staff dismissal register, which would allow the organisation to blacklist people on the mere suspicion that their conduct might not be attractive?To which Watson repliesLet me assure the hon. Lady that the challenge for the power of information taskforce is to get our civil servants to engage in online communities in an appropriate manner. Clearly, one of the things that underpins our hard-working public servants is the notion of common sense, and I hope that they will apply that in their online activities as much as their offline activities.Doesn't quite answer the blogging question. But it does make it clear that blogs are often the places where you find things out, doesn't it?
TechCrunch is compiling a table of former Yahoo executives -- ones who left in 2007-08 -- and it's growing.It says:We aren't able to track the thousands of non-execs who've quit or were laid off, there are just too many of them. Many of these ex-Yahoo'ers have congregated on thisYahoo Alumni Pageon Facebook, with over 1,500 members.Facebook should certainly make the task simpler than it would have been before. However, it's hard to know how significant it is without similar figures for Microsoft and/or Google, related to company size. People leave all sorts of companies all the time, for a wide variety of reasons. A company of 50,000 people could see 5,000 people leave every year.What might be more alarming would be any difficulties in recruiting really good people, but that's almost impossible to track.Update: The table was out of date within hours, with TechCrunch reportingYahoo's Executive Structure Crumbles: Lu, Garlinghouse and Makhijani To Leave
I have hundreds of slides, which I want to move to iPhoto. The Guardian sells a lovely device called a Summit Photofix Scanner, for £79.95, but it only runs on Windows. Short of spending hundreds of pounds on a far clunkier solution, is there a similar device for a Mac?Nicola RichardThe closest thing I can find for Mac OS X is the Plustek OpticFilm 7200i AI film scanner, which has a much better specification than the Summit Photofix, but will need more setting up. It costs £276.10 from Amazon.co.uk, and PC Advisor publisheda reviewin January. Plustek offers several similar products, some of them cheaper; while they all work with Windows, not all are listed as being compatible with Mac OS X.My usual recommendation for scanning is to invest $39.95 in VueScan software (hamrick.com/vsm.html) to do the scanning, andPictureCodeor similar noise reduction software. VueScan runs on Mac OS X, Windows and Linux and will work with some scanners where the manufacturer's software only supports Windows. However, I can't find any evidence that VueScan works with the Summit Photofix, which is supplied withArcSoft's PhotoImpressionsoftware for Windows.Finally, bear in mind that you can scan negatives and slides with some of the better flatbed scanners, such as the Epson Perfection 4990 Pro and V700 Photo, which also work with Mac OS X. This is a more versatile option, but takes you further from the simplicity of the Summit PhotofixBackchat: Roger Larkinson says Plustek's OpticFilm 7300 (£169.99) "works well. The CD includes SilverFast software for Mac OS X 10.4 (Tiger), and software for OS X 10.5 (Leopard) is available as a download, I believe."
I work collaboratively with a group of colleagues. We wish to work on a common Word document hosted online.Andy GoddenThere are several online word processing systems that will enable this, as long as you don't require too much compatibility with Microsoft Word files. I think Zoho Writer is probably your best bet (writer.zoho.com), butThinkFree,Google DocsandAdobe Buzzwordare also worth a look. Microsoft's free solution isOffice Live Workspace, which is based on Microsoft's SharePoint server. This is, in essence, "an online extension of Microsoft Office", and might be your best bet for large and/or complex Office documents.
Is there a keyboard shortcut that closes Word files without saving changes, which I might be accidentally hitting while typing? I use Windows XP Home.Stafford M LinsleyThe standard shortcut for closing a Windows application is Alt+F4 (hold down the Alt key then press the F4 function key), which is hard to do by accident, but there are several other ways to close applications or files. For example, Alt-F usually selects the File menu, which then allows C (for close) or X (for exit). Alt-Spacebar is the standard way to pop up the window menu (to maximise or minimise a window) and this may also let you close or quit. Word's AutoSave and AutoRecover functions should mean you don't lose much if any work (seeAutomatically save and recover Office files).Either way, it's a good idea to make hitting Ctrl-S (for Save) a reflex action whenever you come to a natural pause.Backchat: Bill Taylor has come up with "a very simple typo that causes a Word document to be closed without saving". It's "Ctrl+W - an unadvertised keyboard shortcut for Close". He says he learned the hard way by typing "When" and hitting Ctrl instead of the shift key. I've previouslyrecommended Ctrl-Was a quick way of closing unwanted popups and browser windows.
I can virtually taste it nowJust what the geek in you needs to order a pizza. None of this "telephone" or "web page" nonsense. No, a real programmer orders pizza via the command line. In green. (Thanks, marqueue.)Do you know 'Plug in Baby'?A robot band. No, not Coldplay (although...) but real instruments played by, um, real robots, although their stagecraft does need some work. Backstage rider: "lots of sockets".Everyone can play a WiiThis software turns any PC plus webcam into a Wii-alike. Only problem: what if your games don't have Wii-like controls.
This puzzle platformer shows that simplicity doesn't mean gaming boredom. Comparable to the kooky and cute Sony hits LocoRoco and flOw, this game has you taking on the role of an apprentice shaman, entrusted to safely deliver lost souls to Serenity - via a gateway cube. Using protective bubbles that you can create, deflate, cut and join, you use your skills to manipulate them through maze-like levels, dodging traps and beating animals who want the souls for lunch. Collecting stardust along the way boosts your score, as does your completion speed. Although this may not be considered taxing on the brain or show-stopping in any way, you'll find that with more than 40 levels to work through, it's oddly addictive. Rather than bringing forth the inner competitor in you, Soul Bubbles offers something quite new: an easy-going gameplay experience that leaves you feeling quite serene.
Based on the books rather than the Schwarzenegger films, Age of Conan is a violent, massively multiplayer online game (MMO). Think World of Warcraft with sharper swords and bigger breasts. The game leads you gently into the action and even allows you to learn the ropes in a single-player environment before braving the multiplayer wilds. And experienced players get to build, or conquer, opponents' castles and keeps. But the real innovation is the combat which, unlike most MMOs, involves reflexes and timing. The game looks mightily pretty; prepare to gawp at a sunset or distant mountain. But this graphical opulence comes at a price, with loading screens a far-too-common annoyance. Worse, these breaks in play make the world feel less like a coherent whole, lessening the feeling of immersion that games like WoW and Lord of the Rings Online engender so effectively. But assuming you have a powerful PC - which is essential for this game - Age of Conan is worth visiting.
The Flip does only one thing - take short, spontaneous videos. Nothing else. No still pictures, no MP3 player, no phone, no GPS. Just short videos. But in less than a year the maker, Pure Digital, has sold more than a million in the US and last week launched it here. So what is its appeal?Judged on its technical specs, it is difficult to see why it is selling so well. It is not a very good camcorder (no optical zoom, no HD, maximum one hour of video) and the picture quality is only 640x480 - that's VGA, for goodness' sake. And it is yet another gadget to carry around. Why not use the video function on your digital stills camera or your mobile phone?Yet it has been called the iPod of camcorders: designed for the YouTube generation, small enough to be carried in a pocket or handbag and fast enough to capture side-splitting animal antics or celebrity bad behaviour before the moment has passed. And so simple to use that even a committed technophobe can upload the results to the web in a trice. That's the theory, anyway.To find out how it measures up in practice, I took one to a place where a lot of people try to shoot videos: a bar. Dark and noisy, it would be a testing location for any video camera, let alone one that costs just under &pound;100. It is incredibly easy to use. Just turn it on and press the red button. When you're done, press the red button again. Then press the "play" button to show the results to all your mates on the (very small) screen.The results were not, as you might expect, fabulous, but the scene was clear and crisp and colours were distinct (I shot an outdoor sequence later and the picture quality was excellent). The sound was clear despite the volume of the bar's background music.My digital stills camera, a Panasonic Lumix, was just as easy to use but it failed dismally to capture the scene. The screen was full of artefacts and everything had a sickly green cast. The phone, an HTC Touch, was difficult to get operating, with several menus to go through to select the video function. And the results were horrible - a tiny little square of pulsating green with random noise instead of sound.Back at home, getting the video from the Flip to the computer was a breeze. The video editing and uploading software resides on the device, so there is no need to insert a CD or download software from the web or anything - just plug the Flip into a USB socket and everything happens automatically.I already had the software for the camera and the phone installed, but even so, getting the clips loaded and running was still much more complicated than the Flip.The Ultra model is now available in the UK at &pound;99.99. Pure Digital has already launched a smaller, more stylish but more expensive version, the Mino, in the US and that should arrive here in time for Christmas.Perhaps it really is the iPod of camcorders. It does its thing supremely well, and taking short, spontaneous videos is exactly what millions of people want to do.&#183;flipvideo.co.ukPros:Easy to use; low cost; works well in low lightCons:No zoom; one-hour limit; some Mac incompatibilities
A man goes to an REM concert. The conditions on the ticket banned taking photographs, but Steve Miller and his wife, who were conveniently seated in the middle of the front row in the Royal Albert Hall in March, noticed that everyone around them was taking photographs and the staff weren't stopping them. So they took some, too - about a dozen nice, bright, clear, good-quality concert photographs. Miller put them up on Flickr, as you do, and thought little more about it.Then one day in mid-May Alison Clarke, another Flickr user, contacted him to let him know that his photographs were up for sale on eBay. The seller, a user located in Argentina who used the name "willypenc", was selling numerous sets of photographs from concerts, along with printed photos of celebrities. With the photo sets - Miller's half-a-dozen images were being sold as part of a collection of 270 photos from that same concert - buyers could see one or two photographs up front. After payment, the full sets were delivered by email. Judging from the hundreds of happy buyers who had left positive feedback, willypenc had probably cleared a couple of thousand pounds at least.Sly sellA particularly cheeky touch: willypenc's listings all included a notice that copyright in the images remained with the seller.That he got caught at all was a matter of chance. Clarke, a copywriter for subscription MMS entertainment services, is redesigning the website for the Gypsy punk band Gogol Bordello. The band gives her photography passes for their concerts, and she takes pictures for, she says, her own pleasure, and shares them with fans. A friend searching for items relating to Gogol Bordello stumbled on a set of 85 of her photographs, which she had originally posted on Flickr."It's so bizarre for me, because the band I photograph is so obscure compared to the others he's selling. They're not big worldwide artists, so I was surprised that he picked my photographs to try and flog," says Clarke. "The thing that bothers me most is that it's taking something you do in the spirit of sharing and removing it from that sort of public domain and putting it back into the private where it's his to sell. It's quite unpleasant in that way."The real problem is that there isn't any very good way of indelibly marking digital photographs to indicate who they belong to. "The fundamental issue is that digital photos are trivially easy to copy and distribute and just as easy to separate from ownership details," says the photographer Tony Sleep, the administrator of the Copyright Action site (copyrightaction.com). Among the billions of images online, the chances that a photographer will be able to find any particular infringing copies are small. "There are various schemes that provide partial answers," says Sleep.For example, photographs can embed copyright and contact details in the metadata fields of JPegs and Tiffs specified by the International Press Telecommunications Council standard. "However," he adds, "not all photographers are aware of the possibility or can be bothered, and not all image-editing software can write IPTC info or read it." In addition,resizing images on a server (as happens when you upload photographs to Flickr) usually destroys this data, and of course the data can be - and in the case of theft certainly would be - deliberately removed. Similar caveats apply to other types ofwatermarking schemes, such as Digimarc and Signum. The larger image libraries can afford expensive search software that are able to scour the web for unlicensed copies of their images (A picture paints a thousand invoices, February 1, 2007).Watermark woesAround the web, it's not uncommon to see photographs marked with a large, obtrusive watermark, such as a word identifying the owner, across the image. But, as Sleep points out, that "renders the image unsuitable for legitimate use as well as deterring theft".There has been some effort on the part of camera manufacturers to address this problem. Canon, for example, supplies a data security kit that works with its EOS cameras to embed image-verification data in every image. The same kit will also encrypt images for security - but there's little point in posting an encrypted image on the web; the whole point of uploading images is to let others see them. And for Clarke, watermarking her images spoils the spirit of sharing.EBay tries to handle this type of problem by operating a scheme it calls VeRO (tinyurl.com/3elwew), for verified rights owners. The idea is that users register copyrighted works with the programme and once they've done so eBay will act to remove listings that infringe their copyright. An eBay spokesman said: "EBay has 14m items on the site at any one time. In cases of suspected copyright violation, individuals such as Alison Clarke should report infringing items through VeRO. Ninety-five per cent of the listings reported to us by this method are then removed before the listing ends."If two users claim copyright on the same material, given that the company has no way to tell who's right, the spokesman added: "We will action any or all reports and neither party would be able to sell those particular photos."All this means that for the average Flickr user there isn't really any particularly good way of preventing this type of theft. That willypenc was discovered at all was his bad luck; if he had stuck to bigger, more famous bands, no one might have noticed.He had a bit more bad luck in that Clarke was particularly tenacious about tracking down and informing others whose photographs were being stolen. Both Miller and Clarke had trouble getting eBay to take notice - if you don't sign up for the VeRO programme, the company can't help you, and neither could see how to do this - and Flickr's standard response simply says it's not a secure site.A week or so after contacting eBay for comment, willypenc's account was suspended. Gone, or back in business under another name? Unfortunately, there is simply no way of telling.
In a remarkable turnabout in public policy, Britain is emerging as the champion of moves to require European governments to make data gathered and held by public bodies freely available to the knowledge economy.The move amounts to an assault on the quasi-commercial "trading fund" model used by some of the UK's largest repositories of public-sector information, such as Ordnance Survey, the Land Registry and the Meteorological Office.Carol Tullo, head of the Office of Public Sector Information, last week backed proposals for reforms to give more teeth to a European directive governing the re-use of information collected by public bodies. "We feel we've gone about as far as we can go with the present regulations," she told a conference in Brussels. "Acceleration gets our vote in the UK."Tullo, whose formal titles include that of the Queen's Printer, was addressing an EU-funded network, ePSIplus, set up to examine the 2003 European directive on public sector information (PSI) and recommend new provisions. If adopted, the recommendations would encourage governments to make data available unless there was demonstrable reason not to, and to charge no more than the marginal cost of disseminating data - in effect, zero for digital information.Breaking down the barriersLast week's conference heard evidence of what happens when public-sector information is made available more freely available. Gerda Schennach of Austria's national mapping agency, the Federal Office for Metrology and Surveying, said that since 2006 the agency had cut its data fees by up to 97%. The cost of 1:50,000 data needed for a bicycle route map was slashed from &euro;1,519 (&pound;1,207) to &euro;110. Demand for cartographic products has soared by between 200% and 1,500%, she said.This reflects experience elsewhere: the Free Our Data campaign found that use of South Africa's mapping data grew roughly sixfold when it removed price barriers (South Africa's freedom includes its data, March 8 2007). The reforms being suggested would tackle two weaknesses of the 2003 directive: first, that it does not require public bodies to release data, only that they play fair when they do; and second, that it allows bodies to set charges that make a "reasonable return on investment".In previous European negotiations, such as over the Inspire directive agreed last year, the British government has defended "return on investment" charging in the interests of running trading funds. TheePSIplus proposalspublished last week attack this model. "Where public accounts are available and sufficiently transparent, the evidence suggests that profits from public-sector commercialisation are frequently very modest and likewise that high proportions of income generated are made by charging the public sector for information which it provided itself in the first place, at the expense of the same taxpayers."Tullo's speech, which she stressed reflected cross-government thinking, suggests a huge change in attitudes - one that Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign heartily welcomes.Tullo said Britain had led Europe in transposing the original PSI directive in to law, and making public information available for re-use. As a result, it has nurtured a thriving new market. Apart from Slovenia, Britain is the only European country with an independent mechanism for handling complaints about the terms under which public bodies make data available.Since the original directive, however, "the world has changed" and the old regulations are no longer appropriate for the web 2.0 age, she said. "There's not a lot more we can do without some of the recommendations that ePSIplus is putting forward getting a sympathetic hearing."Other ePSIplus recommendations include a call for the European Commission to state that public bodies should make their public information available for re-use on request "unless one of a limited and specified set of conditions applies and can be demonstrated". On charging, the Commission should exert "firm guidance" on the return on investment principle. "Ideally, this guidance will further encourage adoption of the marginal costs pricing principle." This would bring Europe into line with the OECD's policy, which is expected to be endorsed this week at a meeting in Seoul, South Korea.Tullo said that reform has strong ministerial support from the three government departments involved - the Ministry of Justice, the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform and the Cabinet Office. "We now have ministers with interlinking responsibilities working together. That didn't exist six months, 12 months ago. We have political will by the truckload."Under the spotlightThe government's current thinking has been informed by two recent reports, Tullo said. One was the Office of Fair Trading's 2006 study of the market in public sector information, which highlighted concerns about contracting arrangements; the other was last year's Power of Information report, which called on the government to investigate the case for free data. An economic study carried out under the Power of Information programme "brought the whole model of commercial government trading under the spotlight", she said. The Treasury will this week publish terms of reference for a review of the trading fund model. Tullo said that the outcome, expected in the autumn, "will inform the direction of travel for PSI in the UK".Despite the UK's apparent growing enthusiasm for free data, there is some way to go before it becomes European policy.The official in charge, Horst Forster, head of digital content at the EC Directorate General for Information Society and Media, told last week's event that the commission needed more time and evidence to be convinced a stronger directive is necessary. Several member states have only just implemented the 2003 directive, while the ban on granting exclusive licences to exploit public sector information comes into force only next year.&#183;Michael Cross spoke at the ePSI conference and received a contribution towards his travel expenses.&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
Movie to game conversions tend to fall into a few predictable traps - good looking but shallow, slick but short and hastily ported to every format this side of an Etch A Sketch. Kung Fu Panda is no different, but for its target audience it feels and plays just about right. It's a beat-em-up with occasional arcade adventure and platform elements, playing out scenes from the movie plus a few new ones. Clearly, none of the fighting will challenge Tekken players, but your paunchy hero is beautifully animated, and his special moves are hilarious. Some levels have main objectives and others are bonuses, but with a mere 13 levels in all, it's all over far too soon. Fun while it lasts, though.
Security by obscurity - isn't. That's what the prominent and colourful judge Alex Kozinski found out as the news media publicised the existence of a collection of bawdy humour as well as some copyrighted music available on hispersonal website. A punditry feeding-frenzy followed, as in addition to the draw of anything involving sex plus anyone connected to government, the story featured journalistic cheap irony, as the judge was presiding over a trial to determine whether certain films qualified as legally obscene, and hence could be part of a criminal offence. It was also unclear if all the files were his, as friends and family were said to have had access to the site.Though the judge did nothing illegal - no government resources were used, and descriptions were sensationalised - the incident proved to be personally embarrassing. Also, the details of how the material came to light touched off a pugnacious iteration in the debate over how we should think about privacy and internet content. Simplified, there are two competing norms: the open idea of "everything not explicitly prohibited is permitted", v the closed concept where "everything not explicitly permitted is prohibited".These positions have many warring analogies. For example, the closed side typically draws a comparison to one's home, as it is very private, while the open side argues that carelessness or indiscretion in using a broadcasting apparatus does not impose an obligation on the audience to refrain from listening.Here it's necessary to understand a little about how common web server software works. Content is organised as specific files or directories, which are groups of files. When a server receives a request to display a directory, if that directory has a special file, sometimes called an "index" file, only that file is shown. If an index file does not exist, depending on configuration, the server either displays an error page or a list of all files that are in that directory. It can be extremely dangerous to make a mistake as to whether your own server is configured to display by default, roughly, nothing or everything.So when Kozinski put a linkon the webto an innocuous file - say "http://alex.kozinski.com/stuff/jump.avi" - and a web spider or even a curious human then tried to see what else might be in the directory, the judge may have thought the web server would not give out any information. In reality it showed all the files. The Yahoo search engine had complete listings of many of the site's directories, though Google did not. Some pundits have incorrectly said there was a standard "robots.txt" file, which tells search engines not to visit the site. But that may be an erroneous retelling of themistaken impressionthat the site was not displaying directory listings.The open/closed debate then revolves around the issue that when seeing a file path such as that in Kozinski's site, does attempting to view the containing directoryviolate social conventions or expectations? Merely typing a URL with a truncated path is sometimes described in overblown terms - "breaking in", "cracking", or "unauthorised access" - even as a potential crime.But there are some servers where returning a directory listing is intentional. The server's owner is then presumed to have expressed his or her wishes through its configuration. How is someone to know if the directory list they are viewing is a bug or a feature? Treating freely available file addresses as if they were some sort of highly compartmentalised information disclosed only on a restrictive basis can seem bizarre when it's part of a system used to publish information to the entire world.New technologies bring new ways for people to embarrass themselves. The problems are especially acute for material one wishes to share with a small group but not the public at large. Slip-ups are technical issues, but moral responsibility is a social issue. It's never easy to find the appropriate balance between upbraiding negligence on the part of the person who inadvertently leaked information, and condemning the ill-will of those who use leaks for undesirable ends.sethf.com/infothought/blog
Lorenzo, the much-delayed software package earmarked for a central role in the NHS's &pound;12.7bn IT overhaul, remains mired in development glitches and is still struggling to get out of the technical design phase, according to a confidential document seen by the Guardian.The document paints a very different picture to the one given earlier this week by the NHS chief executive, David Nicholson, and his interim head of IT, Gordon Hextall, when they appeared before parliament's public accounts committee.Asked why, after so many disappointments, trusts should have faith in the latest set of delivery promises, Nicholson said: "We are in a position now where Lorenzo actually has a product and it would be ridiculous now to just dump that."But a confidential report, seen by the Guardian and Computer Weekly, makes clear delivery deadlines slipped several months ago - though the delays were not made public. The report was produced by CSC, the US consultancy firm delivering Lorenzo in the north, Midlands and east of England.The document in part blames delays on serious staffing issues at IBA, the firm behind Lorenzo. It also flags as "red" concerns that resources have been diverted in order to meet the first milestone deadline for Lorenzo release 1, a less complex piece of software providing clinical functionality. This has slowed progress on release 2, the patient administration system that forms the core of the care records service.With developers struggling to get the relatively small release 1 ready at three pilot sites, CSC believes the more substantive release 2 is unlikely to get much beyond early stage tests by the end of the year. Officially it is scheduled to be live in hospitals by October.Previous delays to Lorenzo contributed to the near-collapse of the Manchester-based software firm iSoft, but the business was rescued by a smaller Australian rival, IBA, which took it over last summer. Lorenzo had initially been due to be rolled out from March 2004 and has missed a series of revised delivery dates since.Two years ago, an earlier internal CSC progress report on Lorenzo was leaked to the Guardian. It said: "There is no well-defined scope and therefore no believable plan for releases."Officially, Lorenzo release 1 was due to go live at Universities of Morecambe Bay Trust at the start of this week, but was delayed. "It will go live when the quality is right," Nicholson told the committee of MPs on Monday. "The software is actually in the trust and is being tested."Meanwhile, Nicholson and Hextall were surprised to learn from one committee member, Richard Bacon, that CSC had been offering some trusts an alternative system not owned by IBA. Asked if they were aware the US consultancy firm had two months earlier been "hawking around" the Portuguese system Alert at a healthcare IT conference in Harrogate, the men appeared baffled. "I was not aware of that," said Hextall.
The family gathers for tea, and there are four cream cakes for four people. If one person grabbed three of them, words would be said. However, peer-to-peer file sharers think it's perfectly OK to grab three quarters of the communal internet bandwidth. Indeed, some are defiant about it. Their internet service provider has foolishly sold them an "unlimited" connection so they are entitled to download 5GB a day, or more, at any time. The fact that today's internet is incapable of coping with their demands is beside the point: ISPs should simply provide more bandwidth.Alas, this doesn't work, for two reasons. The first is "backhoe time". (Backhoes are used to dig trenches to lay cables.) Digging up thousands of roads is expensive and takes a very long time. The second reason is that if you provide more bandwidth, people consume more bandwidth faster. If they can download a 2GB movie in five minutes instead of 50 hours, more people will download more movies. It's like building more roads to "solve" the car problem.Thus, the arrival of mass-market broadband this century has apparently resulted in a dramatic decline in the web. Of course, the web hasn't really declined. It's just that the rise in file-sharing and video is making web traffic far less significant. A 2GB movie trumps a 200K web page. ISPs are trying to deal with the problem by selling "capped" internet connections with extra charges, by throttling bandwidth, by blocking file download sites, and by trying to enforce "fair use" policies.In the US, Time Warner Cable has just started an "internet metering" trial in Texas, while Comcast has stepped up its actions against "bandwidth hogs". Most people already pay for electricity units and mobile phone minutes, and many have water meters. Don't be surprised if we end up paying by the megabyte. The attempt to constrain usage is attracting criticism. It's not good for the people whose businesses are based on delivering TV shows, videos and streamed radio stations over the net. Further, Google's Vint Cerf, the "father of the internet", says it discourages people from trying new applications, so innovation dries up.Google has been campaigning for "net neutrality", which means preventing ISPs from speeding up or slowing down internet traffic based on its source, type or destination. This means not charging Google for YouTube traffic, or the BBC for iPlayer delivery costs, and not discriminating against bandwidth hogs. Google is also, according to recent reports, developing tools to enable users to tell if their internet connection is "neutral" or being tampered with. The idea that everyone shall have cream cakes is admirable, as long as there's an endless supply of cakes. There isn't. What Google is encouraging is the over-exploitation of shared resources, which can lead to the resources' usefulness being destroyed. In economics, this is known as "the tragedy of the commons". On a larger scale, it's destroying the planet.But there may be other ways to mitigate the poisonous effects of bittorrent in particular.Bob Briscoe, a BT researcher, has asked the Internet Engineering Task Force to change the "fairness algorithm" that lets the worst P2P-using 10% selfishly grab around 75% of the internet's bandwidth. The problem is that P2P programs open multiple TCP streams to speed up painfully slow downloads. Briscoe proposes that each user should get roughly the same bandwidth whether they open one TCP stream or 1,000. Isn't "one man, one cake" what Google should actually be fighting for?
Don't bank on itThe article (Banks slip through virus loophole, June 12) is rather misleading, since the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) overrides both the Banking Code and any special rules imposed by individual banks. Under the CCA you are not liable for any transaction which was neither made nor authorised by you, and nothing the Banking Code or the banks may say makes any difference to that.Nick Steadman,via emailHow does it affect people using systems like Open BSD or Open Solaris? Most of these people don't run antivirus software for the very good reason that it's largely pointless. And what about people like me, who mostly use Linux Live CDs to do our banking? Are they saying this is less safe than a Windows box, even with up to date scanners?Mark Lester,WorcesterUnfound on the iPhoneCharles Arthur's article on the prospective new iPhone omits to mention the biggest deficiency on the existing device: lack of [device-wide] search (Apple upsets the iPhone cart, June 12). This fundamental omission makes trying to find contacts or old emails a nightmare. Those of us who bought the phone as a business machine found that it is essentially a toy for kids to hear pop songs on.David Cohen,art critic/contributing editor, New York SunNew YorkPhorm fillingSeems clear cut to me - the EU will also be taking no action, which will generate a collective "phew!" at the BT Tower this week (Newly asked questions, June 12).thehermesproject.blogspot.comFree our surgery too?I have been practicing general surgery for more than 15 years (NHS plans to reveal surgeons' deathrates online, June 12). If my mortality data has to go online, how does government expect me to offer surgery to high risk patients? Obviously I have to look after my data and ensure that it's not skewed by those who have less chance of surviving [an] operation.freeourdata.org.ukA better way to searchWell that's it then; the work I do on a daily basis is making it hard for Victor [Keegan] to find that perfect bijou lodging house in Italy (I'm searching for Google alternatives, June 12). Time to turn off the PC and go [and] do something less boring instead. Because obviously only huge corporates can afford SEO. Oh, hang on [the Guardian does]. Except of course that this is utter codswallop. Indeed I'd suggest that someone at the Guardian obviously doesn't think that SEO is such a bad thing as the Guardian site appears to have benefitted from at least a quick once over from someone who understands what makes sites more search friendly.ciarannorris.co.ukDigg that Rose guyOf all the people to come up with a search engine capable of catching Google I would not have bet on Kevin Rose (The democratic approach is a very valuable thing, June 12). My money was on Joshua Schacter, but he sold too soon and it now looks like delicious is doomed. Rose gets what most other tech founders don't: people matter more than machines. I think this comes from the fact that Rose is not a mathematician nor even a coder. Digg came from an insight he had into what people wanted - to see what other people liked and who was like them.ontechnology.wordpress.comThis is hot stuffOnce Professor Compton's idea is fully developed, it will be used for other, more interesting things, such as drug detection (Red hot chillies go down the nanotube, June 12). Oh. Now I wish I'd never written about it.gizmodo.com&#183;Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
It seems unlikely. Having failed to seal a deal with Microsoft, Yahoo co-founder and chief executive Jerry Yang could face a shareholder revolt led by multi-billionaire investor Carl Icahn. The New York Times has publicly harangued him for failing his fiduciary duty, and the Wall Street Journal has drawn up a list of potential successors. Your online bookie could soon be calling the odds.Meanwhile, Yang looks out of his depth. He co-founded Yahoo with David Filo when they were Stanford University graduate students, but in 1995, the two friends immediately hired an experienced chief executive officer in the form of Tim Koogle. He'd been president of Intermec Corporation in Seattle and spent nine years at Motorola. Over the next half-dozen years, until May 2001, it was Koogle, not Yang, who turned Yahoo into a leading internet company.Terry Semel, a 24-year veteran from Warner Brothers, then took over and took Yahoo further into the content business he knew well. But (incredibly) he missed the opportunity to buy Google, and shareholders became fractious as the price of Google's shares rocketed ahead while, during his six-year tenure, Yahoo's climbed only 5% per year. He resigned in June 2007.Replacing Semel with Yang was supposed to make the shareholders feel reassured. They didn't know he was walking into a Microsoft-fanned firestorm. In fact, being Yahoo's co-founder put Yang in a worse position than if he'd been a hired gun from Wal-Mart or Warner Brothers.It enabledNew York Times writer Joe Nocerato castigate him for failing to secure a deal. "It doesn't matter that you would like Yahoo to remain independent, or that you can't stand Microsoft," Nocera thundered. "Your feelings aren't supposed to get in the way of your fiduciary duty."But finding a replacement for Yang could be tricky. Yahoo may have avoided being swallowed up by Microsoft, but Google is already eating its lunch. Yahoo's last meal - its strength in display advertising - could soon come under threat. The company needs a turnaround specialist who can capitalise on the good things Yahoo has bought (Flickr, Delicious, Upcoming) while doing something about the ones for which it paid billions (GeoCities, eGroups, Broadcast.com etc).Kara Swisher has put up a list of potential candidates at the Wall Street Journal'sAll Things Digital, but none fit the turnaround bill. Sue Decker? She's Yahoo's president, and the crowd is baying for fresh blood, not just Yang's. Meg Whitman of eBay fame? She's a star, but why would she accept the poisoned chalice? Marc Andreessen, co-founder of Netscape? Sorry, we haven't forgotten what happened to them.Suddenly, getting taken over by Microsoft might not sound such a bad idea...
It's three weeks until the 3G iPhone is available - and rivals are already pointing to their own advantages over it. If you're looking to buy a smartphone, how do you choose between them? The first question is not so much whether you need or want a particular smartphone, but whether the word "smartphone" is itself a red herring. Manufacturers are very particular: a smartphone, they'll tell you, has an open operating system that lets you add applications. If a phone doesn't have that, but has email, a touchscreen and other bells and whistles, then it's a "feature phone". (Quite where the iPhone, which can only add applications that Apple has approved, fits isn't obvious.)Still, what's definitely coming this summer is a battle of the touchscreen phones. Apple, through marketing if nothing else, is leading the charge but Samsung, RIM (the BlackBerry people) and HTC are there as well. LG is keen not to be seen competing with smartphones, but its Secret model has a perfectly good touchscreen and media player capability.Consumer demandBut do people want touchscreens? The launch of the original iPhone, at least in the UK, must cast some doubt on that - on the launch day the queues didn't stretch around the streets as they did in the US, although the initial order did sell out. Tony Cripps, an analyst with the consultants Ovum, cautiously believes there's a demand. "What people want is an easier way of interacting with their phones and devices generally. As long as a touchscreen is allied to a well-designed user interface, they can go a long way to making this happen."Florian Seiche, HTC's vice-president for Europe, concurs and says research among the customers suggests touchscreens are going to do well. "The press has given a lot of attention to the iPhone, which may have changed consumers' thinking, but we are seeing a lot of genuine change from people about what they want from their phone and how it should go beyond a simple task towards richer data usage. It's increasingly driven by the market."Cripps favours the new HTC Diamond - he believes its 3D interface takes the idea of usability further than the Samsung i900. "It adds an extra layer of attractiveness ... and demonstrates where devices based on Windows Mobile can actually go. The Samsung, by comparison, doesn't actually do that," he says. "Nonetheless, that doesn't prevent it being a very usable device. Historically, I've not been a fan of Windows Mobile devices but both of those phones make it easy to do what you'd want to do daily with a phone and then dip back under the surface into the Windows Mobile system when there are power user functions you might want to use. That isn't available on an iPhone."Feel me, touch meSamsung also sets a lot of importance on its own overlay on to the standard Windows Mobile 6 interface. "We were very aware that Windows Mobile isn't perceived as an easy consumer interface, so we've done a lot of work to build our own look and feel to the product and build our own Samsung look and feel," says Samsung's head of smartphones and open OS devices, Carl Boraman.A wish for rich data aside, though, there's no clear message from the manufacturers about what features people want. Apple's audience seemed distinctly underwhelmed to find the 3G iPhone still carries only a 2-megapixel digital camera. The Samsung i900 has a beefier 5-megapixel camera, but the company elected to use its own lens, whereas the Nokia N82 and N95 in its various guises use Carl Zeiss optics. "We use our own lens. If you want a really good camera then you need to buy one," explains Boraman. He has a point: as none of these phones have a zoom lens, they're not going to compete with a "proper" camera in terms of quality; but then why spend the money on 5 megapixels? Snapping away at parties is great fun but it doesn't need anything overspecified, whereas a 5-megapixel camera without a high-end lens sits uneasily in the top-flight corporate world.If the jury is out on the camera, there's an even greater debate to be had around the use of these phones in business. Alex Bellinger, presenter of SmallBizPod, has blogged the iPhone's spec: "[Apple] already has its Independent Software Vendors programme churning out business-specific applications, eg CRM integration via salesforce.com, mTem, a mobile time and expenses tool and 'Work and Repair', which gives field workers one-touch access to job, customer, inventory and warranty information," he says. He's not convinced by Apple as a business supplier, though, and suggests there need to be two versions of the iPhone - one for consumers and one for business - if it's going to get taken seriously. He does point to "push email" - when emails and diary entries download on to the device automatically and synchronise with Apple's central systems - as something that's going to attract the small-to-medium enterprise, particularly at the smaller end. This will become available on July 11 when Apple launches the new iPhone and its MobileMe service replaces the current .Mac service, which has online email and contacts, among other things.This introduces the idea of Apple competing with the BlackBerry. RIM, which makes BlackBerrys, is planning a release of a touchscreen device of its own, called Thunder. Neither company is established in its rival's market, and both will be watching for phones that support Google's Android operating system later in the year, which is likely to duplicate much of the push technology Apple is currently stressing.Outside influenceThe operating system is important. It gives Cripps pause for thought. "If you were to bring iPhones into a corporate environment synching with Exchange [as the new ones will do] then what happens about its multimedia capabilities? The only way you can make those work is by synching with iTunes, and that for an IT manager would presumably represent a potential outside influence they're unlikely to welcome. That will have to play out."The first substantial move other than showing the product has been made by Apple, as it's the only one with a price tag so far. (Disclosure: a 3G iPhone will cut my mobile phone bill, which is principally data, not voice, by about &pound;50 a month.) In the UK, it's going to be possible to get a 3G iPhone free on contract, which wasn't possible before. For this reason at least, the iPhone launch is likely to attract a lot of customers. Whether it penetrates the corporate world as Apple seems to think possible, and whether its competitors make Windows Mobile or RIM a consumer must-have, remains to be seen.
It's great that the mainstream media has switched on to videogames as an inventive and exciting form of media rather than the work of Beelzebub and all his techno-demons. The only problem is, every new trend is being eulogised as some sort of minor cultural revolution. If you believe everything you read, Wii Fit is going to solve childhood obesity, brain-training games have crushed idiocy, and online casual gaming could eradicate boredom and loneliness by 2012. Global warming? Games will probably have that fixed within the decade.The latest example involves the rock music sims Guitar Hero and Rock Band - both of which allow users to download new music tracks to twang along to. It turns out this is going to save the music industry. Admittedly, there are some compelling stats doing the rounds - Guitar Hero players have now downloaded over 15m tracks, while Rock Band users are at the 12m mark. Furthermore, when the ageing glam rockers M&ouml;tley Cr&uuml;e recently debuted their latest single on both Rock Band and iTunes, sales were five times higher on the former. Music industry execs everywhere are crawling back from 20th-storey window ledges to their desks.But let's look at the groups using Guitar Hero and Rock Band as a distribution platform for new material. So far, M&ouml;tley Cr&uuml;e have been joined by Aerosmith and Metallica, both of which are set to have special editions of Guitar Hero based around them. We're hardly at the chalkface of contemporary music here. It reminds me of that period in the late 90s when artists such as Peter Gabriel and David Bowie started making awful websites and interactive CD-Roms. Call me back when Crystal Castles, MGMT or No Age start launching songs in this way and maybe we can talk. And no, the fact that Coldplay has just released three tracks for Guitar Hero III doesn't count.Most recently, we discovered that the latest Guitar Hero sequel/cash cow, subtitled World Tour, is set to include an "innovative" studio mode, allowing players to "lay down" their own tracks. Amazing. A revolutionary concept. Except, 10 years ago, Codemasters introduced its Music series of sampler/sequencers on PlayStation, and later PlayStation 2. Cheap, yet powerful, these games were employed by a generation of urban artists - Dizzee Rascal for example - to create their first tracks and gain the attention of record labels.This latest interplay between the game and music industries ... well, it's interesting, but certainly not new or world-shatteringly pertinent. Just as videogames are unlikely to destroy civilisation, they're probably not going to save it either. At least until Little Big Planet turns us all into brilliant game designers. Or Spore makes us gods.&#183;Get all the latest videogames news and gossip straight from ourtrio of bloggers
Oh dear. Just when you thought you had figured out what was happening in the mobile world, along comes another disruptive technology that upsets your prejudices. Welcome to dongles. No one seems to know the origin of the word, but we are seeing more and more of them sticking out of the side of laptops, each housing a tiny modem giving high-speed access to 3G mobile networks. They have been around for years as expensive executive toys, but suddenly they have become one of the fastest-growing services anywhere. During the past 10 months, mobile broadband has gone from almost nothing to 15% of broadband sales recorded by the comparison site Top 10 Broadband, which appears to be typical of similar sites; at this rate it could be more than 50% by 2010, or even by next year.Why is it happening now? Thanks to collapsing prices, fierce competition and huge improvements in efficiency, mobile donglers can get broadband speeds of up to 7.2MB a second (though more usually around 3.6MB) for &pound;10 to &pound;15 a month on top of a normal monthly rental. The way things are going, it could, as Jessica McArdle at Top 10 observes, be offered "free" bundled into your monthly rental. A typical &pound;15 monthly package, she says, is "65% cheaper, four times faster and three times more inclusive in terms of download allowance than its &pound;45 equivalent two years ago". For instance, 3's &pound;15-a-month yearly contract offers almost 3GB of downloads at speeds of "up to" 2.8MB. If you type your postcode intotop10-broadband.co.uk, you can see what broadband speed is available with a map showing your nearest exchange.It is a no-brainer for business users. Why pay up to &pound;20 a day for broadband access in a hotel or at hotspots when you can get it for &pound;15 or less a month with a dongled laptop? But it doesn't end there. If you have fast broadband from your laptop wherever you are (subject to network coverage) then you might question the need to pay for broadband access at home, particularly if you are a sole user.Suddenly, the digital nirvana of having a nationwide Wi-Fi network offering fast broadband access to all may seem less attractive. If everyone can get fast broadband from their laptops, why bother to build a nationwide Wi-Fi network except to reach the small number of people without a 3G signal? The next generation of Wi-Fi networks promise speeds of up to 20MB a second but the 3G mobile broadband protagonists claim they will offer comparable speeds when standards are adopted to boost the efficiency of spectrum.Is there a catch? Of course. I was about to become a dongler to avoid having to go to the tourist office in France every day on our holidays to check emails etc at &pound;3 an hour. I tried Vodafone first. The desk adviser told me it would cost an extra &pound;10 a day even before very high data charges (ie &pound;210 for a three-week holiday). Bye-bye, Vodafone. I then asked my existing provider, O2, whether it had a daily charge. The good news was that it didn't. The bad news was that their roaming charges cost &pound;3 for each megabyte of data in Europe (actually less than Vodafone but still stupidly high). A few days before, I had uploaded a 200MB video file from my digital camera to YouTube. As I used a wireless connection at home, it cost nothing. If I had done it as part of a package with a 3GB limit it would have made a minor dent in my allowance. But in Europe on O2's data charges it would have cost &pound;600. Bye-bye, O2.The moral of this is that mobile broadband could be a really good deal for active users in Britain but until the mobile networks - and they are all the same - start treating us like human beings instead of milch cows, it is best to seek out alternative solutions in Europe - such as cheap or free Wi-Fi hotspots.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Revolutionary CivilizationThe latest version ofCivilization, the all-time great PC game, has been released for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.Power beyond gamingNvidia says its newGeForce GTX 200graphics chips also work as parallel processors to speed up transcoding movies.Speakers for wetsGrundighas launched a battery-powered, bucket-shaped, weather-resistant Emanate Wireless Speaker System (&pound;99.99) for people who want to take their MP3 players to the beach.Flickring BlackBerryBlackBerry has released aFlickr Photo Uploaderthat will geotag images if you have a GPS-enabled phone.WiMax in AmsterdamWorldmaxhas opened Europe's first high-speed WiMax mobile broadband network in Amsterdam.Piracy is dead?2GeeksinaLabreckons it can prevent copying with its "multi-randomized, polymorphic quantum physics encoding approach to digital protection".Kidmondo is bornKidmondoclaims to be "the first online baby journal and organiser", and includes record-keeping tools and a timeline.ZigBee behind bar-watchBartech is now usingZigBeetechnology to enable hotels to monitor the in-room minibars wirelessly.
Slide scanning for MacsI have hundreds of slides, which I want to move to iPhoto. The Guardian sells a lovely device called a Summit Photofix Scanner, for &pound;79.95, but it only runs on Windows. Short of spending hundreds of pounds on a far clunkier solution, is there a similar device for a Mac?Nicola RichardJS:The closest thing I can find for Mac OS X is the Plustek OpticFilm 7200i AI film scanner, which has a much better specification than the Summit Photofix, but will need more setting up. It costs &pound;276.10 fromAmazon.co.uk, andPC Advisorpublished a review in January. Plustek offers several similar products, some of them cheaper; while they all work with Windows, not all are listed as being compatible with Mac OS X.My usual recommendation for scanning is to invest $39.95 in VueScan software (hamrick.com/vsm.html) to do the scanning, and PictureCode or similar noise reduction software (picturecode.com). VueScan runs on Mac OS X, Windows and Linux and will work with some scanners where the manufacturer's software only supports Windows. However, I can't find any evidence that VueScan works with the Summit Photofix, which is supplied withArcSoft's PhotoImpressionsoftware for Windows. Finally, bear in mind that you can scan negatives and slides with some of the better flatbed scanners, such as the Epson Perfection 4990 Pro and V700 Photo, which also work with Mac OS X. This is a more versatile option, but takes you further from the simplicity of the Summit Photofix.Vanishing wordsIs there a keyboard shortcut that closes Word files without saving changes, which I might be accidentally hitting while typing? I use Windows XP Home.Stafford M LinsleyJS:The standard shortcut for closing a Windows application is Alt+F4 (hold down the Alt key then press the F4 function key), which is hard to do by accident, but there are several other ways to close applications or files. For example, Alt-F usually selects the File menu, which then allows C (for close) or X (for exit). Alt-Spacebar is the standard way to pop up the window menu (to maximise or minimise a window) and this may also let you close or quit. Word's AutoSave and AutoRecover functions should mean you don't lose much if any work (seehere).Sharing words onlineI work collaboratively with a group of colleagues. We wish to work on a common Word document hosted online.Andy GoddenJS:There are several online word processing systems that will enable this, as long as you don't require too much compatibility with Microsoft Word files. I think Zoho Writer is probably your best bet (writer.zoho.com), but ThinkFree, Google Docs and Adobe Buzzword are also worth a look. Microsoft's free solution is Office Live Workspace, which is based on Microsoft's SharePoint server. This is, in essence, "an online extension of Microsoft Office", and might be your best bet for large and/or complex Office documents.&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Here's the place we can put all your letters and blog pingbacks (so search engines can love them), which we don't have room to do inprint. Last week saw a sort of explosion among photographers as they heard their prayers (of the sweary sort) answered. Click through to read all..NHS IT WOES&gt;&gt; I don't know if it's Cerner's problem entirely since NHS wrote the specs (I assume) and they've run off other big vendors with their inflexibility. If NHS didn't budget money for scope creep localization and Cerner is already on a tight margin, I can see why there would be a stalemate on who pays. My opinion is that no vendor can make them happy for the price they want to pay. Cerner would take a black eye for losing business there, but I bet it's so minimally profitable that they wouldn't be too upset (once shareholders got over it, anyway). There's always the Middle East.histalk2.comPHOTOGRAPHERSThank you for printing an article showing the plight of the amateur photographer such as myself. I am a member of a photography forum, www.talkphotography.co.uk and one of the matters frequently discussed is harassment form officials, usually PCSO or Police. You may findthis threadinteresting if you ever plan a follow up article: it shows the progress of the early day motion from Austin Mitchell MP on this subject. Many of us wrote to out local MP on the matter and I have a reply given to my MP from Tony McNulty, a Home Office Minister of State, that I now carry in my photo bag to show any overzealous official I am doing nothing wrong. The thread also links to other sites giving details of more harassment. Thank you. Mark Oldreive, Spalding, LincsThank you for writing the column titled "Are photographers really a threat?" It presents a solid perspective in an entertaining and persuasive way. I have not used the movie analogy but have told several journalists over the past several years that the American television show "Mission Impossible" started each episode with Peter Graves looking at 8x10 glossies and probably made everyone think that photography was a necessary and useful predicate for anyone intent on performing some sort of covert act. Of course, before the 1960's, you had Hemingway's depiction of Robert Jordan sketching the bridge he intended to blow up in "For Whom the Bell Tolls." No one seems to read Hemingway any more (although many people still recognize the name from being forced to read "The Old Man and the Sea" in high school) so I don't think the blame for the popular misconception that photography is useful to terrorists can be placed on works of literature. I would also like to point out that photography, particularly in the age of cell phones with cameras, has served a legitimate purpose in recording terrorist acts and in apprehending criminals. The citizen images of the London subway bombings come to mind. If you saw someone board a train, leave a backpack under the seat, and hastily depart, do you think the police would prefer that you not take photographs or would they like to see a photograph of him? I suspect that terrorists would prefer to operate in a world where public photography was prohibited and law enforcement personnel devoted large portions of their time deleting images taken by tourists and hobbyists. Once again thanks. Bert P. Krages, Attorney at Law, Portland, Oregon&gt;&gt; The issue with photographer's rights is a symptom of a larger issue. People are simply more and more unaware of their basic rights in confrontation with authority. Even the authorities themselves don't know where their boundaries are. My hats off to those who complain, critique and criticize. You are doing the rest of us an important service.schneier.com&gt;&gt; It's disturbing to contemplate that the same species-specific brain wiring that makes us create and enjoy stories might also be responsible for the insane "security" panic that's eating our culture alive. But the idea has an awful plausibility.nielsenhayden.com&gt;&gt; Photographers should know that virtually all public photography is quite legal in the USA. The public should understand that it is also almost always completely innocent.gdanmitchell.com&gt;&gt; If I were seriously doing homework about a potential target and didn't want to tip my hat that I was casing the target, especially if it were a well-known tourist attraction or point of interest, I'd be spending my time anonymously browsing Flickr, YouTube and the like for pictures that had already been taken by thousands, nay millions, of other people.hvytk.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; As a result, we get movie-plot security, which, unfortunately, only works in movies.heim.ifi.uio.no/~gisle/blog/&gt;&gt; Remember, that under normal circumstances, no-one (including Police, other officials or security guards) has the right to seize your photographic equipment or demand that memory cards are deleted/confiscated without a court order, even if they think they contain damaging or useful evidence. If an enforcement official erases any of your photographs without your permission, it amounts to criminal damage and that anyone who deletes a photographer's images without permission could face criminal, civil or disciplinary action. Be aware, though, that in some circumstances, the police are permitted to confiscate your film or memory cards but they are still not permitted to delete any images because the images could be used as evidence for or against you.womblesrants.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; Personal experience has shown that, at least from the photographer's point of view, he's dead right.imagesurgery.ca&gt;&gt; I'm no terrorist, and I do often struggle to see how pictures that I'm taking when I'm stopped could have helped a terrorist, nonetheless, if security experts think that photographs might stop an attack, then I'm willing to give them the benefit of the doubt and allow them to question people taking photographs.byjoeybaker.com&gt;&gt; This utter confusion over what is allowed and what is not is wonderfully and comically encapsulated in this clip from Fox5, where during an interview with the PR officer for the train station in which he explaisn that there are no restrictions on photographing there, a security guard comes over and tells the crew to stop filming!eflections.edublogs.org&gt;&gt; On more than one occasion, while out and about taking photographs, (mainly in London) I've been stopped for having a camera round my neck and looking like I might be about to take a picture.ourmaninside.comXOBNIDoes Kate Bevan know if Xobni works for Outlook Express? Stephen King, Sudbury [No: seethis FAQ- Tech. Ed]TWITTERATICongratulations on writing another incredibly boring Twitter piece, recycling opinions that have been floating around for well over a year. How about looking into why Twitter doesn't charge anyone? Or how if it had this fatal flaw it could still command the kind of valuation you mentioned? Ben Holden (no post town given)&gt;&gt; Twitter could start to receive money from other ways, such as advertising. I know people do not want to adverts on Twitter, but surely it is the lesser of the two evils, having adverts or to paying to use the service?shinyred.tv&gt;&gt; the API is what made Twitter what it is today, and the volume of requests is what makes it so popular - it's all about the "ambient conversation". Charging for either of these would provoke a backlash from the community, who would see it as turning against those who got it where it is.guyrintoul.comBUT WILL IT FLY?&gt;&gt; This is the third article in the guardian within the last 4 weeks that features airships, which shows that they are experiencing a big comeback.airshipworld.blogspot.com
Earlier this month idiosyncraticTeam Ninjahead, Tomonobu Itagaki, announced that he would be leaving the studio's owner, Tecmo, andfiling a lawsuit against the companyfor unpaid bonuses on Dead or Alive 4. Shortly afterwardsrumours surfacedthat around 30 other members of Team Ninja were leaving, and thatat least twomay also be taking legal action against the beleaguered publisher, via an independent union.The latest twist finds Tecmo apparently placing agagging orderon Itagaki-san, banning him from talking about Tecmo projects or the company itself. This is hardly surprising considering the outspoken loose cannon recently criticised Ninja Gaiden Sigma and claimed that there were no plans for further Ninja Gaiden or DoA titles (morehere).This is, of course, not the first time that the relationship between the Team Ninja chief and Tecmo has hit a bumpy patch. In 2006, a female member of staffaccused Itagaki of sexual harassment, a charge he denied and was later cleared of - although the controversymay have led to his demotion.So, anyway, whatdoesall this mean for DoA 5 and Ninja Gaiden? Tecmo says it has new titles from both series' in production. But will anyone be left to work on them?Update:Tecmo has issueda press releasedenying that significant numbers of staff are leaving, and asking Western journalists to show fairness in the reporting of rumours.
It's hard to believe but there are still people wandering the streets who don't own aNintendo DS. The console manufacturer is obviously keen to stamp this sort of behaviour out so its opened 30 DS centres in shops around Britain. From the press release:These new centres will offer anyone the opportunity to learn more about Nintendo DS and its exciting range of software through a number of new and exciting ways including videos, TV commercials, demo games to play on the DS. Centre itself and most exciting of all, current DS owners will be able to download demo software to play on their own Nintendo DS.Brain Training, Sight Training, More Brain Training, Big Brain Academy, Mario Kart DS and 42 All Time Classics are the titles currently available for free demo downloads - the code stays on your machine until you switch it off. Stores currently housing the DS showcases include Asda, Argos, HMV, Game and Zavvi - there's a list of participating outletshere.Each site will also offer free Nintendo Wi-Fi connection so if you already own one, not only do you get free demos you also get to hang around playing online games. It's like Apple Store for the hoi polloi.
Toshiba has unveiled a light "new"Portégé R500-S5007Vultraportable PC, though it's pretty much the same as existing models that start at 1.72 lbs (0.98kg). Toshiba is describing it as "the world's thinnest widescreen 12.1-inch notebook PC," but its main claim to fame is that it includes a new-technology 128GB solid state drive. The current top-of-the-range model is only 64GB.Anyway, thefully-featuredPortégé R500-S5007V weighs "from 2.4 pounds" (1.08kg), whereas thefeature-crippledMacBook Air weighs 3 pounds (1.36 kg). The Toshiba has a DVD drive, PC Card slot, SD card slot, three USB ports, Firewire port, Ethernet port, monitor port, fingerprint reader, TrackPoint pointing device, user-replaceable battery, dock connection etc.Of course, the S5007V has its own compromises. It has a smaller 12.1 inch 1280 x 800 WXGA LED screen (the ThinkPad X300, Dell XPS M1300 and MacBook Air have 13.3 inch screens) and a relatively slow but low-voltage processor: a 1.33GHz Core 2 Duo U7700. It's also not particularly cheap at $2,999, but swapping the SSD for a 160GB hard drive takes it down to a reasonable $2,100.*Still, the spec helps with battery life, which Toshiba claims is "up to 7.5 hours". Packing a spare battery should enable you to keep working through a long flight, and it's lighter than packing two MacBook Airs.For more info, Google News currently hasaround a hundred storiesabout the new machine.* Toshiba'sUK pagefor the R500 range doesn't show the new SSD model, but is showing price drops on all the old ones.
From Micro Machines to robots? David Darling, co-founder of Codemasters and recent recipient of a CBE, isapparently dabblingwith robotics in his spare time. Heck, who would have thought that 24 years on from the bloody awfulChiller- the first game I ever played on the C64 - one of the creators would be 80 odd million quid richer and contemplating a leisure-filled life of travel and scuba diving. Oh go on then. What was your favourite Codemasters game from back in the day?BMX Simulatorfor me.
Edge-card plus punch -- One Dead Media, says Kevin KellyI thought it was a bit of a shame when punched paper tapes took over from standard IBM 80-column cards, because you could write on cards, and sort them with knitting needles. But one thing I didn't come across was the similarly-sortable edge-notched card, though apparently they were invented in 1896, when Herman Hollerith'scard-processingmachine set us on the road to 80-colum green screens. A fascinating post by Kevin Kelly,One Dead Media, explains:These are index cards with holes on their edges, which can be selectively slotted to indicate traits or categories, or in our language today, to act as a field. Before the advent of computers [they] were one of the few ways you could sort large databases for more than one term at once. In computer science terms, you could do a "logical OR" operation. This ability of the system to sort and link prompted Douglas Engelbart in 1962 to suggest these cards could impliement part of the Memex vision of hypertext.Edge-cards have the obvious advantage (which I could certainly have used) of having a big blank space where you could write stuff.What most of us didn't manage to verbalize at the time was that cards enabled "faceted navigation." What? Kelly quotes an explanation from Wikipedia:The most prominent use of faceted classification is in faceted navigation systems that enable a user to navigate information hierarchically, going from a category to its sub-categories, but choosing the order in which the categories are presented. This contrasts with traditional taxonomies in which the hierarchy of categories is fixed and unchanging. For example, a traditional restaurant guide might group restaurants first by location, then by type, price, rating, awards, ambiance, and amenities. In a faceted system, a user might decide first to divide the restaurants by price, and then by location and then by type, while another user could first sort the restaurants by type and then by awards. Thus, faceted navigation, like taxonomic navigation, guides users by showing them available categories (or facets), but does not require them to browse through a hierarchy that may not precisely suit their needs or way of thinking.Today, of course, people think different -- which is the reason for Kelly's title. Edge-cards are dead media.Today, the Google idea is just to tip every thing into a giant slop bucket and use brute force search to find it. Which would be great if Google search was just about adequate, which it really isn't. Still, if you have faith that there are dozens of suitable "hits" and usually almost any one will do, that doesn't really matter, does it? After all, you'll never know what you missed.
Fast Company has anintriguing pieceabout Microsoft's hiring of the iconoclastic (aren't they all?) ad agency Crispin, led by Alex Bogusky, which has been given only the very minor task of revamping Microsoft's public image, with campaigns to begin from July.Yes, we know, Microsoft just doesn't get that "oh, yeah, wow" reaction from the average person in the street. More like "Dad, stop dancing! You look gross!" (No need to link to those videos. We've seen them.)It's a long, absorbing article, though it also shows that Mad Men can be easily updated simply by replacing those sharp suits with some chinos and T-shirts, and the slicked-back hair with gel, and the cigarettes with, I dunno, who's this charlie guy they all ask for?But let's see how they're approaching the challenge.The two understand just how delicate the Microsoft project will be. "To try to be cool is to not be cool," [co-executive creative director Andrew] Keller pronounces. "To chase cool, you're chasing something that already exists, which means you're always going to be on the wrong side of it, you'll always be following."In April 2007, long before the Microsoft account came Crispin's way, Bogusky had told me that "Crispin sort of exists because of the revolution in desktop publishing that the Mac brought about. You could be a small shop and compete against Madison Avenue for the first time because all the tools were in your computer." That may explain why Keller and Reilly are today using their team as an early focus group for learning how to persuade Mac lovers to embrace Windows. "You've got a lot of passionate Mac people in here, and they've got to get their head around this thing -- why Windows is genius," says Keller.Ah, ok. But in an exchange that is pure Mad Men,When I ask if they're making their team get rid of their iPods and PowerBooks, Reilly responds, "It's not a matter of forcing people. It's getting them to want to use it. If you can't, you're not going to do great advertising."And now let's contrast Apple's approach...One thousand miles away from Boulder, in a biometrically sealed, Frank Gehry -- designed compound outside Los Angeles, sits TBWA\Chiat\Day's Media Arts Lab. It is in this vaultlike building -- created at the behest of Steve Jobs -- that the "Mac vs. PC" spots are conceived. Chiat\Day has been making Apple's ads for nearly 25 years -- going back to its iconic "1984" spot -- and the lab's isolation ensures not only that the creatives do their best work but also that nothing leaks out. "I hear they have some kind of eyeball scanner," says one Chiat\Day art director I spoke with who, despite having worked at the agency for five years, has never set foot inside the place.Even allowing for hyperbole, it's believable that he might not have seen inside. And now, back to Crispin:The folks at Crispin like to give the impression that the Microsoft assignment is less about the money than about the thrill. "I think we've learned," says Steinhour, "that when you take on these kinds of odd relationships with big companies that need a kick start, the motivation to overcome those suspicions is a lot of the fun." But Crispin knows better than anyone that "fun" isn't the metric for its clients. Noting that Burger King has had 16 straight quarters of growth since Crispin took on the account, Hicks says, "Your work is only as good as the performance of the brand and the business."Ah, sure, it's the Mad Men metric. But there are some hints about how they're thinking for these campaigns: which is to emphasise, in the manner of a cartoonist, just what Microsoft already is and does, and emphasise those - blow them up, make them huge, overwhelm us with them.Bogusky explains that with previous clients, instead of hiding qualities that may seem negative -- such as Mini's tiny proportions or Burger King's fat content -- Crispin exploits them. "It's part of your job as a marketer to find the truths in a company, and you let them shine through in whatever weird way it might be," he says.Naturally, that risks pissing someone off. "I think really good brands have to have something of a thick skin these days," Bogusky says. Last year for Coke Zero, the Crispin team designed a campaign in which one division of Coke sues another for "taste infringement." Bogusky says Coca-Cola's ability to be self-effacing was a disarming way to make the brand likable. "I think it works so well for Coke because it's the most corporate of corporate," he says.All I'd say is that the problem Microsoft faces isn't about what itisdoing, but what it's perceivednotto be doing: it's not leading in search, it's not moving fast enough to a web-enabled world, it's not flexible where it needs to be flexible.Still, let's revisit the Mad Mens' work. Any favourite advertising campaigns you've seen ?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Yahoo co-founder Jerry Yang may be unable to give up his web-basedbaby, but Flickr's co-foundersCaterina FakeandStewart Butterfield(who are married) don't seem to have that problem. According toTechCrunch, "Fake officially left last Friday. Butterfield (who still officially runs Flickr) will leave on July 12."This is a little different from what TechCrunch calls "the mass exodus" of Yahoo executives because they haven't been tempted away by all-you-can-earn job offers from Google or the chance to make millions via a start-up. They already made millions when they sold Flickr to Yahoo (and it couldn't happen to nicer people).It will be interesting to see what they try next, though that may not matter -- many of the big successes are accidental. Butterfield and Fake were developing an online game when they stumbled into Flickr, and Ev Williams was trying to transform podcasting (via Odeo) when he came up with Twitter (originally Twittr). Google was trying to do a search engine when it stumbled into becoming the world's dominant advertising platform.Update: Valleywag has posted what purports to be Stewart'sresignation letter,and if it's genuine, it's either funny or mad. But asSeattleBuzzKillsays in a comment: "Laugh all you want you no-having-35-million-mother-phuckers. See his babe wife too? I wanna be crazy just like that."
The Firefox web browser is on track to set a record for the number of downloads in one day – although it had to overcome early jitters.The new3.0 version of Firefox, the second most popular web browser on the market, has already been downloaded by millions of people as its creators attempt to set a world record to mark the relaunch.Plans did not run smoothly, however, as the race hit a roadblock soon after it began at 6pm last night. Servers belonging to Mozilla, the company which makes Firefox, ground to a halt as initial interestoverwhelmed the company with traffic.Many potential downloaders were left disappointed, as the Firefox website refused to work or failed to deliver the new program.It was four hours before service was back to normal, taking some of the shine off the stunt, but downloads soon reached rates of up to 14,000 per minute, Mozilla said.The company played down the glitch, with Mozilla vice president Paul Kim saying only that the systems were "quite busy"."We're thrilled with the response to the release," said Kim. "Our systems were quite busy earlier this morning, so individual requests may not have gotten through, but they are all up now and serving a tremendous amount of traffic and downloads."Although the stunt was guaranteed to work – there was previously no such category acknowledged by Guinness World Records – it will still take up to a week for the results to be ratified and officially recognised.The revamped system, which includes improved security and performance features, hopes to build on its initial success and grab more market share from Microsoft's Internet Explorer.According to figures from Net Applications, Firefox is currently used by 18.4% of browsers worldwide, trailing Internet Explorer's 73.8% share of the market, but ahead of Apple's Safari with 6.3%.Progress has been slow since Firefox arrived with a bang in 2004 as the first significant challenger to Microsoft for several years. The complete market domination of Internet Explorer over Firefox's predecessor, Netscape, had previously been a central plank in the US government's antitrust case against the Seattle software giant in the 1990s.
