One of Silicon Valley's most successful investors is backing the London-based mobile music service Shazam. The company is seeking to capitalise on the boom in downloadable mobile phone applications and double its customer base to 100 million by the end of next year.Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers (KPCB), which was an early stage investor in some of the web's biggest names, including Amazon, has invested an undisclosed amount in the business. Shazam has developed a service allowing customers to identify music being played in pubs or clubs by holding up their phone.  It is a huge vote of confidence for Shazam, which only has 60 staff.In 1994 KPCB spent a mere $4m for a quarter of Netscape, which was eventually bought by America Online for $4bn. In 1999 it teamed up with Sequoia Capital and spent $25m on a 20% stake in a small web business that was less than a year old. It was called Google.Shazam is considerably older, having been founded in 2002, but in the past year business has boomed thanks to the swift uptake of downloadable mobile phone applications, spurred on by the arrival of the Apple iPhone.The company has produced downloadable applications for mobile platforms including the iPhone, BlackBerry and devices with Microsoft's Windows software. At the start of the year Shazam had about 25 million users in 150 countries, it now has 50m and has been acquiring half a million a week. It hopes to reach 100 million by the end of 2010.The chief executive, Andrew Fisher, believes the firm could become a household name on the mobile web and a British counterweight to the power US companies  have on the fixed-line internet. As there are more mobile phones in the world than computers, the potential market is also larger."There has not been a significant mobile consumer application company, aping the success that has been seen on the web," Fisher said. "In order to get to the next level as a business we were looking for someone who could help us become that consumer company on the mobile platform."Shazam is profitable, Fisher said, but he wanted to raise further funds to speed up expansion and turned to KPCB to capitalise on its expertise in building large consumer-focused digital businesses.The cash for Shazam's fourth fundraising is coming out of KPCB's $100m iFund, which was launched in March last year to put cash into companies creating mobile applications. It received almost 600 applications by the end of 2008. KPCB joins earlier Shazam investors DN Capital and Acacia Capital Partners, which bought out initial investor IDG Ventures Europe. To date Shazam has raised just short of $20m.
Well, they cut quite a bit of my appearance, but there I was in 1996, bringing a PlayStation to the door of the Sullivan-Barnes household, playing a small part in BBC Four's entertainingElectric Dreamsseries. The nineties episode was a feast of retro hardware, providing a Game Boy, Game Gear, SNES, Mega Drive (all launched in the late-eighties in Japan, but after 1990 in Europe) and of course the PlayStation. No sign of the Saturn or N64, though, but then the programme makers also had to squeeze in mobile phones. And bread makers...So what did you think of the series? I reckon it succeeded in its aim of showing how technology has shaped family life over the last four decades. In the seventies everyone huddled together around Buckaroo, as much for warmth as entertainment, while in the eighties the arrival of personal stereos, miniature hi-fis and cheap home computers led to segregation as the kids migrated to their rooms and dad wrestled with the BBC Micro instruction manual.Through archive footage, the producers also showed how media responses to technology changed hugely during the era. In the seventies, they had the wonderful clip from Tomorrow's World in which Raymond Baxter plays an ancient Pong derivative with wonderment dancing in his disbelieving eyes. Then in 1993 came the nightmarish James Bulger murder and the sudden fear and abjection aimed at games like Mortal Kombat, which - as the Sullivan-Barnes discovered, looks pretty ridiculous today.Also, you forget how crap the internet was in the nineties - all comic sans and dancing baby animations; it was just a decade ago! I do think both this and Gameswipe could have spent longer looking into the home computer scene of the '80s, if only because this is when Britain's most important and well-known game designers were starting out. Perhaps that's a subject for another series - and if they need an 'experienced' 'presenter'...
Bobbie Johnson's your guide this week as we hobnob with Britain's digital inclusion champion, Martha Lane Fox. After co-founding Lastminute.com in 1998 she went on to become one of the most high-profile figures of the dotcom boom. After stepping down from her day-to-day role with the company in 2003, these days she juggles work with her chain of karoake bars and a charitable foundation, as well as a role as an adviser to the British government. In that advisory role she has responsibility forDigital Inclusion strategy– which is examining how technology can help people who are currently in the poorest parts of society. The taskforce she leads issued its first report this week looking into the benefits of inclusion, and Charles Arthur met Martha to find out more.Kevin Anderson also catches up with the hackers and modders ofTinker.it!to find out why everyone loves Arduino – the electronics boards that allow you to create your own electronic devices.Not only that, but in the wake ofBBC drama Micro Men, we'll also hear Vic Keegan's thoughts on what went wrong with Britain's computer industry after its 1980s boom. There's also a look at this week's news headlines and we hear what you've got to say about last week's show.Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
There is nothing wrong with charging technology entrepreneurs a fee to meet potential investors, according to the man behind one of Britain's most successful early stage investment networks.Responding to highly critical comments by American entrepreneur Jason Calacanis, Bill Morrow - the head of British companyAngels Den- said that there was a "world of distinction" between the services his organisation provides and those of so-called "pay to pitch" companies.Over the weekend Calacanis, a serial dotcom entrepreneur and one of the organisers of the TechCrunch 50 conference in San Francisco,published a blistering attacktargeted on what he called investment "payola" - companies who charge startup entrepreneurs a fee to introduce them to potential backers."These pay-for-play scams remind me of the 'modeling agencies' that charge people for representation, acting lessons and to have their headshots done," he wrote. "Trust me kids, Brad Pitt and Kate Moss did not pay to get representation – they didn't have to. If you're paying to get an agent, it's because you're being scammed."St Albans-based Angels Den - which charges startups £800 to pitch to its network of investors, and asks for a 5% slice of any funds they raise as a result - was among those Calacanis highlighted in his post, calling the company "disgusting".But talking to the Guardian, Morrow said that he was not cheating entrepreneurs by asking them to pay - and instead offered them a number of services aimed at helping fledgling businesses raise the investment they require to get started."The base assertion that if you're an angel, you should not be charging people to see you, is quite correct," he said. "But there really has to be a distinction between those companies who actually have the capital and companies, like ours, who introduce you to people with the capital.""For £800 we help you write your business review, we spend half an hour on the phone with you, meet you, give you pitch training," he added. "I'm happy to stand up and say that we genuinely believe that it's a service for both sides - before we started the training or help you with a business plan, nobody's getting funded."Asked whether it was fair to take a potential portion of funding away from young companies, Morrow said it was normal practice for European investment networks to do this - in fact, he said, many of his competitors demand much more for their services."We're slightly bemused that he [Calacanis] has chosen us, as we are by far and away the cheapest," he said. "We're the largest player, we've got the largest number of angels and we've got the most activity in the marketplace - but we're also the cheapest. The number two charges £15,000 to pitch, a 5% success fee and then a 3% equity stake. The next biggest player charges £7,000 and charges a 5% fee."While the money available from angel investors - rich individuals who fund new businesses, often after having made their own fortunes in industry - is far lower in Europe than in the US, Angels Den claims to have a network of more than 3,000 investors around the continent who each have at least £250,000 to invest.
In the last 15 years that we've all been pummeling our keyboards with web addresses, the sight of http:// has turned into something we either love or hate. But it could have all been so different - web inventorTim Berners-Leesays that in hindsight he would have skipped the double slash,according to the New York Times.Why?"Look at all the paper and trees, he said, that could have been saved if people had not had to write or type out those slashes on paper over the years — not to mention the human labor and time spent typing those two keystrokes countless millions of times in browser address boxes."Seems a fair point, though there are plenty of other programming conventions that could have been dropped as well.But Timbl also missed out on one other area that dropping bits of that prefix would have done for the general public: just imagine if we had all been saved from the pain of listening to TV and radio presenters reading out seventeen syllables that they clearly did not comprehend: "aitch tee tee pee colon slash slash double-you, double-you, double-you".Case in point: this painful attempt to send Children's BBC to a new website on the nascent Beeb website (admittedly, this was in 1995, when www addresses were still a rarity on TV).
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; It's Patch Tuesday -Microsoft's monthly package of bug fixes, new code and updates to various programs. Andthis onelooks like a doozy: a total of 13 patches for 34 bugsmakes it the biggest ever. Not only that, but many of the patches are ranked "critical" and two of them address zero-day vulnerabilities. Looks like it's time to download the latest updates.&bull; I missed this one over the weekend, but here's one that is both incredible and gruesome at the same time. Italian scientists have developed an alternative to the endoscope that's intended to make the process less invasive:a tiny robot "spider pill"that is swallowed and is able to scan the colon for signs of cancer. Makes me think of all those old wives' tales about spiders hatching inside people after a trip to the tropics. Ewww.&bull; If you're one of the readers of blog stalwartBoingBoing, you might have been a little surprised bythe site's recent redesign. And you might have been equally interested inBoingBoing Classic- a retro stylesheet hacked together byJustin Watt. Unfortunately, he's has now stopped updating the site in what he says is an attempt to stop his "personal design criticism... being misconstrued by anyone as representing the opinions or attitudes of Federated Media, my employer and Boing Boing's advertising partner".You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Apple has admitted that its latest operating system harbours a bug that can accidentally delete data belonging to the computer's owner.The glitch occurs when some users who upgraded to the Snow Leopard - which was released at the end of August - log into a "guest" account on their machines. When they log back in under their own name, all of the files in their home directory - such as documents, music and videos - have been deleted.Reports of the problem first surfacedmore than a month ago, but it was only on Monday that Apple finally responded by recognising that there was a problem for some customers."We are aware of the issue, which occurs only in extremely rare cases, and we are working on a fix," said the company in a statement.Although some users have been able to restore their data after being hit by the bug, many others have simply been left without any way of recovering the files and information that have been erased."When logging in to my regular account, everything was gone," saidone user on the Apple discussion forums. "Nothing has been renamed to something else. My home directory still exists... but it is just empty.""After I had logged out of that account and back into mine my enter home directory had been wiped,"said another user. "All of doc, musics, etc gone."Some reported only minor data loss, however."I accidentally logged into the guest account and then logged out and noticed that my background picture was different, and folders that were on the desktop were gone,"said another user. "I was mad, but nothing hurt me too much."As well as concerns over, the episode also highlights the importance of properly backing up your data - a hot topic in recent days, given a massive failure to by Microsoft.Apple's admission comes just days after its rival admitted that a problem with its own backup systems had left tens of thousands of American mobile phone customers stranded without access to their data.Customers who had subscribed to use T-Mobile's Sidekick handset, which uses software produced by Microsoft subsidiary Danger, were told that they would not be able to recover any of their personal information - including phone numbers, photographs or messages, after the company failed to properly back up user information.Unlike most mobile phones, which let users keep a copy of their information locally, the Sidekick keeps all of its information "in the cloud" - synchronising with Danger's servers online. When Danger's servers crashed last week, however, it emerged that there were no adequate backups to replace the data that had been lost."Personal information stored on your device... that is no longer on your Sidekick almost certainly has been lost as a result of a server failure at Microsoft/Danger," T-Mobile customers were told. "That said, our teams continue to work around-the-clock in hopes of discovering some way to recover this information. However, the likelihood of a successful outcome is extremely low."Although it became popular several years ago in the US and has a devout following, the Sidekick has not been sold in the UK for some time and it is not believed that any British users were affected.
He pioneered the bagless vacuum cleaner and more recently has transformed the UK's public toilets with his revolutionary hand-dryer. Today the billionaire businessman and inventor Sir James Dyson unveils his latest product – a desk fan that he hopes will provide a greener alternative to office air conditioning and a safer and more efficient product for use at home.His latest hi-tech gadget looks nothing like a conventional fan, consisting of a "loop" perched on a sturdy cylinder rather than the wobbly model with oscillating blades we have all become used to. Using the same technology at the heart of the Airblade hand-dryer, it expels 405 litres of cool, smooth air every second. Unlike top-heavy conventional fans, the Dyson fan has an energy-efficient motor at its base, meaning it has a low centre of gravity and does not topple over.Dyson said that he had long been disappointed by conventional fans, which relied on technology that had hardly changed since 1880. He explained: "Their spinning blades chop up the airflow, causing annoying buffeting.&nbsp;They're hard to clean. And children always want to poke their fingers through the grille. So we've developed a new type of fan that doesn't use blades."The fan is made from a tough thermoplastic which is used to make car bumpers, crash helmets and modern golf club heads because of its shock-absorbing qualities. Available in two sizes, it will retail for £199, initially from specialist design stores and from Argos next January.Dyson, who was recently appointed by the Conservative party leader, David Cameron, to head a taskforce to look into the future of technology, said he hoped companies would use the fans in offices as a greener alternative to air conditioning. "This is good function over form," he said. The new taskforce is likely to include Sir John Rose, the chief executive of Rolls-Royce, and Sir Christopher Gent, the former chief executive of Vodafone.The tycoon, who was knighted in December 2006, revolutionised the domestic appliances market with the bagless vacuum cleaner. The Dyson Dual Cyclone became the best-selling vacuum cleaner in the UK within 18 months of its launch.The Airblade hand-dryer, launched three years ago, was initially compared to a noisy trouser press. Now it is common in office, school and NHS toilets, drying hands in as little as 10 seconds and reducing infection by cutting cross-contamination from bacteria.Stung by criticism of relying on overseas manufacturing facilities in Malaysia and China, Dyson said the new products would be assembled in the UK and exported from the UK. "We are a British company but we weren't allowed to expand in the UK," he said.
The founder of lastminute.com, Martha Lane Fox, has unveiled an ambitious policy to get everyone in Britain online by 2012, backed by a study that says it would save the government up to £1bn annually in customer service costs and boost the economy by more than £20bn.Lane Fox, who is now chair of the government-created Digital Inclusion Task Force, says that getting the 10m Britons who have never used the internet to go online could generate at least £22.6bn in economic benefit – including at least £10.6bn over the lifetimes of the 1.6m children who have never used it.In an exclusive interview with The Guardian, Lane Fox gave an example of how internet skills could improve job prospects: "I heard a story at the weekend about a casual working labourer who searches online every morning for work. If he waited until he got to the job centre all the jobs would be gone, but by being online he has been in and out of work for six months since he lost his job. And there are hundreds of stories like that, from London to Manchester to Edinburgh or wherever, all increasing the choice in their lives by having access to technology."Now she says the UK should aim to have everyone online by 2012 – by the London Olympics – and pledged to publish interim annual targets so that progress can be measured against them.The government would also benefit enormously, by about £900m annually, if everyone who is presently unconnected used its online services just once a month, Lane Fox noted. She is talking to government departments to try to push the benefits they could see from this – although the DITF does not have access to any funding to pay for computers for these groups.Lane Fox, who is a non-executive director of Marks &amp; Spencer and at Channel 4, said that she will lobby government "and anyone who will listen" to try to push along the process. But she warned that the best way to get that missing 10 million people online, of whom 40% are unemployed and 40% are over 65, was not through aggressive government projects, but through local community organisations and even soap opera storylines."I've been lobbying both the BBC and ITV to say one of the most dramatic things that I think we could do would be to have a proper storyline about technology in public consciousness. I'd love a storyline [about getting online] in EastEnders or Coronation Street."Yet she doubts even her own ability to get this disenfranchised group online – despite being a woman who co-founded one of the best-known British dotcom startups in the 1990s. Instead, she insists, it will be the neighbours and friends of the non-connected who will show them its benefits."It works when someone who's like you shows you that there's someting in the technology for you," she said. "My blonde white middle class voice isn't going to be resonant at all with this end group of users, but if your next-door neighbour has had a great impact with technology, is or someone at the school gate says 'I saved all this money by being online', then that's when it's powerful, so building up these peer to peer networks is very important."The analysis by PricewaterhouseCoopers of the economic benefits from getting everyone online assumes that only 4.5% of the children without access to the internet now will actually benefit sufficiently from it to achieve five GCSEs graded A to C, said Mark Ambler, its director of consulting. He thinks that the analysis is "prudent" – indicating that PWC has been careful not to overstate the potential benefits to people of going online."It's often the people facing the toughest times who have the most to gain from what technology has to offer," Lane Fox said. "And as the internet is rapidly becoming a tool for everyday life, we should work together to make sure everyone can benefit."The DITF has today launched its website to try to get everyone online athttp://www.raceonline2012.org.A full interview will appear in theGuardian's Technology sectionon Thursday
I'd love to see Up, the new Pixar film. And so would my kids. But it's not going to happen because we can't do 3D; not after Ice Age 3D.Fifteen minutes in I knew the jig was up: my three year old was lying on his back, feet in the air while the six year old had taken his shoe off and was whispering into it."Where are your glasses!"  I hissed."They fell off . . . " said the oldest."Glasses?" said the youngest."Yes . . . the ones that mean you can see the film.""Look," said the oldest, putting them on. One arm sprang off his ear. I pressed it back. They slid down his nose."Tip your head back," I told him, because I had just paid an enormous West End premium in order to embrace this fantastic new technology (and I also really wanted to see if the squirrel thing gets the acorn in the end).The specs weren't even close to fitting the youngest. I held them on with a hand on either ear. After a minute or so I realised I was holding a pair of glasses in mid-air because he had slipped to the floor to eat discarded popcorn.I contemplated the glasses: I could see the film studios had invested millions in developing this wonderful technology. I could also see that to market it they had realised they needed to get kids on board. But then they just churned out a billion pairs of adult-sized glasses that don't fit anyone under eight. Nice going, guys.
As well as playing PES 2010 and Forza 3 this weekend, I've also been scouring the web for interesting new Flash games. I'm playing these quite a bit at the moment, as they fit in handily between several massively overdue work projects. Plus, I like to see how developers are pushing the visual capabilities of the rapidly maturing medium.Anyway, here's a selection of newcomers, all worth a look - while the boss isn't watching, of course...iCycle(Reece Milidge)Fantastic platformer in which you play a naked post-cryogenic cyclist who must navigate a new ice age, collecting soap bubbles and avoiding deadly icicles, falling rocks and other apocalyptic hazards. Lots of pixel perfect jumping required, but you can enjoy the atmospheric sound effects and funny crash animations as you make slow progress. If Cormac McCarthy's The Road had been a comedy based around a nude bike rider, this is what the game tie-in would have looked like...Atomic Super Boss(Gimme5Games)A feisty little retro shooter in which you continually blast away at a traditional boss craft, until it inevitably destroys you. You move quicker if you're not firing, which is useful to know as the screen is often filled with laser blasts in the familiar style of a Japanese 'bullet curtain' blaster. It's available via UK casual game specialist, Gimme5Games, previously Morpheme, one of the best British mobile games developers.Evidence of Everything Exploding(Jason Nelson)Best understood as a piece of interactive art, this bizarre maze game has you controlling an arrow through a series of weird textual landscapes, unlocking fact boxes about language while avoiding the patrolling shapes. You can piece together the meaning as you go along, or just enjoy a very odd audiovisual experience. Whatever the case, I doubt we'll be seeing an Xbox Live Arcade conversion...Miami Shark(Mausland Entertainment)Surely inspired by the recentAsylumdisaster flick Mega Shark Versus Giant Octopus this is a daft eat-'em-up following an insatiably hungry shark as he scoffs swimmers, yachts and even helicopters. All you need to do is make him dive to summon up speed, then leap from the water as he passes a tasty boat-load of people. Feels a bit like Ecco The Dolphin, massively simplified and completely stripped of its ecological pretentions.Fantastic Contraption: Prius Edition(inXile Entertainment)Here's a successful implementation of the 'adver-game' concept. The original Fantastic Contraption was a decent Flash translation of the PC classic, Incredible Machine. Matched with the eco-friendly (sort of) Toyota Prius, it becomes a playable exploration of energy consumption. The goal, as ever, is to build a machine that can navigate from one side of the screen to the other, using a range of components. Here, though, you must complete each goal as efficiently as possible, using less bits and employing solar power. It's very tricky at first, especially as it's not entirely clear what different pieces do (even after you've completed the tutorial), but bear with it as it's an intriguing test of your engineering skills.
2007's Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games was an undoubted marketing triumph: it sold phenomenally well, despite essentially being a tarted-up take on ancient button-bashers such as Daley Thompson's Decathlon.Much of its success can be attributed to the teaming up of the hedgehog and the plumber, once deadly rivals in the 16-bit console war.Now they're back, this time fronting a game bearing the official licence for next year's Winter Olympics in Vancouver.It's difficult to imagine that Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games will be any less successful as its predecessor, as it is infinitely superior in gameplay terms.The Winter Olympics events seem to support more imaginative control systems (particularly on the Wii), and this time around, there is support for the Wii Balance Board in single-player mode.Graphically, it is as good as anything seen on the Wii, somehow managing to banish that console's traditional visual murkiness.It's a fairly meaty game, with 18 events and three party games. The events range from curling to ski-jumping, via the likes of speed skating, downhill skiing and snowboard-cross.Of particular note is the figure skating, which sends you round the ice on a fixed path, and prompts you to execute particular gestures at allotted points, in order to pull off jumps, spins and so on.The skeleton and bobsleigh encourage you to pursue an ideal racing line, which gives you a speed-boost.In all the events in which you get airborne, you can pull off tricks by tracing patterns shown on-screen with the Wii Remote.Freestyle mogul skiing is a surprise inclusion, and there are several "dream" events which are essentially Mario Kart transplanted to the side of a mountain, complete with familiar power-ups. Most events can be played by up to four people, either competitively or co-operatively. Once again, you can play as any of a huge pool of familiar and obscure Nintendo and Sega characters.In other words, Mario &amp; Sonic At The Olympic Winter Games is classic, ultra-mainstream Wii and DS fare, which may elicit sneers from hardcore gamers but will generate vast amounts of family-oriented fun this Christmas. Indeed, it's sufficiently technologically impressive and well-structured to earn grudging respect even from those hardcore gamers. Well worth a punt as a potential Christmas No 1.
Here, then, is the biggest PlayStation 3 exclusive of the year, and it has a big agenda: gunning for Hollywood, no less.The original exceeded expectations – dismissed pre-launch as a Tomb Raider clone, it proved to set new standards for action-adventure games.But Uncharted 2 marries everything its predecessor got right with the technological maturity that comes with being a second-generation PlayStation 3 game.And the result feels, to a greater degree, better than any game that has gone before, like a film in which you play the lead character. Which is something the games industry has striven to achieve for decades, but hitherto failed to pull off.This time around, Nate Drake's darker side is on view, although he still comes across as an inherently decent chap, albeit one with some dodgy mates.After a flashforward in which he has to climb a mountain to safety from a railway carriage hanging over a cliff, he hooks up with Flynn and Chloe (the new love-interest), who break into a thinly disguised Topkapi museum to steal an artefact which leads to Marco Polo's (alleged) discovery of Shambhala, aka Shangri-La. Naturally, things don't go as planned, but most of the subsequent action takes place in Borneo, Nepal and the Himalayas.Uncharted's gameplay mix of shooting, Lara-style swinging and climbing and epic puzzle-solving is once more to the fore, but pretty much every aspect of the game which could have been improved has been.The third-person, cover-based shooting engine has been revamped and is now exemplary, a modicum of stealth-action has been added to vary proceedings, the climbing and leaping is unhindered by unhelpful camera-work (unlike Tomb Raider), artificial intelligence is much more convincing, and the virtual acting is the best that has ever seen in a game.Decent co-op and competitive multiplayer modes, meanwhile, keep you interested after you've completed the single-player game. Die, and there's no pause for loading before you resume at the last checkpoint.The result is truly epic, especially when you take into account the incredible graphics and fantastically intricate levels. And then there are the epic set-piece missions in which, seemingly, Drake's entire surroundings are blown to shreds yet, somehow, he always scrambles to safety.Uncharted 2 provides the perfect means of reducing any remaining throwbacks who still insist on maintaining that games are mindless to embarrassed speechlessness – if you know any Daily Mail readers, you should make showing it to them your mission. And, of course, if you own a PS3, you're going to buy a copy – it goes without saying.
Are games getting better? It's an assumption made, particularly by the games industry, that this is a question consumers only have one answer for. Of course they are: graphics, sound, online play, cut scenes, downloadable content – all features that continue to improve and make gaming a more visceral and enjoyable pastime.Consider this question for other entertainment mediums, however. Are films constantly getting better thanks to improvements in special effects? Does music get better as studio production equipment becomes more sophisticated? Unquestionably not. So why is it with games that we seem so convinced that as technology improves, so will the quality of the experience?'Fun' or 'good gameplay' is nigh on impossible to define, but we can probably agree that it has very little to do with the game's aesthetics. Would Space Invaders or Pac-Man have been improved if the aliens or ghosts were more than just brightly-coloured blobs? Would Super Mario Bros 3 have been more enjoyable if it really looked like you were controlling a chubby Italian plumber?Similarly, while the first time you helicoptered across the Liberty City skyline in Grand Theft Auto 4 and gawped at the views may be memorable, it's by no means what made the game great. The simple fun of the missions and mayhem you could cause, aspects present in the original 2D GTA, is what would have kept you hooked.It's tempting in particular to look at 2D games as dated and something gaming has 'outgrown'. But the success of recent Mario incarnations on the Nintendo DS and Braid on the Xbox 360 prove that what was fun 20 years ago is still fun now. With Sega's next Sonic release set to revert to a classic side-scrolling format, it seems that games makers are beginning to realise that people are willing to play games that don't push their system's capabilities to the limits, as long as they're fun to play.As a counterpoint to all this there is, of course, the inherent pleasure of gaming at the cutting edge. Many of us are willing to shell out every year for new versions of our favourite games with slightly improved graphics or tweaked gameplay. We'll even buy a new console if we think it will offer us an exciting new experience, regardless of its games catalogue. But was anyone walking out of their local HMV with a PlayStation 3 on launch day thinking about how much more 'fun' they'd now be having? It's consumerism at its finest.So back to my original question: are games actually getting better? It's a very difficult question to answer. I've greatly enjoyed a handful of current generation releases, but have I enjoyed them more than I did my favourite SNES games? Is Fallout 3 'better' than Zelda: Link to the Past? NBA Live 09 isn't as fun as NBA Jam, but is it 'better'? The only thing I can be sure of is that truly great games are timeless in just the same way that films are. You have to ask yourself, how many current generation releases will we be discussing in 20 years' time?
Google has announced that one of its top directors is stepping down, amid scrutiny by US financial regulators over the company's close connections to Silicon Valley rival Apple.Arthur Levinson - who had held a board-level position with both companies since 2004 - said today that he was resigning from his role with Google immediately, in a move apparently intended to ease pressure caused by a government investigation of links between the two companies.Fifty-nine year old Levinson, who was chairman and chief executive of the Californian biotechnology company Genentech until he sold the company to Swiss pharmaceutical corporation Roche for $47bn, will retain his position with Apple - where he has been a director for the past nine years.It is the second major move by the two companies to eradicate high-level connections between them, after theFederal Trade Commission said it would investigatewhether the so-called "interlocking directorates" had broken the law.In August, Google boss Eric Schmidtstepped down from his unpaid role as a member of Apple's boardover what the iPod maker called "potential conflicts of interest".Schmidt responded to Levinson's own departure by calling him a "good friend"."Art has been a key part of Google's success these past five years, offering unvarnished advice and vital counsel on every big issue and opportunity Google has faced," said Schmidt in astatement. "Though he leaves as a member of our board, Art will always have a special place at Google."Both Apple and Google will hope that this latest decision will bring an end to the inquiry by the FTC.Schmidt's decision to leave came after a period of increased pressure, as it became apparent that the two companies were becoming increasingly competitive with one another. Google's extensive plans to move into the mobile phone market meant that Schmidt had already been forced to recuse himself from meetings in which the development of the iPhone was discussed, while they appeared to be coming into conflict in other areas, too.However, following Schmidt's departure, officialssaid they would not end their investigationinto the interlocking directorates - which turned the spotlight directly on to Levinson's role at both organisations.But although his departure today may ease the pressure - since it means that the Silicon Valley rivals no longer have any shared board members - it does not entirely erase the high-level links between the two.A number of senior advisers retain powerful roles with both companies that may be cause for concern for regulators, who have said they wish to crack down on potential abuses of power in the US technology industry.In particular, Bill Campbell, the former chairman and CEO of software company Intuit, retains influential positions with both companies. He has been a member of Apple's board since 1997 - joining shortly after Steve Jobs regained control of the company - but also holds a senior advisory role with Google, where he is believed to sit in on board meetings and isknown by employees as "coach".Similarly, former US vice president Al Gore also holds a position on Apple's board and a position as a senior adviser to Google.
The 0870 iPhone application - which finally made its way onto Apple's iPhone App Store at the end of September - has saved its 92,000 users a total of more than £250,000 in just a fortnight, according to the program's writer. (If you're behind the game on this one, seeour previous post.)Simon Maddox, who wrote the application - which lets people look up cheaper geographical alternatives to "national rate" numbers with the 08 prefix - hastracked the number of downloads and the amount of advertising revenue from his application, and found the results far more encouraging than he could have expected.If you're just here for a summary, here goes:91,722 downloads; £267,987.54 saved! $680.82 made in ad revenueYes, you read that right. In the two weeks the app has been released, it's saved UK consumers over a quarter of a million pounds! Pretty awesome! How do I calculate that?Easy: Take the number of successful conversions, multiply it by the average saving per minute (35p), and then multiply it by an average call length - I used 5 minutes.Impressive, eh? He also provided a graph of the pattern of downloads. We've taken the liberty of adding in the advertising revenue. (He gets that. It totals $680.73 - about £425 - for the period.)That's got to be a big win for everyone. Except, perhaps, the companies using 08x numbers (apart of course from 0800) - and the telecoms networks that have shared from the extra revenue those numbers take off you, the caller.If you haven't got an iPhone or Android phone (for which the app is also available), there's always thesaynoto0870.compage.
With so many Wii releases targeted towards people who don't really like video games, it was a delight to find that Spyborgs wasn't going to get me fit or simulate the rewarding world of pony-ranch accountancy. Instead, it was a proper old fashioned beat-'em-up in the grand tradition of Streets of Rage or Final Fight, with chunky arcade graphics, waves of invading robots to smash and power-ups to collect. So it's frustrating to report that Spyborgs is something of a missed opportunity.The story is pleasingly daft and inconsequential: you are a team of cyborgs, and can control either the robot ape cyborg, the girl ninja cyborg, or the obligatory nondescript all-American-bloke cyborg. You're up against a former team member who doesn't like you any more, perhaps because you forgot to send him a Christmas card. He attacks your mansion with wave upon wave of robots, which you get to smash into tiny pieces through cooperative moves, diligent use of the block button, and much button mashing. Then, to stop him doing it again, you set off, upgrading your armour and special attacks as you go via the endless crates that litter the terrain, kerthunking his army to blackened rivets to show him that violence is never the answer.Unfortunately, it's not as fun as it sounds. Set in a dispiritingly grey anime futureworld, the gameplay rewards skill – random hammering of the attack buttons won't get you very far – but lacks variety. Moreover, the much-vaunted co-op play is a let down: when you've collected enough energy/nanobots/Lucozade for your orange power gauge to glow, you flick the Wii remote upwards to be transported into a bullet-time-from-the-Matrix situation. Following on-screen commands, both players have to initiate a few further remote flicks to complete the move; this successfully completed, the bad guy is smashed into the ground. And if that sounds convoluted and boring, it's because it is.There are some plus points. The comic book-style graphics are beautifully rendered, and the background is satisfyingly smashable, as you scroll left, right, up or down through the massed ranks of enemies. The end-of-level baddies are enormous, screen-filling affairs, and the game does reward persistence: it's possible, with practice, to launch 50, 60, or 70 move attacks. Brutal.But in the end, due to frustratingly positioned checkpoints, the game is too hard and too repetitive to bother with. Plus there are some inexplicable touches – for example, the screen is littered with invisible crates you have to reveal with a flick of the Wii remote. They're easy to spot, but time-consumingly tedious to reveal. Sometimes rather than smashing them I daydreamed I'd be able to stack them using a forklift truck. It would be more exciting.There's a great beat-'em-up screaming to get out of this game, and with the theme – spy cyborgs – up there with pirate wizards or surfing samurai in terms of inherent awesomeness, the end result is a massive disappointment.
Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Republic Heroes is the game of the Cartoon Network show Star Wars: The Clone Wars. LucasArts has hinted that this will be a big part of the future of the franchise, so start getting used to the style now.You begin as Anakin Skywalker, but switch between a large number of characters during the course of the game – including Rex, the squad leader of a troop of clones. It's designed primarily for two-player co-op, so if, like me, you are companionless, you have to suffer a computer-controlled sidekick for much of the time. In the Jedi scenes, this is a giant-eyed alien girl whose cutesy asides I found irksome, though fans of the cartoon may already be used to her. The 3D CGI/anime hybrid graphics are heavily stylised and studiedly bloodless; it's very pretty and colourful, but makes lightsabre combat look like the mosh pit at a Klaxons gig.The gameplay is let down by its 2D-platformer-3D-environment mechanics. Some bits appear to be designed to be moved through at one very specific angle only, which is pretty frustrating, especially when the camera is so zoomed-out you can barely see where you're trying to go. I spent more than an hour trying to make Anakin find a platform that couldn't have been more than three feet away and directly in his path. Watching him fall into an abyss for the billionth time contributed to a dramatic ebbing of my sympathy for the character.The sections where you play the leader of a troop of clone soldiers, are a bit flawed, too. Firing ranged weaponry depends on an auto aiming system which has a nasty habit of flipping you 90 degrees to the right when all you want to do is make a minute aim adjustment, and can also lock stubbornly on to the wrong target. Gunfights are a case of shooting in all directions and hoping against hope that the auto-aim is on your side.Another problem with these sections is that they don't really address the difficulty of leading a squad composed of identical clones, all wearing the same uniform, and all spending most of their screen-time firing various pieces of unnecessarily pyrotechnic weaponry in seemingly random directions. Not one of the development team appears to have spotted the headache this was going to give you trying to work out which one is yours. Under such adverse circumstances, negotiating the platform elements and trying to shoot at the baddies doesn't require skill so much as blind faith.Maybe this is a game for all ages, which anyone can enjoy, but I felt too old for the cutesy graphics and saccharine dialogue. Unfortunately, back when I was the age range this game is trying to reach, I was playing Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast, which managed to do everything I think this game is trying to do, only  only much better. Better atmosphere, better-looking levels, better combat mechanics. Plus, it did it all on the Quake III Arena engine. It ran on the GameCube, for God's sake. In comparison, Republic Heroes falls a little flat.That's progress for you.
Maybe it was the continued innovation of the online play, particularly the 10vs10, or the vastly improved feel of the action. Or perhaps it was the dubious pleasure in playing as Southampton - but FIFA 10 has certainly seduced me recently. And as a total package FIFA 10 is hard to beat. But after a weekend playingPES 2010it has quickly became obvious that on the pitch – ultimately where it matters most, of course – PES simply plays the more satisfying and entertaining game of football.The caveat here is that I haven't played online yet. Online play isn't live yet and probably won't be until the week of launch. For me this is crucial. Last year's appallingly convoluted offering – want to play 2vs2 with a friend on the same team? Good luck – really killed the game for me. Have Konami fixed it this year? We'll find out very soon. But if it is the same menu-ridden and laggy mess of last year then FIFA's siren call will become too much.But on the pitch things are looking very very good indeed. Regular players will know how satisfying PES feels and 2010 is as blissfully expressive as ever. Aerial through balls are a particular delight but first time passes and accurately weighted crosses are all a joy. Le Tissier style 40-yard cross field passes are possible too and the game encourages and rewards you to try out new moves.The 360 degree control – less heavily marketed here than it is with FIFA but a first for the series – makes a difference too. Initial discomfort soon gives way to a greater feel on the pitch, with plenty of room to improvise as you create space for a cross or shot.The action feels slightly slower than 2009 but is still much faster than FIFA. A typical PES game is more akin to the recent 4-3 Manchester derby than the continentally paced FIFA. Yes, this is almost a complete reversal of historical trends. But FIFA 2001 – or whenever – goalfests were never this entertaining.The game feels slightly easier though. I played on regular settings and won the Champions League easily – an 8-0 aggregate win over Man United was a highlight – by using simple tactics of through-balls and double-tap crosses. Whether this is ease is intentional – or maybe I'm better than I thought? -  remains to be seen but regular players would be better off starting on at least professional level.So what else? Well finally – finally! – Konami seems to have got the in-game presentation right. Licensed music and well designed and legible menu screens? Yup, it's a world away from PES of the past. The Champions League licence is central to the game and the menus give you all the encouragement you need to get started on your campaign. Maybe next year we'll get the Johnstones Paint Trophy too? Another nice touch is the muted celebrations from the crowd when you score away from home. The crowd noise generally seems more realistic too – I'm sure they cheered when I cleared a header off the line.Then there is the Community mode, a new addition to the series. It is essentially a long term record of your results against friends. Great. But currently it is offline only and pointless for anyone old enough to live away from their mates.So, 48 hours in and I'm thoroughly enjoying PES 2010. Yes, I'm crossing fingers that online is finally sorted, but when it comes to the basic on-pitch action there looks to be a clear winner.  I ended myFIFA 10 reviewby saying PES had it all to do. Well, after a weekend with PES 2010 I'm very confident it has succeeded. Sorry to have doubted you old friend.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; The proposed merger betweenT-MobileandOrangelooksset for investigation by the Office of Fair Trading. The agreement could also lead to the companies selling a portion of the wireless spectrum they own in Britain, after a deal between the government and mobile companies to cap the amount of bandwidth that any single company can control.&bull; Talking of T-Mobile, the company's US arm - and in particular, its partnership withMicrosoft- has been struck by a serious blow. First an outage hitusers of the Sidekick phone, provided by T-Mobile and powered by Danger, the phone subsidiary bought by Redmond in 2008. On Saturday, things got worse: customers weretold that their data was gone, and that Microsoft/Danger could not recover it. That's painful for everybody involved.&bull; High science often inspires fear, but theparanoia that surroundedthe switch-on of theLarge Hadron Collideris likely to increase afterFrench police arrested a Cern engineer over suspected links to al-Qaida. It's now being reported that he hasadmitted contact with the terrorist group.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
My present passport photograph is heavy on teen makeup and I wore a strapless top to boot, but finally, after years of waiting, it's time to renew my passport. On Monday morning I sit down at a London Photo-Me, equipped with £1 coins and a light dusting of blusher.I have barely finished feeding my coins into the slot before the booth starts barking instructions. Position yourself in front of the screen. Have your head straight and centred. Look at the camera. Keep a neutral expression, mouth closed, and do not smile. Keep your hair in the frame – I'm not sure where else it would be - and away from your face. Keep your eyes open. Centre your eyes . . . When did these booths get so much attitude? Click. The finished shot appears on the screen. My eyes seem to be going in different directions. "Please choose your photograph," sing-songs the booth. I do, and a red cross informs me my picture isn't passport-compliant. Never mind – plenty more change. This time my eyes are in the right direction but another red cross appears. It must be the hair. I scrape it back, but it looks so severe I baulk and smile at the last minute. Red cross. I withdraw another&nbsp;tenner.Hair retucked, eyes centred, I freeze my face into what I think is an expressionless gaze, but on reflection looks somewhat psychotic. Photo-Me is not impressed. Two more red crosses appear. Why? The machine has no answer. I'm 20 quid down, with no passport and several strips of appalling photos.
German chancellor Angela Merkel yesterday waded into the row over Google's plans to build a massive digital library.The move was a remarkable intervention from a leading world politician in a growing dispute about the threat posed by the internet, and Google in particular, to publishing companies, authors and also newspapers.In her weekly video podcast, before the opening of the Frankfurt Book Fair this week, Merkel appealed for more international co-operation on copyright protection and said her government opposed Google's drive to create online libraries full of scanned books."The German government has a clear position: copyrights have to be protected on the internet," Merkel said, adding that there were "considerable dangers" for copyright protection online.Merkel, who will officially open the world's largest book fair in Germany's financial capital on Tuesday, said there was a need to discuss the issue in greater detail. She was reacting to Google's astonishing project to eventually make virtually all the books in the world available to be searched online. Though it sounds almost like science fiction, Google workers have been scouring the world's libraries and scanning the books therein. They then upload the images onto the internet and make them searchable using Google.To date it is believed that Google has scanned more than 10 million titles from libraries in America and Europe – including half a million volumes held by Oxford's Bodleian library. The exact method it uses is unclear; the company does not allow outsiders to observe the process. However, despite the secrecy surrounding the project, Google says its aims are entirely altruistic. Its founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, have frequently said that their company's ultimate mission is to make available all the world's information online. However, despite such seemingly poetic aims, the project has many critics, including those who say it could put publishers out of business, as it risks putting books for free onto the internet. Authors and other holders of copyright on titles also worry that it will infringe their rights and harm their ability to profit from their work.The issue is already before the courts in America. In New York, a judge said last week that changes to a settlement that would allow Google to put millions more books online should be presented in court by 9 November. The move is an effort to resolve a 2005 lawsuit brought by the Authors Guild and others against Google's effort to scan libraries full of books.Under the terms of the original settlement, Google would pay $125m (£78m) to create a book rights registry. Authors and publishers could register works and be paid for books and other publications that the search giant would put online. But German book publishers have criticised European regulators for failing to oppose the settlement. Meanwhile, last month French publishing house La Martinière, the French Publishers' Association and authors' group SGDL asked a Paris court to fine Google €15m (£14m) and €100,000 for each day it continued "to violate copyright" by digitising their books.Brin, however, says the plan would make millions of out-of-print books available online and thus would not cannibalise existing sales, as those books were not readily available to buyers. Google argues that it is increasing access to works that would otherwise never see the light of the day.Nor is the books issue the only area where Google's quest to make all information readily accessible on the internet is causing a stir. The newspaper industry argues that Google, and other websites, are profiting from its hard work by acting as aggregators of news stories while not actually producing any content themselves. The argument has turned increasingly bitter in recent months as the crisis in the global newspaper industry has deepened amid widespread lay-offs of journalists and the closure of some titles. Last week Rupert Murdoch, head of News Corporation, made an especially fiery speech hitting out at companies such as Google and effectively calling them thieves who profited from stolen content. "The aggregators and plagiarists will soon have to pay a price for the co-opting of our content," he told the World Media Summit in Beijing.
The following correction was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday 18 October 2009In the article below we described the "founder of the historic marque" as Wilfred Owen (Bentley) – but his first name was Walter.BENTLEY GTC SPEED£153,400MILES PER GALLON: 17CO2PER KM: 396 GRAMSGOOD FOR: SHOW PONIESBAD FOR: PIT PONIESIf you've ever arrived in London from the west via the great maw of the M4, colliding with the congested capital like a piece of arterial plaque swirling into a diseased heart, you may have found yourself edging down towards Chelsea. You'd have hit the river – and standstill traffic – at Cheyne Walk and, if you were still in touch with your senses, you might have noticed on your left two Bentleys which are usually parked in an open-fronted private garage. Their number plates read 2B and  NOT 2B. Plates such as these sell for huge sums. A few months ago 1O went for £210,242. A personalised plate is the ultimate accessory for the super-rich car owner. I knew I had to start looking for a new dentist when the one I'd been seeing for years bought GOB 1 for his Porsche – a shade of dark grey that reminded me of my fillings. And, true or not, Peter Andre's gift of BO55Y KT for Jordan's Range Rover must have been worth every penny.Research carried out by the insurance company elephant.co.uk shows that if you are the owner of a nursing home, live in western Stirlingshire and own a Ferrari 360, you will almost certainly have a personalised number plate, because that's the occupation, location and vehicle which have the highest percentage of personalised plates in Britain. Incidentally, if you are a janitor, live on Merseyside and drive a Ford Orion you will almost certainly not own a personalised plate.This week, I've been driving a Bentley with the number 2000TU. TU was a local registration plate for the Chester area and Bentley own a dozen or so "cherish plates" with this suffix. They also own 1 WO and 21 WO – the WO standing for Wilfred Owen (Bentley), the founder of the historic marque. During a long sunny weekend in the Bentley, plenty of people stopped and stared, but I don't think it had much to do with the cherish plate and everything to do with the fact that the Bentley in question was a pearlescent white convertible with "smoked" low-pro 20in alloys and a Glastonbury-sized stereo.It's impossible to sit in the 200mph, 6-litre, twin-turbo, 600bhp, two-and-a-half tonne tourer without being in two minds. On the one hand, it's the epitome of limitless power and budgetless motoring. On the other it is an expression of unmatched vulgarity and over-the-top excess. There is no justification for its dreadful fuel consumption or poor emissions record. The Speed variant costs 20 grand more than its standard GTC cousin, and for that you get 15% more power, nicer seats, bigger wheels and wider exhaust pipes. Given that it stood out on my suburban street like Lady Gaga at a Women's Institute cake sale, I was braced for abuse. But all I got was a steady stream of "Nice car, mister!", "Good choice" and "That's the car, man!" My wife had two women come up to her and cheer, "You go girl!"When 2000TU went home, I was sorry to lose its spotlight antics, its remarkable ability, its incredible power. But as it surged away, I was relieved to draw the curtains and step back into motoring anonymity. But I wonder if I could get 1 ML for my Orion…★martin.love@observer.co.uk
In iBlast Moki, your job is to direct charming LocoRoco-style blobs around the screen towards a swirling spiral exit point. You do this using simple physics and a limited supply of bombs, ropes, balloons and pivot points, which are individually introduced over the course of six lovingly created worlds. With an interface that's perfectly designed for finger jabbing and rarely gets in the way when you're making pixel-wide adjustments to the positioning of a bomb or fractional timing adjustments, it's a simple joy to use. Glitches (its undo button works only intermittently, for example) are minuscule compared with the highly polished mechanics of the game and its masterful puzzles and soothing background music. iBlast Moki rocks.Godzilab, £1.19
How we all laughed when Luke Skywalker failed to levitate his X-Wing out of Yoda's swamp in The Empire Strikes Back. Now you can experience that humiliation in the comfort of your own home as you attempt the same trick with a Jedi-themed ping pong ball in Jedi Force Trainer. Get started by donning a headset with three electrodes pressed to your scalp, then follow Yoda's instructions to clear your mind and apply your emergent Force skills to get a ball to hover on a column of air in the transparent plastic tube in front of you. Surprisingly, calming your thoughts does indeed cause the ball to float upwards and losing concentration makes it flop back down again. Progressing through its difficulty levels requires significantly greater concentration and anyone living in a shared flat may find their Force skills sorely compromised.Uncle Milton, £99.95
Psychic Cate West gets involved in the investigation of a string of seemingly connected murders, using her powers to assist the Arcadia City Police Department in their enquiries. Rather unfortunately, the sole content of your extrasensory quest is a series of tawdry, spot-the-difference and find-the-object puzzles. Presented with a cluttered illustration, you use the Wii remote as a magnifying glass to identify a list of objects that include things as random as a hand axe, a viking hat, carrots, pliers, Excalibur, a flamingo, antennae and a palm tree. While the puzzles are inoffensive enough, their complete dislocation from the plot or action means the psychic investigations are virtually irrelevant. Cate could just as well be a pet detective or long-haul pilot or teapot salesmen for all the impact it would have on the game's single, rather dull mobile  phone game-style trick.Oxygen Games, £24.99-£29.99
Anteaters makeexcellent petsThe 20 bestcelebrity Simpsons quotesWhat people sawwhen they blacked out in FlashForwardSwearing isgood for youBarack Obama'ssmile is amazingly consistentMichael Cerais a master photobomber (pictured)Joni Mitchellhas been invited to open a Tree Museum8% of internetusers account for 85% of clicksThe Frasiertheme tune contained hidden satanic messagesThe worldis full of subliminal obscenityWasps andsome other reasons why the indoors is better than the outdoors
If you are adverse to rude men shouting about the brilliance of Traffic Cops ("or any documentary series with the word cops in it narrated by Jamie Theakston"), then Watch With Mothers' popular podcast is worth avoiding. A relatively smaller number will find its accompanying website disagreeable. It includes lengthy previews of new shows (together with some healthy jousting in the comments) alongside a list of TV's "least bearable personalities" and regular features such as Newsgush, the Friday Question and Just A Thought, which expertly notes panel show punchline cliches (ie the use of the suffix "on crack" to enhance a comparison).
Ideas on IdeasSome random observations on designs, brands and other evil stuff.The School Of Life"Ideas to live by" from this academy of love, work, family and play.Ideas existAdvertising on money, random acts of kindness, remote graffiti, umbrella rental and other acts of social enterprise.Spring WiseEntrepreneurial brainwaves like interactive piggy banks, driving lessons for kids and health food vending machines.New York Review Of IdeasA magazine about "the ideas behind American culture" for those in seek of a brow above high.BakespersonA regular feed of half-baked ideas into your brain portal via Twitter.Ideas By ChuckChuck is on to a winner with his idea for a TV talent show for goths.
The proliferation of news media has caused, by the evidence assembled here, a veritable pile-up of cock-ups, errors and juxtapositioning nightmares. Common is the alignment of a news story and an inappropriate advert, such as a headline on CNN's website that read "Sixth severed foot surfaces off Canadian coast" being accompanied by a banner ad featuring two disembodied feet. Although many of these "news fails" are oversights, some, like the one pictured, seem quite possibly deliberate.
Way back at the start of the millennium, Operation Flashpoint took the tactical FPS to a new hardcore extreme and although there's a different developer at the helm this time, the sequel hasn't eased up a bit. In fact, you'll spend the first half hour cursing how much re-tracking you have to do as you can only restart from your last completed objective and the distances between them are long.Dragon Rising takes the battle into new territories, dropping you off on the South Pacific island of Kiska which is being fought over by Chinese, Russian and Allied forces and on which all the freeform missions are played. The most immediate parallel here is Far Cry, with similarly massive draw distances and the same sense of freedom in the order and way you can tackle each mission's primary and secondary objectives. You can do most of the grunt work yourself thanks to meaty, perfectly calibrated weapons and team-mates who support your moves in close formation. Alternatively, you can stay further back and use the command map to assign them with orders and roles or call in airstrikes and extra support.You can go in all guns blazing or creep around stealthily while enemy forces go about their patrols in single-minded fashion. It all makes for a rewarding and diverse game that compensates for its difficulty with above average replayability once you get the hang of things. On the easiest difficulty setting you get a compass, helpfully marked with red notches and audible warning from your team-mates to indicate danger. Crank it up however, and you don't even get a crosshair, which makes it for expert marksmen only. And whichever level you choose, there's no instant healing or med packs, merely a limited supply of bandages that have to be applied by hand, usually with enemy fire raining down on you.These days it's hard to find games that favour the PC but Dragon Rising is certainly one of them. Even on a mid-specced machine the graphics are excellent, alternating between stunning sunrises and superbly atmospheric night-time levels. PC owners are also favoured online, with support for 32 multiplayers (compared to 16 on other formats) and format-specific games to ensure no competitive compromises are made to clumsier console interfaces. With Flashpoint's original developer, Bohemia, now committed to the underwhelming Arma series, Codemasters has made a fine effort with Dragon Rising. If you find Call of Duty too arcadey, this may be just the challenge you're looking for.
With a box proudly declaring its "Best of E3" status, Scribblenauts hits the shelves with unavoidable levels of hype. In truth, the expectations were so high, Scribblenauts was always at risk of disappointing. That it doesn't is something of a miracle.That's not to say, however, that it's perfect. Far from it. The puzzles can range from painfully easy to the psychopathically difficult, while the control system means you will, inevitably, send our hero Maxwell to a succession of watery/animal-y/sheer droppy deaths. But if there's another game in the next year that generates so much sheer joy or prompts this many giggles, I'll eat my DS. The purpose of the game is to help Maxwell in a series of missions – puzzle and action – to collect "Starites", his shiny reward for solving a (frequently eccentric) problem (protect the food from ants but don't harm them and upset the hippy) or finding his way past a series of obstacles. How do you do this? Well, that's pretty much up to you – via the magic notepad that's Scribblenauts' USP.There's a Starite in a tree. How do you get it down? In most games, you'd have to seek out an axe or a chainsaw in order to chop through the trunk. In Scribblenauts, you go to the notepad, type in "axe" or "chainsaw" and one appears in the level. Tap it once and you place it in Maxwell's hands and he'll merrily utilise it to remove the tree. But "axe" is obvious. Why not summon a lumberjack? Or blow the tree up with TNT? Or attempt to remove it with a bulldozer? Or, should you feel like a furry solution, send in a beaver? The joy of Scribblenauts is that you can do all of the above and more. The game's vocabulary is immense and the objects created behave as they should: helicopters fly, beavers gnaw, liver just, er, sits there while werewolves change back into normal men if you call them up in daylight.As previously stated, the game isn't without its frustrations. You move Maxwell by tapping the stylus on the screen. You pick up objects in the same way. Miss the (sometimes tiny) object, and you'll frequently send Maxwell unarmed to face a hungry polar bear or sharp-toothed barracuda. The movement/placement of the objects can also niggle, while the rather cutesy design gets a little irritating after a while. However, in the context of the game's incredible depth, breadth and phenomenal imagination, the niggles are easily overlooked. And how could anyone fully resist a game where you can pitch God v Satan (or, indeed, Santa), throw mangos at things, solve the long-standing shark v bear debate AND summon Cthulhu?Mind you, for the record, the latter's really not the best option when you're trying to save a kitten from a tree...
When the first men landed on the moon they communicated using Motorola communication devices, one company executive reminded me last night at the launch of the Dext smartphone.Well, those men must have left Motorola behind when they came back to Earth, because the American handset maker has been consigned to oblivion in the last few years, first by Nokia and more recently by Apple.So it's about time Motorola came up with something good. And my feeling after getting my hands on the Dext is they absolutely have.The potential success of this phone is software-led, but I'll get the appearance and feel of it out of the way first.To summarise, it's solid but not spectacular. The size is 58 x 114 x 15.85mm, roughly the same as the T-Mobile G1. It has a slide out keyboard with pillowed keys, it is fairly easy to use, even though the keys are packed closely together. The touchscreen is resistive (I still haven't had a satisfactory explanation of why smartphone makers seem to prefer this) but still reasonably responsive.But it's the Moto Blur software that stands out. The phone is the first major manufacturer to use the Google Android platform, and the desktop has a group of social-networking widgets such as Facebook, Twitter, Myspace and email. All the tweets, status updates and new emails appear as speech bubbles by the relevant widget so you can keep track of them all. Also, it opens the applications on Moto Blur's own platform, so you can check a new message on Facebook quite quickly, without having to open the website.You also have the "universal inbox" application where you can look at all the messages you received across all platforms in one screen.Moto Blur works by using one central server which interacts with Facebook, Twitter, Gmail and so on, and it filters it down to your phone. Any information on your phone is saved on this server. The advantage of this is, you buy a new Dext phone (£35 a month on Orange) and a new simcard, and once you go through the process of setting up your Facebook, Twitter and email accounts on the handset, it imports all of your contacts from all the platforms. You can then go to your contacts list, open up a particular contact and send a message – except that now you get to choose which platform you want to send it on. Is your friend more likely to check his email, or twitter, or Facebook? Of course, if he has a Dext as well, the message will appear on the desktop of his phone irrespective.Of course, I had to tear myself away from the social-networking tools to check some of the regular functions. Applications such as the email browser are minimalist in design. The browser has a "magnifier" box, which gives you a close up of the web page you are looking at. The magnifier can be dragged across the page until you find something that catches your interest – this is a decent alternative, if not quite in the same league as the iPhone's pinch-zoom. A nice touch is that you can plug a regular pair of earphones into the phone, rather than rummage around for your Motorola earphones or connector cable.But these are not important – the company is going heavy on the social networking angle. Even regular calls don't escape the frenzy. If you receive a call from your friend, his name flashes accompanied by his Facebook status. This is complete overkill in my opinion. But on the other hand, it could be pretty handy to know that your girlfriend is "in a crap mood and needs a shower" before you pick up the call.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?My favourite is my Macbook Air, which has made my life a million times easier as I travel all the time. And this computer, which is amazing, only weighs about a pound. So not only does it make it easier to work, I also have not had any shoulder and backache from lugging a big laptop around the world. Followed by my iPhone, so obviously I'm a Mac man.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it this morning, just before I came in – I checked all my email, and also I finished off a movie treatment I'm doing with an Irish director, and zipped that off to him.What additional features would you add if you could?Well I think it would be somehow nice to have a disc drive. But having said that, you kind of get around using a disc – I haven't used a CD or a DVD since I bought it. And I would make it waterproof, as last month I spilled a large latte all over it and I had to send it in to get electronicaly suctioned, or whatever it is they do there. But these are all features that are due to my own ineptness, so I can't really blame Apple for that.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I think it will be obsolete in six months' time! That's the whole Mac ethos – Apple probably already have two more versions ready to come out. I think what'll happen next is that the keyboard will be in the screen, it'll be a touchscreen thing.What always frustrates you about technology in general?What frustrates me a little bit is that I don't understand how it works. There is this culture of terror that if anything goes wrong with your computer, don't let anyone touch it except possibly the guy who built it. We're all terrified of computers, I wish they were easier to fix.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I had a PC, and I bloody hated it. All PCs should be burned and stamped on. They're kind of made to confuse people, in my opinion. I might be coming across like a bit of a Mac zealot her, but I really don't like PCs.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?To embrace it – you can't hold back time. I know so many people who say: "Oh computers, oh God no, I wouldn't be having any of them, those computers are just the devil's work." You can't work against technology, it's like trying to beat back the ocean with a stick.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I prefer the term "technologically interested person" than nerd. But no, defintiely nerd. I'm kind of nerdy – I love sci-fi movies, I can't live without my computer and my phone; and I brought in a guy to my house to install a wireless system of a level that he said he had only previously installed in a school. I have so much wireless in my house that I can almost lie down on it, like an invisible mattress. It's fantastic.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I did buy a Lexus convertible which is just stuffed full of speakers and has a lovely sound system. Everything is electrical, the seats go up and down, so I suppose there's a lot of technology in that. But how dopey do you have to be to buy a convertible in Ireland? I've had that car for three years now, and the roof has been down twice.Mac or PC, and why?I think we know that by now ... absolutely Mac. Macs are beautiful things – they rarely break down, they're totally idiot proof, and yet it seems to be only the idiots who don't use them.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I do occasionaly buy DVDs; I don't buy cds any more – mostly I download. My last purchase on DVD was the final season of The Wire – I'm a huge fan, I absolutely love that show.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I think anything robot is a good idea, but I always have the suspicion that robots are going to go all Westworld on me – that I'll ask him for a cup of tea and he'll decapitate my children. I think I'd wait for version 2.0 – I'm not going to buy the first.What piece of technology would you most like to own?The first movie I ever saw was Thunderball, with Sean Connery, and at the beginning of that he had this jetpack and I though that is pretty cool. But they have to solve the old burning the seat of the trousers issue before I buy one.•Eoin Colfer is best known as the author of the Artemis Fowl series. His new novel – And Another Thing, the sixth book in the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy trilogy – is out on Monday•On Monday on guardian.co.uk and in the Guardian newspaper:More on Eoin Colfer's And Another Thing, report and pictures from Hitch-Con at London's Southbank Centre, blog by by Marcus O'Dair, author of The Rough Guide to The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, and a special competition
Another outbreak of a time-honoured scam seems to be on the loose: people who ring up out of the blue and offer to help you get rid of viruses on your computer - over the phone.John Harrison, a reader from Ealing, tells us that he was contacted today by a woman who claimed to be from "Techis Online" (or it might have been "Techies Online". Neither has any search engine footprint).She said that she knew Mr Harrison had a computer (not a hard guess) and asked him to switch it on and go to his Task Viewer because he had viruses on it."I knew this was rubbish because I run Norton Internet 10," Harrison told us. But he decided to play along just to see where it would go.Once he had Task Viewer open, she told him to find something with a red cross on it. But before she could go any further, he began asking her to give him more details. After some pressing, the woman - who sounded quite young, perhaps in her 20s - said she was based in Bradford. And then after some more pressing she gave him a phone number for her "company" - 01274 900 213. That number, as you'll discover, is disconnected.It's interesting to wonder what would have happened if Mr Harrison had managed to string her along a bit longer and find out how she would claim to know about viruses. Possibly it would be identifying a program and claiming this was a virus - I wonder if it might have beenthe famous JDBGMGR.exe "virus", which is actually the Microsoft Debugger Register for Java.Very likely it would have been the same asthis story from March:The scam operates by calling people and telling them that their computer system is infected and that it will be "damaged beyond repair" in fifteen minutes unless they purchase security software and support from the caller.Staffordshire County Council's warningPDF says that the callers claim to be from "www.supportonclick.co.uk", though they have reports of calls claiming to be from Microsoft. The warning says the sales pitch is "aggressive and persistent".Certainly the next step would be to perform a cash-ectomy on you, by getting you to buy some software online, paid for by credit card, that wouldn't do anything useful (perhaps it would do the opposite) but would cost you a lot.Anyhow, if you've been contacted by the mysterious Techis - or Techies - Online, tell us about it in the comments. And don't, of course, believe anyone who calls you up and tells you your computer has a virus.
Amazon has admitted that international users of its Kindle book reader will be paying significantly more to buy books than their American counterparts.Since announcing the worldwide launch of the Kindle on Wednesday, many users had questioned whether they would be forced to pay more for downloading books wirelessly to the £200 gadget.The company had attempted to allay those fears by insisting that foreign users would not be paying extra for downloads - but it has now emerged that the internet retail giant will indeed be charging higher prices for consumers outside the United States.When asked by the Guardian precisely how much downloads would cost, an Amazon.co.uk spokesman revealed that customers in the EU - including those in Britain - would be paying $13.99 (£8.75) for new releases and bestsellers, instead of the American price of $9.99 (£6.25). That amounts to a 40% premium for the same title.Prices in other countries will also vary."International customers do pay a higher price for their books than US customers due to higher operating costs outside of the US," said the spokesman. "Additionally, VAT rates in the EU are higher on ebooks than on print books."Those comments are in stark contrast toearlier statements by the company, in which it had said specifically that "there are no additional fees for international customers".The shift is likely to raise questions over the future of the gadget - which goes on sale worldwide on October 19. Although prices are likely to drop when the company opens a Kindle store on its local websites, including Amazon.co.uk, the move has already angered consumer groups who suggested that the price hike was bad news for non-American users."From our point of view, clearly companies can charge what they want to," said Matt Bath, the technology editor forWhich?magazine."However, I find it gobsmacking that the same piece of digital data is going to cost $4 more for a British customer than it will be for an American one. It's not like it costs any import taxes. It will be interesting to hear if this is anything other than a stealth tax."The extra costs are believed to derive in part from the fact that the device is being sold through Amazon.com - rather than the company's local outposts - and allows users to download books wirelessly from the company's American website.Providing the wireless download service had proven a sticking point in the company's attempt to launch the Kindle outside America, after the retailer failed to come to an agreement with various mobile phone networks around the world. To push through the launch, the company instead chose to partner with American phone company AT&amp;T, which already has its own international roaming deals around the world - including with British networks O2, Vodafone, Orange and 3.The cost of receiving data over these roaming connections is notoriously high, however, with AT&amp;T's ordinary mobile phone customers who use the service outside the United States paying just over a penny for each kilobyte of data they download. That means that an average book download would cost the equivalent of £14.39 if sent to a mobile phone.It is not only customers in Britain and other non-US countries who will be paying extra for their Kindle purchases, however. American customers who take their Kindles outside the United States will have to pay a $2 surcharge on every download - putting the price at $11.98 (£7.49). That is still lower than the international price, however.Matt Bath of Which? suggested that people interested in buying a Kindle should look at other options if they feel they are getting a raw deal."Our advice would be for customers who are unhappy with the price to throw the book at Amazon - or vote with their wallets at least," he said. "There are actually other ways to buy ebooks that are cheaper, and there other ebook readers are available."
Hooray! You've drummed up the money to buy a new computer, and transferred all your files safely over to it. Done and dusted. The new machine is a delight - so much faster and quieter and smaller.But now you've got an old computer. And it really is very old. What should you do with it? Give it to acharity such as Computeraid, for the developing world? Give it to your local school or parish council? Keep it in the house for tasks you haven't yet thought of (nobody in the family wants it, as it's too old)? Give it away to anyone who answers an advert?What do you do?
From pounding your Ferrari F50 down the ever-stretching Nuremberg freeway to navigating your Audi (just like the one your Dad had!) through that familiar, annoying chicane right at the end of the Circuit de Catalunya track, Forza Motorsport 3 is a brilliant headrush.Building on the success of the earlier versions, the game has a lot to offer – excellent graphics, very realistic renditions of racing tracks around the world, many more cars to choose from, and most importantly excellent gameplay. It hooks you in quickly – I had a quick look at the game to preview it and ended up staying three hours extra and getting a bollocking from my boss.This is my first experience of Forza Motorsport, and it started off as an intimidating experience given the plethora of cars to choose from, the level of detail in the tracks, and the complexity of the upgrades and tuning. However, its developers insist the big selling point of this the third version is that it appeals to a wide range of players, from professional racers to six-year-olds. On first impressions, I tend to agree.There is a wide range of settings to choose from depending on your skill level. The most basic setting allows you to turn tracking on – a line on the track that guides you through the best path to take to maximise your performance. It turns red when there's a sharp turn coming up and you should be pushing the brakes down. This combined with auto-braking makes the game incredibly accessible for amateurs. Most importantly, it has a "rewind" option – in other games just the one mistake could send you crashing into the rubber tyres on the side, and have you throwing the gamepad away in disgust, but here you can rewind back to a time when you were actually on the middle of the track. This is also dead useful in improving your performance – trying to perfect how you take a difficult curve, for example.The company also claims it improves your actual racing skills – not sure about that, but I certainly shaved a couple of seconds off my best time on Need For Speed Undercover when I got home that evening. For advanced drivers, you have about 400 cars to choose from, and the tuning system is much more intricate. Most importantly, the game has gone to town on the level of detail in the tracks, bringing in professional drivers to give their experience of that particular track, even perfectly aligning the surrounding flora so you know what to expect when you see that particular crooked tree, just as in real life.While I did not have a chance to explore the career mode in full, my verdict on first impressions is that it is a bit cluttered for my taste. It makes a good start – with a couple of quick wins, you can accumulate enough credits to buy a reasonably wide range of cars. However, Forza Motorsport 3 has 200 events to choose from as opposed to 90 in its predecessors. It depends on what car you're driving at the moment – a Ford Mustang with relevant upgrades would unlock a certain set of tournaments and a BMW would unlock a different set. I prefer it a bit more straightforward.But on the whole, the game was enjoyable, and worth that bollocking.•Forza Motorsport 3 will be released on 23 October for the Xbox 360.
Update:Since I first posted this, Amazon got back to me with some precise answers to my questions on pricing. This makes it clear that foreign userswill pay a premiumfor downloading books on the Kindle, since the company is hiking the price on every book in the store.More details here.When Amazonannounced the new "international" version of the Kindle ebook readerearlier this week, there were plenty of questions. How did it work? Why was it being launched through Amazon.com and not local versions like Amazon.co.uk? And, most importantly, who was paying for you to download your books wirelessly?Some of thosequestions were answered- but the last one was most perplexing.After all, Amazon said that it was operating its wireless Whispernet service in partnership with American network AT&amp;T. Since AT&amp;T doesn't have foreign outposts - just roaming deals with foreign mobile providers - that means every time a foreign Kindle owner buys a book wirelessly, they're effectively downloading at international roaming rates.That means - if we take AT&amp;T'sofficial roaming ratesof $0.0195 per kilobyte of data over a GPRS connection - that it costs anastonishing $23.40 (£14.60) for the average 1.2MB book.Initial fears were that British users (and people in other countries) would have to pay exorbitant download fees. But apparently not: the company insists foreign users won't pay download charges. And although I can't imagine Amazon or AT&amp;T is paying anything like that insane $23 figure, it's clear that somebody is footing some extra bill somewhere along the line.So who is subsidising this international expansion?Turns out that - at least in part - it's American Kindle users who use the service while abroad.According toa report by our colleagues at PaidContent, and an eagle-eyed comment fromreader GC Day, American users who buy their reading material while in foreign lands will pay a premium.Books will cost an extra $2 (£1.24) while newspapers and magazines will cost an additional $5 (£3.11) on top of the asking price.With a current-generation Kindle able to store around 1,500 books that means a user who filled their device with titles bought while outside the US would end up paying $3,000 more for their library. Or if you were an American with a subscription to, say, theFinancial Times, it would cost you an extra 50% on the $9.99 monthly price.Other prices are higher too, including a $1 per megabyte charge for other documents (up from 15 cents per megabyte inside the US, itself an increase from the original flat fee of 10 cents per document).Sounds a little crazy to me, but it's right,according to the fine print at the bottom of this page.So what does this all mean?Well, to me it could indicate that Amazon is making such a killing on Kindle downloads that it can more or less subsidise the international costs. Or that roaming data charges are so ludicrously high that a $2 fee covers what would usually cost you $23. Or a mixture of the two.Whatever the case, a spokesman for Amazon.co.uk said that the international roaming price for American users doesn't have any affect on British customers."Wireless delivery is included in the price of the book for international customers," he said. "There are no additional fees for international customers. US customers will pay a nominal additional fee when travelling outside of the US to cover the additional operating costs outside of the US. As always, we will continue to look for ways to cut costs and pass those savings along to our customers."I'm sure they're glad to hear it.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Google co-founder Sergey Brin has hit out at critics who derailed the company's $125m deal with American publishers to give it the right to digitise millions of books.The proposal, which promised to create a huge library of material available through Google's website, is currently being renegotiated after the judge in charge of the case received a wide range of objections to the terms of the deal.In acolumn published in the New York Times, Brin - who founded the internet giant with Larry Page in 1998 - hit out at those objectors, called many of their accusations "myths" while dismissing other concerns as fantasy."This agreement aims to make millions of out-of-print but in-copyright books available either for a fee or for free with ad support, with the majority of the revenue flowing back to the rights holders, be they authors or publishers," he wrote."Nothing in this agreement precludes any other company or organisation from pursuing their own similar effort. The agreement limits consumer choice in out-of-print books about as much as it limits consumer choice in unicorns."Under theoriginal terms of the agreement- which emerged as an out-of-court settlement to a case brought by American publishers against Google after it digitised in-copyright books - the internet company agreed to pay for the right to make millions of texts available online and share any proceeds with rights holders.First announcedalmost a year ago, the deal came in for widespread criticism from a variety of organisations; includingMicrosoftandAmazon- which appeared to oppose the deal on commercial terms; as well as others who feared that Google's agreement wouldprove an obstacle to the reform of US copyright law.In September, New York district judge Denny Chineffectively postponed the settlement, saying that it "raises significant issues" and that "fair concerns have been raised".He did not rule out approving a reworked version of the agreement, however, adding that there would be substantial public value if an appropriate deal could be hammered out.Brin's comments come a day after he came in for fierce criticism from Brewster Kahle, the founder of the non-profitInternet Archive, which has been working to secure a change in copyright law to help digitisation projects. In particular, the archive has been working to clarify the status of so-called "orphan" works - books whose copyright holder remains unknown - by pushing new legislation through the US Congress.Under Google's proposal, the Californian internet company would have gained the exclusive right to sell advertising or access to orphan works - something Kahle felt was inappropriate."Many of us are objecting because we have been working together for years on the mass scanning of out-of-print books – and have worked to get books online for far longer than Google – and Google's 'settlement' could hurt our efforts,"he wrote in a blog post on Wednesday. "A major part of our efforts have concentrated on changing the law so everyone would benefit.""There is an alternative, and they know it — orphan works legislation — that up until the last session of Congress had been working its way through the house and senate. It was not perfect, but was getting close to what we need. Best yet, it passed one house — at least until Google effectively sideswiped the process with their settlement proposal."In his editorial, Brin admitted that Google would have exclusive rights over such material, at least in the short term - but then suggested that Google's deal would actually help attempts to force through a legislative change."While new projects will not immediately have the same rights to orphan works, the agreement will be a beacon of compromise in case of a similar lawsuit, and it will serve as a precedent for orphan works legislation, which Google has always supported and will continue to support."Whether Google is able to rescue its deal with publishers will become more clear next month, after Judge Chin this week set a deadline of November 9 for any revisions.
Games are, let's be honest here, rarely cool - not in the widely accepted definition of the term. You won't garner social credibility playing Modern Warfare 2, even if its release is likely to be one of the entertainment events of the year. Although videogame culture is slowly but surely carving a niche for itself in the mainstream consciousness, there is still ahintof shame attached to a weekend-long Killzone 2 marathon.But once in a while a title comes along that somehow punches the zeitgeist squarely in the face; that it's okay to talk about in public. There are games that pique the interest of lifestyle mags, Newsnight reviews, hot new musicians and other discerning cultural commentators. They're not better or worse for it, they're just 'cool'.So here are, in my blinkered opinion, the ten coolest games of all time. I've stuck to retail releases; there have probably been countless viral and augmented reality experiences that I've missed – although those tend to be considered cool simply because they're created by the sorts of Hoxton-based creative media agencies that tell us what's cool in the first place. So that's technically cheating.Anyway, this is a Friday Philosophy entry because, a) it's a bit throwaway (I mean, it doesn't really matter in the end, does it?), and b) I'd like your suggestions in the comments section. Go on, you're cooler than me - what have I missed?Pac-Man, 1980Some games are born cool, some games achieve coolness and some have coolness thrust upon them. Pac-Man probably belongs in the latter category. There is nothing intrinsically hip about Namco's maze game, but from the start it was enthusiastically appropriated into popular culture, especially dance music. Early electro classics like Jonzun crew's Pac-Jam, The Pac-Man's I Am a Pac Man and Newcleus' Jam On Revenge (The Wiki Wiki Song) were inspired by the huge success of the game, as well as the electronic age it ushered in and the iconic sound design. The fact that the eponymous character spent his time guzzling energising power-pill also struck a chord with an emerging generation of clubbers for some reason; hence Richard D James' Power-Pill EP. And, of course, there's Marcus Brigstocke's classic quote, "If Pacman had affected us as kids we'd be running around in dark rooms, munching pills and listening to repetitive music."WipEout, 1995Alright, it tried too damn hard. That capitalized E was designed to flirt with the ecstasy crowd, the visuals mixed Bladerunner chic with a Ministry of Sound lighting rig. Then there was the soundtrack, filled with mainstream big beat floor fillers, which was released as a CD just as the whole super club fad was kicking off. Sony's marketing department was sponsoring nights at fashionable haunts all over the world, putting demo pods in chill-out rooms, and turning up at festivals like Glastonbury (where the company once famously distributed Playstation flyers on serrated cardboard). Somehow a futuristic spaceship racing game become the poster boy for videogame cultcha. If it is possible to cynically buy coolness, WipEout was cool as fxxk.PaRappa the Rappa, 1996The idiosyncratic brainchild of musician Masaya Matsuura and artist Rodney Greenblat, PaRappa was a hippyish rapping sim combining goofy anthropomorphic characters, daft songs and Simon Says-type interaction, and effectively laying the foundations for the rhythm action genre. It arrived on the PlayStation in 1996, but Matsuura and his company NanaOn-Sha had actually been working on it for Sony since before the launch of the console, testing the mechanic using characters from Greenblat's Dazzeloids CD ROM game (don't listen to the revisionists who tell you Nintendo invented inclusive gaming with the Wii - they're wrong). Sony then brought Greenblat in to produce fresh characters with a global appeal and a legend was born. The game was enormously popular with female players in Japan, prompting a similar follow up, Um Jammer Lammy, as well as a sequel. The cute characters can still be seen adorning T-shirts to this day.Dance, Dance Revolution, 1998The last time I was in Tokyo a few years ago, you couldn't get into the arcades for the hordes of gyaru – fashion-obsessed school girls – playing Dance Dance Revolution for hours on end. Konami's massively popular coin-op and console series gets you to dance on coloured pads to a series of licensed and in-house tracks – either alone or against friends. Importantly, though, you could always add your own freestyle moves between the mandatory inputs and through this element of self-expression, a thriving culture of 'DDR Freaks' emerged. The whole structure of the rhythm action experience was tweaked and codified here. Along with Guitar Freaks, it is utterly seminal to the genre.Music, 1998Yes, yes, more music gaming – there's a theme developing here. This was a sequencer package developed by UK studio Jester Interactive, under the creative guidance of Tim Wright who created a lot of the tracks for WipEout. It allowed PlayStation owners to create reasonably complex dance tracks using a huge library of samples and a riff generator. Several sequels followed, adding more complex sequencing and sampling features, as well as the ability to record and distribute tracks. These cheap, powerful applications were used as a stepping stone into music production by dozens of urban artists. Depending on your music tastes that's reasonably cool – and the baton has been taken up, to some degree, by the excellent Korg DS-10 synth for the Nintendo DS…Tony Hawk's Pro Skater, 1999Here was a game that actually felt like hanging out at a skate park attempting idiotic tricks with your friends. It was utterly divorced from formalised simulations like FIFA or Madden and this gave it a similar counter-culture aura to the real thing. And of course, it rode the slipstream of the late-nineties extreme sports craze (brought about, in part, by ESPN's aggressive marketing of its X Games events in the US) and also the rise of emo culture. For a while everyone was a skater – even if it was just on their TV.Jet Set Radio, 2000Created by Sega's Smilebit team, previously responsible for the cult Saturn shooter Panzer Dragoon, Jet Set Radio was a bewilderingly fluorescent, hyper-kinetic urban adventure, where you had to form skate gangs and tag as many walls as possible to mark out your territory. The funky cell-shaded visuals led to a long-lasting trend which eventually drove everyone bloody mad, but it looked amazing first time round. The graffiti theme of the game garnered objections at the time, which only made it more voguish. The soundtrack was also fantastic, mixing J-pop, funk and grunge to pleasing effect.Rez, 2001Created by avid clubber Tetsuya Mizuguchi and inspired by the work of Russian artist Wassily Kandinsky, this avant-garde shooter is an exploration of the neurological phenomenon synesthesia, in which sensory information is confused so that you hear colours, see sounds, etc. The cool part is the merging of trippy vector visuals with an evolving electronic soundtrack, which responds to the in-game action, allowing players to build a pounding dance track as they go. Also cool was the Trance Vibrator peripheral, packaged with special editions of the game. This vibrating device could be held or sat on during play, ostensibly extending the synesthesia experience to touch. Some users found that the device became the focus of their gameplay experience – asthis famed blog poston Game Girl Advance illustrated.GTA: Vice City, 2002Grand Theft Auto has always enjoyed a frisson of cool, but Vice City went stratospheric. It arrived reasonably early in the PS2's life cycle – an era in which people were still referring to the PlayStation Generation in a vaguely reverent and corroborative manner. Vice City brilliantly captured the emerging fad for eighties nostalgia via a huge soundtrack filled with ironic retro hits. It was plastered with achingly hip reference points from Scarface and Goodfellas to Boogie Nights and Saturday Night Fever. And it featured sex, drugs, violence and swearing within the context of an amoral universe – those things are always cool. Just ask Brett Easton Ellis's accountant.Guitar Hero, 2005I wasn't sure about including this, because it is essentially poncing about in your living room with a plastic instrument pretending to be Jimmy Page. But last month Courtney Love said that she loathed the game, which instantly made it absolutely acceptable. Created by Harmonix Music Systems, the series has become a music industry institution, providing a new channel for unknown bands to reach global audiences and introducing a whole new generation to groups like Blue Oyster Cult, Black Sabbath and Pixies. Which is sort of cool. Ultimately, Guitar Hero is the now the quintessential post-pub game – as long as you can find all the bits, then calibrate the audio after five pints of Stella.
&bull; Was a Dutch court'sruling againstthePirate Baybased on false evidence? That's the assertion of the Swedish website's lawyers, says TorrentFreak. They're arguing thatcrucial documentation was forgedin an attempt to get the notorious site blocked in the Netherlands.&bull; Is it time to wave goodbye to NVIDIA chipsets? Possibly. After drawn-out legal battle with Intel, the maker of nForce has said it will;"postpone further chipset investments", reports PC Mag. Apparently that also includes AMD chipsets (exempt from those court proceedings) - leaving NVIDIA to focus on graphics processing.&bull; Ever wondered what it means when somebody says the FBI has a file on them? Well,Aaron Swartz- formerly ofRedditand theInternet Archive- found out.His filerelates to the time he downloaded 18 million pages of legal documents: "Since SWARTZ is the potential subject of an ongoing investigation, it is requested that SWARTZ not be approached by agents".You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
One of the men behind internet radio service Spotify says the company needs more time to develop its business - once again casting the spotlight on the difficulties of making money from online music.In apost on the company's blog, co-founder Daniel Ek said that Spotify "has a long way to go" and was still trying to avoid joining dozens of other startups in what he called the "digital music graveyard"."The notion of overnight success is very misleading and actually rather harmful to any hope for long term and sustainable growth in this industry," he said. "Yet this is unfortunately something the music industry as a whole is particularly good at, expecting business models to be proven within months of inception."Spotify - which is based in Stockholm and London - offers users free music on demand if they also listen to adverts, or gives them the chance to gain more advanced, advertising-free services by subscribing for £10 a month. It quickly became a darling of the dotcom industry after launching a year ago - with more than 5m users signing up to use it - and has continued expanding aggressively.Despite the buzz, however, the company's finances remain unclear: the cost of streaming islikely to stretch into the millions of pounds, a problem that has hurt many similar services before.Spotify has raised more than €71m from investors, and has attempted to mitigate its expenses through a number of factors, including a reliance on peer-to-peer technology and other ways of saving bandwidth. More importantly, however, the company may have also defrayed some costs owed to record labelsby giving them a stake in the company- though all parties have remained evasive over the details of any deal.Despite these attempts at saving costs, though, Ek indicated that Spotify was still some distance from reaching its goal of profitability - and pointed out that even Apple's dominance of the digital music market began with a struggle."The truth is that even the most successful digital business to date, iTunes, missed its revenue targets in its first year by 30%, and label executives were far from convinced that this was the future," he wrote."It would obviously be wrong for me to compare Apple's success with iTunes to Spotify... yet whatever the business, big success takes years to build and there are very few counter examples."However, he added that his intention was to solve the complex problem of making money from music streaming - not to simply sell out to the highest bidder."We are in this for the long haul," he said. "We aren't interested in just trying to hype the company and then 'flipping it'."Streaming music services have found it notoriously difficult to generate profit, thanks largely to the costs of licensing. Last.fm, the London-based company that sold for $280m to US media conglomerate CBS in 2007, recently said it was closing down advertising-supported services in some areasbecause it could not cover costs.American online radio service Pandora, meanwhile, has beenlocked in a battle over royalty paymentsthat has had a number of side-effects - including forcing it to shut off its offering for British users.Last.fm co-founder Martin Stiksel, who has now left the company, told the Guardian earlier this year thatcomplex music royalty systems were hampering innovation online."Where we're standing, it's not only more complicated, but also more expensive," he said in February. "It's an absolute nightmare in the grand scheme of things. We are further away from a simple licensing model – the sort of thing FM radio has – than ever before."
Addiction to online games is becoming more widespread among vulnerable young people, according to a treatment centre that has begun running abstinence courses in Britain.As games become more visually enticing and the recession leaves people at home in front of computer screens, therapists are encountering more cases of people obsessed with being online. In extreme circumstances game players can, they warn, become detached from normal existence and forget to eat or sleep as they interact with screen characters such as wizards and monsters. Youngsters can also develop posture problems.Broadway Lodge, a residential rehabilitation centre in Weston-super-Mare, Somerset, that normally deals with alcoholics and drug addicts, has recently treated a 23-year-old for his obsession with online games.Brian Dudley, the centre's chief executive, said: "He was staying online for seven or eight hours at a time. We developed a treatment for him which followed the 12-step [abstinence] approach, but you can't tell someone never to use the internet again. He had eating issues, he wasn't eating properly. He did very well. He has … the mechanisms now to cope with it."The problem is not just restricted to young kids. We know parents who are hooked on these things. It's only a small percentage of people who get addicted but it's also only a small percentage of people who gamble too much. I don't know anybody else who is treating [such cases] in this country. There's no helpline."Peter Smith, another counsellor at Broadway Lodge, said: "It's not unusual for people to get so obsessed with online gaming that they forget to eat and drift towards an anorexic and undernourished state. You can play online with people around the world, so it can be at odd times of the day – when it's 5pm in Chicago or evening in Japan. You have a relationship with characters in the game that give you an artificial feeling, created by your body's natural endorphins, when you have killed some monster or solved a problem.""Addiction" is a loaded term among psychiatrists and psychologists, with many disputing whether the dependency exhibited by a few constitutes the same type of physical craving triggered by opiates such as heroin.Online Gamers Anonymous, a US website, classifies "massively multiplayer online roleplaying games" as the most addictive. "Success in these games is highly dependent on the amount of time you put into them. Playing the game casually will leave you trailing behind others who put in more time, possibly making you feel as if you aren't as good or are falling behind."Online role-playing games, the site adds, "encourages interaction amongst other people and development of groups, allowing people to flourish socially online, providing an escape for their struggling social life"; however the games could also ruin  a "successful social life".ELSPA The Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association denied that playing online games could lead to addiction. Its director general, Michael Rawlinson, said: "Playing video games is becoming increasingly mainstream in the UK and we firmly believe in the positive impact playing games can have."
Since becoming the latest, Twitter has rarely gone a day or two without stirring up some new point of interest. Today, for example, Kara Swisher at All Things Digital suggests that the love-it-or-hate-it website is intalks with Google and Microsoftto license its vast amount of data to them, for incorporation in their search engines. And only a couple of weeks ago, the dotcomconfirmed a huge new round of investment- reported to be around $100m.Yet for all of this, the site continues to be plagued by technical issues. For the past few hours, Twitter appears to have suffered a major blockage, with only a trickle of messages coming through to be displayed on user's pages. I've got the issue here in California, while colleagues in London are reporting the same thing: right now, I've got a number of messages that say they're no more recent than three hours ago.It's not just Twitter's website either, the API that feeds all of the applications that plug into Twitter appear to be having the same problem. Confusingly, however, it does look like messages are actually being received and stored by Twitter - a quick search onCameronwill reveal, for example, plenty of people talking about the Tory leader's speech today. And if you go and look directly at different user pages, you can see some messages that have been sent more recently.Confusing.What's going on? I asked Twitter to comment, but they haven't said anything aside from a message on status.twitter.comthat says"We are currently investigating a problem causing many users' timelines to be delayed". Earlier this week Amazon's EC2 service - the cloud-based infrastructure that is used by Twitter - washammered by a denial-of-service attack, but the fact that Twitter messages are being incorrectly processed (rather than not being received at all) would indicate that the problem lies with the San Francisco startup.Whatever the reasons behind this glitch, it highlights the fact that the service is still amazingly unreliable for something with so much money in the bank. In the early days, Twitter was notorious for falling over on a regular basis - particularly if a big news event prompted millions of people to simultaneously share their thoughts. It was so common that the "Fail Whale" (the graphic that appeared when the site was out)even generated its own fan club.But while users were prepared to forgive Twitter when it was still relatively small, today it's a different story. Now the site has got a lot of money and a lot of users - many of them new and without the warm and fuzzy feelings that early adopters have towards the service.If Twitter wants  the sort of loyalty from its users that will help it forge those deals with Google, Microsoft and others, then it's going to have to seriously improve reliability.
OK - so it seems thatmy calculations about how much Spotify costs to runwere way off. I've just had a long chat with Steve Purdham, the chief executive and co-founder (with Peter Gabriel) ofwe7.com, a music streaming service that you access via its website.Headline figure: if Spotify were to pay full whack for its music licensing, it would be paying something over £9m per month for that alone - while getting income of around £1m. But as you'll discover, it's unlikely that the cost is anywhere near that.We7 is actually doing all right, thank you, at least in popularity: according to Hitwise, the web measurement service,last weekit had 2.3m page views.But Spotify, Purdham recognises, has done an excellent PR job. And he acknowledges to that it's not a web site, so direct comparisons aren't feasible; it's an application.However he pointed out thatI missed a huge (potential) chunk of Spotify's costs.I was calculating that when it streams a song to you, that it has to pay for the physical streaming, and the "publishing" cost (to the PRS, and so the song's writer). But I left off the payment required to the record label (and so the performer) - the "label cost". And that is hefty.Let Purdham take it up."Until July 1 [when the PRS licensing change came in] the perceived wisdom was that the total cost of publishing plus label cost was 1p in the UK, 1 Euro cent in Europe, and 1 cent in the US. For 100 streams that would cost you £1."But then in the US you hadiMeem, which reached 25 million users in the US but wasn't generating money. And there's MySpace Music doing 1.5 billion streams every month. People have started to realise that the 1p/1c rate isn't sustainable. That's why companies in the ad-funded world can't scale."The reduction in July of the PRS rate from 0.22p to 0.085p per (streaming) track helped. But you still have the record labels' charge - which is still somewhere around 0.8p per track. And Purdham also points out that my suspicions were right: the UK's MCPS/PRS publishing organisationcollects 0.085p per streamed track, or 10.5% of your revenues,whichever is greater- so if you owed 85p in streaming costs and had 86p in revenues, you'd be liable for the 85p, not 8.6p. (I did say it seemed bonkers the other way around.) And Purdham says that the UK's publishing costs are probably the cheapest in Europe.Plus he pointed me to a useful new source of information: a post on Spotify's blog,marking its first birthday (yesterday), which says that "Billions of tracks are streamed every month".As Purdham points out, at the very least that means 2bn tracks per month.Work out the maths, when you have costs of about 0.88p per track - call it 0.9p per track - and that means thatSpotify apparently owes £18m per month in music licensing costs.Even if you allow for them udging the numbers a bit - assume that they actually only streamed 1,000,000,001 tracks but decided that because it's more than a billion they could say "billions" - that'sstill £9m per monthowed in licensing charges.Compared to this, the costs of hosting and streaming pale to nothing, Purdham says: the assumptions in my blogpost are near enough right. And actually, compared to the money owed to the labels under this scenario, they're nothing - per stream, the hosting cost comes to about 0.03-0.04 pence per stream. Not trivial, but compared to 0.8p owing to the record labels, nothing to fret about. "We aren't going to succeed or fail on our bandwidth costs," Purdham explains. "We can get orders of magnitude differences in cost there through technology." (Andcommentershave already pointed out that Spotify seems to use peer-to-peer to reduce that overhead.)So, hmm, £9m-£18m. Well, OK, but maybe Spotify can make it back by a combination of advertising and premium subscribers? We had a stab at 100,000 users, which would mean revenues from subscriptions of £1m per month;Out-law.com claims in an article todaythat it's heard a number that suggests it has between 100,000 and 600,000 paying users, which meansincome of between £1m and £6m.Er, OK, perhaps we can make it up with advertising revenue?Almost certainly not, says Purdham. Look at we7, he says: it is set out so that every time you want to listen to a track, the site has four opportunities to show you an ad. "If we work on an earned CPM" - the average value of an ad shown to a thousand people: if you have an ad paid at £10 per thousand displays, but only fill one of your four slots, your ECPM is £2.50 - "of between £2 and £3 then we can make it work."But, he says, Spotify has purposely kept its ECPM down, playing fewer ads than it might, in order to pull people into the service. Basically, it has gone for growth. Six months ago you'd have heard virtually no ads; now you get about 4 per hour. That's still not a lot. (The total possible would be around 20 ads per hour - one after each song.)If we take the suggestion that 2% (=100,000) of people are premium subscribers, that means that they have to support the other 98%. At that ratio it can't work, Purdham explains: "the cost of that 98% far outweighs the rest. We are going to be launching our own subscription version in December. But the fact is that if you can't make it work with ads, then subscriptions won't cover the costs."And it gets worse. Subscription models are treated differently from streaming models. They have different licences. The publishing costs are about 40p per subscriber per month, or 8% of the subscription. That's 80p. Still, you've got £9.20 left over.Then the record labels come along: they'll have half, typically, of your top line. So that's £5. You're suddenly left with £4.20. And your subscription users want mobile and other delivery - and there are extra costs for those. Plus record labels sometimes insist onminimum ratesper month if you're a subscription-based offering."It'ssmall amounts, multiplied by big numbers," Purdham explains. "That's what makes these businesses marginal." That is, small differences in the small amounts can tip them easily into profit, or drastic loss. But he's clear about one thing: "subscriptions aren't a silver bullet."He "agrees partly" with the suggestion by Napster's Thorsten Schliesche, vice president of sales and marketing in Europe, that a freemium model cannot work. "By going for scale, Spotify creates the problem that the cost base for the music is so high. The costs make the freemium model, pushing people to subscriptions, hard to handle. The model that Spotify's shown in the public domain will need significant investment. If they've just raised $50m then before they go to the US, that $50m has been spoken for across six or seven months."But this is where things suddenly become murky. Spotify isbelieved to number among its investors record labels- the major ones, and the independents. It wouldn't really make sense for them to strangle their own child. None will talk about precisely what deal they've done with Spotify. When I asked a spokesman for the independents whether they did indeed own part of Spotify, he gave the most evasive non-answer you've ever heard. "That doesn't sound like a denial," I suggested. At which he could only laugh.And yet that's a positive thing, says Purdham: "iMeem and MySpace Music haven't launched outside because their costs are so high on the old models. Two years ago it was almost mathematically impossible to make a profitable music service; which is sort of why I did it - I love the challenge. But you know a lot of people have a dig at the music industry. But the labels are trying, they're looking to survive and want to support new companies. The conversations we're having today are far more positive than 18 months or two years ago. Free music does cost a lot to deliver." But there's a benefit to the record labels that it dissuades people from file sharing? "Exactly. People weren't doing filesharing because they reallywantedto steal music; they were there to find music. We've had to create a better-than-free model: you search, click, find. We've got 2.3m users in the UK, Spotify says it's got 2.7m. That's 5m people who have been consuming music elsewhere. And now we can sell them something, even if it's not the music: T-shirts, tickets to gigs, ads, the collector's version of the DVD or CD, or whatever. We create an environment where music is the honeypot."Thefinal answer therefore on Spotify's costs? Much more - in theory - than my previous estimate. But, in reality very probably much less in reality than the calculations suggest. All the signs are that Spotify is getting an easy ride from the record labels, because the raw numbers would suggest that it's burning through anywhere north of £10m per month - which, even with the generous funding it has had, would simply be unsustainable.
Dell, the computer and services company which recently announced it will acquire Perot Systems, is also getting into the smartphone market - but using Google's, not Microsoft's, software.The company is understood to be preparing to launch the phone next year on AT&amp;T's network, which already carries the Apple iPhone.It will be launching into an increasingly crowded market, presently dominated by Apple and RIM, which makes the BlackBerry. However Google's Android platform, launched only last year, is making  inroads, partly because it carries no licensing costs and can be tweaked by phone makers as they wish.But the decision to go with Android is a blow to Microsoft's Windows Mobile operating system, which has just received a substantial revamp that the company hadhoped would boost its fortunesin the smartphone market.A source with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters that Dell plans to introduce a U.S. version of its "oPhone" for China - which runs on Android - and that the device had been certified by AT&amp;T for its domestic network.The Wall Street Journal, which broke the news on Wednesday, cited people briefed on the matter as saying Dell's phone could be launched as soon as early 2010.Worldwide factory shipments of smart phones are expected to rise from 184.2m in 2009 to 235.6m units in 2010, up 27.9%, according to the analysis company iSuppli. That compares to 12.3% decline projected for mobile phones overall in 2009.But analysts warn that the world's No. 2 PC maker would face a tough challenge in a market already crowded with competition. On Wednesday, South Korea's Samsung said it would also begin selling an Android phone through Sprint Nextel's network.Others including Taiwanese rivals Acer and Asustek Computer are moving into smartphones, which tend to offer higher margins than PCs.Dell spokesman Andrew Bowins declined comment on the AT&amp;T tie-up but told Reuters: "We are deeply engaged with our operator partners around the world to deliver mobile broadband enabled computing devices."He added: "We haven't announced anything around voice or Android although we continue to explore opportunities in those areas with operators around the world."Google declined comment, as did AT&amp;T. But a spokesman for the telecoms giant, Michael Coe, said: "We expect to sell Android phones in the future."Dell has been coy about its plans, although such a move has been rumored ever since it hired Ron Garriques from Motorola in 2007 to lead its consumer products division. The American chip designer Marvell Technology had developed the "oPhone" platform for mobile phone makers who wanted to make smartphones without investing the associated research and development costs. Dell was one of the first companies to sign up to make them.Marvell subsequently came up with a mobile device for China Mobile Ltd - a large, touchscreen phone.The Wall Street Journal, citing people briefed on the matter, reported that Dell's Android phone for AT&amp;T would also come with a touchscreen and a camera. "They've been working on a phone for awhile," said Kaufman Bros analyst Shaw Wu. "But it's going to be really hard for them to differentiate from what's already on the market."Forrester Research analyst Charles Golvin said a partnership between Dell and AT&amp;T would make sense given the flurry of announcements around Android smartphones. "It's pretty natural that these other guys are going to jump on the Android bandwagon... From AT&amp;T's perspective, it's a gap that they're looking to fill. Get an Android phone, get one that's different than the one everybody else is offering."But Golvin cautioned that Dell does not have a strong track record moving into areas where it has little experience. Other analysts noted that Android was generating plenty of momentum."The goal here of Google is to make the Android operating system a real alternative to that of Apple, Research In Motion's Blackberry and Palm," said C.L. King and Associates analyst Lawrence Harris.Google is gaining some traction with its fledgling software. On Tuesday, it said it was partnering with Verizon Wireless to co-develop multiple phones based on Android. They plan to bring two phones to market this year. Verizon Wireless is a venture of Verizon Communications Inc and Vodafone Group Plc.Other Android phones include Motorola's recently announced Cliq, and HTC's Hero, slated for U.S. release next week.
