Former Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer announced Tuesday that he is stepping down from the company’s board after 14 years.“I think it would be impractical for me to continue to serve on the board, and it is best for me to move off,” Ballmersaid in a letterto his successor Satya Nadella, who was installed as Microsoft’s CEO in February.“There is never a perfect time for this type of transition, but now is the right time,” Ballmer said. “We have embarked on a new strategy with a new organization and we have an amazing senior leadership team. My original thoughts on timing would have had my retirement happen in the middle of our company’s transformation to a devices and services company. We need a CEO who will be here longer term for this new direction.”Ballmer announced last August that he would step down as Microsoft CEO as the software giant continued to struggle to catch up with Google in the online era. His decision meant that for the first time in the company’s 39-year history, someone other than he or Bill Gates was in charge of the company. Gates stepped down as Microsoft’s chairman in February, but is still one of the company’s directors.The letter comes a week after Ballmer closed a$2bn purchase of the Clippersfrom Donald Sterling. “I had not spent any time really contemplating my post-Microsoft life until my last day with the company. In the six months since leaving, I have become very busy. I see a combination of the Clippers, civic contribution, teaching and study taking a lot of time,” he wrote. “The fall will be hectic between teaching a new class and the start of the NBA season so my departure from the board is effective immediately.”Ballmer remains one of Microsoft’s largest shareholders, with a 4.05% stake, according to FactSet Research. In his letter he said he had been “reflecting on my life, my ongoing ownership of Microsoft stock, and my involvement with the company.”“I hold more Microsoft shares than anyone other than index funds and love the mix of profits, investments and dividends returned in our stock. I expect to continue holding that position for the foreseeable future,” Ballmer wrote.
Google is reportedly developing a new version of its products designed specifically for children.The firm is reported by theWall Street Journalto be creating a child-friendly YouTube and Gmail as part of the move, that would for the first time allow children under 13 to set up Google accounts.Google executives are sensitive to the fact many parents are wary about allowing their children on YouTube, fearing they will be confronted by X-rated pop videos or expletive-laden comments.A new child-friendly version would potentially include a Google dashboard to give parents greater control over what their children are doing online, the report said.Google refused to confirm or deny the claims. A spokeswoman in the UK said: "Google has nothing to say on this as it is founded in just rumour and speculation."The US advocacy group Centre for Digital Democracy said child-friendly services could invade the privacy of millions of children unless designed correctly.In the UK, the acting director of Big Brother Watch, Emma Carr, said: "It was only a matter of time that online companies started to target their products at younger users. This demographic is immensely susceptible to advertising and are therefore a huge untapped source of revenue for these companies."It is imperative that Google, and any other company that directly targets products at children, ensures that privacy safeguards are automatically in place to ensure that both parents and their children are very clear about information will be collected, analysed and used. Failure to do this jeopardises losing both the parents and children as future users of these products, a fate that few companies would want to materialise."
Greggs fell afoul of the Google algorithm on Tuesday when an alternative logo popped up to anyone searching for the company.Instead of the company’s official logo, an image with the slogan: “Providing shit to scum for over 70 years.” Classist, crass and a far cry from the company’s actual slogan: “Always fresh. Always tasty.” But it caused a giggle on Twitter, nonetheless.@samhesling1we certainly have! Praying to the google gods it gets fixed soon!&mdash; Greggs (@GreggstheBakers)August 19, 2014Cue a social media nightmare for the purveyors of reasonably-priced sausage rolls, whose communications team were quick to respond to amused tweeters via theirofficial account.But how does this even happen? Some tweeters were quick to blame “a disgruntled employee”. We don’t know who created the logo,which appears to have been around since 2010, but the search bit certainly has nothing to do with Greggs.It’s not an isolated problem by any means.As other news organisationshave pointed out, if you search for the Daily Mail’s Richard Littlejohn, you get a picture of him with his mouth replaced by another orifice. And earlier this month you got some interesting resultswhen searching for Skellow in Yorkshire.Both the Greggs and the Littlejohn images come fromUncyclopedia, a satirical version of Wikipedia. But the images and the site are hosted by Wikia, a free web hosting service which hosts images and other content for all sorts of user-driven sites, calledwikis. So it hosts images for everything, satirical or not.Google writes programs and formulas to try and get the best results possible for anyone searching for a specific topic. It has a lot to do, crawling more than60 trillion individual pages across the internetto find the content most applicable to what people want to see. Pages are ranked by Google according to how useful they are.The problem is, because Wikia hosts a great deal of reliable content and is probably marked as a quality source, Google’s algorithm can’t really tell the picture is satirical. And, presumably, no human at Google has checked as of yet.On the plus side, whoever fixes it gets all these doughnuts.Hey@GoogleUK, fix it and they&#39;re yours!!!#FixGreggspic.twitter.com/d5Ub7qtrLG&mdash; Greggs (@GreggstheBakers)August 19, 2014UPDATE:Much to Greggs’ delight, Google’s now fixed the problem..@GoogleUKWE LOVE YOU GOOGLE!!!!&mdash; Greggs (@GreggstheBakers)August 19, 2014
British company Engineered Arts have createdthe first commercial robot that behaves like a person.The Robothespian is a commercially available robot that can hold eye contact with you, guess your age and even perform songs for you.With this in mind, we would like to see your very own creative robot designs and share with us what tasks your ideal robot can perform. Whether you have already created a robot, or if your robot design is still in its infancy, we would love to see your photos, artwork and sketches with a brief summary of your robot’s proposed characteristics and behavioural traits. What is the robot’s intended use? What inspired your design? Does it adhere to Asimov’s Three Laws of Robotics, or will it one day malfunction and kill us all?Get creative and share your innovation skills with us, and we will feature the most original designs on our website.GuardianWitnessis the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.
Facebook Messenger has been downloaded over 500m times on Android devices world wide, according to the Google Play Store.Despite user backlash over Facebook’s controversial policy toforce users to install the separate Messenger appto continuing using Facebook chat on a smartphone or tablet, it joins the list of apps that have been downloaded more than 500m times.Currently only Google’s own apps such as Gmail and YouTube, Facebook’s primary app and WhatsApp, which thesocial network bought in February, andMessengerhave been downloaded more than 500m times.No app has yet been downloaded over 1bn times, despite there being over 1 billion monthly Android users globally as of July, according to data from Google.Privacy invasion fearsFacebook Messenger on Android was criticised for the extensive number of permissions it required on install, giving it access to the majority of a smartphone’s features, data and connectivity, prompting privacy invasion fears.The backlash by users prompted the social network topost an explanationof why its Messenger app requires access to audio recordings, photos and videos, phone numbers, read text messages and contacts, out of the 30-plus permissions the app demands on install on Android.Despite user anger over being forced to install the app to continue chatting on Facebook, the Android Facebook Messenger app is faring better with customer reviews than the less than 2-star iPhone app, maintaining 4 stars from just under 8m ratings.•How to avoid installing Facebook Messenger on an iPhone and continue chatting
The new owners of Ask.fm, the social network implicated inthe suicide of 14-year-old Hannah Smithin summer 2013, have sworn to end bullying on the platform, or shut it down entirely.Doug Leeds, the CEO of once-dominant search site Ask.com, which bought the previously unrelated Ask.fm on Thursday, made the promise in an interview with Silicon Valley news site Pando Daily.Hetold reporter Paul Carrthat “we’re not going to run a bullying site … If we can’t [fix Ask.fm] we’ll shut it down.”As well as Smith, whose death sparked a backlash against Ask.fm that lead to an advertiser boycott, Ask.fm has been associated withsix other teenagers’ suicides, a factor many observers, including Carr, have put down to the nature of the site itself.Users of Ask.fm are able to set up profiles which they use to answer questions other members ask of them. While the answers must be given by a named user, the questions can be asked anonymously, which has led to the site being labelled a hotbed of bullying.For Ask.com, the acquisition was a chance to bring “Ask.com’s Q&amp;A brand leadership to Ask.fm’s massive mobile-focused social platform,” Leeds said in a statement shortly after the acquisition.“Ask.fm has seen phenomenal usage and engagement because of its compelling take on social expression: describing yourself through the lens of what others want to know about you,” continued Leeds. “Now under Ask.com leadership, the plan for unlocking its true potential will focus on making the experience even more engaging, while significantly increasing the investment in safety.”Once the acquisition was confirmed, Ask.fm’s founders were kicked out of the new organisation, and Ask.com brought in the attorneys general of New York and Maryland to aid the creation a set of best practices for Ask.fm, focused on increasing the safety of its services.New York’s attorney general, Eric Schneiderman, said that he applauded Ask.com “in working with our office to design a program that protects Ask.fm users from cyberbullying and other harmful content.“We would hope that this collaboration serves as a useful model for other companies in the digital space.”The company now promises to respond to bullying allegations within 24 hours, and promises to revamp its safety and moderation policies and procedures within six months, including “putting in place filters to catch and remove violent, illegal, threatening or harassing content,” says Leeds.The site has also appointed Annie Mullins, a former global head of content standards at Vodafone, as the UK and Europe safety lead for Ask.fm.Ask.com is owned by IAC, an American internet firm which owns several major online brands, including OKCupid, The Daily Beast, and Urbanspoon. Its current market cap stands at $5.7bn, and its shares are trading at $68.38, up 4.5% from Thursday.Ask.fm faces backlash from advertisers after teenager’s suicide
Minecraft is teaching a generation of children how to build architecturally-improbable houses with chickens embedded in the walls. Now it may be teaching children programming skills too.US company ThoughtSTEM is preparing to release an add-on calledLearnToModin October, which will teach children how to make their own Minecraft “mods”, altering the game’s features.The software is being tested with 150 students before its release, when it will cost $30 (£18).“Kids are already spending ridiculous amounts of hours on Minecraft, so we thought this would be a good way to help them learn skills,”co-founder Stephen Foster told Wiredin an interview.LearnToMod has its roots in programming lessons developed by ThoughtSTEM for 8-15 year-olds. The tool uses Google’s Blockly programming interface, with children manipulating virtual blocks to create code, rather than diving straight into a language like JavaScript.Anyone with the necessary skills can already create Minecraft mods and share them with the game’s community of tens of millions of players of all ages. Tools like LearnToMod will make it easier for children – one of the most fervent sections of that fanbase – to join in.LearnToMod is just the latest example of Minecraft being used for educational purposes. In 2013, Google worked with MinecraftEDU and Caltech’s Institute for Quantum Information and Matter tolaunch a mod called qCraft. Its aim was to inspire children’s interest in quantum computing.“It lets players experiment with quantum behaviors inside Minecraft’s world, with new blocks that exhibit quantum entanglement, superposition, and observer dependency,” as Google explained at the time.“Of course, qCraft isn’t a perfect scientific simulation, but it’s a fun way for players to experience a few parts of quantum mechanics outside of thought experiments or dense textbook examples.”MinecraftEdu is a body created to help schools use Minecraft, including making customised versions of the game for use in the classroom, a library of worlds and activities, and training materials for teachers.“This wasn’t planned to be a kids game from the beginning, and it’s still not planned to be a kids game! It’s a happy accident,” Minecraft developer Mojang’s business developer Daniel Kaplantold The Guardian in December 2013.YouTube star Joseph Garratt – aka Stampy – is preparing to launch a new channel called Stampy School, which like his main channel will focus on gameplay footage from Minecraft, but this time with a serious education focus.“Minecraft is an amazing platform. One, the fact that it is a open sandbox to do whatever you want in it, and two, everyone’s playing it, and if you’re not playing it, your kids are playing it,”Garratt told the MIPTV conference in April.“If you take their engagement and put it into a more productive space like education or the arts, they’re going to be involved in that, they’re going to be engaged.”•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children’s media
Here’s a prediction for you: the next Assassin’s Creed title – and by that we mean the one after Assassin’s Creed Unity – will be an online persistent world. That’s because, in both its size and its ambition, Unity seems only one step away from the genre that looks set to define games in the coming generation; the genre that already counts Destiny, The Crew and The Division among its numbers.Set in the largest world ever created for this series, Unity is bursting at the seams with features that seem to lend themselves more to an MMO than to a predominantly single-player format. And by now every fan of this series knows that up to four players can join up and play the campaign missions co-operatively.But there is something else that hints toward a more complex future for the series: the addition of a feature the developers are calling AMM (Adapted Mission Mechanic). This aspect, the developers say, ensures that every player’s in-game experience will be unique. Their progression in the game is affected not just by the weapons they collect and the skills they unlock, but in the moments they pick to interact with targets and NPCs in their environment. AMM gives the missions in Unity a more dynamic feel than in previous games and events feel less rigidly scripted.For example, one mission, which involved shadowing and killing an aristocrat in Notre Dame, had several points in which the player’s progression could be affected. If they swooped in early on their target they’d miss out on conversation snippets revealing more of the plot. Furthermore, both the access to the cathedral and the means they use to kill the target, depend entirely on the skills they’ve acquired so far – lockpicking, for example. The method of dispatch may also be rewarded with a rather gruesome cinematic – slicing through the victim’s throat in a confessional, for instance. If the player loses the target, the mission won’t de-synch as it did in previous games; there is a set amount of time to reacquire the quarry before the mission is failed.Loose thrills, varied killsThe Assassination missions have also taken on a looser, more open-ended structure. They’re much more similar to the kill-boxes offered in games like Hitman: Blood Money, where players have myriad approaches and tactics available to them. There’s no one way to successfully complete a mission, meaning players can revisit them again and again.While co-op is a big new feature in Assassin’s Creed: Unity, players are able to tackle all of the missions alone. However, the developers say that because some missions have been designed with more than one player in mind, lone wolves may find themselves in for a tough challenge. Still, that shouldn’t deter any truly committed assassins.Assassin’s Creed: Unity is also a far darker game than its predecessors. Pre-Revolution Paris looks and feels like a city on the edge. Fights between rival factions break out on street corners; crowds of braying civilians surround the city guards who have no compunction in cutting them down with gunfire. The environment is a powder keg and it only needs a spark to explode. It also looks absolutely stunning – which shouldn’t come as much of a surprise since the visuals in the Assassin’s Creed game have always been impeccable.Freedom and controlThe design team has given players the smoothest, most streamlined control layout the series has seen for a while, making it much easier to explore those densely crowded rooftops. Good thing too; not only is Unity’s Paris a multi-tiered metropolis where players can seamlessly transition inside and outside buildings and explore every inch from the rooftops to the catacombs, but the scale of the map is 1:1 with its real world counterpart.Holding down the right trigger and pressing A will send the player scrambling up walls, while pressing B will change their direction. There’s less of a danger here in tapping the wrong button and sending your assassin crashing to the cobbles. The Y button activates Eagle Vision, tagging NPCs and enemies in the player’s environment, while the D-pad brings up the vast assortment of weapons the player is bound to collect.There’s now a dedicated stealth button – the left trigger sends the protagonist into a crouch and muffles their footsteps – and players should prepare themselves for quite a bit of sneaking about. Stealth gameplay dovetails rather nicely with the gothic atmosphere in Unity; it’s hard not to feel like the Dark Knight when your cowled avatar is crouched on the buttresses of Notre Dame staring grimly at their target as rain hammers down and lightning crashes in the sky above.The second reason for the emphasis on stealth ties into the new combat system. In previous Assassin’s Creed games, players were able to slash their way through dozens of enemies by spamming one defensive move. In Unity, the enemy AI monitors the player’s style of combat and if it spots them using one attack to attempt to win every fight, it switches up its approach accordingly.Furthermore, a lot of the enemies player will encounter are far tougher and better armed than their assassin, and if they’re surrounded, the player’s best option is to flee.In spite of the greater sense of peril, Assassin’s Creed: Unity feels like the most intuitive gateway into the series for newbies. The city of Paris is easy to navigate, swoon-worthy in appearance and alive with missions, quests and activities for players to get stuck into. It may not be a persistent world quite yet, but it looks guaranteed to take weeks of your life nonetheless.Assassin’s Creed Unity is due out on 28 October for PC, PS4 and Xbox OneAssassin’s Creed Unity – the most gruesome game trailer ever?From Watch Dogs to GTA V, why ‘video games are going to reshape our cities’
Google’s long-expected YouTube music service will be called YouTube Music Key and will feature more than 20m songs and videos curated specifically for YouTube.The YouTube music service will offer a 30-day free trial, with a $9.99 monthly subscription giving access to “high-quality tracks - complete albums, organised into artist discographies”, specifically for YouTube with both video and audio-only streaming and offline listening,according to Android Police.It is expected that the YouTube service will link in with Google’s existing Play Music All Access music subscription service, which costs $9.99 or £9.99 a month in the UK and is expected to be rebranded Google Play Music Key.Concerts, covers and remixesThe YouTube service will offer concert footage, covers and remixes in addition to the official discographies of artists, according to reports. Google will offer an enhanced version of YouTube’s existing recommendation engine based on user consumption, making suggestions of what to listen to as users watch videos on YouTube.The service will be available through a browser on a computer as well as through smartphones, tablets and Google’s Chromecast streaming media stick.Google’s YouTube music service has been expected for a long time, whichrecently stalleddue to negotiations with music labels. Google was also accused of strong-arming independent labels who refused to sign up for the new music service,threatening to block them from YouTubeaccording to indietrade body Win.YouTube Music Key is expected to be offered once remaining disputes over licensing have been resolved, but could be a US-only service in launch. It is unknown when Music Key will be launched with speculation putting it before the end of 2014.Google declined to comment.•YouTube subscription music licensing strikes wrong notes with indie labels•YouTube to block indie labels who don’t sign up to new music service•Talks with indie labels stall over YouTube music subscription service
Flappy Bird was a bona-fide mobile game craze in early 2014, but its popularity led to developer Dong Nguyen removing it from Google and Apple’s app stores. Now he’s returning with a sequel, of sorts.Nguyen’s new game is called Swing Copters, and will be released this week. Mobile game reviews site TouchArcadebagged exclusive news and gameplay footageof the game.According to the report, Swing Copters will be released on 21 August as a free download, with players able to pay $0.99 (£0.69 in the UK) via in-app purchase to remove advertising from the game.Nguyen has sinceconfirmed on Twitterthat the new game will be released for iOS and Android devices.How does Swing Copters move on from Flappy Bird’s famously-difficult one-tap gameplay? Well, it moves upwards.While Flappy Bird was a horizontally-scrolling game that involved tapping to make its hero flap, Swing Copters scrolls vertically, with players tapping to make a propellor-hat-wearing character move from side to side, avoiding platforms and swinging hammers.TouchArcade’s gameplay footage of Swing Copters.As you can see from the video footage, Swing Copters hasn’t ditched the punishly-tricky gameplay of Flappy Bird. If anything, it looks more difficult, thanks to those swinging hammers.The original Flappy Bird game was released in May 2013 for iOS, but downloads took off in early 2014, notching up more than 50m players before Nguyen removed it from the app stores in February.Nguyen found the pressure of success too much to bear. “I am sorry ‘Flappy Bird’ users, 22 hours from now, I will take ‘Flappy Bird’ down. I cannot take this anymore,”he tweeted that month.“It is not anything related to legal issues. I just cannot keep it anymore. I also don’t sell ‘Flappy Bird’, please don’t ask. And I still make games.In March,Nguyen gave an interview to Rolling Stoneexplaining that a combination of paparazzi besieging his parents’ house and emails from parents complaining about the addictive qualities of Flappy Bird had led to his decision to take the game down.After Flappy Bird was taken down, a wave of clones appeared, including tributes to celebrities includingMiley CyrusandLondon mayor Boris Johnson.In a single 24-hour period in February,95 Flappy Bird-inspired games were released for iOS alone. In April, meanwhile, a game falsely claiming to be an official sequel,Flappy Bird: New Season, flew to the top of Apple’s App Store chart.“What I did was like magic. It was unexpected. If a lot of people tried to do that again, I think they would fail,”Nguyen said on-stage at the Gamelab 2014 conferencein July. His own return to the app stores this week seems rather more likely to be a success.•Flappy Bird is dead - but brilliant mechanics made it fly
Apple has confirmed more musicians for its iTunes Festival in London this September, including Elbow, Paolo Nutini and Rudimental.All will headline their own concerts during the month-long event, with David Gray, The Script, Gregory Porter, Jessie Ware, Ryan Adams and Lenny Kravitz also due to appear.The artists joinpreviously-announced headlinersKasabian, Pharrell Williams, Kylie Minogue, David Guetta, Beck, Sam Smith and Robert Plant at the festival, with emerging acts SOHN, Jess Glynne and Luke Sital-Singh confirmed for support slots, along with former Busted star Charlie Simpson.“A couple of years ago we played it for the first time supporting Ed Sheeran and had a lot of fun, so we can’t wait to be back in the Roundhouse headlining,” said Rudimental in a statement.As in past years, Apple will livestream the concerts through its iTunes software, as well as to iOS devices. The webcasts will be available in more than 100 countries this year.The festival was first held in London in 2007, with more than 430 artists performing since then. Earlier this year, it also expanded internationally, with a series of gigs in Austin, Texas during the SXSW conference.The concerts are usually a showcase for Apple’s digital music downloads store, although in 2014, the company has more streaming-music strings to its bow: personal radio service iTunes Radio, and on-demand service Beats Music – the latter acquired along with its parent company Beats Electronics for $3bn earlier in the year.Neither has launched yet in the UK, but the iTunes Festival could be the ideal launchpad for one or both of them. Apple has long been the dominant player in music download sales, but is now facing more competition from streaming services like Spotify and Deezer.Apple’s strong relationships with artists – epitomised by the iTunes Festival, but also by regular exclusive deals on new albums – will play a significant role in its response to that competition.For now, several dates in September remain empty – publicly at least – which will spark speculation about the identity of the acts yet to be confirmed for the festival.Taylor Swift may be a strong candidate, having announced this week that her new album, 1989, will be released in October, while making it available for pre-order on iTunes.Swift’s last two albums have also been withheld from streaming services for months after their release – a move guaranteed to put her in Apple’s good books.•Seven ways a streaming iTunes could compete with Spotify
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamArtificial intelligence and psychology: the computer will see you now &gt;&gt; The EconomistWhen faced with tough or potentially embarrassing questions, people often do not tell doctors what they need to hear. Yet the researchers behind Ellie, led by Jonathan Gratch at the Institute for Creative Technologies, in Los Angeles, suspected from their years of monitoring human interactions with computers that people might be more willing to talk if presented with an avatar. To test this idea, they put 239 people in front of Ellie (pictured above) to have a chat with her about their lives. Half were told (truthfully) they would be interacting with an artificially intelligent virtual human; the others were told (falsely) that Ellie was a bit like a puppet, and was having her strings pulled remotely by a person.Familiar to anyone who recallsEliza,  online andready to listen to your problemsnow.In the on-demand economy, flexibility isn't control and algorithms won't protect workers' rights &gt;&gt; GigaOmDavid Meyer takes issue with apiece by Danny Crichton:I'm from South Africa, where you regularly see people sitting by the side of the road, waiting for someone to pick them up and take them to go weed someone's garden or lay a few bricks. These hopeful workers represent the ultimate commoditization of labor, a never-ending supply with no meaningful differentiation and no bargaining ability. Sure, they can refuse to be picked up, as long as they're happy to starve. If they have any control through their "flexibility", it's of a pretty meaningless variety.…I get that Crichton isn't calling for permanent instability in employment. As he wrote, "the market has to be built in such a way that stability is a possible outcome for those who seek it." But it's a tad naive to think that this stability will come from the startups building the platforms in question. They simply have no interest in doing so, and won't until the demand for labor outstrips the supply.Look at Uber, which strenuously denies that its drivers are its workers at all, which won't guarantee to pay those drivers' fines if they're caught keeping Uber's business afloat in cities where the service is banned, and which ultimately wants to get rid of those drivers altogether. TaskRabbit now matches tasks to workers by algorithm rather than letting workers bid for them, erasing much of the control its workers had over their work situation. These are the kinds of businesses that are going to be the "champions of workers"?XRay - transparency for the web &gt;&gt; Columbia UniversityRoxana Geambasu and others:The Web can be a black box. When a user sees an ad about spiritual meditation methods, she may not realize that she's seeing that ad because she recently received an email about depression or cancer. We are seeking to change that, and in doing so bring more transparency to the Web.For this, we developed XRay, a new tool that reveals which data in a web account, such as emails, searches, or viewed products, are being used to target which outputs, such as ads, recommended products, or prices. It can increase end-user awareness about what the services they use do with their data, and it can enable auditors and watchdogs with the necessary tools to keep the Web in check.To be presented at the Usenix security forum. Example demo works with Gmail "which reveals ads targeted on certain sensitive topics, such as depression, cancer, pregnancy, race, or debt."Why did Windows 8 fail? It had to be explained to users &gt;&gt; BGRInhisTechpinionscolumn this week, John Kirk cites the following quote from, of all places,the Twitter account of Startup Vitaminsto show exactly where Windows 8 went wrong: "A user interface is like a joke. If you have to explain it, it's not that good."And that's pretty much it with Windows 8. The platform's biggest defenders always pointed out that you could easily make it just like Windows 7… if you changed some of its default settings and downloaded third-party apps to bring back the classic Start menu. While Windows 8's champions may have been right that doing these things was "easy", it also raised the question of why users should bother to pay to upgrade from Windows 7 if they'd have to do extra work just to make Windows 8 behave the same way.Notebook PCs, Worldwide, units by form-factor, Q1 2013 - Q2 2014 &gt;&gt; CanalysShows "clamshell" (conventional) notebook and "convertible" (2-in-1) shipments worldwide since Q1 2013. You'd have to say it's slow going so far for the convertibles. Based on these figures and world totals, desktop shipments are about a third of overall shipments.Why the New Orleans Saints aren't embracing the Microsoft Surface &gt;&gt; New Orleans TechBut when it comes to the new Sideline View System, the Saints aren't embracing it because of the hiccups that usually accompany early adopters of technology.  There have beenreportsthat drawing on the screen is an issue and the tablets are hard to work with when they get wet, get sweat on them, or players grab them with moist hands.  Currently, the Saints are still using the paper system along side with the tablets.Ultimately, when Microsoft figures out how to overcome some of the issues that plague the tablet and sideline system I think we'll start to see them used more on the field and with players.The NFL has 400 million reasons to make it work.DeepBeliefSDK/README.md· jetpacapp/DeepBeliefSDK &gt;&gt; GitHubPete Warden:This is a framework implementing the convolutional neural network architecture described by Alex Krizhevsky, Ilya Sutskever, and Geoffrey Hinton. The processing code has been highly optimized to run within the memory and processing constraints of modern mobile devices, and can analyze an image in under 300ms on an iPhone 5S. It's also easy to use together with OpenCV.We're releasing this framework because we're excited by the power of this approach for general image recognition, especially when it can run locally on low-power devices. It gives your phone the ability to see, and I can't wait to see what applications that helps you build.Warden's Jetpac (which used this technology) was just sold to Google - but this implementation (works on iOS, Android, Linux, OS X, Raspberry Pi, Javascript) is open source and available to anyone with a bright idea. The Spotter and Deep Belief apps are very impressive. Yours could be too.Samsung, MS head for settlement &gt;&gt; Korea TimesThe background: Microsoft is suing Samsung for unpaid royalties relating to patents it owns, which Samsung stopped paying at the end of 2013.Samsung is being pressurized by royalty payments for Microsoft's 300 Android patents.With its profit dropping, Samsung can't afford the payments at the current rate, forcing it to renegotiate with MS.''While Microsoft acquired Nokia's handset division, the Finland-based Nokia was still passive to opening up its patents to the U.S. licensing giant. Because Microsoft failed to secure Nokia-owned patents, it will be very tough for Microsoft to produce handsets without Samsung-owned wireless patents. So it is likely that Samsung is asking Microsoft to renew contract terms. Microsoft is ready to accept the Samsung requests,'' said Lee Chang-hoon, a local patent attorney.Seems unlikely that Samsung can't afford the money - more likely that it sees a chance to renegotiate now that Microsoft is itself a handset maker and so likely reliant on Samsung patents (for 3G or 4G), which it wasn't before.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
Grouponhas overhauled its UK website as it steps up efforts to shake off its past as king of the internet "daily deal" and reinvent itself as an online marketplace."It's not just run of the mill teeth-whitening and massage [offers] like there used to be," said Tamer Tamar, senior vice president of Groupon's European division, of the website's relaunch. "The number and variety of deals have grown rapidly." Recent popular offers, he said, included after-hours tours of the Harry Potter sets atWarner Brosstudios in Leavesden, Hertfordshire, and Starbucks discount vouchers.The website, which launched in the UK four years ago, has added holidays as well as heavily discounted clothing, household goods and consumer electronics to its repertoire in a bid to revive its relationship with customers – whose enthusiasm soon waned for emails bombarding them with offers of cut-price carpet cleaning and blow-dries.Today, the eclectic retail offers on Groupon's UK site take in men's loafers, tubs ofHaribosweets and 4kg (8.8lb) legs of serrano ham (complete with stands).The company's goal is to get bargain-hunting shoppers to browse deals regularly, rather than responding to emailed offers."Groupon remains the market leader in the daily deals space, but it has huge challenges," said Ian Maude, online analyst atEnders Analysis. "First, too many of the 'push' emails it sends out are irrelevant – the brand still has an image problem because of this. Second, the move to marketplace 'pull' sales opens up a much bigger market opportunity, but puts Groupon in direct competition with some of the biggest, most successful retailers on the planet, such as Amazon. Third, it's still losing money."Groupon investors have been on a rollercoaster ride since the company floated in New York in 2011. The initial success of the novel daily deals idea fuelled stratospheric sales growth and propelled the shares to $26 (then £16), but its ensuing disappointing financial performance – it is expected to be loss-making this year – means the shares now change hands for close to $6.The company's setbacks culminated in the ousting of its controversial chief executive and founder, Andrew Mason, in 2013 with the maverick businessman choosing to go out with a bang, writing in his resignation letter: "I was fired today. If you're wondering why … you haven't been paying attention."The most recent figures point to an improving trend at Groupon, with chief executive Eric Lefkofsky describing the three months to 30 June as a "record quarter" as gross billings (the total value of all the deals sold), surged by almost 30% as the company circulated 240,000 deals among its customers. "Our marketplace continues to gain traction and add to our growth," he said. Groupon's actual revenues (what it keeps after paying merchants) rose 23% to $751.6m, with the division that takes in Europe, the Middle East and Asia (EMEA) reporting growth of 42%.Today, Groupon has 53.2 million users, around 5 million of whom are in the UK, according to June data from comScore, which tracks internet traffic to websites.Tamar said that the improved picture in the EMEA region was thanks to a "better site", with more deals to choose from. "The more deals you have, the more you sell," he said. "Until this quarter, we had a decline in the number of customers coming to our site. This is the first time in six months that we have started seeing growth in active customers."The new-look website, which debuted in the US last year, tries to be more "sophisticated", with a white, as opposed to green, background and bigger pictures. The design tweaks are supposed to make it easier to browse the site's thousands of listed deals. Groupon has also updated its iPhone and Android apps to include a tab that lets customers see deals available in their area."As a marketplace, Groupon is now competing with well-established brands – and that's super-competitive," said Maude. "From the outside, it looks like they are experimenting. They have moved quite a long way from the original idea, but have not found the magic source just yet."
Rachael and Colin WhiteFrom starting at their kitchen table with an initial £200 investment, the Whites have seen their fancy dress, children's accessories and gifts business grow so much through eBay that they are opening a bigger warehouse next month and made a turnover of £1.4m last year.The inspiration forthingimijigs.com10 years ago came from shopping for their three children. "We said: 'If they are asking for it, surely other children want it,'" said Rachael, 42. Both have a background in retail, she in supermarkets and he in telesales, and both continued with their jobs at first. "We had a computer, we put £200 in, and went to Manchester to the wholesalers to get a few little bits. That sold that week. We thought: 'OK, let's go and get a few little more bits.'"The Burnley-based business, which sells goods based on popular characters, – Disney's Frozen's Anna and Elsa are big at the moment, with Spider-Man an all-time favourite – now employs eight permanent staff, with more temporary workers hired for the busy Christmas period, and also runs an apprenticeship scheme."It did start very small, because it is a frightening step going from employment to self-employment," said Rachael. "When we got up to 100 post sacks in the living room, and we had gone through the garage, and had stuff stored in the bedrooms, wegot a unit." Then a bigger unit, then bigger still.Eventually, their global business was so successful they both gave up their other jobs. Without eBay, she says, they probably would not have taken the plunge. "With eBay, you can start with £50 of stuff; whereas if you have a shop, you have got the investment of stock. I think it is a great way to start, and you can test the market."It is easy access, relatively simple to list on, and there is no barrier to entry."It's a destination shop. You go on eBay to buy something." A real plus is that it is visible all over the world. "We list on the eBay UK site, we also list on eBay Australia and eBay America," she says. eBay has transformed their lives, and those of their staff – all previously unemployed. Another bonus: being able to pick the children up from school.John and Gill HewittWhen the Hewitts decided to give up their corporate management jobs in the early 2000s and downsize two houses into one, they discovered eBay. "There were a lot of things to sell, and eBay was a very convenient way to do that," said John.Then they sat down with a whiteboard to work out how to make a living. John, 58, was interested in hardware and tools, while his wife was into gardening. Both thought ecommerce, then in its early days, had great potential.So Bamford Trading – a one-stop shop for trade and DIY – was born.That was 10 years ago, and the business has since had sales in excess of £5m, with a £1.4m turnover last year. It employs nine staff at the Ross-on-Wye base."We used our experience on eBay to build it up," said John. Initially they sold all sorts: tools, gardening equipment, pet products, general hardware. "In the early days of the recession we decided that people would have to buy things rather than want to buy things. So we then focused on hardware and tools, because if you are going to improve your house, you are going to need the wherewithal to do that. Not luxury products, but things you have to buy".About 80% of their sales are through eBay, with the rest via Amazon and their own website. "With eBay, there is a very low barrier and cost to entry. You can start very small and eBay makes it very easy," he said. EBay works for them, he adds, because their good reputation as a seller pushes them further up the listings. Reputation and feedback are everything when profit margins are tiny on individual items."You couldn't possibly compete unless you did get good feedback and have got a good reputation. We get a huge number of repeat buyers, which is a great thing because it tells us that we are doing a good job.""It's very different to what we used to do. We were both flying around the world doing things that were 'incredibly important' and really weren't very important," he said. Their office and warehouse is now 100 metres away from their Herefordshire home. "And now, looking out on to the back garden ... this is so different."
It's late August, and joining Goodwood and the Notting Hill Carnival is the newest seasonal event on the calendar: speculation about new iPhones.One particular nugget lighting up fans' eyes – and burning a hole in their wallets – is that the latest model might have a screen made out of sapphire. Reports suggest Apple has signed a £350m deal with a sapphire manufacturer to put the screens into mass production. If it&nbsp;does, that would render the new iPhone almost impervious to scratches. Pure sapphire is one of the hardest minerals in the world, ranking 9 onthe Mohs scale, which measures hardness of minerals from one (talc) to 10 (diamond). Unless your keychain is exceptionally bling (or you are carrying around a chunk of Mossanite, a rare mineral mostly found in meteorites), a sapphire screen is likely to actually be safe bouncing around in your pocket.Apple isn't about to start buying up sapphire mines, though. It has&nbsp;been possible to manufacture the gem for more than a century, using a process involving dipping a small "seed" into a vat of molten aluminium oxide, of which sapphire is a crystal.As well as being cheaper than digging the rocks out of the ground, the process also avoids the impurities that give sapphire its classic blue tint, so don't worry about an off-colour iPhone. In fact, if you have an iPhone 5S, you can get a preview of what the new screen might be like: that model uses a small sliver of sapphire for the camera lens. And the average iPhone already contains the following:LithiumA mainstay of consumer technology, lithium is a key ingredient in almost every rechargeable battery on the market. The iPhone 5S's 1600mAh lithium-ion battery uses the metal in a compound, but it's still so unstable that the casing has to be safe from cracks.TantalumUsed extensively in capacitors, a component used to regulate electricity flow, sourcing tantalum has been a major headache for Apple. The element is typically mined as coltan, an ore&nbsp;that is most commonly found&nbsp;in and around war-torn Democratic Republic of Congo. Apple managed to guarantee it only used conflict-free tantalum in February 2014.Anodised aluminiumThe metal case of the newest iPhones is made out of aluminium that has been treated with a process called anodisation. The metal is submerged in an acid, which then has a current passed through it, causing oxidation. The tougher, duller oxidised surface can then absorb dyes, while protecting the aluminium base underneath, without the extra width of a layer of paint; the anodised layer can be as slim as&nbsp;five micrometres.Benzene and n-hexaneTwo products that you won't find in an iPhone 6 are benzene and n-hexane, solvents used to clean the electrical circuits. The liquids, which can cause cancer and nerve damage, will no longer be used in the final stages of assembly, Apple announced in August. Nearly 23,000 people signed a petition asking the firm to stop using the chemicals, in order to protect their employees in China.SiliconThe element that gave Silicon Valley its name. Slabs of silicon are used to&nbsp;make the chips at the heart of every computer. The&nbsp;circuits for the iPhone 5S are etched out on huge plates using a process with a&nbsp;minimum feature size of just 28&nbsp;nanometers, three&nbsp;thousand times slimmer than a hair.GoldThe gold iPhone may not actually be made of gold, but the precious metal is still used inside even the ordinary variety. The&nbsp;element is from the&nbsp;same group as copper, and conducts electricity with ease – but, unlike its cheaper relative, it doesn't tarnish, and is more malleable.
This week in 1999 a man in Renfrewshire bought a CD single ofYou &amp; I by the German heavy metal band Scorpionsfor £2.89. It was not a particularly interesting purchase.Scorpions are still touring,25 years after their song Wind of Change became a worldwide hit as soundtrack to the fall of the Iron Curtain.But the method of purchase was new. That CD was the first item ever bought in the UK on then unknown startup website eBay. Since then 3bn items, worth £65bn in total, have been sold on eBay UK. Along with Amazon, it has transformed the way we shop: 11% of all retail purchases are now bought online rather than on the high street, according to the Office for National Statistics.More than 19 million Britons, including Paul McCartney, Clare Balding, Harry Styles and the Duchess of Cornwall, use eBay. Most sellers are sporadic, auctioning off unwanted junk or even gifts – the site sees a big jump after Christmas. For many eBay is a hobby and for others it's an addiction. Some have been able to make a career out of selling online, and almost 2,000 British people have become eBay millionaires.Last Christmas, one eBay user, xjabekinsx, listed all the presents she received from her ex-partner –  unopened. "Came home from spending Christmas with my parents to find these left under my tree from my now ex-boyfriend, he also left his house key," she said in the listing. "7 unwanted, unopened Christmas presents. I want nothing to do with him or what he has to say or give me. More than likely the usual jewellery, perfume, make-up. Treat yourself to a surprise or a present for a friend/family member. My loss is your gain."The top nine eBay searches all start with an 'i' as in iPhone, iPad and iPod, but users have turned to the site to try to sell almost anything – evena half-eaten toasted cheese sandwich that looked a bit like the Virgin Mary.David Taylor, a father of three from Grimsby, auctioned his forehead as advertising space last year after reading aboutEric Hartsburg, who made $15,000 for having Mitt Romney's "R" campaign logo tattooed on the side of his head before the 2012 US presidential election. "I am a registered Republican and a Romney supporter," Hartsburg said. "I didn't mind getting this tattoo, because it is something that I could live with and it's something that I believe in."Richard Perks, a retail analyst at the market research firm Mintel, said eBay's early success in reassuring the public of the security of buying and selling online via its dedicated PayPal service kickstarted the online sales revolution."EBay is one of the main reasons we are all happy to shop online. If Amazon or eBay had done badly or there had been problems, internet retailing would have taken much longer to take off," he said. "Nowadays any decent store operator has to have a good online offering."Mark Radcliffe became Britain's first eBay millionairefive years ago, selling up to 6,000 low-cost products from protein supplements to iPod holders from his parents' garden shed in Stockport. Now the former £7-an-hour trainee manager at Tesco has bought a £700,000 home, a £150,000 Ferrari and a £118,000 Aston Martin with his earnings from the eBay shop First2Save.Christie Foster, 45, became a millionaire after moving her baby products business online eight years ago, transforming her business "from market stall to a large organisation employing 20 people," she said. She said: "We were on lots of physical markets, but now we're on the world's biggest market."Online4Baby.com now turns over £6m a year.Radcliffe, Foster and other eBay millionaires have not made their fortunes through the auction process eBay is known for, but by selling goods at fixed prices, now 75% of all eBay listings.Much has changed since Pierre Omidyar, a pony-tailed Silicon Valley computer programmer who had never set foot in an auction house, created the online marketplace that would evolve into eBay in his spare room in 1995. It launched in the UK four years later."Instead of posting a classified ad saying, 'I have this object for sale, give me a hundred dollars,' you post it and say 'here's a minimum price,'" he explained of eBay at the time. "If there's more than one person interested, let them fight it out … the seller would, by definition, get the market price for the item, whatever that might be on a particular day."Deciding he was never going to be "the founder-CEO type like Bill Gates or Steve Jobs" he hired Meg Whitman as chief executive in 1998. That year the company floated on the Nasdaq in New York, making Omidyar one of the richest people in the world."I had not in my wildest imagination expected the IPO to be so successful. We priced the shares at $18 and closed on the first day at about $47. It was more money than I could ever use,"he said last year."I really felt this immediate sense of responsibility. All I could think was, I'm now the steward of a fortune. How do I make sure this gets put to good use?"He set up a philanthropic investment company, Omidyar Network, which aims to invest in "entrepreneurs who share our commitment to advancing social good at the pace and scale the world needs today". The latest big project isThe Intercept, an investigative journalism website co-founded with Glenn Greenwald, the former Guardian reporter who led the coverage of the Edward Snowden NSA files.Douglas McCabe, an analyst at Enders Analysis, said eBay "lost traction" as an auction business, but "very successfully reinvented itself as an e-commerce marketplace" allowing anyone to set up a business selling anything to anyone anywhere in the world at fixed prices.But in doing so it has placed itself in direct competition with Amazon, Play.com and hundreds of small nimble startups, such as hipster marketplaceDepop.Sucharita Mulpuru-Kodali, an e-commerce analyst at Forrester Research, says eBay "democratised selling" , but by doing so created a huge number of competitors. She believes eBay has lost a lot of the buzz that surrounded it in the early days as it consolidates its core business rather than experiment like its technology-driven rivals."They don't release as much new stuff as Google, but no one does," she said. "The difference is they're not doing crazy things like drones or driverless cars. They're focused on what new things they can do to drive their business."While the company has been praised for its early adoption of mobile phone shopping, which has made it the most popular retailer on mobiles according to Ofcom, it has suffered a series of technology lapses.The website crashed offline last week for the 10th time this year and suffered a major cyber-attack in May that might have compromised the details of 145m users.EBay – which Omidyar originally wanted to call Echobay.com because it "sounded cool" but the name was taken – is still raking in big profits, with $3.5bn (£2bn) in 2013, although profit growth has slowed in recent years. The company, which employs 33,000 people, has a market value of $65bn, almost six times as much as Marks and Spencer.Enough to buy 13.5m more Scorpion CDs at £2.89.
David Cameronannounced on Mondaythat online music videos will carry age ratings as part of a pilot scheme bringing them into line with films.The videos will go through the same classification system as films and other video content, in an attempt to give parents more information to protect children from “graphic content”.The voluntary pilot will involve the big three music labels in the UK – Sony, Universal and Warner Music – as well as the British Board of Classification (BBFC), YouTube and music video platform Vevo.How long will the pilot last?It will run for three months, kicking off in October. Music videos sold or distributed on disc or other physical form and deemed to include 12-rated-plus material will also have to go through the same age-classification process starting in October under amendments to the Video Recording Act.Who will do the rating?The music labels will submit music videos that they consider could contain content that should be classified as for age 12 or over, using BBFC guidelines. The BBFC will then rate the videos as it does with other content, for which the labels will pay a fee to cover the cost of rating in the same way that the film industry currently does. The rating process should take around 24 hours, according to the BBFC.A rating of 12, 15 or 18 will be assigned to the music video and passed on to the label. Videos deemed not to include objectionable content for children under 12 will not be classified.Will it just be music videos?The pilot scheme announced by Cameron will only cover music videos and will not be expanded to cover other video content on sites such as YouTube.What form will the rating take?The music labels will tag the video with the age rating from the BBFC when uploading the video to hosting services. YouTube and Vevo are part of the pilot study, and will be supporting the ratings, placing a visible age rating on the video title on the respective sites.The visible rating will probably take the form of the BBFC’s age certification logos, although that is not yet set in stone, and is intended to give parents more information about the videos their children are watching.YouTube has a similar system for displaying BBFC ratings on films, and requires users to be at least 13 years old to have an account, although most videos are viewable without an account.Will it just be a notification, or will there be filters or proof-of-age required?The three-month pilot is intended to finalise a system that works for rating the videos and having the data tagged to them when uploaded to say they are classified. For the initial trial it will simply be a notification on the video of an age classification.After the three-month trial it is expected that YouTube and Vevo, as well as other video hosting services, will look at developing parental control filters that screen out videos marked as inappropriate for children of specific age ranges.Filters at an internet service provider level, like those used to screen pornography entirely from a home broadband connection, could also be applied at a later date.Which music videos will be rated?Only new videos submitted by the music labels will be rated during the pilot, although there will be a decision at the end of the pilot as to whether videos that are already available should be retroactively classified.What about other labels?The big three labels will conduct the pilot, but the BPI, which represents Sony, Universal and Warner Music and more than 300 independent music companies, expects that all music labels will adopt the system once finalised.How will this help protect children?During the pilot the ratings will be there for information purposes only, to help parents make an informed decision. Parental controls on YouTube and others could be used to screen out videos via ratings, but their effectiveness will be determined by how difficult it is to get around age verification.YouTube, like most other online services, does not verify a user’s age beyond the date of birth given by the user at the point of signing up for an account. Users could also simply log out to view a video, or watch it on another device, unless requirements are made to force some sort of strong age verification, which is beyond the scope of this initial pilot scheme.•YouTube’s young celebrities shine at biggest ever UK convention
As the latest game from veteran designer Peter Molyneux, Godus has been the subject of plenty of hype before its launch. Hardly a shock, for anyone who’s followed his work since the turn of the century.The Fable and Black &amp; White games were exactly the same, as was Project Milo, an ambitious project for Microsoft’s Xbox 360 console that didn’t make it to release.Molyneux’s first mobile game,Curiosity: What’s Inside the Cube, made lots of headlines before and after its release in November 2012, as players tapped away layers of a giant cube to discover a mysterious prize at its centre.Godus’ pre-release hype isn’t new, then: when Molyneux talks to interviewers or conference audiences, he talks honestly and engagingly about his grand creative ambitions for whatever project he’s working on at the time.That stokes high expectations. When the games are actually released, they tend to meet some of those expectations, and disappoint others.It’s reaching so high – and sometimes missing – that makes Molyneux such an interesting and important creative figure in the games industry – and such fertile fodder foran affectionate Twitter parody.Molyneux’s public enthusiasm about his 22Cans studio’s second mobile game, Godus, has been clear since its earliest days, when the company wasraising just over £526,000 on crowdfunding website Kickstarterto make it.The fact that it’s a land-shaping god game that looks a bit like the Populous and Powermonger games that made his initial reputation 25 years ago has only served to stoke that anticipation further, despite a wider debate about the “free-to-play” business model that it would use.“The god game genre was almost invented for free-to-play 25 years ago. It works so beautifully for what free-to-play represents,”Molyneux told a conference in April 2013. “It is already a fantastic, amazing and incredible game, and free-to-play makes it even more fantastic, amazing and incredible.”16 months later, is it? Well, Godus – like some of Molyneux’s other games – hits some expectations, and misses others. But in some early reviews, the emphasis has been firmly on the latter.Respected iOS site TouchArcade headlined its review“The FarmVillian Nightmare Come True”, awarding Godus one star out of five: “Leaving the player like Tantalus, ever reaching and never satisfied... I made a few in-app purchases and was left feeling the emotional equivalent of a wet fart.”Another well-regarded site, Pocket Gamer,awarded Godus 5/10and called it “a flawed and meandering experience which goes to a lot of effort to achieve very little”, whileDigitally Downloaded slammed itas “nothing short of offensive... a symbol for just how infuriating free-to-play has become”.A few days into the game, I’d disagree – certainly with the latter verdict.Godus does have its flaws: its touch controls for shaping its virtual world aren’t quite right; the little followers that you command can be maddening in their ability to pick the strangest paths to a destination; and it’s a bit slow in its early hours.And yet... When you settle into the pace of Godus (or, just as much, when it settles into the pace of your day) and reach a point when you have enough followers and settlements to ensure you’re not constantly running short of resources, it opens up into something that’s much better.The game is all about your followers, who worship you as a god for your ability to remake the landscape – and later, create swamps, make trees spring up and rain down meteors at the tap of a finger.Your job is to help them grow, first by shaping the land into flat bits suitable for them to build houses on, then by squidging those houses into settlements – farming, building and mining – while opening up new parts of the landscape for them to colonise.Along the way, you’ll harvest resources – “Belief” from followers, which is what you spend when pulling rock and grass around in the world, wheat from fields and ore from mines – and fend off members of a rival tribe who turn up to mock your people.There’s a rhythm to the gameplay, as you send followers out to build new houses, harvest the belief, use that to create space for more houses, and discover beacons on hillsides which, when lit, unlock large swaths of new territory.That’s balanced with a system of virtual cards to access new godly powers, follower attributes and buildings:Godus uses a system of virtual cards to unlock new powers.Once a card has been discovered, you unlock it by finding “stickers” – either through uncovering treasure chests hidden in the landscape – nearby scenery sparkles to hint at their whereabouts – or by sending followers off on voyages.The voyages are a separate Lemmings-like series of levels where you use your land-shaping skills to get the little people safely from A to B, while avoiding swamps and enemies en-route.The voyages are where the pathfinding frustrations are most noticeable: you may think you’ve identified the fastest route to the goal – each level is against the clock – but your followers won’t always agree.In the main game, they can also get stuck on top of mountains when being sent to a specific place, for no obvious reason. Religious sticklers may argue that this is a perfectly-realistic simulation of godhood, of course.The land-shaping can be frustrating too: often it works beautifully, with delicate flicks of your finger on the touchscreen sweeping away a layer of landscape in a neat curve.Other times, you’ll gouge away the wrong layer or find yourself swipe-swipe-swiping multiple times to do what you want – again, most frustrating in the timed voyage levels, where a misplaced shelf of rock can doom your followers to failure.For a game that’s essentially about little characters going about their business while you reshape the landscape around them, those two flaws aren’t good news, although the more I’ve played, the less annoyed I was – or, perhaps, the better I learned to anticipate strange pathfinding routines and control my flicks.The other criticism of Godus that holds water is an early hump where it can feel like the game is a lot of waiting: you don’t have many followers, so as soon as you earn belief from them, you use it up on even fairly minor scenery alterations.Unlocking cards for new powers seems slow at this point too: digging for the chests spends more belief. It wouldn’t surprise me if a fair few players dropped out at this point, figuring that Godus was going to be a long, slow grind unless they paid.I tried something different: I paid.The game’s secondary currency is gems, which you can spend on instant belief boosts, as well as wheat and ore, and “gifts from god” power-ups to make your people happier. The gems start at £2.99 for 50 and rise to £69.99 for 1,400.I spent £6.99 on a pack of 120, and that has seemed to be enough to get me over that initial hump, to a point where I had enough followers to generate decent amounts of belief every time I logged in.Everything followed on from there: I pushed on to a 1,100-strong tribe at the time of writing, which is giving me more than enough resources to if not quite move mountains yet, certainly give hills and shallow seas short shrift, while continuing my expansion and exploration.Should a “free-to-play” game be in the position of needing a seven-quid payment fairly early on to make it less frustrating? Probably not.Might Godus have avoided this compromise if 22Cans had designed and released it as a paid game in the first place, though? Perhaps, although Molyneux and his company are responding to the mobile games market.Minecraft and Football Manager Handheld aside, successful paid games (or at least, paid games successful enough to support two years of development plus scope for future updates) are thin on the ground. Making Godus free-to-play was a logical decision.22Cans can (and likely will) tweak Godus to ease that early-game frustration hump, which will help more players progress to the point where the game really starts to open up. I’m still looking ahead to the introduction of ships, gem mining and – in a sneak peek at a future update within the cards screen – “The Imperial Age of Godus”.For now, the game has settled into a very-moreish rhythm of settlement expansion while working on the landscapes I expect to colonise tomorrow, the next day and beyond, and refining my farming and mining systems. I ping the odd meteor planetwards to remind everyone who’s god, too.There’s certainly more that could be added to Godus’ gameplay as it stands. More contact with other tribes, for example: the mockery from the Astari tribe – and their infrequent festivals that attract my followers to defect if they’re not happy enough – suggests there’s more to come on this score later in the game.The mysterious Astari tribe may have more to offer.Godus has more scope with social features too: perhaps I’m overly influenced by Minecraft here, but imagine sharing islands with friends, collaborating (together or asynchronously) to harness the landscape. Or visiting the lands of friends in a more meaningful way than simply admiring their work.This should be the big benefit of Godus being free-to-play: hopefully Molyneux has a big pool of ideas to expand its gameplay in the months (and years?) ahead, in the same way that a game like Clash of Clans has evolved over time.Note, in its Kickstarter campaign, 22Cans announced “stretch goal” rewards for surpassing its initial funding target. Those hit included the ability to create your own sect or join those of other players; multi-player co-op and “possession” modes; and first-person crafting.Hopefully Godus will be commercially successful enough to move into a cycle of updates and expansion that will introduce those and/or other features.There’s the spark of something genuinely special here, beyond a FarmVillian Nightmare, and well beyond the flood of base-building Clash of Clans clones and uninspired Candy Crush-apeing puzzlers cluttering up the app stores.•Godus is free to download for iPhone and iPad
Google is buying Jetpac, a “city guides” company with a twist which used image recognition and neural network technology to recommend places it deemed the happiest, most popular or with the best views and scenic hikes.Jetpac offered special “City Guides” for more than 6,000 destinations, using neural network technology developed by Pete Warden, the company’s co-founder and chief technology officer.“We can spot lipstick, blue sky views, hipster moustaches and more, through advanced image processing on billions of photos,” Jetpac’s home page explains. The app worked by analysing public photos with location data shared on Flickr, Instagram and other photo networks for particular elements, and then extracting key elements about them.The current Jetpac apps will be removed from the Apple App store within days, and support will end on 15 September,Jetpac sayson its web page. It did not yet have an app for Android.The purchase, for an undisclosed sum, points to Google’s growing interest in artificial intelligence applications as it seeks to grow offerings such as its Google Now personal assistant. This year itacquired the British AI company DeepMind for $400m.Jetpac, with its neural network systems, seems to fit into that area. Warden wrote two demonstrator apps, currently still available on Apple’s App Store:“Spotter”which attempts to identify objects, andDeep Belief, which can be “trained” to recognise objects. Both use neural network systems for their processing.Neural networks are collections of algorithms which in effect mimic the functioning of brain systems: they can be “trained” to recognise particular elements in pictures, or in text, and flag their occurrence or absence.The system relies for its accuracy on feedback rather than explicit programming - so that in training a neural network to recognise a moustache, one would give it a huge number of photos to work on, and keep telling it when it was correct and incorrect. The neural network dynamically adjusts the weighting of various algorithms until it the answers are more and more correct.Earlier this year Jetpacsaidit had identified the “UK’s happiest city” - which it identified as Belfast, based on public Instagram photos.At the time Warden said that 5m photos per day were being uploaded which included geotagging and were public - the raw “data exhaust” that Jetpac needed to produce its analysis.In August 2012Google bought the printed travel guide company Frommer’s, but thensold it backto the founder Arthur Frommer in April 2013.Deepmind Technologies: where it fits in Google’s acquisition strategy
Just when you thought it was safe to take your Minecraft-obsessed kids into the Lego aisle at Toys R Us … well, it is no longer safe. Leaked images of two new Minecraft Lego sets have hit fan sites, and it seems these are just the standard bearers for a larger onslaught.Unlike the previous limited run Minecraft sets, which feature small sections of blocky landscape and teeny creepers and zombies, the two new sets The Cave and The Farm are scaled around normal-sized minifigure models – like most of the major Lego series.Rumours of the sets have been around for a while, but news site Brick Fangot some official-looking photos online on Friday. The story also links to descriptions of the two sets on the Hamleys website.The Cave is a mining scene complete with treasure chest, giant spider, zombie and a “Steve” minifigure. The Farm features Steve and a skeleton, plus a sheep, cow and Jack-o-lantern (which looks like it may be the right size to replace Steve’s head – an authentic touch). The sets look set to retail for between £20-£25.The open-world building game Minecraft, which has now sold over 50m copies on PC, consoles and mobile devices, has long been referred to as a digital version of the popular construction toy. In 2012 members of Lego’s Cuusoo community, designed a Minecraft set, which received so much online support, Legolaunched it as a retail product– although its sale was mostly restricted to online stores and official Lego outliets.The new sets, however, look to be much more mainstream, with a variety of minifigs and scenes. According to Brick Fan, other sets named The First Night, Creative Box, The Ender Dragon and The Mine are also on the way.We have approached Lego for more information. Until then, start saving.
Twitter’s latest feature has angered hundreds of users by making tweets they favourite appear in the timelines of their followers like retweets.Favourites are displayed in the official Twitter apps for smartphones as well as the desktop site, allowing followers to see what people are favouriting and replying to, favouriting or retweeting those tweets directly from their timelines.The silent retweetA favourite is represented by thesmall star icon next to a tweetand is used by people to show appreciation, to give something a thumbs-up akin to the Facebook “like” or to save a tweet for later.Conversely a retweet reposts existing tweets from others to the user’s timeline, and is used to rebroadcast something that is notable, although some take it as an endorsement of the point of the retweeted tweet.Favourites have been described as the “silent retweet”, which up until now has only notified the user who made the original tweet.‘If I wanted to show people that I would retweet it’The new feature, which has been rolled out for an unknown number of users, has caused anger among those both favouriting tweets and those who are subjected to unwanted favourites from other users inserted into their timelines.Hundreds of tweets show user anger, with seemingly no positive support for the new feature.The favourited tweets appear in the same manner as retweets in user timelines, as noted by Peter Kafka.Twitter filling my feed with stuff I didn&#39;t ask for - stuff other people follow and fav.pic.twitter.com/IVOViGF1QW&mdash; Peter Kafka (@pkafka)August 17, 2014Angry tweets immediately poured out, as users who favourite tweets but do not want others to see their picks publicly in their timeline, like retweets, realised what was happening.why the fuck is it telling me what people favorite on my timeline? if I wanted to show people that I would retweet it.&mdash; Mediocre (@knxcklefuck)August 18, 2014They were followed by complaints from users with their timelines spammed with people’s favourites, with some driven to all caps by frustration.I&#39;m sorry@twitterI don&#39;t want to see what people favorite in my timeline&mdash; mel (@ElektrasComplex)August 18, 2014I DO NOT WANNA SEE WHAT PEOPLE FAVORITE AND FOLLOW ON MY TIMELINE THANKS@TWITTER&mdash; Michael Cheong (@michaelcheong)August 18, 2014WHY ARE PEOPLES FAVORITES COMING UP ON MY TIMELINE. I DO NOT WANT TO SEE WHAT YOU GUYS FAVORITE&mdash; KatieWills (@K_Dayyy_)August 18, 2014Some also expressed concern over what they perceive as Twitter turningfurther into Facebook.Holy shit it shows up in the timeline when u favorite something now! I hope twitter doesn&#39;t turn to FB where they show everything.&mdash; MonsterJams69 (@Torpedo_Tits69)August 18, 2014While others muse the implications of public favouriting highlighting things some may not want highlighting, despite favourites being publicly accessible from a user’s profile page.What people favorite show up on my timeline for some reason so think twice about favoriting that porn gif or your ex&#39;s pics while taken&mdash; ・゜゜♡・。。✧˖°・helen (@idealnirvana)August 18, 2014Twitter pointed the Guardian towards ablog post from 2013 discussing the company’s experiments, which are used to test reactions to new features, but declined to comment further.“We’ve tested various features with small groups of our 200 million users before determining what we’ll release. These tests are essential to delivering the best possible user experience,” said Alex Roetter, vice president of engineering,in the blog post.•Twitter: the future’s bright - but more like Facebook than ever•Twitter suspends account which wrongly named Ferguson policeman
Academic researchers will be granted unprecedented access to the data of major social networks including Imgur, Reddit, and Twitch as part of a joint initiative:The Digital Ecologies Research Partnership(Derp).Derp – and yes, that really is its name – will be offering data to universities including Harvard, MIT and McGill, to promote “open, publicly accessible, and ethical academic inquiry into the vibrant social dynamics of the web”.It came about “as a result of Imgur talking with a number of other community platforms online trying to learn about how they work with academic researchers,” says Tim Hwang, the image-sharing site’s head of special initiatives.“In most cases, the data provided through Derp will already be accessible through public APIs,” he says. “Our belief is that there are ways of doing research better, and in a way that strongly respects user privacy and responsible use of data.“Derp is an alliance of platforms that all believe strongly in this. In working with academic researchers, we support projects that meet institutional review at their home institution, and all research supported by Derp will be released openly and made publicly available.”Hwang points to aStanford paperanalysing the success of Reddit’s Random Acts of Pizza subforum as an example of the sort of research Derp hopes to foster. In the research, Tim Althoff, Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil and Dan Jurafsky found that the likelihood of getting a free pizza from the Reddit community depended on a number of factors, including how the request was phrased, how much the user posted on the site, and how many friends they had online. In the end, they were able to predict with 67% accuracy whether or not a given request would be fulfilled.The grouping, which also includesFarkandStack Exchange, aims to solve two problems academic research faces. Researchers themselves find it hard to get data outside of the larges social media platforms, such as Twitter and Facebook. The major services at least have a vibrant community of developers and researchers working on ways to access and use data, but for smaller communities, there’s little help provided.Yet smaller is relative: Reddit may be a shrimp compared to Facebook, but with 115 million unique visitors every month, it’s still a sizeable community. And so Derp aims to offer “a single point of contact for researchers to get in touch with relevant team members across a range of different community sites.“We envision that this will lower the friction to investigating these sites in more depth, and broaden the scope of research happening within the academic community,” the organisation says.The other major problem the organisation is helping tackle is the difficulty of cross-platform analyses. “By bringing a number community sites together under a single cooperative effort, we intend to lower the friction to doing so, as well as better enable the sites themselves to coordinate with one another on supporting researchers.”Molly Sauter, a student at Montreal’s McGill University who is one of the researchers working with Derp, says she is “super excited” about the program. “I feel like not only is it going to make it easier for researchers to gain access to important and interesting data sets, but it will also help diversify the online populations and communities being studied,” she todl the Guardian.“We have a couple of fellows in the initial class who are interested in how civic and political processes play out in online communities, and I think there are some datasets out there which could yield some very interesting findings in that area. Most of my work in is online social movements and hacker culture, so there’s a lot of data here to be excited about.”What exactly is Imgur?
Hundreds of games, 350,000 visitors and roughly a billion years’ worth of hyperbole, the gigantic GamesCom exhibition is over for another year. Although never as packed with announcements as the E3 event in Los Angeles, there’s always plenty of new stuff to discover at this European behemoth.So, putting aside all the usual mega franchises (you don’t need us to tell you that there are new Call of Duty, Battlefield, Dragon Age and Fable titles), here are the revelations that got most people talking as they fought through the madding crowds.Alienation (Housemarque, PS4)Finnish shoot-’em-up specialist Housemarque produced one of the few must-have titles of the next-gen console launch period – the gorgeous Resogun. Now the team is working on another PS4 exclusive, Alienation, a frenetic twin-stick shooter, allowing teams of players to mow down swarming aliens. OK, so Robotron-style co-op experiences aren’t exactly rare, but this studio is a true artisan in the shooter genre and is bound to introduce new mechanics and flourishes. It’s due out in 2015.Hellblade(Ninja Theory, PS4)British studioNinja Theoryhas produced some of the most visually arresting titles of the last decade in the form of Heavenly Sword, Enslaved and the underrated, Devil May Cry reboot, DmC. Now it’s back with another stylish stab-’em-up, which, judging by the title and the look of the lead character, has at least a passing relationship with Heavenly Sword. Although initially a PS4 exclusive, it will be coming to other platforms, but there are no release details just yet.Life is Strange (Dontnod, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One)Life is StrangeMemorablydescribed by IGNas “Gone Home meets The Walking Dead,” this episodic narrative adventure is the latest work from Parisian studio, Dontnod, the creator of last year’s cult sci-fi title, Remember Me. This time the action follows a student who returns to her small Oregon town to meet old friend Chloe and investigate the disappearance of local girl, Rachel Amber. The set up looks similar to all the current titles from episodic specialist Telltale Games, but here, the lead character has time-travelling abilities, adding a wrinkle to the formula.P.T./Silent Hills (7780s Studio, PS4)Sony uploaded an interactive teaser for this nerve-jangling horror romp just before Gamescom, and then revealed that the project was, in fact, a new Silent Hill title from Hideo Kojima and director, Guillermo Del Toro. So okay, this long-running psychological terror series is hardly “new” but it was the PT demo that had everyone talking with its creepy haunted house setting and unsettling looping corridors. Plus, Silent Hills, as its known, looks set to be a very singular take on the franchise when it releases in … oh who knows, this is a Kojima production.ScreamRide (Frontier Developments, Xbox One)Again, this is not exactly a newcomer – its a sort of offshoot from the ageing Rollercoaster Tycoon series. But developerFrontier Developmentsis doing something fresh with the ‘build your own theme park’ concept, setting it in the future and adding physics-defying rides and destructible environments. It was also one of the few new announcements at Microsoft’s Gamescom press conference. Expect it on Xbox platforms in spring 2015.Shadow Realms(BioWare, PC)Despite the fact that “Shadow Realms” may be the most generic name ever given to a fantasy-themed action adventure, this new project from BioWare Austin looks intriguing. Monsters from another dimension have invaded Earth and now it’s up to a small group of humans with currently unexplained super powers to fight them off. Like Evolve and Fable: Legends it features asymmetrical multiplayer, allowing four friends to co-op as humans, while a fifth perhaps less popular member of the social group controls the invading Shadowlord. It’s hitting the PC in late 2015.Superhot(Superhot, PC, Xbox One)Although you play an assassin in this hyper-stylised first-person project, it’s much more like a weird spatial puzzler than a shooter. Cleverly, time only moves when you do, so you must carefully navigate a series of armed encounters by ducking and strafing enemy bullets, then pausing to work out the next move. Imagine a maze game crossed with a “bullet time” action title – and for the ultimate first-person bullet dodging thrill, it supports Oculus Rift. The game is due out in June 2015. Butthere’s a prototype on the websiteof the game’s eponymous dev team.The Tomorrow Children (Q-Games, PS4)The latest title from Pixel-Junk creator Q-Games is set in a post-apocalyptic world devestated by a 1960s Russian experiement to meld all human minds into one super-consciousness. Somehow,somehow, it failed, plunging civilization into chaos and destruction. Now, you must enter the Void, a sort of sci-fi Marxist collective, and save the world from monsters, while abiding by the strict rules of this surreal Communist society. It’s okay, head of Q-Games Dylan Cuthbertdoes a better job of explaining it. There’s no release date just yet.Until Dawn(Supermassive Games, PS4)Originally intended as a PS3 title then seemingly lost in development hell, Suppermassive’s horror adventure has returned as a next-gen title, complete with a glittering voice cast (Hayden Panettiere, Rami Malek, Brett Dalton) and a graphical overhaul courtesy of the Killzone engine. It looks like a creepy haunted house yarn with eight friends holed up in a remote mountain shack – but when the gruesome deaths start, there are hundreds of plot-altering decisions available to the player, providing a true sense of involvement and , of course, nightmarishly escalating terror. Which is something we all enjoy.Wild(Wild Sheep Studios, PS4)Michel Ancel, the brilliantly talented creator of Rayman and Beyond Good and Evil, has a new studio namedWild Sheep, and a fresh project – the intriguing open-world simulation, Wild. Set ten thousand years ago in a huge rural environment, players can take part either as human tribespeople or as several species of animals, fighting to survive against the elements and predators. Little else is known just yet, but Ancel is promising a completely different experience every time you play. We’re thinking a sort of pre-historic Sims meets Tokyo Jungle. That would be amazing.
Linkin Park’s latest album might bea “loud return to rocking hard”, but the band is forging new ground in other areas, including 3D printing.All six band members were scanned earlier in the year by German firm Staramba, which specialises in “celebrity replicas”.It’s now selling 3D-printed figurines of Mike Shinoda, Chester Bennington, David Farrell, Brad Delson, Rob Bourdon and Joe Hahn. While the sizes are small, the prices are... less so.A 1:5 scale model of an individual band member, which stands just over 14 inches tall, costs $499, with only99 figures being made for each musician.Fans on a budget can choose to pay $149 for 1:10 scale models, or$295 for a 1:20 scale version of the entire band, posed in front of some official artwork.Staramba is also planning to take its 3D scanning equipment to venues on Linkin Park’s current “Carnivores” tour, enabling fans to get themselves scanned and turned into a figure with their favourite band member.It’s just the latest crossover between music and 3D printing, as artists try creative and commercial experiments with the technology.In November 2013,Bloc Party’s Kele Okereke released a new track as a 3D-printed record, sold from a pop-up shop in London to benefit music charity Nordoff Robbins, using a technique developed to convert digital music files into vinyl-like 3D prints.Then, in February 2014,Cut Copy teamed up with technology firm BitTorrentto distribute 3D-printable files for the computer-animated characters in its We Are Explorers video, encouraging fans to print the figurines then recreate the video.3D-printed guns took a starring role inM.I.A.’s Double Bubble Trouble music videoin May, whileWill.i.am was announced as chief creative officerof 3D printing startup 3D Systems earlier in the year.It’s preparing to launch a printer that will source its materials partly from recycled plastic bottles, through a partnership with Coca-Cola. Will.i.am will be designing “fashion, music and tech minded accessories” for the device.•30 things being 3D printed right now that aren’t guns
Apple could release a new version of its Lightning iPhone and iPad cable with the iPhone 6 that can be plugged into a USB port either way up.The cable would remove the need to fiddle around to find the right way up to plug the iPhone’s USB cable into a computer.The USB Promotor Group, which governs USB standards, recently announced the completed design for a new“type C” reversible USB plugthat could be inserted either way up, but would not be compatible with current USB ports.‘Reduce user frustration’A patentfiled in 2013 by Apple, however, describes “reversible or dual orientation USB plug connectors” that can be plugged into any standard computer USB port to “reduce the potential USB connector damage and user frustration.”The connector design would be compatible with any current and future full-sized USB ports on computers and other devices.Recent unconfirmed leaked picturesappeared onlinesupposedly showing an iPhone 6 USB Lightning cable with the reversible connector design.Reversible USB port on the new Lightning cables!pic.twitter.com/bhVKjK3xKl&mdash; Sonny Dickson (@SonnyDickson)August 17, 2014Accessory manufacturer Buffalo, which makes storage devices and networking gear, sold aUSB hub in 2012that could support the insertion of USB cables in any orientation, but this would mark the first USB cable to support a similar orientation agnostic insertion into any standard USB port.While a new cable is not certain, Apple’s switch to the Lightning cable from the 30-pin dock connector used on the iPhone and iPad since its inception until two years ago made the end that plugs into the iPhone reversible.Apple declined to comment.•Mass production of new sapphire screens for new iPhones begins•iFixit’s Kyle Wiens explains how to mend a cracked iPhone screen
The last timeDan Snow talked to The Guardian about digital media, the historian, author and broadcaster found himself in hot water with some of his peers.“I said that I believed apps were better than books, and some people got very upset,” he laughs. “But it’s true: an app is the entire text of a book with loads of stuff added into it: all the images, video, and geolocation. So clearly, an app is better than a book for history.”The hot tap is turning as we speak. But Snow is in a good position to compare different ways of exploring history: he writes books, makes television programmes and – through his position as co-founder and creative director of startupBallista Digital– releases apps too.The latter includeDan Snow’s Battle Castles,Timeline WW1,Timeline WW2andTimeline: American Civil War, based around timelines of historical events, with photos, videos, audio and interactive maps.Making apps can be a tough, unforgiving business, but two years on from that first interview, Snow’s enthusiasm for technology’s potential for teaching history remains infectious.“What’s been really exciting is realising that these things aren’t just apps on an iPad, they’re the way that people are going to learn in the future,” he says.“We’re getting away from the idea that this is just a little icon on your iPad. It’s totally cross-platform, on every device in every single way: web-based, phones, tablets. And it’s the future of education.”Ballista will soon be putting that theory into practice in another way: a partnership with the UK’sInstitute of Educationto provide a new app to British schoolchildren who are visiting first world war battlefields.“It’s our app plus tools to take photos and videos, so that when they go back to give presentations as mandated by the government, they’ll have this all-singing, all-dancing presentation to give their classmates, with their own content,” says Snow.“That’s why this is the future of education: taking kids out there, and giving them incredible information and rich, diverse archives of pictures, text and maps. They’ll be able to access the oral testimony and expert curatorial sources, but then add to it themselves.”The Timeline WW1 app blends text, photos, videos and maps.Snow stresses that in this case, the technology is still serving the experience of actually visiting the battlefields: less about children staring into screens rather than at the world around them, and more about using those screens to better understand what they’re looking at, while they’re there.“My dream was always that while television is wonderful, the place you want to see that television isn’t when you’re sitting at home on your sofa. The place you need audiovisual information is when you’re at that place,” says Snow.“We’ve been crawling towards this, due to huge hardware issues: battery life, mobile signal, roaming charges, you name it. But we’re finally getting there now. And this is all about enhancing the reason you go to these places: you’ve got more reason to now than ever before.”Unsurprisingly, the first world war is currently a big focus for Snow and Ballista. Its Timeline WW1 app has been updated twice already in 2014 with new content, tying in to the 100th anniversary of the start of the war.Snow has also made a series of short films for the BBC’sWW1 Uncutcoverage of the centenary, initially distributed through its iPlayer service, before transferring to the broadcaster’s YouTube channel.“It’s the first war in history that had a really rich, moving archive of audiovisual material, including lots of oral testimony recorded on good formats, with proper film cameras,” he says.“This is one of the biggest wars and disasters in the history of the world, and it’s a unique opportunity to work out if the audiovisual revolution that’s happened since the late 19th century is going to radically reinvent the way we think about the past.”Snow thinks this is particularly important for engaging younger people in the first world war – what happened, and why it’s important, 100 years on – suggesting that the multimedia archives may be the key to ensuring the conflict doesn’t feel like “ancient history” in the way that, say, the Boer war of 1899-1902 does.“If, after four years, we’ve managed to maintain the freshness and immediacy of the first world war for 12 to 15 or 15 year-olds, just as it would have felt fresh for their grandparents growing up in the 1950s and 1960s when people were still talking about it, that would be amazing,” he says.“It’s an opportunity to experiment with these different platforms from the beginning of this database of content which is really immediate and moving and wonderful. It’s the first modern war in that respect.”Snow plans to continue making short films about the war over the next four years – the 100th anniversary of its armistice will be 11 November 2018 – which will be incorporated into Ballista’s apps.The company is also forging partnerships with museums, including London’s National Maritime Museum and The Tank Museum in Dorset.It will make versions of its timeline-based apps for both in the coming months, with elements of their digitised archives then able to flow back in to Ballista’s other apps, including the upcoming battlefields app for schoolchildren.“What they’ve got is loads of content: stunning archives of pictures, half of which have never even been looked at before, let alone logged,” says Snow, praising The Tank Museum in particular for its work on Facebook.He is no slouch himself on social media though, picking upnearly 85,000 Twitter followersso far. He’s relishing the experience – “I know that’s the fashionable thing to say” – particularly when away filming for TV shows.Snow tells the tale of a trip in 2013 to North Africa, looking for second world war sites and using social media to help interpret some of the finds.“You’re able to take pictures, stick them on Facebook and Twitter, and within minutes have experts from Italy saying ‘Yes, that’s an Italian-issue sardine can, so Italian soldiers once occupied that position’,” he says.“You’re creating the programme and doing the filming, but you’re also crowdsourcing the research. It’s electrically exciting: totally brilliant. I enjoyed that more than just going out with a script and reading it to camera. I now have a group of people on Twitter who help with many projects: they advise, they research... They’re involved.”Two years ago, Snow sounded very frustrated at the speed with which the television industry was adapting to new technologies – “TV people are still very conservative...” – but has that changed in the intervening period?“There’s still work to do, but people are working out how people get paid for things, and we’ve managed to get the BBC to open up a lot of its back catalogue. There’s a willingness to think about these things more,” says Snow, citing the WW1 Uncut series as an example.“The BBC is coming, it’s slow but these things take time. It’s easier if you’re one person like me with a small and committed team of early adopters,” he adds.“But the museums are realising how rich they are in terms of content, and then you’ve got Pathé, who are getting a titanic number of people on YouTube watching quite obscure clips. That’s to be celebrated: this is what that archive is for, preserving the incredible work done by those cameramen a long time ago.”Pathé is one of Ballista’s partners, while Snow recently filmed a two-minute explanation of why the first world war started forits YouTube channel– a quickfire format he’d like to experiment with more for other complicated historical events.Decoding, untangling, explaining... these are the principles behind Snow’s work in apps too, which brings us back to the touchy subject of apps versus books, and the way multimedia might make history more accessible without dumbing down.“The big problem with history books is that the maps are separate from the text. It’s a major failing. If you’re reading a book about Waterloo, you need the map open beside you all the time to have any sense of how the battle progresses,” he says.“Fiction publishers are struggling [with apps] because fiction is fiction: it’s all about the fantastic narrative that you get lost in. The fiction is the words. But for history, apps are a complete joy, because they are enabling us to go into more detail. Particularly for history, the app is better than books.”•Tablets in schools: coding, creativity and the role of teachers
Convincing people of the power and potential of data is the biggest obstacle to progress, according to author and academic Viktor Mayer-Schönberger.The author and Oxford Internet Institute professor told an audience of Wikipedia experts and volunteers that “less than 1% of the world’s data is still analogue,” but that there is still “a trade-off between the quality and quantity of data points”. He asked is we should aim to collect more data, or try to prioritise gathering higher quality data.Charting the evolution of small data, which shaped how we made sense of the world around us, he believes that collecting data could be cheap, as well as the cost of analysing it. “Small data – like Newton’s law of gravity – gave us shortcuts. Einstein took it one step further and captured relativity.”Mayer-Schönberger said we need to “embrace the messiness” of data. “One example of this is Google Translate, which came to being from previous failed experiments with machine translation from the 50s onwards.“Nothing happened until the end of the 1980s, when IBM’s brilliant engineers had the idea of improving algorithms of languages. It was only Google, 10 years later, who saw that what was missing was data. They fed the entire world wide web into the project, and it didn’t matter if the correlations were messy.”‘The value of data lies in reusing it’The same goes for everyday, more human examples. Doctors in Toronto used a big data approach to save the lives of premature babies; establishing their vital signs helped them to predict if they were vulnerable to infections.“The data was messy, the findings were correlations. But it helped the doctors to find the first steps, which meant ensuring medications were delivered, and thus lives being saved. In this way, big data gives us a new perspective on reality.”Ultimately, Mayer-Schönberger argues, the value of data lies in reusing it. In Britain, he pointed to the example of the NHS, which uses data to analyse different prescription cultures across the country, and can extrapolate new ways to save money.For Mayer-Schönberger, society does not lack expertise and tools, because more people are choosing a career with data at the forefront. But data is missing, and access to data needs improving.Why we must remember to delete – and forget – in the digital age
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWould you pay extra to own an iPhone or iPad with a hardened screen? &gt;&gt; iTechnician.co.uk BlogWe surveyed in total 1,206 customers who had recently requested an Apple screen repair quote, and asked them to answer one simple question:Would you pay extra to own an iPhone or iPad with a more damage-resistant screen?The answer options were:Yes, I would pay up to £50 extra.Yes, I would pay up to £20 extra.No, I would not pay any extra.Survey carried out via SurveyMonkey. Obviously, these are customers who are in the position of "I wish I wasn't having to pay for this"; in that context maybe it's surprising that 21%  said they wouldn't pay extra for a more damage-resistant screen.A side question though is whether - assuming there is sapphire in the next iPhone screens - this will damage the business of iPhone repair companies.OnePlus cancels its dumb contest following uproars of sexism &gt;&gt; TechCrunchOnePlus recants on its competition, with a statement saying:Women make up half the world, and we want to help them be more involved in tech. We understand that our contest was in bad taste, and have therefore pulled it. All participants will be contacted for prizes.We apologize and we will course correct for the future. At the same time, we would love to hear your feedback on how we can better get women involved in tech.Greg Kumparak:This isn't the first time OnePlus has thrown a contest that clearly hadn't been thought all the way through. Back in April, they threwa "Smash the Past" campaign that encouraged usersto record themselves destroying their high-end smartphones in hopes of winning a OnePlus handset.Because smashing a perfectly usable phone filled with glass, rare earth, and a rechargeable battery (read: nasty chemicals that like to explode) is a totally sane thing to do instead of, you know, selling it. Or donating it. Or doing literally anything else with it.MIUI 6 full review: visually stunning, stunningly simple (videos, screenshots) &gt;&gt; MIUI Official CommunityThe long-expected MIUI 6 is finally here! Visually stunning, Stunningly Simple. It's a new chapter for MIUI. And here is a full review for you to get a taste of it.Plenty of American commentators have been remarking on how this resembles iOS 7. But for example, Xiaomi's calendar app has looked this way for some time;MIUI 4 in 2011, for example, was already flat.An alternative explanation: Xiaomi is that rare thing – a company with taste in design.As machines take on more human work, what's left for us? &gt;&gt; Pew Research Centercomputerization has been a major contributor to the "hollowing-out" of middle-skilled, middle-wage jobs and a corresponding rise in employment at both the high and low ends of the skills spectrum. To quantify this, the researchers developed an index of "routine task intensity," or RTI. The higher an occupation's RTI, the more it's characterized by routine tasks with relatively little manual labor or abstract reasoning involved. Dorn, in aseparate paper, said RTI could "be interpreted as an occupation's potential susceptibility to displacement by automation."Athletes, firefighters and kindergarten teachers can rest easy for now, apparently. Butchers, meter readers, proofreaders.. could we have a word?8m Chromebooks to ship in 2014, 5% of global notebook PC market &gt;&gt; DisplaySearch BlogAs published in the Quarterly Mobile PC Value Chain &amp; Insight Report, we forecast that there will be a 144% rise in sales of Chromebooks in 2014, to 8m units. While far lower than Google's planned 20m units for 2014, Chromebooks are likely to achieve 5% penetration of the notebook PC market. In 2013, more than 80% of Chromebooks were shipped to the North America market.As Chromebook PC demand increases, and as Google focuses on selling into some of Microsoft's core markets, we anticipate that Google will gain some advantage in the notebook PC market. ASUS and other brands, and several OEMs are developing Chromebooks, in order to gain a foothold in this growing market.The only support for the "Google planned 20 million in 2014" claim is some waywardly sourced articles from 2012. It seems unlikely Google would have quite such large targets yet.The biggest iPhone security risk could be connecting one to a computer - Computerworld[The Georgia Tech team's] attack [to be shown at the Usenix Security Symposium] requires the victim's computer to have malware installed, but there's a thriving community of people known as "botnet herders" who sell access to large networks of compromised computers.Wang said they conducted their research using iOS devices connected to Windows, since most botnets are on that platform, but their attack methods also apply to OS X.Apple requires a person to be logged into his account in order to download an application from the App Store. But Wang and the researchers developed a man-in-the-middle attack that can trick an Apple device that's connected to a computer into authorizing the download of an application using someone else's Apple ID.As long as the application still has Apple's digital signature, it doesn't even need to still be in the App Store and can be supplied from elsewhere.Perhaps a good thing that iPhones haven't needed to be connected to a computer for backup or activation since October 2011.Pattern recognition algorithm recognizes when drivers are on the phone &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewToday, Rafael Berri at Santa Catarina State University in Brazil and a few pals reveal their approach to the problem using a small dashboard camera that watches for the tell-tale signs that the driver is on the phone.Their approach is relatively straightforward. Berri and co point out that drivers usually scan the road ahead while driving but when on the phone, they tend to fix their gaze straight ahead. This means that a dashboard camera in front of the driver is well-positioned to spot mobile phone use.Their system processes the images from this camera in three steps. First, it locates the driver and crops the image to show just the face and area to each side of the face. The idea is to see the driver's hands should they be raised next to the ear in holding a mobile phone while making a call.A great idea. Can't think anyone's going to install a dashcam that will tell on them though.This is what it looks like when a country gets mobile phones &gt;&gt; QuartzJust five years ago, mobile phone penetration in Myanmar stood at 1%. By 2013, it had already shot up to 13%. The government wants to drive that number north of 75%.Meanwhile, the price of a SIM card dropped from $3,000 to about $260. This month, Qatar's Ooredoo, a mobile operator, started selling SIM cards for 1,500 kyat ($1.50).Watch Myanmar's GDP rocket. Fun fact from the article: Myanmar was one of the three "unconnected" markets effectively closed to mobile phones - the other two are Cuba and North Korea.Microsoft abruptly kills Skype for Windows Phone 7 &gt;&gt; Windows Phone content from Paul Thurrott's SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott:Because only the newest versions of Skype support "enhanced quality, better reliability [and] improved security," and these versions of Skype cannot be ported to Windows Phone 7, Microsoft is "permanently retiring all Skype apps for Windows Phone 7." The app has been removed from the store, and those using Skype on Windows Phone 7 will find the app to be non-functioning soon ("within the next few weeks").Why are they doing this so suddenly and without any advance warning? Who knows.Does it have to do with low Windows Phone 7 usage? I don't believe so: According to thelatest Windows Phone usage stats, 17.7% of Windows Phone users are still using Windows Phone 7.x devices. That's a pretty healthy percentage, though it's obviously on the way down.If I had to guess—and what the heck, I do have to guess—I'd say that Microsoft is aware of a problem with older versions of Skype, and since there is no way to update the Windows Phone 7 version, they feel compelled to shut it down fairly immediately.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Monday!
Near-unscratchable screens that are expected to be one of the biggest selling points of the iPhone 6 when Apple unveils the latest model in September are to go into large-scale production this month.To create industrial quantities of man-made sapphire, the material already used to cover the fingerprint-sensing home button and camera lens on its phones, Apple has a $578m (£350m) deal with manufacturer GT Advanced Technologies, which has built a plant powered by renewable energy in Mesa, Arizona.The iPhone 6 will make its first public appearance on 9 September, when Apple has scheduled a big media event. "You should be good without a screen protector on your next iPhone," predicted technology blogger Marques Brownlee, who has subjected what he claimed was a leaked prototype of the new screen to his own durability tests on video:stabbing it with a hunting knife and trying to snap it while standing on it.Until now Apple has relied on toughened glass, which can however easily be shattered and marked. But screens alreadydemonstrated by GTcan withstand scratches from concrete. Its thin sapphire layers, which could also find their way onto Apple's rumoured smart watch, are flexible, potentially improving resistance to knocks and falls. In March 2012, Apple patented a concept for laminating thin layers of sapphire to each other and to glass, producing surfaces that are strong and resist chipping.Apple is said to be preparing two new iPhone models, both of which will have larger screens than their predecessors. The biggest will measure 5.5 inches corner to corner, while the smaller iPhone will have a 4.7-inch screen, according to reports.The Wall Street Journalclaims Apple has ordered an initial batch of between 70m and 80m handsets, its biggest first run production ever, to be sent out from factory gates in time for Christmas and New Year. Last year's initial order for the iPhone 5S, which introduced Apple's first fingerprint sensor and had a 4-inch screen like its predecessor, the iPhone 5, was for between 50m and 60m devices. But Apple is preparing for a ramp in sales from China, where its recent distribution partnership with China Mobile should boost demand.GT chief executive Thomas Gutierreztold investorson a call this month: "The build-out of our Arizona facility, which has involved taking a 1.4 million square foot facility from a shell to a functional structure and the installation of over 1 million square feet of sapphire growth and fabrication equipment, is nearly complete and we are commencing the transition to volume production."GT's new plant will reach full operational capacity in early 2015, but the company is expecting to collect a final $139m payment for its construction from Apple in October.
You don't have to be paranoid to think there are eyes following you around the Cornwall warehouse that is home to Engineered Arts.Indeed, if you were not being watched, there would be something wrong, as those eyes belong to robots made by the British company that has become an industry leader by creating humanoid, commercially available robots that can hold eye contact with you, perform Singin' in the Rain, and guess your age – all at the same time.Engineers are now working on making them walk, hop and jump.Just inside the front door of the Penryn factory is a line of RoboThespians, human-sized rigid robots whose arms move while the little screens that represent their eyes follow the person in front while telling jokes in one of 30 languages.Up to 20 of the machines, priced at between £50,000 and £55,000, are sold every year to museums, universities and companies to communicate and entertain at exhibitions, trade shows and events. The Kennedy Space Centre in Florida and Israel's National Museum of Science, Technology &amp; Space are among the institutions that have them."It was 'make an automated presenter'," said Will Jackson, founder of Engineered Arts. "That was the mission. It was to make something that could stand in a spot all day, every day, and tell the people things but do it in an entertaining way and use gestures."With a background in special effects, Jackson was working on exhibitions for the Science Museum in the 1990s when he came on the need for a machine that could explain concepts and ideas to people repetitively in an entertaining fashion and not be nervous when talking to a group of people."It is really tedious for someone to stand in a space and repeat the same information all day every day," he said. "It was ripe for automation."The RoboThespian's movements can be controlled by a tablet. The robot can guess the mood and age of people (although years frequently appear to be shaved off) and blow kisses in the air before breaking into song.It is, said Jackson, the first full-sized humanoid commercially available robot. – orders can usually be ready to ship within two weeks. "It is making machines that can have the properties of people," he said. "This is key for making a performing robot. It has huge industrial applications as well because if you can make a machine which is safe around people and it is able to behave like a person, you can then do collaborative tasks, you can start solving all kinds of other problems."The next stage of development will see the creation of Byrun, a 30kg machine about 170cm tall that will be able to walk, hop and jump. A working prototype is expected in a year, said Jackson, with five of his 14 employees focusing on creating a "strong, lightweight, but bouncy and compliant" robot.Under the plans for the androgynous Byrun, the robot's fingers will be sensitive to pressure and temperature. The proportions and locations of the joints are designed to make it as close to the human form as possible. Jackson expects it to cost between £350,000 and £400,000 when it comes to market and he hopes to sell about 10 a year for research and development.Nine years after setting up the company, which Jackson and his wife own, he said his "life goal" was making a machine that performed like a person. However, his creations would never be sold to any military body, he said."Ethically, I am opposed to the mechanisation of death and I don't want to get involved with anything that makes it easier to kill people from a distance, so as a company we are fundamentally opposed to any use of robots for military purposes. We get asked now and again [to sell] but we just don't do it," he said.As the quality and uses for commercially available robots continue to develop, debate has increased as to what their role will be in society in the coming decades. The US thinktank thePew Research Centre recently surveyed some 1,900 technology expertsand found them split over what the future holds, but almost half reckoned both blue and white-collar workers would be significantly displaced in their jobs by robots or artificial intelligence by 2025.Jackson, however, thinks we are up to 20 years away from being able to produce humanoid robots that could be cheap utility devices capable of manipulating objects."I don't believe in this classic idea of robots as servants to humanity, certainly not humanoid-shaped ones. We do have robots that do a lot of utility tasks – in your home you probably have a dishwasher, you have a washing machine. Those are the robots that you are going to see around your home. You are not going to see something with two legs, not unless it is a toy. Those things are fun but they are practically useless for doing utility tasks," he said."If you look at industrial robots where a lot of the humanoid technology has come from, they are designed for very, very precise position control: 'get object from A to B, get it there within a tenth of a millimetre'. That is not how we operate, we operate in a very tactile sort of way. When you are leaning on the table, you don't know that the table is 802.3mm high, you just know that you put your elbows there."In the UK, Iain Gray, chief executive of the Technology Strategy Board, recently highlighted OC Robotics, which designs and manufactures "snake-arm" robots for confined spaces, and MapleBird, which develops tiny unmanned aerial vehicles, as British companies also making prominent steps in the robotics industry.Robot interviewersInquiries received by Engineered Arts on what their robots can do have varied from the quirky to the bizarre. An insurance company contacted Jackson to ask whether robots could be used to interview people who felt uncomfortable talking about their medical problems with another person. An underwear company got in touch to find out if they could use a robot to stress test underwear that they were having durability issues with. Another query came from the Middle East where a group was looking for security guards to be based outside a desert compound armed with guns to ward off intruders. "We didn't want to do that," said Jackson.
Sean Ahrens, a 29-year-old Californian with a surfer tan, is holding court about the three startup companies he’s co-founded. His friends just want to joke about the homemade pendant Sean is wearing, which looks like a 1970s medallion studded with electronics. Sean says it measures the affection you receive from other people, but he’s not willing to explain how, as he’s worried someone might steal his idea. “I am imbuing it with a lot of utility and functions,” says Sean. And that’s all he’ll say.It’s a competitive world, after all, when you’re trying to make your mark as a tech entrepreneur. Sean, along with friends Ben Greenberg and Andrew Ward, lives in a “hacker hostel”, one of the techie communes that have sprung up in San Francisco and nearby Silicon Valley to house the region’s influx of wannabe Zuckerbergs. These fraternity-houses-for-geeks aren’t just cheaper places to live, but also places to foster professional relationships and creative opportunities: an IRL social networking experiment in the historical home of the hippie. Call it co-operative living 2.0.Their comic potential as hotbeds of social awkwardness, rampant geekery and earnest ideals has been brilliantly realised in the new sitcomSilicon Valley, currently airing on Sky Atlantic. Its creator,Mike Judge, drew on his own career as a programmer and experiences of working for a startup to create its premise. Richard, played by Thomas Middleditch, is just another nerdy nobody young until he comes up with an algorithm that the big software companies want to get their hands on. In his corner are the motley collection of dorks, brainiacs and pure weirdos living alongside him in the hostel, who makeThe IT Crowdlook like social dynamite.And as spending any time in the communal kitchen of20Missionin San Francisco’s Mission district proves, it’s not that far from the truth. Gathered round a large metal work bench that serves as a table, Sean and the other men trade failure stories. “We gotonecustomer,” he says of his first startup. “And within five hours he’d emailed and asked for his money back.” Ben, bearded, 25 and from Indiana, dropped out of university to come here with a dream and a fledgling internet company. That too imploded. He’s now working as a software engineer at someone else’s startup. But as a side project he runs a website that aggregates the best glow-in-the-dark products from online stores. It’s calledglowyshit.comand may or may not result in GlowCon, an event he is planning to bring glowy-thing enthusiasts together.Ben: “Your very first startup is just, like, always so bad.”Andrew: “It’s like your first kiss.”Ben: “Yeah, it’s like: ‘I’ve seen a kiss like this in a movie’ or something.”Sean: “Because literally the only thing up until that point you have heard about it is, like: ‘Oh you start a company.’ That is all you know.”Lightbulb moment: Ben Greenberg who runs glowyshit.com. Photograph: McNair EvansBefore 20Mission was a “startup co-living community”, it was a derelict hotel-turned-crack house. Entry is through an unmarked front door next to a Guatemalan money-wire service. Bike racks and a set of stairs give way to a landing brimming with Amazon packages and a set of pigeon holes embossed with residents’ names – quaint for the digital generation. Four hall-of-residence-style corridors, surrounding a sunny courtyard, are all named after alternative, digital currencies: Bitcoin Boulevard, Dogecoin Drive. The front door is controlled by a phone app (keys are so yesterday) and the residents rely on a messaging app to organise their affairs, whether that’s finding someone to demo a product to, seeking a specific computer lead, offering to cook, or announcingGame of Thronesis about to start.The demographic is mostly men in their late 20s or early 30s – entrepreneurs at various stages of pursuing their Zuckerbergian dreams, software engineers and website designers. They share the kitchen, a common room, an enormous television, shelves of computer games and two mixed-sex bathrooms. And they speak in an obscure lingo: bootstrapping1, aquihire2, arduino3, Paul Graham4. “This place is a primordial soup of new ideas,” explains Adonis Gaitatzis, a Canadian entrepreneur with a handlebar moustache. “We are the architects of the future!”5The reality is that three out of every four startups fail and many never attract funding beyond the initial stage. “It’s a slaughterhouse,” says Ben. But thanks to demand, hacker hostels are increasingly overrun with applicants. In the more out-of-town Sunflower Hacker House, for instance, young hopefuls not much beyond their teenage years sleep in mixed-sex Ikea bunk beds crammed six to a room. It is full to capacity. The 41 private rooms at 20Mission currently rent for double the price – $1,800 a month – and there is no shortage of takers. Like many hostels, applicants are screened with an eye to a “good fit” for the community.Basque country: Stephanie Pakrul, aka StephTheGeek. Photograph: McNair EvansThe man with the final say at 20Mission is landlord Jered Kenna. The 32-year-old is a former US marine and contractor in Afghanistan, whose early enthusiasm for Bitcoin made him a millionaire. He leased these premises two years ago after he and a group of friends were evicted from their warehouse. Just like shovels and jeans during California’s Gold Rush days, a place to house eager young entrepreneurs seemed a sure bet. And you can, of course, pay your rent in Bitcoin.He styles the place as a libertarian Neverland. Rules are few and residents decorate their rooms like overactive teenagers: Sean’s is tropically themed with a hammock and a tiki bar, Ben’s is styled with his “glowy shit”. Adonis has set his up as a hookah lounge and sleeps in the closet to free up more living space. There’s a weekly yoga session on the roof at which the teacher quotes mantras she has tried to tailor to Silicon Valley survival (“It is better to follow your own life purpose poorly than to do another’s perfectly”; “You are safe from harm when you follow your own unique path”). Not all of Kenna’s ideas are winners, however. When he installed a chicken coop on the roof, he ended up having to pay for retrospective architectural plans and dismantle the structure anyway, having eaten only one egg. “I ended up losing $10,000,” he says.“It was an expensive egg.”Jered himself comes as a bonus. He no longer lives at 20Mission and he has a live-in manager to deal with its day-to-day running. But he has the status of honorary housemate and clearly enjoys hanging out with the residents – he launched his latest project, a Bitcoin TV venture, with one of them, and spends his days developing it in a studio in 20Mission’s separate co-working space downstairs. “I don’t want it to be an awesome community that I can’t be a part of,” he says.If everyone is equal, some are more equal than others. Allan Grant, the most successful of the housemates, raised almost $18m in funding for his startup. He is revered for his connections and has the only en suite bathroom in the house, although the only sign of him is a mug in the kitchen with his company logo on. Meanwhile, Stephanie Pakrul, who goes by the online handleStephTheGeek, sometimes struggles to pay rent and survives on the “eat me” drawer in the fridge. She holds a masters from the University of California, Berkeley, and runs an adult site that takes payment in Bitcoin for photos and videos of herself. (Her startup ambition is to help women create their own porn websites.) “Last month I paid my rent and the last $4 of it was in laundry quarters,” she says. “People say move somewhere else – back to Canada – but they just don’t know what being here is.”One Saturday, 20Mission hosts one of the parties that have become its trademark. There’s a DJ, a lighting rig, face painting and an “earth” theme. Jered stalks the corridors in a cape decorated with leaves, worrying that not enough guests will show up, but by the end of the night, nearly 800 guests – Pinterest employees, Stanford University postdocs, Facebook interns proudly wearing corporate hoodies – have thronged the astroturf-lined courtyard and thick-with-marijuana-smoke corridors. Sean’s pendant is in action, lights flashing, and proving a hit. Andrew invites people back to his room for shots of cinnamon whisky.A few days later, there’s an informal debrief with Jered. The three friends – Ben, Sean and Andrew – take chief responsibility for party logistics and run crowdfunding campaigns to cover costs. Ben seems convinced that his role helping so many people have a good time could be helpful training for his next company. “I basically organise the parties like a startup… I try to be the node that connects people to each other.” On his laptop, he has kept a spreadsheet of the 25 jobs that needed action ahead of the party. (Next to it is a personal document of “life milestones”.)Getting horizontal: the weekly yoga session on the hostel’s roof. Photograph: McNair EvansThere were lots of people at the party – too many, even – but an aching lack of girls. Maybe they could engage in some social engineering: priority entry, perhaps? “It’s not what you might be thinking,” says Andrew. It probably is. Gender ratios at 20Mission are one of the wrinkles still to be ironed out in their utopia. Just three of the rooms are currently let to women. Only a handful of the residents have girlfriends.As alternative living arrangements go, it’s well-suited to its occupants, however. Living in the hostel “kind of feels like the whole startup scene in its microcosm,” says Sean, because of its “lack of top-down management”. He hated his only “proper” job – cinema usher – and likes the entrepreneurial life because he can be his own boss even if it means sleeping in his car when funding dries up and using the coffee shops of San Francisco as his office.And, of course, the people here speak his language. In the kitchen, Sean explains how he finally got some funding for his current and most successful startup – a company called Crohnology, supporting patients with Crohn’s disease. But he’s regretting taking the money, worried he won’t be able to keep his investors happyandmake the world a better place. “I took something that was of strong identity and value to myself and put it in a contraption that has locked it away from me and created complexities to my ability to control and take it on the path that feels most right to myself6.”“A lot of people wouldn’t admit that,” replies Ben.Footnotes1A bootstrapped company shuns outside investors2When a large company buys a small one for its employees3A programmable electronics kit and computer language Sean has used to produce his pendant4A legendary startup investor and mentor5If that future is a meditation headset that can detect your brainwaves, which is what Adonis’s company makes apps for6No idea
Price from £31,945MPG up to 57.7Top speed 150mphA few weeks before the Tour de France, Jaguar invited journalists to a ceremonial unveiling of this year’s Team Sky Tour bike, a joint venture between the British car maker which supplies Sky with its support vehicles and Pinarello, its bike builder.TheDogma F8may be one of the most aerodynamic Tour bikes ever made, but it had a nightmarish Tour. Chris Froome’s crash and his team’s futile fight to salvage something from the race only served as a reminder that the bikes are irrelevant if the human beings aboard aren’t up to scratch.TheJaguar XF Sportbrakewhich conveyed theObserverfrom Yorkshire to Paris via much of France shared the same sleek, smooth lines of the Dogma F8, but it had a far happier Tour. One judge of the Tour car is how the roadside gallery responds. A Citroën C5 I drove a few years ago incited old men to wind down their windows and wax patriotically lyrical. This Jaguar inspired gasps among both the French and British fans. We followed the race to the sound of “Regardez, leJaguar” and “Ee up, lad, look at t’ Jag.”Chris Froome and his Team Sky Procycling colleagues ride Buttertubs Pass on Stage 1 of the 2014 Tour De France route, followed by their Jaguar support car. Photograph: Simon Wilkinson/REXAmusingly for any cycle-racing fan, the interior trim of the car is all carbon fibre, the material of choice for frames and wheels. More broadly, it’s all very James Bond – turn on the ignition and a joystick rises silently out of the vast console while the air vents ease gently open. The electronic boot closure is very slow – almost sinisterly so.That’s not to say Jaguar has achieved perfection here. There’s a price to pay for the swept-back lines, and it is levied mainly in the headroom. It’s disconcerting to have your eyeline above the top of the windscreen. The split-screen satnav was overcomplex and hard to interpret – not what you want in an item that should give the information you need at a glance.In terms of cargo space, it doesn’t match some of the larger estates, but makes up for it with a decent amount of backseat room and a rather neat hatch in the middle of the rear bench through which you can poke your skis or, as I did, the handlebars of the bike which came with me on Tour.Inside story: the perfect spot to watch the Tour de France fromPart of the joy of driving the Tour is its variety: many miles on the autoroute, lots of gentle grooving along well-maintained rural roads – how, in a country this large, is there barely a pothole inla France profonde? – and plenty of twists and turns in the mountains.With the cruise control on, the sheer silence lent autoroute driving an extracorporeal feel, while in the mountains it was far more stimulating. There aren’t many cars as long as this that you can throw about with such gay abandon on the hairpins of the Alps. It may have been down to the self-levelling air suspension or the dynamic stability control, but, whatever it was, it worked. Fortunately we didn’t need to test the Jaguar as intensely as some French colleagues did when they managed to get caught in front of the race leaderVincenzo Nibalion a key Pyrenean descent. This sort of thing is frowned upon, and they were banned from the race.There was a further test, however. One evening the Tour’s logistics team sent the caravan down a mountain on a steep and rocky road. This wasn’t what the Sportbrake was designed for and we took such care that an impatient colleague suggested on Twitter that we deserved to be lynched for holding up the convoy. And so the Jaguar achieved a first for a Tour press car – a complaint for being driven too carefully.Visittheguardian.com/profile/williamfotheringhamfor all William’s articles in one place. Follow William on Twitter@willfothRed Bull flies over AscotTheRed Bull Air Race World Championshipseason is now underway, as the world’s fastest motorsport series returns to the skies after a three-year break. And this weekend the planes will be performing in the skies over Ascot. You’ll have to be quick, though, as the event is this weekend – 17 and 18 August. Sorry not to give you more notice. But you are still in time for a tremendous day. The Red Bull Air Race World Championship features the world’s best race pilots, including Britain’s reigning two-time world champion Paul Bonhomme. Using the fastest, most agile and lightweight racing planes, pilots navigate a low-level aerial track made up of air-filled pylons 80ft high at speeds of up to 230mph. The competition this year is even more intense as all 12 pilots are using a standardised engine and propeller, intensifying the focus on pilot skill and precision flying. Often the course is held over water, but unusually at Ascot it is over the ground. Tickets are now available atredbullairrace.com.
There are no hot-tubs. No super-yachts. No models in bikinis. My first encounter with Kim Dotcom is disorienting in many respects, not least for the complete lack of luxury goods and inappropriately dressed women present. Before seeing him take to the stage in Christchurch, the largest city on New Zealand's South Island, my image of him has come almost solely from the internet: I've seen him posing next to fast cars, sitting on private jets, cavorting with hot chicks. I've seen him holding automatic weapons, gurning in front of helicopters and partying at his house, the so-called Dotcom Mansion, New Zealand's most expensive private home, just outside Auckland. All 6ft 7in of him: a larger-than-life German-Finnish multimillionaire internet mogul-cum-international playboy for whom money, taste and conventional notions about what constitutes an obscene display of wealth have never been any object.But at Christchurch's cardboard cathedral, a striking temporary structure erected after the city's devastating earthquakes, there are no babes or expensive consumer items. Kim Dotcom'sTwitter profile picshows him as a shadowy figure in a black beret and sunglasses, but in the flesh he comes across less like an international fugitive from justice than a misplaced German exchange student. He's 40, and dressed in black as he invariably is, but there's still more of the teen geek about him than cyber outlaw being hunted by the FBI. Though that is exactly what he is: in the last two years, the founder of the file-sharing website Megaupload has become, for many, an internet folk hero.The US government allegeshe is a pirate, a career criminal who swindled the Hollywood studios out of their rightful copyright earnings, and they are desperately trying to extradite him from his adopted home in New Zealand to stand trial in the US, where he faces up to 88 years in jail. To others, younger people predominantly, he's up there with Assange and Snowden: a web freedom fighter unwilling to kowtow to the US government's bullying ways.At the event in Christchurch, he's articulate, intelligent, personable and in command of his facts, a naturally charismatic public speaker who has drawn a capacity crowd. The reason he's on stage is because his extraordinary career, one that includes three stints in jail, has just taken an even more extraordinary twist. He's founded his own political party, theInternet party,which he claims will be the start of a global political youth movement. And if this sounds like so much hot air, you'd be right… except that, in an even more bizarre twist, he may –may– succeed in bringing down the New Zealand government, a rightwing coalition led by former banker John Key.On 15 September, five days before New Zealand's general election, Dotcom andGlenn Greenwaldwill beholding a press conferencein Auckland at which Dotcom claims they will unveil explosive new revelations relating to the NZ and US governments' spying programmes. And owing to the country's highly complex proportional representation system – thinkBorgen-style machinations – the Internet party, and its alliance partner,Mana, a Maori social justice party, could hold the balance of power.It's as if Julian Assange decided to form a UK parliamentary party today and by Christmas became the new Nick Clegg. If you can imagine how that would go down in the British press, you'll get some idea about how this is being received in New Zealand. As a resident but not a citizen, Dotcom can't stand, but he's bankrolling all the other candidates and has spent £2.5m so far, more than any other party fighting the election. And it's working: the latest polls show InternetMana isset to win five seats.David Fisher, a journalist at theNew Zealand Heraldand the author ofThe Secret Life of Kim Dotcom,tells me that he paid no attention when Dotcom first told him he was thinking of entering politics last November. "I said, 'Don't you have better things to do with your time?' And I didn't think much of it. You know, he sits in the gold mansion and comes up with ideas and I didn't take it seriously. And when he actually did it, I thought, 'That's madness. How on earth are you ever going to make an impact?'"Dotcom onboard a yacht in 2000. By 2010, he was personally making $42m a year.  Photograph: Action Press/REXBut then he formed the strategic alliance with Mana, which already had a sitting MP, and in a spectacular coup brought a veteran leftwing former MP on board as the party's leader,Laila Harré."She has a massive amount of credibility," says Fisher. "It really took people by surprise. I was still trying to unscramble my brain when I suddenly thought, 'You cunning bastard. You are actually going to do it!' We're in a system where you have to play the percentages and Dotcom has – quite cynically – worked out a way to make every sliver of a percentage work for him."Playing the percentages, working the odds may be what Dotcom has always done. He's a serial entrepreneur who's always skirted the far frontier of what the internet can do, both technologically and legally. The son of a German father and a Finnish mother, he was born Kim Schmitz and grew up in difficult circumstances in Munich. His father was an alcoholic and he and his mother were both beaten and abused. To this day, he says, he can't bear to see a man display any sort of violence to a woman. "And I've never drunk a drop of alcohol. I've never wanted to know if that was in me."His outlet and escape was computers. He badgered his mother for a Commodore C-16 computer and that was it. "I never had any interest in school at all after that." When he discovered hacking, though, as he tells the crowd in Christchurch, it was "curiosity" rather than law-breaking per se that motivated him. He was the classic teenage hacker. He broke into Nasa's website, among others, "because I wanted to find out if there was any evidence that aliens existed". Eventually, he was caught, tried and briefly imprisoned. The judge saw he had potential and suggested he used his skills for good. And he did. "I wrote a business plan, got a $1m interest-free loan from the German government and set up a data security business."Within two years, he says, he paid off the entire loan. And it's these kind of opportunities that he says he wants to bring to New Zealand. The Internet party wants to make the country networked, to invest in education and new infrastructure – at the moment it only has one submarine cable through which all internet traffic travels (via the US) – and to diversify the economy from its current reliance on agriculture. Tertiary education would be free, he tells the crowd, Wi-Fi would be everywhere – even mobile reception is patchy in rural areas – and social justice would be served by increased opportunity for all. At the moment, he points out, "talented graduates go abroad… and they don't come back". The internet, and the possibilities created by it, is where future growth lies, he tells the crowd. And it's the job of the rising generation to create it."But a lot of people are saying I set up the Internet party to help with my extradition case," he tells the audience. "Which is rubbish." And then he tells his story as he sees it. Megaupload was one in a long line of websites and businesses that he'd set up, but by far the most successful. At its peak, it was estimated to be the 15th most visited website in the world, used by more than 50 million people a day. And by 2010, he was personally making $42m a year. It was essentially a cloud storage system that enabled people to share content. It was what it was storing and what they were sharing that is the point of contention and the trigger for what happened next. Dotcom had been living in Hong Kong but in 2008 he visited New Zealand on holiday and he and his wife, Mona, decided they liked it. They wanted to buy a house and spend part of the year there and he applied for residency. Despite his criminal conviction for hacking and a later one for insider trading, he got it.These were the days of the yachts and cars. At the mansion, from his custom-made $100,000 bed, he ran his business by night and devoted himself to becoming the number one player (out of 15 million) of the online gameCall of Duty.And then it all changed. The reason he founded the Internet party, he says, is because of the "enormous injustice" his family experienced during what has become known as "the raid". It involved 77 officers and two helicopters descending in a dawn swoop on the Dotcom mansion, where his three children and then seven-month pregnant wife were also living. Dotcom and three of Megaupload's co-founders were arrested (and another three arrested abroad). It was the biggest, most dramatic raid to ever take place on New Zealand soil and was instigated on behalf of the FBI. This shocked the country. "New Zealanders are sensitive to the idea of being directed by the US, which dates back to the country's ban on nuclear warships in the 80s," says Bryce Edwards, a columnist for theNew Zealand Heraldand lecturer in politics at Otago University. "We stood up to the most powerful nation on Earth then, but at the same time we were a victim of it."Dotcom in an Auckland court following the raid on his home in 2012. Photograph: Fairfax Media via Getty ImagesThe raid, and what it said about the government's relationship with the US, brought back unhappy memories. It was the first time most people had heard of Dotcom, but after he got bail and went on New Zealand TV to explain himself, there was an upswelling of support. "I explained what my website did. How it was a product that was simply an efficient and super-fast way of transferring files. It was basically like a hard drive that is connected to a computer but it was connected to the entire internet for everyone to use. It was completely benign on the copyright issue… they are not saying that I hurt people or that I'm selling drugs or that I'm dangerous. What they are saying is that people have used a website I've created to upload movies and so on." And then he asked the crowd: "Does that justify the kind of force that was used to terrorise my family?"Others saw Megaupload differently. There's no doubt it was used to share pirated films and music, but so were a lot of other sites. And the terms of America's 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act protects websites, including the likes of Facebook and YouTube, from being prosecuted for hosting illegal content as long as certain steps are followed. It's a fine legal line, but according to Fisher, he certainly "spent a huge amount of money on lawyers and put a lot of effort into finding where that legal line was".Yet Megaupload was shut down across nine countries, Dotcom's assets were seized across 10 jurisdictions and 220 employees lost their jobs. An extradition order from the US government was served. Copyright is a civil offence, but, uniquely for a case involving the US government against a website, Dotcom was charged with money-laundering and racketeering: criminal offences. Extradite-able offences.He should have left New Zealand's shores months ago. But all was not as it seemed. As Dotcom fought the extradition order through the courts, incredible details began to emerge. An unlawful court order was used to carry out the raid. Process was abused multiple times in multiple different ways. Edwards fills in the details: "He was spied on illegally. Laws were broken. The government now admits that. It's a spectacular narrative in which he has definitely had an injustice put upon him. And not just by the New Zealand government. It was arguably at the behest of a large foreign power. It's really just an argument of whether it was for the greater good."The issues that Kim Dotcom's case brings up are issues that are at the forefront of what is increasingly being seen as the war for the internet: copyright, privacy, intellectual property, the right to one's personal data. It raises questions about who polices the net, who owns it, how governments respond to it and what personal freedoms they are willing to sacrifice to protect both state and corporate interests. And, crucially, just how far they are prepared to go to enforce it.Two days later, I travel to Queenstown, a ski town that is the adventure sports capital of New Zealand. A PA shows me up to Dotcom's hotel suite where we find him sitting outside on his balcony. The view is of a vast panorama of cloud-wreathed mountains but he doesn't appear to be looking at it. He's glum, exhausted, feverish, ill. It's a chilly day and when he comes inside he leaves the balcony door open but he's visibly sweating. For five weeks, he's been doing nightly "roadshows" in small towns across the country. New Zealand's political commentators have had many things to say about the entry of a foreign multimillionaire into their electoral landscape, but no one can argue that he's not putting his back into it.It's almost impossible to connect the sober, slightly sullen figure in front of me to the flamboyant playboy who liked to drive fast cars and visit nightclubs; the self-invented character who changed his name to Dotcom in 2005. He avoids holding eye contact at first and he has a lawyer's command for detail; he meticulously spells out the injustices he feels have been committed against him. The fun-time guy has well and truly left the building. Does it feel odd when you look at how your life has changed in the last few years? I ask. He sighs."I was living in this really happy bubble before. I was completely blind to most issues. Yes, you know that the US government lied to invade Iraq, and you know they shouldn't drone people, and that they shouldn't be building this massive spy apparatus. You know that. But as long as it doesn't affect you personally, you're like, 'You know, I'm living a happy life, who cares?' But it's become my problem because all my rights are being pissed on and I'm being abused, but the average Joes don't care because it doesn't affect them. At least that's what they think. That's what I thought. But I was wrong. And once you're hit by it, you'll understand."The law, he says, was "hacked". "With Sony Betamax, the supreme court ruled that as long as you have a technology that can be used for both good and bad, you can't shut it down just because some people use it in the wrong way. We had a takedown tool for content owners, our record was clean, we had 13 million takedown notices [from copyright owners] and we took down every single thing… so this indictment, the way they had scripted a story of us being a mafia organisation, a mega-conspiracy, they called it. I was just gobsmacked. I couldn't believe it."Dotcom was an entrepreneur. But he says he's been forced by the actions of the US government to become political, to come out fighting. He is furious about what's happened to him. "I have been radicalised absolutely. And the craziest thing of all is that I feel differently now about those people&nbsp;who hate America so much. I'm kind of seeing it from their perspective."He is, he claims, where mass surveillance has come home to roost. Because what Dotcom and his lawyers discovered was that his personal data going back for years – emails, phone calls, texts, Skype calls – had been harvested using the5-Eyesspying system. This is the intelligence alliance that exists between Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the UK and the US that Edward Snowden described as "a supranational intelligence organisation that doesn't answer to the laws of its own countries"."They usedXKeyscore, which is basically the Google of the 5-Eyes cloud, and they've downloaded everything, every single email, every single chat message," he says. And it was this archive of information that was used to construct the case against him. "Then after they admitted they had spied on me, they then revealed they had 'aged off' the material, meaning they'd deleted it."It's the crux of one of the best arguments that is used against the gathering of mass data: if you combed anyone's collected digital archive, you could construct some case against them. Or as Cardinal Richelieu put it: "If you give me six lines written by the hand of the most honest of men, I will find something in them which will hang him."Is Dotcom honest? Innocent? That has yet to be proved one way or the other. But what is uncontestable is that the US government had a lot more than six lines with which to construct its case. He tells me: "I'm probably the one individual in the world who is closest to getting discovery on what this material is, on getting visibility around this kind of spying, and what mass surveillance actually means to an individual like me. I'm the closest anywhere in the world in a relatively good judicial system to getting the answers that they are trying to cover up. I am entitled to that data; it is a much more complete set of data than I have and it would completely exonerate me. They are sitting on a trove of evidence that I could use in my case… so what they did in order to prevent that from ever happening is that they just deleted it."The New Zealand government froze his assets, without which he had – theoretically – no access to legal representation. But the lawyers worked, at least initially, for free. And within a year, Dotcom had launchedMega, an on-the-fly cloud storage encryption site that is currently valued between $250m-$800m. He should be sitting in a US jail by now. And he should be penniless. Whatever you think of him, it's notable that neither of these things is true. He has fought back in spectacular fashion.Dotcom speaking at a party rally this month. 'The internet generation is going to take over the world and governments should worry,' he says.He was, he says, an easy target "because of my past and my flamboyance". After the teenage hacking conviction, there was another one for insider trading, in his 20s, also in Germany. He bought shares in an early Groupon-like site, Letsbuyit.com. After announcing he would invest heavily in it, the share price rocketed and he sold some of them. He's still bitter about it, giving me chapter and verse on what happened, and explaining what a miscarriage of justice it was, and why he should never have pleaded guilty.Then there's his "flamboyance". Fisher's book details Megaupload's accounts. In 2010, its most profitable year, Dotcom earned $42m, "but it was going out as quickly as it was coming in". He has the receipts from his trip to Europe in 2011 in which he took not just 12 cars and 18 staff with him but also his bed and living room furniture. There are photos of him and his family posing on a white leather three-piece suite on a beach in the Med. And the man I now hear talking about social justice was, this time a year ago, complaining that one of the biggest problems with New Zealand is that there was nothing to spend his money on. It's not, even he admits, classic man-of-the-people territory. "I was such an easy sell as a villain. Look at me."There's more, of course. There are endless pieces of circumstantial evidence and elaborately constructed theories that he rehearses for my benefit, including that he was only granted New Zealand residency in order to make it easier for the US to extradite him (he was previously living in Hong Kong, which has no extradition treaty; and he was already under investigation by the FBI, which should have precluded residency from ever being granted). That's his top theory. His second is that John Key traded him with the US for a sweetheart deal with the American studios. The day after Dotcom's residency was approved, Key met the head of Warner Brothers and brokered a deal for the three Hobbit films to be shot in New Zealand, a deal that included a change to NZ labour laws. Crucially, Key denies he knew anything about Dotcom's residency application."He has been treated appallingly," says Fisher. "As to whether or not it was a huge conspiracy led by the White House, I can't get there. But, then, there's been a number of things along the way that I've said to Dotcom that are completely ridiculous and which have turned out to be right, so I'm not discounting it. But they were so inept. They couldn't even get the basics right. How on earth could they pull off a conspiracy like that?"New Zealand, as everyone tells me, is not like Britain, where on the first day of a scandal there are calls from the papers for a minister to resign and on the third day they have to go. "That would never happen here," Edwards tells me. "And the minister in question was actually the prime minister so…" It could never happen? "No. We just don't have that culture."The result is that Dotcom, Fisher believes, is "fighting for his life. He doesn't want to do 80 years in an orange jumpsuit. He's trying to make sure that doesn't happen and, along the way, I think he has found that things that are critical to that fight run parallel to the causes of the day. I don't think there was any blinding epiphany."Fisher probably has more insight into Dotcom's motivations than most. But there is something else going on, I think. Though it might just be my jaundiced eye, electioneering doesn't look much fun. I cruise around Queenstown in his Mercedes G class 4x4, a sort of luxury military vehicle, killing time before his next rally. There are two silent bodyguards with whom, the next day, he'll travel down to Invercargill, a town on the cold, southern edge of New Zealand. In Queenstown at least there are hotels and restaurants. Invercargill is more of a motel and take-out sort of place. He is plainly exhausted and unless I'm asking questions, there is no chit-chat. A couple of teenage girls spot the Kim.com number plate and throw themselves into the road, laughing and waving – he is a bona fide celebrity in New Zealand these days – but there is no reciprocal laughing and waving. He eyes them through the smoked glass windows and we drive on. Does that happen often? "Fairly often."In fact, they are exactly the part of the electorate he's trying to reach: the young. This is the demographic that parties in western countries do not bother to court, because what's the point? The young don't vote. But in this election, it's looking increasingly possible that they just might. There's a big news story on the day of the Queenstown rally: the Internet party has released a campaign video that includes scenes from a packed nightclub with hundreds of people chanting: "Fuck John Key!" The furore is predictable and depressing. A leftwing blogger claims it looks like a "Munich beer hall" and the TV news interviews an expert who claims that electioneering has "sunk to a new low".A young supporter of Dotcom's Internet party.What they don't mention is that this is actually a quasi-revolutionary act. Interesting ordinary young people in politics is a genuinely radical new phenomenon. Somehow, the Internet party seems to be pulling off a masterful new trick: it's politics for the apolitical. And at the Christchurch event I attend, I'm impressed and cheered by the candidates. There's a 23-year-old female student from Canterbury University and a 28-year-old woman who works in IT who says she's never voted before "because before the Internet party there was no party that ever spoke to me". Then there's an older Maori woman, a Mana candidate who was the world's first transsexual MP. And finally, the party leader, Laila Harré, a trade unionist and feminist and former Green who speaks with credibility and conviction.I've never – and I mean never – seen that many women share a political platform. And they're all so unlike regular politicians, even Harré. She tells me later how she first came across Dotcom at a debate on GCSB, the NZ external spying agency, "and I was enormously impressed by him. I'd gone along expecting someone who was a bit out there, and what I heard was somebody who had a very serious message, who was humble in an intellectual way, and that really appealed to me. He won me over with his sincerity."Fisher tells me later that Dotcom is paying all the candidates an MP's wage while they're campaigning, which isn't exactly in the spirit of public service and is grist to the mill of rightwing bloggers such asCameron Slaterwho tells me that Dotcom has "bought" various MPs. But they certainly seem genuine.Dotcom tweets a photo of the Christchurch event. It's a full house. There's lots of energy in the auditorium and a fantastically mixed crowd. There are ageing Greens, middle-aged Maoris, teenage stoners, a white Rastafarian, a brace of indie kids, some hip-hop-type dudes and, though it takes me a while to make them out, camouflaged as they are against the ageing Greens, a good handful of actual, bona-fide hipsters. I count two full-tweed suits and a handlebar moustache. It feels like a bold new experiment in democracy; the Internet party is trying to crowd-source its policy making and you can sign up by app. But the most startling aspect of it all is that there are people who appear to be interested – in politics.In Queenstown, it's a slightly different story. It's a Sunday night, in a conservative town. The questions are tougher, the crowd more muted. Afterwards, I question the two thirtysomething men sitting next to me. They make cynical faces. "It's a small town," one of them says. "And it's noticeable that the tech crowd isn't here. The business crowd isn't here." "For an internet party, it wasn't exactly a hi-tech presentation, was it?" says the other. But he adds: "There's a train of thought that calls New Zealand Fisher Price's First Country." What does he mean? "We're like a starter country. We're so small with such a tiny population, you can do things here you simply couldn't anywhere else. Can you imagine how much it would cost to set up a new political party in the UK, let alone the US? Forget it. You just couldn't do it. Whereas here you can genuinely experiment. In a month, you can get around the whole country and a sizable chunk of people in it."It's a nice theory, Fisher Price's First Country. It would pave the way for the Dotcom dream: for there to be other Internet parties, other countries. And it wouldn't be the first time that a weird Kiwi disruptive practice has spread to the rest of the world: it was the first country in the world to enfranchise women. Could it lead the world again this time around? Could the internet generation really rise up and claim political power?On the one hand, New Zealand is so far away from anywhere, an island unto itself, and on the other, the internet is the internet, and what happens in one part of it affects everywhere else. "Given the opportunity," says Fisher, "Kim Dotcom can probably achieve anything he puts his mind to. He simply doesn't countenance defeat… and the architecture of cyberspace is undergoing a massive change, a true generational change. There is a mainly younger transnational rebellion, an anger, that Assange has tapped into that also finds an alignment with Dotcom. Whether he's the person to bring it, I don't know. But inevitably, I think, there'll be something like that."Dotcom is certainly refusing to see it any other way.  The fightback has only just begun, he says. "The internet is only 20 years old. It only really took off in the last 10 years. It's all just beginning. And it's great that we now know that our data is being stored and that it can be used against us. That now will always be in the back of people's minds and it's going to drive this whole new business sector. It's going to be a cat-and-mouse game and I'm glad that everyone knows about this because we can now actually do something about it."We can beat the intrusions of government with innovation, with technology. We can beat them with our brains. That's what the internet is all about. They can try and do all those things but in the end we'll have the technologies to beat them."But then, with Dotcom, I suspect that his optimism is just one more manifestation of his will. In May, his wife, Mona, and the mother of four of his five children,announced she was leaving him, a fact that he says is the "thing that I regret the most" about the whole affair and, he insists, is a direct consequence of it. He still hasn't had his assets restored. And while Mega.com is making money, he doesn't actually own any shares, they were all in Mona's name. But, as he says, he's always had a nose for the future. It's what's made his fortune, his name, everything. "And with my mind and the internet, I will always make money."I just understand this digital age and the internet economy better than most people. I've been born into it. Everything I saw was going to happen five years ago has now happened."And now? "I think the war for the internet has just begun. The internet generation is going to take over and governments around the world should be worried. They are going to be voting them out. They are going to be changing the things that are wrong. And I think they are starting here in New Zealand."Perhaps. Who knows? The only thing we can be sure of post-Snowden is that stranger things have been shown to be true.
Traditionally, the major players concentrate on promoting their big-hitting titles atGamescom, Cologne's annual showcase for the most exciting games in development, but at this year's event a wave of innovative independent games and new services drew as much attention as blockbuster&nbsp;franchises.Sony and Microsoft both spent much of their time focusing on intriguing indie titles. Xbox players will see the likes ofGoat Sim, an anarchic open-world destruction game;The Escapists, a prison-set crafting and strategy title from classic British developers Team 17; andSmite, a Moba (Multiplayer Online Battle Arena) where players control the gods of myth, with gameplay designed for controllers rather than mouse and keyboard. PS4 gamers have a slightly more esoteric selection on the way, includingThe Vanishing of Ethan Carter(an occult mystery akin to the recentMurdered: Soul Suspect) andThe Tomorrow Children, a charming yet unsettling game where characters styled like Russian dolls mine fallen giants in a dystopian autocratic world.Sony also announced the November launch ofPlayStation TV, a "microconsole" that can stream PS4 content to other TVs and directly access the PlayStation Now service. PS&nbsp;Now streams PS3 and earlier games over the internet without downloads, with the first European test of the platform to launch in the UK in 2015.Elsewhere, Activision debuted a literally game-changing new iteration of its Skylanders franchise, introducing a full mobile version.Trap Teamlaunches on 10 October, with a starter set including a custom controller for playing on the go, and the game will be&nbsp;compatible with all existing Skylanders toys – great news for kids, bad news for parents' wallets.
Since the 2D shooter experienced a renaissance in 2003 with the release ofGeometry Wars, the genre has refused to die. Instead, it has maintained a constant following, albeit one that rests in the background of the gaming spectrum.Which presents developers with a challenge. How should their 2D shooters innovate in a well-served market? The team behindXType Plushas opted to mix the dense "bullet curtains" of Japanese arcade shooters with the twin-stick controls as modelled byGeometry Wars, while also focusing exclusively on boss battles, presenting the player with increasingly aggressive space leviathans.On the whole it's a good effort. Two modes – a classic arcade arrangement and time-trial version – are certainly engrossing and backed by polished visuals and luscious sound. But whatXType Pluslacks is the depth of scoring and variety of bullet patterns that really provide hours of gameplay. A well-produced treat, then, especially for a pocket-change price, but one that falls short of the genre's finest.
You don't just walk into the San Francisco offices of Uber, the "ride-sharing" company. Get past the security guards and into the lift, and you emerge in the company's dark-decor reception, where another guard, with telltale earpiece, is ready to check would-be visitors for signs they might want to cause trouble.That is the problem with disrupting people's business model, in this case taxi companies the world over: some of them might want to come and disrupt you.Uber has had its share of protesters. But as the practised eyes of the guards indicate, it's part of life in the technology fast lane. According to co-founder Travis Kalanick, Uber is valued atabout $17bn, following another round of funding in June. This, for a company some feel is just trying to muscle into the taxi business by combining satnav systems, spare drivers and a smartphone app, feels to some like a bubble valuation.But what constitutes a technology bubble? If it's gigantic valuations, you don't have to look far. When venture capital companyAndreessen Horowitz put $85m last week into online publisher BuzzFeedin exchange for 10% of its equity, that implied BuzzFeed was worth $850m, more than the 137-year-oldWashington Post. Five-year-old Uber  raised a little over $1.2bn from venture capitalist for about 5% of its equity, to give it that $17bn valuation.And ifSnapchat, the vanishing-picture service, could turn down a $3bn offer from Facebookin November 2013 (according to theWall Street Journal) and wasin talks last month with China's Alibabaover funding that could value it at $10bn, isn't that evidence of a bubble?Chris Dixon, a partner at Andreessen Horowitz, defended BuzzFeed's fundingas an example of a new-media company being built on an emerging technology – past examples include Time Inc, CBS and Viacom. "BuzzFeed is a media company in the same sense that Tesla is a car company, Uber is a taxi company, or Netflix is a streaming movie company," he wrote – meaning that they're far bigger than that. "We believe we're in the 'deployment' phase of the internet. The foundation has been laid."But are the foundations solid enough to stop sky-high valuations crashing down? The latest debate over whether we're in a "tech bubble" has been raging in Silicon Valley and beyond since at least late 2010, whenventure capitalist John Doerrsuggested we were entering a "third wave" of innovation, focused on smartphones and social networking. To the suggestion that valuations were – even then –  "overheated", Doerr replied: "I prefer to think of these bubbles as booms. I think booms are good. Booms lead to overinvestment, to full employment. Booms lead to lots of innovation."Overinvestment also implies bust, though. The question of which moment marks the peak has been raised repeatedly: at the time of corporate social networkLinkedIn's flotationin May 2011, withFacebook's purchase of mobile picture network Instagram for $1bnin April 2012,Facebook's flotationin May 2012,Twitter's flotationin November 2013, and so on. Last week's cash injection into BuzzFeed was just the latest trigger for  headshaking on both sides.Writing forBusiness Insider last November, co-founder Jim Edwardslaid out a lengthy list of reasons of why tech is overvalued: low interest rates are driving a wave of funding into companies as "virtually any other kind of investment [than cash in the bank] is likely to pay more", and there is a shortage of skilled staff. Worst of all, he suggested, was that companies with "broken" business models (such as design retailer fab.com, which laid off hundreds of staff, yet won more funding), or without meaningful revenue (such as image-pinning service Pinterest), or with no revenue at all (Snapchat) were all highly valued.The key dispute is whether large user numbers translate into large profits. Veterans of the first dotcom bubble recall how "eyeballs" were, for a time, the most important metric: how many people were looking at your site?Those making the investments – and many on the sidelines – are certain that this time things are different. August 1998 saw the launch ofpets.com, selling pet food and products online ("because pets can't drive!"): it went from flotation to liquidation in less than nine months. What's often overlooked is that it had more than half a million customers at its demise – remarkable in the pre-broadband era. But then those customers were getting a bargain: the company was selling goods for about a third of what it had paid for them, an unsustainable business model in any circumstances.The difference from the 1990s, and even from the mini tech boom of the mid-2000s that halted with the credit crunch in 2007, is that there are now multiple proven internet-only business models – from Google's search-based advertising, to Facebook and Twitter's socially based advertising, toLinkedIn's "freemium" model,which charges users for better access.One area under close focus has been the "sharing economy" – which tends not to be about sharing at all, but about making money out of underused things – be they space, time or products.Uber and room rental company Airbnb like to be described as part of this – Uber prefers to be called a "ride-sharing company" (and insists it is not a "taxi company"). The "sharing" tends to be mediated (for money) by the company. Thus Uber doesn't employ cab drivers or (obviously) customers, but links the two, and sets the price for a journey – including its "surge pricing", when high demand can increase a fare fivefold.But it contains huge value, according to anew study from PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). "In some ways, the sharing economy is a throwback to the pre-industrial age, when village communities had to share resources to survive," said John Hawksworth, PwC's chief economist. "They built up trust through repeated interactions with people they had known all their lives. Digital communications allow sharing across a global village … with trust established through electronic peer reviews."Uber's valuation has been queried, but some see it as justified – its model of uniting buyers and sellers separated by short distances has wide applicability.Can Snapchat make money? Certainly, by selling in-app purchases, or "stickers" (virtual elements to attach to a message or picture) – avery profitable model for the Line messaging appin south-east Asia. Pinterest is exploring "promoted pins". Twitter is ramping up its advertising. And don't forget that when Google started, its founders had no aim except to offer a really good search engine – and no clear business plan.Dixon is certain this isn't a bubble; this is an embedding of technology companies from one sector into everything. "Tech is now spreading through every industry and every part of the world," he said. "The most interesting tech companies aren't trying to sell software to other companies. They are trying to reshape industries from top to bottom."
TheStreet Fighter IV serieshas defined fighting games for an entire console generation, marrying the thrills and dramas of yesterday's arcades with the convenience and global competition of today's online world.Ultra Street Fighter IVrepresents the pinnacle of that achievement, a vibrant, accessible ballet of cartoon violence that hides a richly complex, competitive engine.As the supposedly final iteration,Ultrais the comprehensive package. There are new characters – Elena, Hugo, Rolento and Poison, all hand-me-downs fromStreet Fighter X Tekken(along with five stages from that game) – while Decapre is a remixed Cammy. The new system mechanics (red focus, delayed wake-up and Ultra Combo double) encourage innovative tactics and every character in the game has been fine-tuned to ensure a balanced playfield. Throw in YouTube uploads, the full wardrobe of costumes and Edition Select, and you have a superbly robust package that deserves to be played for decades to come.
"It is difficult to get a man to understand something," wroteUpton Sinclair, the great American muckraking journalist, "when his salary depends on his not understanding it." That was in 1935, so let us update it for our times: "It is impossible to get an executive of an internet company to understand anything if the value of his (or her) stock options depends on not understanding it."There are two things in particular that the various infant prodigies, charlatans, megalomaniacs, sociopaths and venture capitalists who run our great internet companies have a vested&nbsp;interest in not understanding.The first is that the state is not the almighty pain in the ass that they constantly maintain it is. To listen to some of them you'd think that the only thing standing between us and nirvana is the nation-state, with its clueless legislators, obsolete laws, red tape and regulatory reflexes. When the European court of justicedared to decidethat people had what is (incorrectly IMHO) a "right to be forgotten", the heavens were rent with corporate whingeing about how Europeans were opposed not only to free speech but also to innovation itself. The clear imputation was that anything tech companies do is innovation, whereas all public agencies (of which courts are one) do is impose a brake on that sacred activity.What this crazed neoliberalism overlooks is that without the state and its baleful agencies these corporations couldn't exist, never mind thrive. It's the state, for example, that provides the courts and the legal system that protects their intellectual property, the roads and infrastructure on which their self-driving cars travel and so on.Or, as SenatorElizabeth Warrenput it in agreat campaign riff: "There is nobody in this country who got rich on his own. Nobody. You built a factory out there? Good for you. But I want to be clear: you moved your goods to market on the roads the rest of us paid for. You hired workers the rest of us paid to educate. You were safe in your factory because of police forces and fire forces the rest of us paid for. You didn't have to worry that marauding bands would come and seize everything at your factory… Now look, you built the factory and it turned into something terrific, or a great idea? God bless. Keep a big hunk of it. But part of the underlying social contract is you take a hunk of that and pay forward for the next kid who comes along."The second thing that the geniuses of Silicon Valley have a vested interest in not understanding is thatallof their wealth stems ultimately from something built by the hated nation-state, and some of it depends on things built by people who gave it away for free. For without the internet none of the great digital corporations would exist. And the internet was built not by private enterprise but by the US government which funded the Arpanet and then the "internetworking" project that built the network on which we – and Google, Amazon, Facebook, Yahoo, Microsoft et al – all now depend.Even more interesting is the fact that the core infrastructure of the network runs on software that is all in the public domain. Almost every broadband modem, for example, runs on the Linux operating system, which is free software created by programmers for the love of it. The corporations who make the modems profit from them; but they never paid a cent for Linux.I have no problem with that. What I do have a problem with, however, is that these neoliberal free riders on public resources seem to feel no obligation to give anything back. For not only do they go to fantastic lengths to avoid paying tax, but they also feel little obligation to contribute to the upkeep of the public-domain code that enables them to function.We have finally begun to see the consequences of this myopic corporate selfishness. A few months ago, theHeartbleed bugwas discovered in the OpenSSL cryptography library, which plays an absolutely critical role in securing confidential online transactions. We then discovered that for years this critical piece of infrastructural software has been maintained by a handful of overworked volunteers. The industry was rightly shocked by Heartbleed, and some companies – notably Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Intel, IBM, Cisco and Amazon –agreed to donate $300,000 eachover the next three years to support the OpenSSL project. You can interpret this as "corporate social responsibility". I call it common sense. And we need much more of it.
Thailand’s ruling military junta has taken the unusual measure of banning a videogame that may have hit a bit close to home.Tropico 5is a resource-management sim in which your character stages a coup in a tropical paradise, installing himself aspresidenteand running it as a comfy, army-controlled dictatorship. Time will tell whether prohibiting the sale of a second-rate PC game stops Thailand’s population from noticing their military rulers’ brief suspension of democracy.Along withAssassin’s Creed: Unity, Ubisoft has announced a further sequel,Rogue, also due this winter. Whereas Unity plonks you into the throes of the French revolution, Rogue continues the pirating themes of last year’s Black Flag, combining naval battles with good old-fashioned stabbing people in the neck. Rogue is due for release on 11 Nov for PS3 and Xbox 360.
“You have to upload your next chapter, Hazal, I want to know what happens next,” a close friend gushed to me one morning during registration. No, I do not have a publishing deal and no, I have no real experience in creative writing apart from a few amateur attempts at creating my own novel, a journey I began at the age of 11.What my gushing friend was trying to say was: “When will you upload on toWattpadnext?” If you’ve not heard of Wattpad, you don’t know a girl in her early teens. Wattpad is a global sensation in young adult literature. And I fell for it hard.It started as “a mobile reading app,” says Allen Lau, Wattpad’s co-founder and CEO. “Ivan (Yuen, co-founder of Wattpad) was one step ahead of me and in addition to a mobile reading app he also created a website which allowed people to share their writing on mobile devices. Once we discovered we were working on a similar idea we decided to start a company.” However, Lau didn’t expect the initial growth to be among young female users. “It wasn’t really our intention. We wanted to create a place for people to share their writing and that’s actually pretty generic. I believe the younger generation are at such an age where they are more perceptive to new ideas and new concepts, and that’s why it started taking off.”In my case, introduced to it by friends, I slowly became addicted, clicking and double-clicking my way through until my online “library” was full of romance and the paranormal, often finishing 40-chapter stories in a day. I downloaded the app on to my iPod Touch – you can also get it on iPhone and iPad – and when I saw I could read stories offline it began a reading marathon as I commuted between work-experience jobs.Hazal Kirci: ‘I became addicted. My online “library” was soon full of romance and the paranormal.’ Photograph: Laura PannackBoy was it exhilarating. So much so that I abandoned “real” fiction for a while, relishing instead the heaps of clichés that populated practically every story I read. And as most readers know, stories have an uncanny ability to spark one’s own creativity and inspiration. So I began writing and uploading my own stories, choosing to (the originality will blow your mind, I’m sure of it) centre my narrative on a werewolf romance.Nonetheless, my story has attracted around 12,000 views, 262 likes and a stream of comments to date all of which offered me motivation and the giddy happiness to keep on going. As a social platform, Wattpad grew through word of mouth between teenagers – it’s now a craze in several countries around the world. Alongside my own friends, 25 million others also read and write on the website, collectively having uploaded 40m stories and spending a total of 41bn minutes on the website.“The initial growth in the first year was depressing,” admits Lau. “After a year we had perhaps 1,000 users, I can’t remember the exact amount, it was very low. The second year we started to see more and more users. And then we started to see things accelerate by the third year.” It continues to grow to this day with most users residing in the UK, the US and Canada. Although, according to Lau, it’s the number one app in the Philippines.Despite Wattpad’s vast impact, it remains largely unknown or under-rated.Margaret Atwoodhas said she believes that Wattpad “opens the doors and enlarges the view in places where the doors are closed and the view is restricted”. In aninterview with theGuardian, she noted that “once again people are giving me strange looks” because of her association with the app, when she “should be endorsing Literature, capital L” instead.Hazal Kirci, aged 17: ‘Reading my friend’s story, it dawned on me she liked a boy we both knew. I felt amused, if a little cheeky.’ Photograph: Laura PannackWattpad’s power to catapult teenage girls into the world of publishing has been extraordinary: some users have received publishing deals with the likes of Harper Collins and Random House. Eighteen-year-oldBeth Reeklesgarnered a three-book deal with Random House US after her story,The Kissing Booth, hit 19m reads on the website. Since then Reekles has been cited as one ofTimemagazine’s most influential teens. The fact that she reached Random House’s radar, currently studies physics at Exeter University and is considered an American teenage sensation is stunning and inspiring to thousands of girls like me who dream of publishing a book someday – or just excelling in whatever they choose to do.“Publishers are increasingly aware of Wattpad and novellas and fan fiction and they are certainly keeping an eye on it,” says Charlotte Eyre, children’s editor atThe Bookseller. “Publishers want the best books and if they find great writing talent on Wattpad, why not? They are very aware that teenagers read and write [on the website] and also that teenagers aren’t big readers of eBooks. I think it’s fantastic and more publishers should do it.” Eyre also notes that yearly collaborations between publishers, such as Wattpad and its competitorHot Key, are common, something I’m more than ready to try my luck at.For me, another perk of the site is discovering sides to your friends you never knew existed. This was the case with one of my very close friends. We hadn’t spoken much about boys with each other before. In fact, the actual possibility that either of us could have a crush on someone real was somewhat strange. But, reading her story on Wattpad, it dawned on me that she liked a boy we both knew. It couldn’t be entirely coincidental that her love interest had theexactsame characteristics and features as that boy. The realisation left me feeling amused, if a little cheeky.I have two sisters. They are 14 and 12 and before they were into Wattpad, it was all about One Direction. Their rather frightening obsession resulted in a friend suggesting to my 14-year-old sister Heral, that she read fan fiction about the boy band. She had never read novels before, but after that you could not separate her from her iPod Touch with a pair of pliers. Often it’s 4am and 12-year-old Hislen is begging for her to switch off the lamp, but no, she needs to read.Eventually, Hislen began to portray similar symptoms. Unexpected things began to happen. Heral would come home, telling our mum all about her new English teacher and his stream of praise for her. This was shocking; she had always been the opposite of me, hating English. To see the transformation in her grades was amazing – and something I fully credit to Wattpad. If this app hadn’t provided her with the only type of story she could love and feel passionate about, my sister’s improvement in English may not have happened.Of course, while the app provided me with entertainment, excitement and joy for a good year or so, my time as both reader and writer has ended. I could not carry on. The spelling, grammar and poor plotting began to irk me and the need to read more riveting and thought-provoking literature took over. Right now, I’m onThe Great Gatsby. When I was asked to write this article, I imagined my story lying forgotten, gathering dust and cobwebs, and logged into my account for the first time in ages. To my surprise I saw that readers were still continuing to like, read and comment on my story – some only hours or days before. I have to tell you, a feeling of warmth spread through me.Hazal, who is 17, is part of theSocial Mobility Foundation’s aspiring professionals programme
Because of a clerical error (I erred, like a&nbsp;clerk), two cars turn&nbsp;up at the same time. One is a beautiful, sleek, dark blue two-seater Jaguar, capable of 180mph, and yours for a fiver shy of £74,000. The other is this cheerful little brown Peugeot. And it is the latter that's getting the attention. No&nbsp;honestly, I'm not just making it up for the purpose of copy, I do have a few standards and a bit of integrity, honest."Quite like that one," says my missus, which regular readers of this column (she's not one, thankfully) will know is pretty much peak effusiveness for her. She doesn't even notice the Jag (to be honest though, this is one of the things I&nbsp;love about her). "Cute," says the man in the corner shop. Even Car Dad (he knows, and talks about, cars) at nursery, whom you wouldn't expect even to notice something so little and unpowerful, likes it.It is likable though, and noticeable, and cute. Brown was doing its colour a disservice, it's a metallic bronze, "Aikinite" actually. With an interesting stripe of tessellation that spreads over the white wing mirrors and inside.Pied de pouleapparently, which&nbsp;translates, unexpectedly, as hound's-tooth. The same pattern you find on Sherlock Holmes' deerstalker. (Do they say The Chicken of the Baskervilles in France?)There are loads of other choices. This kind of personalisation is one of the things about the new 108. It is a fun, young car, they're saying, for fun, young people. The full-length electric sunroof on this Top! model adds to the fun. It's practically a&nbsp;party on wheels.Enter the party pooper. To drive, the new 108 is a bit rough around the edges. I think it's a&nbsp;combination of the flutteriness of the three-cylinder engine, the soft suspension, the jumpiness of the clutch, but I'm finding it hard to drive around town (where the 108 belongs) in the smooth, refined manner I favour and that you would expect from a world famous motoring journalist. I'm finding that out of town, even with the bigger 1.2-litre engine, I don't have the power to overtake; it takes a long time to get up to motorway speed and when you get there it makes a&nbsp;bit of a fuss about it, especially with the sunroof open.Boo! Boring! Come on, I'm young and I'm fun. I've got the wind in my hair, I've got white wing mirrors and chicken feet. And I've got noticed, by my own girlfriend even. If I&nbsp;want refinement and power and overtaking, I can take the boring blue Jaguar, old man. Actually not that boring – about which more next&nbsp;week…Peugeot 108 Top! Allure PureTech VTiPhotograph: Simon Stuart-Miller for the GuardianPrice£12,245Top speed108mphAcceleration0-60mph in 11 secondsCombined fuel consumption65.7mpgCO2emissions99g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating8/10
New ’n’ Tasty is a remake of Abe’s Oddysee, a captivating puzzler of a platform game, originally released in 1997. It tells the story of meat-factory worker Abe, who discovers that the plant’s latest processed treat is made out of his fellow workers. Your job is to help rescue as many as possible on the way to smashing the system. It’s benefitted from a few tweaks but New ’n’ Tasty is essentially the same game rebuilt with today’s technology, which means a few new bits of fancy camera work, and also that the parts you control now look at least as good as the pre-rendered cut scenes did 17 years ago. The difficulty level has also been attenuated to make it slightly less brutal for a generation unaccustomed to multiple re-tries, although there are still plenty of sections that will see you getting Abe blown up, sawn to pieces, vaporised, crushed and machine-gunned by the game’s enraged, tentacle-faced Sligs. It’s tricky, enthralling and darkly witty.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKGodusGodus.From Peter Molyneux, the man who made Populous, an 80s PC game where your godlike powers let you flatten mountains and fill in lakes to help flocks of tiny followers build bigger settlements, comes Godus, a new game about exactly the same thing. Arriving in virgin territory, your work as benevolent super-being is to create as much level space as possible for your people so that they can build houses, create farms and dig mines. The slightly wayward AI of your little followers and the fact that your entire purpose is to turn each location into a flat, empty plateau undermines some of the joy of discovery, as do the long waiting times for things to be built. Its meditative pace and deliberate blocking of long play sessions make this one to dip into, but even in small doses it can still feel directionless.iOS &amp; PC, 22Cans, free
What’s eating the internet? Photograph: /GuardianBad news: The internet ran out of space on Tuesday. Worse news: Sharks are eating what is left.Thankfully, it is not as bad as it sounds. Yet. But there are some existential threats to the internet on the horizon, and there are worse ways of putting it than to point out that the whole thing is full up.On Tuesday, a small collection of out-of-date routers, in charge of mapping out routes using the internet’s backbone of physical cables, failed. The routers use a system called the border gateway protocol, or BGP, to track these routes, of which there are around half a million.To be specific, there are actually 512,000, the magic number that caused the failures earlier this week. It turns out that is the absolute maximum number of routes some older hardware can hold. Some routers slow to a crawl, while others simply forget the extra routes.That was the cause of the outages, which managed to affect sites as large as eBay. US internet service provider Verizon added 15,000 more routes to the BGP, and the dependable routers finally fell over, five years after experts say they should have been retired from service.To add insult to injury, on Wednesday, reports surfaced that Google was having to protect what was left of the internet’s backbone from shark attacks. Unlike so many things named by the architects of the internet, “shark attack” is not just a catchy name for something dull: it is literally sharks attacking the undersea cables that connect the world.Sharks are, literally, attacking the internet. Photograph: AlamyApparently sharks are attracted to the magnetic field created by the high voltage carried through newer undersea cables and, thinking they’re fish, they bite them. Then, ifunderwater footage is anything to go by, they realise their mistake and swim away from the damage they have caused.There is some good news. The cables are now largely shark-proof, and the old routers that failed on Tuesday will now be out of service, unable to connect to the new network. Those headlines about the internet being “full up”? Unfortunately, they weren’t quite as ridiculous as they sounded.For one thing, our ability to gobble up bandwidth continues to grow as fast as our ability to install new infrastructure: people using Netflix and YouTube accounts formore than half of US internet traffic. As the average American watches five hours of broadcast television a day, this percentage is only going to grow, as more content is delivered via the internet.But, as problems go, the solution to that one is fairly simple: throw money at it, and build more and better cables. By another measure, though, the internet is full in a way that is much more difficult to fix.We are about to run out of IP addresses, the short 12-digit identifiers for every single device online. A cap of 4.2bn looked fine back in the 1970s, when the protocol was being put together; it looked a bit shaky in the 80s, as the personal computer was born; and was obviously doomed by the 90s, once mass adoption of the internet became a reality. The noughties brought smartphones, using even more addresses, and that was before the much heralded “internet of things”.A fix is on the horizon: IPv6, which ups the limit to something in the order of 300 trillion trillion trillion devices, which should hopefully be enough for quite some time. But IPv6 requires every single device on the connection to switch over – and it is not backwards-compatible. That means that it is difficult to upgrade in a piecemeal fashion: it is all or nothing, and once a device switches over to IPv6, it can’t talk to things using the old connection.That explains why there has been such a delay in flicking the switch, even as the internet steadily fills up. In 2011, APNIC, which is in charge of allocating IP addresses in the Asia Pacific region, ran out of new addresses, and the other registries will soon follow.Well, at least we’ve solved the shark attack.
It’s time for our weekly roundup of the best newiPhoneand iPad apps and games to have emerged on Apple’s App Store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you’re looking for Android apps instead, browse the archives of the weeklyBest Android Appsroundups.APPSDrinkaware: Track and Calculate Units (Free)Quantification of the booze-cabinet shelf, anyone? This app is a really good idea: a way to track your drinking habits, released by charity The Drinkaware Trust. You tap in what you’re quaffing and it tracks your habits over time, with the ability to set goals if you’re trying to reduce your intake.iPhoneSago Mini Friends (£1.99)This is the latest well-crafted children’s app from studio Sago Sago, aimed at preschoolers. It features five colourful animal friends going on virtual playdates, from making snacks to dressing up.iPhone / iPadCollins Bird Guide (£12.99 + IAP)If you’re a birdwatcher – however committed – this new app deserves a slot on your iOS homescreen. It’s an app version of the Collins Bird Guide, with information on more than 700 species, complete with songs and calls. In-app purchases can buy you a Bird Atlas maps pack, as well as a video library.iPhone / iPadFantasy Premier League 2014/15 (£1.49)Some players are grumbling at having to pay again for the new season’s app, but if you play the FA’s official football fantasy league for the English Premier League, it’s a very handy companion for picking your team, reviewing its performance, and getting alerts on in-game events.iPhoneCucalu (£1.49)Cucalu is certainly intriguing, sitting somewhere between a photography app and a game. You complete pictorial missions, exploring shapes (squares, triangles and circles) in the real world, and sharing your snaps with the Cucalu community.iPhoneHumin - Phone and Contacts (Free)Humin is only available in the US for now, but there’s plenty of buzz around it: a replacement for iPhone’s default Phone app, which tries to offer a smarter take on contacts, providing more context for everyone in your digital phonebook. Usual caveats for a free app like this apply though: will the developer be trying to make money from your personal data, or will it sell up and shut down just as you’re getting used to it?iPhoneHanx Writer (Free + IAP)I can think of plenty of ways to improve typing on an iOS device, but making it more like a manual typewriter wasn’t one of them. Still, Tom Hanks – yes, THE Tom Hanks – has launched this click-clacky app, with extra typewriter skins available as in-app purchases.iPadGamar (Free)It’s early days for this app, but it’s a really interesting way to explore London venues, starting off with the British Museum and National Maritime Museum. It’s part game and part augmented-reality education app, setting challenges completed by exploring the real-world exhibits.iPhone / iPadThe Art of Thinking Clearly (£1.49)In its book form, The Art of Thinking Clearly has sold more than a million copies. Now it’s an app, promising no-nonsense advice on your real-life decisions, from money and work to people. You answer questions to uncover “cognitive biases” that may lead you down the wrong path.iPhone / iPadYahoo Fantasy Football (Free)Yahoo’s new app is a fantasy football game that breaks the mould by looking beyond the (English) Premier League: the top divisions from Spain, Italy, Germany and France are also included. It ties in to Yahoo’s web-based fantasy competition.iPhoneRules! for iPhone.GAMESRules! (£1.49)If you’ve enjoyed number-puzzler Threes! but are tiring of its charms, Rules! may be your next fix. Made by Carcassonne developer TheCodingMonkeys, it’s an addictive puzzler across 100 levels, with lovingly-crafted graphics to enjoy as you follow the rules of each puzzle to solve it.iPhoneGodus (Free + IAP)Godus is the long-anticipated new game from veteran developer Peter Molyneux, and while some pro reviewers have hated it, its App Store reviews are strong. Decide for yourself: you play God, moulding a land to help a band of followers build a mighty civilisation. Slow pacing, perhaps, but it does open up over time.iPhone / iPadTime Tangle - Adventure Time (£1.99)The Adventure Time TV show remains marvellous, and it’s already spawned an equally-fun pair of mobile games in Card Wars and Ski Safari: Adventure Time. Time Tangle looks their equal: a characteristically-colourful action game: “Run, punch, rinse, repeat...”iPhone / iPadChamp Man 15 (Free + IAP)Publisher Square Enix has reinvented Championship Manager as a free-to-play mobile game, with this the latest annual instalment. It’s better than last year’s (already pretty good) version, making it easy to dive in to the nuts and bolts of virtual management. I’m still more a Football Manager Handheld man, but this is providing valuable competition.iPhone / iPadJacob Jones and the Bigfoot Mystery : Episode 2 (£1.49 + IAP)The first episode of this adventure-puzzler was rightfully acclaimed on iOS, and the sequel looks just as good. It sees you trying to uncover the secrets of the Bigfoot (or Biggie, as he’s known) through a collection of fun, tactile puzzles. It’s genuinely funny, too – still a rarer quality than it should be in games.iPhone / iPadPhoenix Wright: Ace Attorney – Dual Destinies (Free + IAP)Frankly, the Phoenix Wright games are looking a little clunky nowadays, plot and interface included. But the DS (and now iOS) games still have a lot of charm, with this latest version porting five episodes of legal-eagle action, as you hunt for clues then make your case in court.iPhone / iPadDragon Quest IV (£10.49)Here’s Square Enix with its latest retro reboot: roleplaying game Dragon Quest IV. If you harbour fond memories of the original game, you’ll love wallowing in nostalgia: it’s a faithful port. Its high price (for mobile games) may put off newer adventurers, though.iPhone / iPadTouch Racing 2 (Free + IAP)Race cars and boats in this high-speed sequel, which is the latest racing game to focus on remote-controlled rather than full-size vehicles. There’s an inventive control system, plenty of scope to upgrade your motors (or motorboats) and a choice of solo and multiplayer modes.iPhone / iPadWWE SuperCard (Free + IAP)The sight of two 2D playing cards battling in the ring is a little disconcerting, but if you’re a fan of American wrestling, the latest WWE game has plenty to sink your teeth into (when the referee’s not looking, of course). It’s a card-battler where you build a five-person team, then kit them out with moves to take on other players.iPhone / iPadPako - Car Chase Simulator (£0.69)There should be more games based on car chases: indie title Pako shows how fun the results can be. You have to see how long you can stay ahead of pursuers in five locations, with cute papercut-ish graphics showing off your tactics.iPhone / iPadThose are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on iOS this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.•40 best iPhone and iPad games this year (so far)
It’s time for our weekly roundup of the best newAndroidapps and games to have emerged on the Google Play store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest Android Appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you’re looking for iOS apps, browse the archives ofBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups instead.APPSRove (Free)Rove is pitched as an “automated journal” that tracks your daily movements, then adds in your photos for a record of what you’ve been up to. Well, at least the parts you’ve photographed. Its developer promises it’s “100% private” but as a free app, you might wonder how it’ll make money in a way that doesn’t clash with that ethos.Fantasy Soccer (Free)Or “football” as we Brits like to chippily call it. Yahoo’s new app is a fantasy football game that breaks the mould by looking beyond the (English) Premier League: the top divisions from Spain, Italy, Germany and France are also included. It ties in to Yahoo’s web-based fantasy competition.Unclouded (Free + IAP)If you use Google Drive and/or Dropbox for cloud storage, Unclouded might be a really useful app to have installed on your phone. You can browse either service to see which folders and file types are hoovering up your storage space, then (if you upgrade to the premium version) clean them up.Over (£0.59 + IAP)There are plenty of rubbish apps out there for adding text to your photos before sharing them on social networks. Over is one of the few good ones: created with an eye for design, its fonts are attractive, and its user interface gives you lots of control over your final image.Peppa Pig Theme Park (£3.99)Peppa Pig remains hugely popular among children, as you’ll know if you’ve trailed round her theme park (and its shop) with a hyperventilating toddler. This is her latest app for Android: a collection of 10 mini-games and creative activities for young fans, with – shock! – a theme park theme.The Art of Thinking Clearly (£1.49)In its book form, The Art of Thinking Clearly has sold more than a million copies. Now it’s an app, promising no-nonsense advice on your real-life decisions, from money and work to people. You answer questions to uncover “cognitive biases” that may lead you down the wrong path.Zoe (Free)Zoe is the work of handset maker HTC, although it’s not restricted to its own Android devices. It’s yet another app for adding filters to photos and videos, then sharing them to social networks. Its features look good, but with the likes of Instagram out there, it may face a challenge catching on.Shoot in the 70’s (Free + IAP)Very much an app for football fans in their 50s, reproducing as it does issues of Shoot magazine from the 1970s. That said, there’s plenty of interest for younger fans with an interest in football history too – or in the history of footballer haircuts, which is frequently a hoot.Snap Clap (Free)Finally, a one-shot (literally) app that takes a photo when you clap your hands. The idea being that you can use it instead of a timer to take shots where you’re in the picture too – group photos, for example. A novelty, but perhaps useful too.Surgeon Simulator for Android.GAMESSurgeon Simulator (£3.99)Bossa Studios had a big hit with its blood-spattered medical sim on other platforms, but now it’s on Android – and as messy as ever. Your job is to operate on “the world’s unluckiest patient” transplanting teeth, eyes and double-kidneys while trying not to kill him off on the operating table.Crazy Taxi City Rush (Free + IAP)Some players are reporting crashes (not the on-road kind) while others are grumbling about the free-to-play aspects of Sega’s reboot of its Crazy Taxi game. But I’ve found it pretty fun: you barrel around town picking up and dropping off fares. Veterans of the Dreamcast edition may be turned off, but it could pick up newer players.Dragon Quest IV (£10.49)Talking of old console games, here’s publisher Square Enix with its latest retro reboot: roleplaying game Dragon Quest IV. If you harbour fond memories of the original game, you’ll love wallowing in nostalgia: it’s a faithful port. Its high price (for mobile games) may put off newer adventurers, though.Dungeon Defenders Eternity (£5.85)The original Dungeon Defenders game was great on iOS: a combination of tower defence fending off hordes attacking your dungeon, and action-RPG as you waded in to join the battle. This is the “definitive version” with more missions and gameplay improvements, complete with a four-player online co-op mode.Manuganu 2 (Free + IAP)The first Manuganu game was a treat on Android, with its mixture of endless-running and traditional platform gaming. Now it’s got a sequel, with its hero now able to fly and swim. The presentation looks as impressive as the first game, with 40 levels and four bosses to work your way past.Ride ‘Em Rigby - Regular Show (£0.59)My children can’t get enough of Regular Show on TV, so I suspect its spin-off game will find a fair few fans young and old. It’s a not-quite endless (there are 20 levels) racing game that sees hero Rigby hanging on to a rampaging Muscle Man in the local park, picking up power-ups to stay attached. Great fun.Unpossible (£1.17)Already a critically-acclaimed hit on iOS, Unpossible looks just as good on Android. It sees you dodging your way through neon-splashed levels, tilting or touching according to your preferred controls. Survive long enough, and you unlock new levels, but be warned, it’s very tough.Ice Age Adventures (Free + IAP)Be warned, parents, this game based on the Ice Age films has sky-high in-app purchase, so make sure your restrictions are turned on before letting a child play. It’s an adventure game starring Sid, Manny and Diego that wraps in Candy Crush-style match-three puzzles to unlock animals to use as power-ups.Bik - A Space Adventure (£0.58)Bik is the latest Android game inspired by the heyday of point’n’click adventures on PC, with charming pixelly visuals, an alien theme and plenty to see and do. If you grew up with the Monkey Island and King’s Quest games, it may bring the memories flooding back.Talisman (£4.79 + IAP)The digital edition of the classic Games Workshop board game has been available on Android in “Prologue” form since last year, but now the full thing has been released. It sees you choosing a fantasy character then exploring a world – as represented in board-game form – slapping down monsters and levelling up as you go. Expansions will be sold as in-app purchases.Sumico - The Numbers Game (Free + IAP)Finally, something for anyone who’s been enjoying number-puzzle games like Threes! in recent months. Sumico gets you swiping on a board of numbers and mathematical symbols, clearing each level to progress to the next. A simple idea, but with truly brain-stretching gameplay once you get into it.Those are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on Android this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.•40 best Android games of 2014 (so far)
The EU’s so-called “right to be forgotten” laws have not gone far enough to protect citizens’ privacy, according to Dan Geer, one of the world’s best-known security experts.Geer, currently chief information security officer at the CIA’s venture capital arm, told delegates at the Black Hat security conference in Las Vegas that he was confused by theGuardian’s coverageof the issue. The so called “right to be forgotten” issue stemmed from a European court of justice ruling, forcing Google to remove a link relating to a 1998 newspaper article from its search results after a complaint from the person named in the article.Geer described it as “notably ironic” that the Guardian had championed Edward Snowden’s revelations about intrusion by government agencies into civilians’ privacy, while also claiming in one editorial (though he did not specify which) that nobody has a right to be forgotten.Speaking at the conference, Geer said: “Au contraire, mesdames et messieurs, they most assuredly do.”Some commentators have declared the rulinga threat to press freedomas it allows people to have stories with “irrelevant, outdated or incorrect” information about them removed from search results in Google, and other Europe-based search engines, for searches on their name.“I don’t think the right to be forgotten is nearly strong enough,” Greer said.“In a sense digital rights management and privacy are the same thing. It is possible to reinvent yourself. This disappears when there is enough data and I’d like to think there is something important about being able to reinvent yourself that we shouldn’t give up.”Vanishing rightsGreer continued: “I conclude that a unitary, unfakeable digital identity is no bargain and that I don’t want one. I want to choose whether to misrepresent myself. I may rarely use that, but it is my right to do so. If that right vanishes into the panopticon [a system of perpetual surveillance] I have lost something and, in my view, gained next to nothing.“In that regard, and acknowledging that it is a baby step, I conclude that the EU’s right to be forgotten is both appropriate and advantageous though it does not go far enough.”Speaking to the conference, Geer described the removal of links to oneself as like moving to a new town or changing one’s name: “a definition of privacy that turns on whether you do or do not retain the effective capacity to misrepresent yourself, a right which I will remind you is routinely granted but to those who have especially helped governmental causes [such as] witness protection.”He called the right to be forgotten “the only check on the tidal wave of observability that a ubiquitous sensor fabric is birthing now, observability that changes the very quality of what ‘in public’ means.” He pointed to sites and organisations that block “deep links” directly to pages within a site, bypassing its front page, and governments which are blocking other indexing, and said that they are effectively claiming that the right to be forgotten, or not , “is inherently theirs”.The only democratising brake on this runaway train is for individuals to be able, in their own small way, to do the same as do other entities,” he concluded.Google: against the “right to be forgotten”Soon after theruling in May, the Guardian received notifications from Google that six of the publication’s articles had been removed from the tech giant’s search results – though not the names against which they had been removed. Google later reversed a number of the removals. It says it has a number of “paralegals” who determine whether to accept removal requests.Google, which has more than 90% of the search market in Europe, has insisted that removals from its index only apply for searches using a complainant’s name – not generic terms that would normally find the same page. The original pages remain untouched online.The search company has noted numerous times it is against the idea of the right to be forgotten, which the European commission is keen to further entrench with data protection regulations currently being debated in Brussels.Some claimed Google tried to create negative pressaround the laws by convincing journalists the right would be harmful for freedom of expression and information.Jimmy Wales is wrong: we do have a personal right to be forgotten
The bright green trucks have become familiar sights in Seattle, San Francisco and Los Angeles, they have just appeared in San Diego, and may eventually trundle around the world, transforming grocery shopping.At first sight the expansion of Amazon's grocery service,AmazonFresh, through California signals an audacious gamble to seize a share of the US's $1tn (£600bn) food market and turn the online retailer into an even bigger behemoth.Amazon revenues are set to breach the $100bn barrier for the first time this year but that hardly satisfies the Seattle-based company's founder, Jeff Bezos. He reportedly hopes the move into groceries will help him catch up with Walmart, which has sales of $475bn. For Bezos, food is another sector to be conquered in a quest for retail domination that has hit several bumps recently, including a fight with theHachette Book Group over e-book pricing which is turning into a PR fiasco.But Bezos is undeterred. "We'll continue our methodical approach – measuring and refining AmazonFresh – with the goal of bringing this incredible service to more cities over time," he told shareholders earlier this year.Thegreen fleet's arrival in San Diego last monthfollowed a phased roll-out in LA and San Francisco over the past year after a five-year trial in Seattle. For a $299 annual fee customers can order from a range of 500,000 products – including milk, bread, lettuce, steak, toys, electronics – and expect delivery the same day or early the next morning.Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos. Photograph: Ted S. Warren/APBezos, a Star Trek fan who initially wanted to call his company MakeItSo.com, after Captain Jean-Luc Picard's catchphrase, apparently considers groceries, especially perishables, one of online commerce's final frontiers. In which case expanding from rainy Seattle down to the sunbaked Mexico border is just the beginning.But there is a problem: groceries may be a financial black hole. Some analysts warn that Amazon could haemorrhage cash and credibility by entering a complex, costly sector with razor-thin margins."AmazonFresh is an enormous money pit, that's my opinion. At best a money pit, at worst a path to bankruptcy," said Sucharita Mulpuru, an ecommerce expert with Forrester Research. "It's a tough, tough business. I don't know if it's a business that makes sense for them."Scepticism about AmazonFresh's viability has fuelled speculation that its real purpose is not, in fact, to turn the company into a mega-grocer but to cement customer loyalty and to test-run speedier delivery, honing Amazon's edge in other areas."They're just not a very good grocer," saidTerry Drayton, the former HomeGrocer chief executive, who pioneered online groceries in the US in the 1990s. He estimated AmazonFresh's average order value at under $50, versus $120 for HomeGrocer back in 2000.Drayton, who said he turned down the chance to lead AmazonFresh in 2006, faulted the product selection as limited, the perishable goods as often poor quality, and the lack of refrigerated trucks."You have to be a complete alternative to the bricks and mortar grocery store. I find it hard to believe they've spent this amount of time just to be a mediocre grocery business. I think it's really a way for them to test out same-day and next-day deliveries."The move into food comes at a delicate moment for Amazon. Last month, it reported a 23% rise in revenue, to $19.34bn, for its second quarter. The prospect of drone delivery –it is seeking permission to test models that can fly at up to 50mph and deliver packages weighing up to 5lb (2.3kg)- continues to generate a buzz.But problems are mounting. Despite the sales rise it posted a$126m (£74m) loss for its second quarterand warned of further losses of up to $810m in the upcoming quarter - compared to a $25m loss in the third quarter last year – sending its share price tumbling. Early sales figures from thejust-launched, whistles and bells Fire phone appear weakand the Hachette confrontation is underscoring Amazon's reputation for commercial aggression.The move into groceries dates back a decade, according to Brad Stone's book The Everything Store: Jeff Bezos and the Age of Amazon. "In order to be a $200bn company we've got to learn how to sell clothes and food," the CEO reportedly said in 2007. The $200bn figure referred to Walmart's sales at the time.Online food retail had a cautionary tale in HomeGrocer. Drayton's startup raked in more than $1m daily in 2000, a dotcom star, before being sold to Webvan for $1.2bn in 2000, after which the wheels fell off, one of the era's most spectacular busts.AmazonFresh grocery bags. Photograph: Joe Nicholson/APAmazon hired Doug Herrington, a former Webvan executive, to lead Fresh's foray into Seattle, a slow, gradual expansion around the city, followed by parts of Los Angeles since last year, then San Francisco and San Diego. Recent market research studies are bullish about the industry's potential. IBISWorld forecast that an improving US economy willboost online grocery sales by an annualised rate of 9.2% over the next five years, from $6.5bn to $10.1bn.The success of Ocado in London, and FreshDirect in New York, could be another positive augury for the expansion of a big, bold, hyper-competitive player with long-term horizons.Amazon declined interview requests for this article, and a request to visit a distribution centre, but emailed a statement which gave a hedged vow about continued expansion."As a company policy, we don't disclose our product roadmap or discuss financials. What I can tell you is that we've been very pleased by the feedback from customers who are saving time by combining grocery and other shopping into one seamless experience," said spokeswoman Nell Rona.For Drayton, the serial entrepreneur, AmazonFresh will serve a useful purpose if it paves the way for same-day and next-day deliveries, giving the behemoth the speed and dexterity to outpace all bricks-and-mortar retailers, not just grocery stores."Strategically they're just too smart to be farting around. It doesn't jive with their vision and all the things they're good at. The value of same-day delivery far outweighs anything they do with groceries."
