The BlackBerry outage has spread to North America, after continuing for a third day in Europe, the Midde East and Africa, as the service suffers its worst ever crash leaving a huge swathe of its 43 million active users without reliable email.Users in the US and Canada have been experiencing sporadic email failures, with comments on Twitter suggesting the problem began at least 10 hours ago in Canada, the home of BlackBerry maker Research In Motion'.Mark Langton, a spokesman for Bell, a Canadian mobile network operator, said in an email Wednesday: "A minority of BlackBerry users at all Canadian carriers are affected. We understand the issue will be corrected this morning."There have been at least four major BlackBerry outages since 2007, when millions of North Americans were left without email because of a network failure. But most blackouts have been confined to single countries or continents, and repaired quickly.The current failure is said to have originated at the company's data centre in Slough, Berkshire at 11am on Monday, when RIM was attempting a software upgrade on its database. It suffered corruption problems, and attempts to switch back to an older version led to a collapse.The problem spread across the Europe, Middle East and Africa regions, and yesterday there were reports of blackouts in India, Brazil, Chile and Argentina.RIM has not said when the problem will be fixed. In a statement issued on Tuesday evening, the company confirmed: "The messaging and browsing delays being experienced by BlackBerry users in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, India, Brazil, Chile and Argentina were caused by a core switch failure within RIM's infrastructure. Although the system is designed to failover to a back-up switch, the failover did not function as previously tested. As a result, a large backlog of data was generated and we are now working to clear that backlog and restore normal service as quickly as possible. We apologise for any inconvenience and we will continue to keep you informed."
Apple's iOS 5 is due to be rolled out on Wednesday 12 October. Among thefeaturesthat it introduces are:• "cloud" synchronisation via iCloud, Apple's own service;• over-the-air updates to iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch devices;• better notification system (like Android's, but from my experience better because it's more granular – you can go directly to a specific new email);• location-based reminders (note: may suck up battery because it requires GPS);• Twitter integration;• photo synchronisation between devices;• app downloads without repurchasing over the air to any of your devices;• most of all, no further need to synchronise your iPhone/iPad/iPod Touch directly to a computer. The computer is no longer the "hub"; iCloud is.Did I say "no further need"? That's not quite true. There is one last synchronisation needed before you cut the cord: you'll have to check for an iTunes update, and iOS 5 will be a download which you will have to install via iTunes, from your computer, to the device.But after that, you'll be able to cut the cord. New devices that you buy after 12 October which are capable of running iOS 5 (such as the iPhone 4S, iPhone 4 and iPhone 3GS) should already be loaded with it – which should mean that they will not need that update.Update:the update is expected to become available at 1800 BST on 12 October (thanks, @adrianshort).
[The following preview contains details of the first three missions in the Battlefield 3 campaign mode. Very little of the story is revealed, but aspects of those levels are discussed.]We can't tell you how it starts. That's the big secret. EA Dice has revealed very little about the story behind the Battlefield 3 campaign mode – although, of course, we know it involves a flare-up in the Middle East with a fictitious military faction known as the PLR, looking to seize control of the entire area. In the background, some kind of terrorist threat has been made against "the free world" (whatever that means) and lead character Sgt Blackburn of the US marines is somehow slap-bang in the middle of it all.After a prelude mission that we're not allowed to write about, the action kicks off with Blackburn being interrogated by two fist-banging funsters from Homeland Security. They shout about his involvement in some sort of covert military activity, then threaten him with the fact they already know the truth. And at the end, there's a flashback to that fateful event, which becomes mission two, Operation Sword Breaker. Ah yes, you may already be thinking, we're back to Black Ops again: frame narrative, implicated lead character, angry anonymous men… Although at least this time, no one is shouting "Those fucking numbers!" every five seconds.Sword Breaker, it turns out is a level that's beenheavily previewed in trailersfor the game. Set in a crumbling city on the Iran-Iraq border, the mission involves Sgt Blackburn and his squad setting out to locate a group of marines who've gone missing while investigating a possible IED in the crowded meat market.Battlefield 3 campaign modeIt's in to the backstreets of this scorched town that we venture first, through alleys thick with rubbish and rubble, following squad-mates Montes, Chaffin, Campo and Mantovic. I played the Xbox 360 version, and despite some minor scenic pop-up, the visuals are intricate and impressive. Sun light glints off the screen and hits the narrow streets with intermittent beams in which dust and refuse glint and swirl. We bundle through as squalid apartment block, its pulverised rooms littered with skeletal furniture, and out into an open street. "No civvies – I don't like this shit," says one of your men as, on cue, a sniper shot rings out and Chaffin collapses to the deck.From here, there's a frenzied firefight as PLR fighters clamber over walls and into a nearby car park, letting rip with AK-47s. In a battered building, there are two men with RPGs, firing down onto our position. At one point I run to hide behind a truck, just as it's obliterated by a rocket, a severed door zooms past my head. It's visceral, gripping stuff, the slightly grainy graphics and grimly authentic gunfire sounds giving the set piece a documentary feel. As I fire at the RPG positions, great clumps explode out of the concrete walls, leaving craters the size of dustbin lids.Later, we're out on a rooftop, trying to locate a sniper in another building. Our small squad ducks between cover positions, and in these moments of safety it's possible to look out over the city, a mass of sandy coloured blocks, with an outcrop of shadowed skyscrapers in the distance. It's the sort of vista we've been seeing for years on news reports from the Middle East – the familiarity, the level of intricate detail, is weirdly unsettling.Battlefield 3 campaign modeAnd then, the climax. There's a pitch battle along a multi-lane highway pockmarked  with burnt-out vehicles. At one point, you have to follow a wire leading from an unexploded IED fitted under a truck to a dank cellar where the detonator device sits. There's some quick QTE melee combat against the bomber, an elaborate tussle that only requires two button inputs, and then we're on the street again, mounting an RPG point on a road bridge, and then clambering onto a machine gun, mounted in a flat-bed truck. At times, there's confusion about where I'm supposed to be going, who I'm firing at, where they are; AI soldiers hide amid vehicles and pop-our briefly on rooftops; there are few spawned groups of idiots running down the street.And of course, as you'll have seen from the trailers, this one ends in a gigantic earthquake, which brings down a building just yards from your position.The next mission kicks off hours later. It's night and PLR troops are patrolling the wrecked city looking for US troops. Blackburn is holed up alone amid the wreckage and must crawl through the rubble (at one point doing a QTE combat with a rat – seriously) to reach a safe point. Once again, the detail is impressive; rubbish swirls through the air, cars can be seen teetering on the brink of chasms split into the eight-lane roadway. Blackburn stumbles into what looks like an abandoned church, where three guards stand idly chatting. The one nearest you has an assault rifle. It's time to take it.Battlefield 3 campaign modeThe next mission is a stark contrast, and as hinted in the tank-dominatedThunder Run trailer, it shows that the single-player campaign will be littered with vehicle missions. We're out in the Persian Gulf on an aircraft carrier, this time controlling Lt Colby Hawkins, the female co-pilot in an F-18, about to carry out a raid on an enemy airfield where a key PLR leader may be hiding out. First, there's some routine air combat, in which the player must lock the target reticule on MiG jets, blasting them out of the skies in an impressive rumbling blast of fire and smoke. There's also a counter-measure option on the left trigger, which dumps flares in your wake to misdirect enemy missiles. It's all very fast and tense.Then, similarly to the aircraft missions in Call of Duty, we get a bird's eye view of the landing strip below, laser sighting taxiing fighter planes for air strikes. This sequence is a little confusing; the craft are hard to spot without zooming in your camera view, but then you're too close to survey the area properly, so its easy to miss the jets readying for take off. AS in Black Ops or Modern Warfare, you're either going to see all this as a interesting change of pace or a frustrating aside to the main action. Story-wise, it's there to build the tension and widen the scope of the story. We've got to work out Blackburn's role in all this.EA Dice has been teasing a different approach to narrative but so far this seems to be military shooter business as usual. There are corridor runs through decrepit buildings, sudden skirmishes in open streets, then little mini-quests to diffuse bombs or hop on gun emplacements. This is the same sort of territory as Medal of Honor and CoD.Yet in the dialogue, there's a weird dichotomy between cynicism and jingoism: one minute it's all gung-ho chatter, the next someone is pointing out that America was founded, "by terrorists, for terrorists" – "What do you think the revolutionary war was?" he continues as you creep up on a potential firefight. "History is defined by the victors…" It's like half the development team was watching Generation Kill while the other half was high-fiving its way through George Bush war speeches. But that could be a good thing; it's interesting. It makes you wonder where this story is going. Just as long as its framed narrative, its focus on one soldier amid a vast conflict, and the faint whiff of paranoia and conspiracy doesn't run us too close to a certain 20m-selling Treyarch game released last year…Battlefield 3 is released on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 on 28 October.
The buzz around HTML5 and mobile web games certainly didn't start with Facebook and Zynga's press events this week, but the two companies have added fuel to the fire around browser-based mobile gaming.Facebook's decision to extend its web applications platform to smartphones and tablets has been rumoured for months, although speculation that it would be unveiled as part of Apple's "Let's Talk iPhone" event on 4 October proved to be wide of the mark.The social network waited nearly a week to take the wrappers off its plans, which involve taking viral features such as bookmarks, requests and newsfeed links to its mobile apps and website. Facebook's 350 million mobile users – half on apps and half on the mobile site – will now be able to use social games and other applications from within Facebook, just as they do on its website.The company is clearly keen for developers to capitalise on this by launching versions of their games and applications that support both forms of its mobile presence."Social apps are all about interacting with your friends so the best social apps will be on both native iOS and web apps, and we encourage you to think about how to reach the total audience of Facebook users by building both," wrote Facebook's Luke Shepard in anintroductory blog post.Zynga was one of the first companies to get access to the new platform, and at an event the day after Facebook's announcement,unveiledits first three HTML5 games to take advantage: Words With Friends, Zynga Poker and FarmVille Express."We are excited that Facebook will bring all the social channels on the Web to mobile," Zynga's chief mobile officer David Ko tells The Guardian. "Discoverability of apps is one of the biggest hurdles on mobile today. Now, with the ability to reach millions of mobile Facebook users through these social channels, social gaming on mobile will only grow."That said, Zynga isn't placing all its mobile bets on Facebook's platform, though, with two additional native games also announced: Mafia Wars Shakedown and Dream Zoo.Meanwhile, the company is also reigniting its direct-to-consumer ambitions with something called Zynga Direct. CEO Mark Pincusdescribed itas "a platform for a direct relationship with consumers, whether on the web or on mobile, to give you a whole sandbox and create socialness about the games and not just within the games".All of this is interesting and exciting for the wider social mobile games industry. But what also stands out is the way companies like Facebook, Zynga and Apple are interacting as they look to stake out their turf in this area.So, Facebook is having to play nice with Apple: its mobile users will be taken to native iOS applications where they exist when they tap on links in its mobile apps and sites. Check the convolutions around the Facebook Credits currency system too, as Shepard put it:"The same policies for Apps on Facebook apply to mobile web apps, including the requirement to use Facebook Credits as their exclusive payment mechanism. Facebook Credits are not allowed in iOS apps or mobile web apps that are running within a Facebook iOS app."Meanwhile, Zynga is building out its own direct-to-consumer offering while ensuring that it does not alienate Facebook, or indeed Apple. Mobile gaming in general can feel like a bunch of big beasts tiptoeing around one another (and occasionally lashing out), but that's particularly the case for the nascent browser-based social mobile games market.
Down the years, there have been plenty of James Bond games, but only one ever made any lasting impression on gamers: 1997's GoldenEye for the Nintendo64. The impression that the franchise was something of a poisoned chalice was reinforced when Activision acquired it in 2006, meaning it was able to make a Quantum of Solace game, but the credit crunch did for the next scheduled Bond film, so Activision needed to resort to something more imaginative than creating the inevitable game-of-a-film. Last year, it commissioned British developer Eurocom to remake GoldenEye for the Wii, and this year, we are being treated to GoldenEye Reloaded, another remake of the 1997 game, but for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.Sure, there's a whiff of vanity publishing about the exercise, but having had extensive hands-on with GoldenEye Reloaded's multiplayer side, there's no doubt it is that rarest of beasts: a Bond game which will please gamers rather than leaving them feeling shortchanged.New modesOne of the original GoldenEye's standout features was its four-player split-screen, which blazed a trail for multiplay on consoles in pre-broadband days. We sampled some of GoldenEye Reloaded's new multiplayer modes. The first, Escalation, was Death Match with a twist: kill-streaks automatically upgraded your weapon, and dying twice without killing anyone downgraded it. Thus, everyone started with a pistol, but as the game progressed, players cycled through submachine guns, assault rifles, heavy machine guns and so on up to the top weapon, a rocket-propelled grenade. There were some signature – but never before seen in a game – guns in evidence, most notably the laser rifle from Moonraker.Detonator Agent was even more imaginative, as James Steer, the game's producer at Activision explained: "The idea behind that is that it's a risk/reward mode. You're carrying a bomb which you can hold on to or pass off to someone by meleeing them. But if you hold on to it, your kills get multiplied. If you make kills in the last 10 seconds before it goes off, you're getting tons and tons of points, so it's up to you how long you hold on to it." Although initially a tad confusing, Detonator Agent proved pretty moreish: you get a dot on your mini map showing you the general whereabouts of the detonator agent, so it felt like a new spin on the game's much-loved Golden Gun mode (which, of course, is in Reloaded).Bomb Defuse is a team-based game along similar lines: your team must retrieve a bomb, place it in a certain area and defend it while it is defused. And the final new mode is Data Miner, in which your smartphone (an increasingly important Bond gadget in recent years) is downloading data, and everyone else is out to kill you to stop your download; every kill you achieve increases your download speed.All the new modes added a welcome, Bond-related spin to the well-worn Deathmatch/Team Deathmatch format, which is surely what keen online first-person shooter fans crave. Early impressions suggested that GoldenEye could well develop a devoted online following. The maps were varied and interesting, providing nostalgic echoes of those of the original game, but adorned by the impressive late-console-cycle graphics we have recently come to expect. The control system's feel was immaculate, which is a basic necessity for a GoldenEye remake – the original Rare Software team spent a year working on the control system before even contemplating the nuts and bolts of the rest of the game.More new stuffSteer was keen to enumerate other aspects of the game which are new. Especially the MI6 Ops mode: "It's about giving people snippets of gameplay, so if people like being stealthy, there are MI6 Ops for them, or likewise if they like to run and gun. It takes the gameplay from single-player, but puts it in a more arcade style that you can replay and fine-tune to get the perfect score. I can look at the leaderboards and see that you got 10,000 more points than me in an MI6 Op, so I can click on that and play it as you set it up, and try to figure out how you got that score. You can go in and adjust how aggressive the AI is, or make it headshot-only – things like that to make it tougher for you, and that allows you to modify your score."Steer confirmed that the single-player game is more or less identical to that of last year's Wii remake, with you playing Daniel Craig as Bond, and a storyline that draws on the film but reimagines it in a 21st-century context. Four-player split-screen is present and correct, and up to 16 players can take each other on via Xbox Live or the PlayStation Network. Loads of new weapons, characters and gadgets have been added, including contact lenses that protect your vision from flash-bangs, Rosa Klebb's pearl-handled Beretta and Doctor Kananga's shark-gun.Given that it's the second remake of a 14-year-old game, you could argue that GoldenEye Reloaded smacks of cynicism. But that would be misguided. It's streets ahead of any Bond game made in that 14-year period (including last year's disappointing Bloodstone), and anyone who goes to the trouble of playing it will realise that it's up there with the best first-person shooters you can buy. Except none of them also act as a repository for the characters, gadgetry and weapons accrued in the 50 years that Bond has been around.
Is there room for two football videogames in your life? There never used to be for me. Whether it was Sensible World of Soccer or – more recently – the annual Pro Evolution Soccer (PES) iterations I was a one-brand man. Not any more.Fifa 12has finally matched the licenses and online glitz with a worthy effort on the pitch and can't be ignored. Neither, despite some rough edges, can PES 2012.The biggest change in PES 2012 – at least initially – is the speed and feel of the game. In reaction to last year's slightly stiffer, more Fifa-style, attempt at realism, PES 2012 goes back to basics. Speedy wing-play, whipped-in crosses and mazy dribbles are now the order of the day – again. Gamers used to the more sedate play of recent Fifa titles will find themselves jolted back to the days of PES 2004/5 when pace and through-balls were the key to victory.Of course this is only half the story. The new off-the-ball (teammate control) feature – used via the right stick – allows you to produce more measured build-ups. The AI seems to have been upped too, with players often supporting your runs or pulling defenders out of position. Unfortunately, this burst of intelligence isn't matched by many of the goalkeepers who still let in far too many easy efforts. This is even more of a concern when you realise PES 2012 is focused more on attack than defence.There are also issues with animations, with some volleys pinging off at different angles than your player's position would suggest. The ball, too, occasionally has a life of its own, with rebounds and deflections hard to predict.The Master League is the option to sink your teeth into if you want to get fully involved with transfers and team management. This year it sees the addition of contract periods and more realistic fitness and match options. Hardcore fans will get their payback playing this online. But less-experienced players will find the obtuse menus and occasionally unhelpful localisation a real barrier to entry. This is despite the improvements on last year. The presentation across the board is still below par, especially when it comes to learning the intricacies of the game. Far too much prior knowledge is expected.As you would expect official team and competition licences are in short supply. Manchester United fans will be happy, Man City ones less so. Southampton fans, like me, should give up now. Luckily the player likenesses and animation – of the top players at least – help lessen the blow.PES 2012 really comes alive in multiplayer, especially if you can play offline. Nicking a last-minute deflected winner in an invariably high scoring game is always better without the lag excuse. Online multiplayer is still enjoyable despite the tendency for opponents to only choose Barcelona or Manchester United. With the emphasis even more on fast attacks over measured defence, you can expect this trend to continue. Lag at least doesn't seem to be an issue so far.The launch of aFacebook app, which allows users to post their scores and set up leagues, shows that PES 2012 is looking to the future. However, the frantic and occasional flawed action on the pitch harks back to older PES games. Fifa 12 is the more complete football experience but PES 2012 can still deliver in short hectic doses.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Engineers are working "day and night" to try to fix the problem with BlackBerry services which are entering their third day of outages, the UK and Ireland managing director has said.Stephen Bates told the BlackBerry Innovation Forum in London on Wednesday morning that staff at Research In Motion (RIM) in Slough "thought we had found the problem [BB outage] but had not. We are working around the clock to get to the bottom of the problem."He added that "We are working night and day to solve the outage. Our apologies to all our customers."It was the first public statement by a senior executive at the company, which has 70m users around the world. Problems at its Slough offices, where servers relay messages and web pages for millions of users in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India, have meant that users have been unable to communicate except by phone. Services in some South American countries have also been disrupted.The problems began at about 11am on Monday. The Guardian understands that RIM was attempting a software upgrade on its database but suffered corruption problems, and that attempts to switch back to an older version led to a collapse.Bates said that the problem was "not acceptable", that the "server issues are regarded with high focus" and that RIM "is not going to stop until they get to the end of the problem".The timing of the problems is made more embarrassing for RIM because it happens on the same day that Apple is scheduled to release a major update to its mobile phone software, iOS 5, which will bring a capability called "iMessage" that competes directly with RIM's BlackBerry Messenger. On Friday, carriers and Apple will start sales of its new iPhone 4S.RIM is presently running an expensive TV campaign for its new generation of smartphones in the UK aimed at consumers, but Twitter has seen an outpouring of angry messages from disaffected users who are threatening to defect.RIM has given no timing for a resolution of the problem. In a statement issued at 2200 BST on Tuesday, it said: "The messaging and browsing delays being experienced by BlackBerry users in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, India, Brazil, Chile and Argentina were caused by a core switch failure within RIM's infrastructure.  Although the system is designed to failover to a back-up switch, the failover did not function as previously tested. As a result, a large backlog of data was generated and we are now working to clear that backlog and restore normal service as quickly as possible. We apologise for any inconvenience and we will continue to keep you informed."
A selection of 12 apps for you today:David BowieMagazine publisher IPC Media has launched a new magazine app for iPad based on the career of David Bowie. It's branded as Uncut, and draws on interviews from the archives of NME and Melody Maker, with YouTube videos, audio clips, artwork and photographs thrown in for good measure.iPadContract Killer: ZombiesGlu Mobile's freemium game Contract Killer has been very popular, but now there's a new undead spin-off. Expect lots of shooting, chewing and, of course, seeping brains. The link above is for the Android version, but you canget the iOS version here.iPhone / iPad / AndroidTwilight: The Graphic Novel, Vol. 2Publisher Hachette has released the second installment of vampire saga Twilight's graphic novels. The iOS app sees Bella embracing her feelings for classmate Edward, with scenes rendered in stylish monochrome.iPhone / iPadSlingPlayer for Android TabletsOwners of a Slingbox set-top box can now sling their TV to their Android tablet over 3G or Wi-Fi, thanks to the new app from Sling Media. The app includes a new programme guide to surf channels while watching TV.AndroidBolt 3.0Android mobile browser Bolt has exited its beta test and got a commercial release, in version 3.0. The browser's key selling points are its ability to compress web pages to save data and speed up surfing, while social features, RSS and the ability to play Facebook games are also thrown in.AndroidAiko IslandCasual physics-puzzler Aiko Island has all the ingredients of an iOS hit, as players pop blocks, collect cookies and work their way through 125 puzzles. The animation and music give a real feeling of polish.iPhone / iPadCab:AppCab:App claims to be an "electronic hailing system": a way to hail a taxi in London from your phone, including the ability to instant message drivers with specific details about your location. Cab-sharing is also supported, to share the costs with other people going in the same direction. It's the brainchild of cabbie Peter Schive, and developed by Grapple Mobile.iPhone / Android / BlackBerryNorton Anti-Theft PluginThis add-on to Norton's Tablet Security app promises to help Android tablet owners lock and locate their device, while keeping their personal data safe if it's lost or stolen.AndroidPapaya Farm 2011 BetaMobile social games firm Papaya has a new version of its Papaya Farm game, although it makes clear that the game's beta nature means some bugs may still be lurking within. Players build and manage their own virtual farms, with online multiplayer features built in.AndroidBug Village SeasonsAnother freemium game from Glu Mobile, this is about building a colony of ants and bees, keeping them well-fed and fending off "Stinky Bugs and Ant Lions". In-app purchases are used to buy coins and acorns to speed up progress.iPhoneFacebook Photo ImporterFacebook Photo Importer is a useful utility app from Dropico Media that promises to import up to 100 photos from Picasa, Flickr, Instagram or Photobucket to your Facebook account in less than a minute.iPhoneHP Creative Studio MobileHP has launched a free iPhone app that wants to get people creating their own greetings cards, invitations and calendars, then printing them out or sharing via email and Facebook.iPhone
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAcer's Aspire S3 ultrabook hits US shelves October 16th for $900 &gt;&gt; This is my next..."And Acer is the first out of the ultrabook gate — the 0.51-inch thick, 2.89-pound Aspire S3 that we were quite impressed with back at IFA will be touching down on [the US] side of the Atlantic on October 16th for just $899.99. The price is in line with Intel's sub-$1,000 ultrabook target, but Acer's getting there with the always-clever flash and hard drive combo trick. While the 13.3-inch laptop (or MacBook Air replica) boasts a Core i5-2467M processor, Intel's integrated HD graphics, and 4GB of RAM, Acer's gone with a 20GB SSD to house its Windows 7 Home Premium OS and a 320GB, 5400RPM hard drive for files and less frequently used application storage."Hmm, Flash and spinning hard drive? But it will be interesting to see how this sells.First Nokia 800 Windows Phone adverts emerge | WinRumors"Nokia's first Windows Phone has broken its cover thanks to some leaked marketing materials."The Nokia "Sea Ray" device looks like it will be marketed as the Nokia 800 in some markets. Pocketnow managed to secure some details on the device along with two leaked adverts. The first advert comes with the tag line "today the sun will rise and set. The rest is up for grabs." The second advert features the tag line "take, tag, sort and share. All in a flash." Both adverts demonstrate the social sharing aspects of Windows Phone 7.5."Nokia appears to be preparing at least two Windows Phone devices."The photos make them look very like the N8. To be unveiled at Nokia World at the end of the month. But not necessarily on sale then. Did we predict that there wouldn't be 'Nokindows' phones until after October? Yes, we did.Mozilla relies on search deals for 98% of revenues &gt;&gt; Computerworld"Mozilla today said that income from its search partners, including rival browser maker Google, increased by 19% last year."Royalties, almost all of which come from search services like Google, Microsoft, Yahoo and others, were $121.1m, up 19.3% from 2009's $101.5m."The vast bulk of the Mozilla Foundation's revenues came from search providers, which paid the organization for leading Firefox users to their websites. In 2010, royalty payments accounted for 98% of the year's revenues, a percentage point higher than the share of Mozilla's income attributed to search in the two years before."Contract with Google runs out in November. What are the chances of a tough renegotiation? Or will Steve Ballmer turn on the charm and get Bing adopted?Five Siri alternatives that give your older iPhone a voice &gt;&gt; Macworld"After last week's iPhone 4S unveiling, Siri was one of the most talked-about features. With Siri, the iPhone 4S will be able to answer just about anything you ask it, from the weather report to nearby points of interest. It can also read messages and notifications aloud and even let you dictate messages of your own instead of relying on the phone's on-screen keyboard."Includes Google Search, natch. Also Vlingo.Ninth unique aspect of mobile (as a mass media), discovered by Russell Buckley &gt;&gt; Tomi AhonenAhonen is a former Nokia executive who now ranges over the mobile world. The first eight are worth bearing in mind too.Why Silk won't be silky smooth for Amazon &gt;&gt; GigaOmMatthew Prince of proxy service CloudFlare: "I predict that Amazon is likely to face technical, legal, and privacy concerns with Silk. Technically, the biggest challenge will likely be cache invalidation. If I visit my bank website and my account page is cached, Amazon needs to be 100 percent certain that when someone else visits the same bank they never see my account information. From the technical specifications, it appears that Amazon is only caching static resources such as images. While that will solve many of the cases, there will still be places that Silk could end up leaking private data (e.g., a stock photo or porn site that charges for access to its photos)."Basically, that proxying and cacheing everything has a lot of implications. One suspects Amazon hasn't gone into this eyes-closed, though.Apple's 1987 Knowledge Navigator, only one month late &gt;&gt; Waxy.org"Based on the dates mentioned in the Knowledge Navigator video, it takes place on September 16, 2011. The date on the professor's calendar is September 16, and he's looking for a 2006 paper written "about five years ago," setting the year as 2011."And this morning, at the iPhone keynote, Apple announced Siri, a natural language-based voice assistant, would be built into iOS 5 and a core part of the new iPhone 4S."So, 24 years ago, Apple predicted a complex natural-language voice assistant built into a touchscreen Apple device, and was less than a month off."Actually, put like that, it's rather scary. We await the time-travel iPhone.For mobile in-app sharing, Twitter tops Facebook 3-1 &gt;&gt; GigaOM"Compared to Twitter, Facebook overall generated twice as many events, which Localytics counts as sharing, liking or following by a person from an app. But on a pound for pound basis, Twitter won out handily when it came to driving user engagement. The average Twitter user shared three times as many events than the average Facebook user, Localytics found. When you examine the active user base of each network, Twitter generated 50 events per 1,000 users compared to 11 events per 1,000 Facebook users, said Localytics."Because tweets are shorter than statuses?Anonymous Takes Down NYSE.com - For A Minute &gt;&gt; KCRA SacramentoTrading not affected. "At least a few people claiming to be part of Anonymous didn't think the attack on NYSE.com was a risk worth taking. One site used to coordinate Anonymous operations, AnonNews.org, posted a statement saying that it was 'sincerely worried' about the plan, due to the bad press it could give to the Occupy Wall Street movement."A back-and-forth debate raged across Twitter Monday afternoon, with various factions of Anonymous alternately cheering and decrying the planned attack."But in the end, the chatter drew more attention than the actual effects of the cyberprotest. NYSE.com barely blipped, and the markets finished the day with a rally: The Dow Jones industrial average finished Monday up nearly 3%."All of a Twitter about mapping &gt;&gt; Ordnance Survey blog"From today, a selection of our surveyors, field staff and technical experts will be tweeting live as the update the nation's mapping."We make around 5000 changes a day to the digital mastermap of Great Britain, so there's a lot going on – from the farthest reaches of Scotland and the Welsh peaks, to inner city London."Good stuff.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The first of our series of Tech City Talks is on the subject of skills and education. If the government's Tech City initiative is to be successfully implemented, who will work there?  Where is the next wave of tech talent coming from that will build the UK's Google or Facebook?Aleks Krotoski is the chair of this discussion, and on the the panel isDavid Willetts MP(Minister of State for Universities and Science),Prof Jeff Magee(Principal of the Faculty of Engineering at Imperial College),Dan Crow(CTO,Songkick) andEmma Mulqueeny(Rewired StateandYoung Rewired State).There are still more programmes in the series of Tech City Talks to be recorded at Imperial College London –find out more – and how you can attend.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Pushing regulatory rules has become de rigeur when American internet firms prepare to go public. The infamousPlayboy interview with Larry Page and Sergey Brinpublished during the "quiet period" before Google's 2004 flotation, and more recentlyGroupon's leaked memospring to mind.It should be no surprise, then, that one of Silicon Valley's hottest firms held its biggest ever press event during its enforced "quiet period".Zynga filed to go public four months ago, and co-founder Mark Pincus knows that a lot has happened since. Wall Street gyrationsdelayed some $9bn-worth of IPOs, not to mention Zynga's90% fall in second-quarter profitsto $1.4m, reported just four weeks ago.Frustratingly for the 150 journalists invited to Zynga's new San Francisco HQ, questions involving numbers were almost always rebuffed. All others were referred to thecompany's S-1 filing.But, as is often the way, the internet darling came out top.Zynga emerged as a company semi-autonomous from the internet giants – Facebook and Apple – on which it has built its business. Zynga's new frontiers, Project Z and HTML5, pitch the four-year-old startup as more than a opportunist trading on others' platforms.The challenge now is how it handles "hypergrowth", as Marcus Segal, Zynga's chief operating officer of game studio operations, called it.Asked how Zynga avoids a situation where employees become affected by stock ownership and newfound riches, Segal downplayed the significance of its upcoming IPO."At Zynga, we're totally focused on where we want to go. Zynga wants to become an internet darling. We want Zynga to equal play in peoples' minds,  That's what we're really focused on," he told the Guardian in an interview after the keynote."The IPO is a point in time, but it's the beginning, it's not the end and all of us know it. I feel like Zynga's just scratching the surface and not anywhere near the end of the road."Zynga's new headquarters, opened for the first time to journalists, symbolise a company on the up. The five-floor building houses more than 1,700 employees, and is peppered with classic 70s furniture.Despite the eye-catching decor, most journalists' thoughts were 40-odd miles down the highway, at One Infinite Loop, where fresh bouquets were being laid to mark a week since the death of Steve Jobs, the Valley's greatest showstopper.
Here comes Wednesday! Let's see if we can't sort the games industry out today.
Google has celebrated the 90th birthday of the stop motion animation pioneer Arthur "Art" Clokey in its latest Google doodle.Detroit-born Clokey, who died in 2010, was best known for Gumby, a clay figure and star of the Gumby Show, which ran for 35 years from November 1955. Interest in the characters was given a boost in the 1980s when Eddie Murphy parodied Gumby in a Saturday Night Live skit.One of Clokey's first clay animation productions was Gumbasia (1955), a short, surreal homage to Walt Disney's Fantasia that caught the eye of Samuel G Engel, then president of the Motion Pictures Producers Association. Engel was sufficiently impressed to finance the pilot film for what became the Gumby Show.Film appearances, comic strips, merchandise and reruns in the 1990s on Nickelodeon and the Cartoon Network stand as testimony to Gumby's enduring popularity.The doodle features some of Clokey's characters popping out from balls of clay.
Zynga, the social gaming firm behind popular Facebook games CityVille and FarmVille, on Tuesday launched 10 new products in its biggest push yet towards a new generation of social networking.At its first major press conference in San Francisco, Zynga chief executive Mark Pincus said the fledgling company wanted to place "the world's biggest macro bet on social gaming".Alongside five new mobile games, Pincus unveiled CastleVille, the latest in the popular franchise played by more than 100 million Facebook users worldwide.Zynga is best known for its Facebook games and is one of the few Silicon Valley internet firms to make a profit. The gaming firm filed for a $1bn Wall Street flotation in June, but the company's second-quarter earnings, posted last month, showed a 90% year-on-year drop in net profit to $1.4m, leading some toquestion whether Zynga can sustain its huge growth.Pincus, who co-founded the firm in 2007, on Tuesday placed his bets on mobile. He unveiled five new mobile games, including Facebook titles built on HTML5, meaning they can be played on any smartphone.Zynga launched 10 new products including:• CastleVille, the latest in the popular "Ville" franchise after FarmVille and CityVille• Hidden Chronicles, a new genre based on finding hidden objects with friends• Zynga Bingo joins Zynga Poker as the latest in the new Zynga Casino franchise• Dream Zoo, the compay's first zoo-themed game• Mafia Wars 2 launched on Monday, but on Tuesday launched on Facebook rival, Google+• Three new HTML5 games for Facebook mobile: Words With Friends, Poker and FarmVille Express• Project Z. Little was given away about Project Z, just that gamers will be able to continue Facebook games outside of the social network and reserve usernames from Tuesday• Two other mobile games: Mafia Wars Shakedown and Dream ZooPincus said the launches represent "the biggest integration with Facebook by any service on the web or on mobile". He added: "We believe there is way more than just us in this building around world [who are] going to embrace play in their lives."Everything we're doing is trying to bring that to life. I know it's early, I know it's primitive, but it's going to come to life and it's going to be mobile."David Ko, Zynga's chief mobile officer, added that the company's ambition was to be the "best content creators out there regardless of platform", as internet-connected mobile phones become mainstream in the US and Europe.
Smartphone maker Research In Motion (RIM) is facing a user revolt after tens of millions of users in Europe, the Middle East and Africa suffered a second day without services such as BlackBerry Messenger (BBM), as the company struggled with problems at its hub in Slough, Berkshire.The company also revealed that the areas affected now include South America, with users in Brazil, Chile and Argentina suffering loss of service.With more than 70 million subscribers to its services around the world, RIM may have suffered lasting damage to its reputation. Reaction on social networks suggested that some users are considering moving to other platforms, such as Android phones or Apple's iPhone, which are not reliant on RIM's centralised service for connectivity.The Guardian understands the problems have been caused by database corruption in Slough. Though the teams believed it had been fixed on Monday, the problem reappeared on Tuesday, effectively disabling the network operations centre. The Guardian also understands that RIM's staff now hope to have the problem fixed by 8am BST on Wednesday.Update:in a statement released at 2200 BST in the UK, RIM said: "The messaging and browsing delays being experienced by BlackBerry users in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, India, Brazil, Chile and Argentina were caused by a core switch failure within RIM's infrastructure. Although the system is designed to failover to a back-up switch, the failover did not function as previously tested. As a result, a large backlog of data was generated and we are now working to clear that backlog and restore normal service as quickly as possible. We apologize for any inconvenience and we will continue to keep you informed."The outage followsone that began on Monday morning at about 11am BST and lasted until late in the afternoon. RIM had indicated that the problem was fixed, but on Tuesday morning BlackBerry users discovered they had once again lost service, with limited access to emails, web browsing and secure services such as BBM.The problems have caused some people to reconsider their use of RIM's platform, which relies on its own servers to encrypt communications and connect BlackBerry devices to the internet. Any time that RIM's servers suffer an outage like that which has hit it over the past two days, users of the systems can find reception of emails, texts and web browsing severely limited.Any loss of customers in the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) region would be a serious problem for RIM, which has been losing market share in North America, traditionally one of its strongest markets, to phones running Google's Android mobile operating system and to Apple's iPhone.In the US, RIM has lost 4.3 million users in the past year,according to calculations by Horace Dediu, of the independent consultancy Asymco. "[It] is now at about the same number of users it had in late 2009. This is in a market that has more than doubled," he noted."With only about 16.5 million US users and an average loss of half a million users per month, unless something drastic happens, RIM could lose its entire US user base by the end of next year."RIM has been aiming to balance that by expansion in EMEA and regions such as India. But it is being badly squeezed on price there by more affordable Android phones. Its most recent quarterly results showed revenues down by 10% year on year, and profits crashing by 60%.In the EMEA region, RIM has been showing growth in the number of handset sales over the past quarter, according to data from ComTech WorldPanel seen by the Guardian. This has largely balanced out losses of users in the US.But the company has been under growing financial pressure this year as its investment in itsPlayBook tablethas failed to ignite sales: it shipped just 500,000 in its first quarter on sale in spring, and only 200,000 in the succeeding quarter. In the US it is now offering $200 discounts, but those have not been extended to the UK. Sources with sight of UK retailing figures said that: "RIM partners have been told to keep shtum about the bad situation [of PlayBook sales]."The Guardian's calculations suggest that RIM has up to 800,000 PlayBooks in its in-house inventory. The total inventory held by the company has swollen to the equivalent of almost 35% of revenues, suggesting a serious backlog of unsold equipment.RIM's manager for the EMEA area was not available to comment. In a statement issued at 4pm BST on Tuesday, the company said: "Some users in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, India, Brazil, Chile, and Argentina are experiencing messaging and browsing delays. We are working to restore normal service as quickly as possible. We apologise for any inconvenience this has caused."Ontario-based RIM is the only smartphone platform which uses the system, devised in its early days so that it could offer secure connectivity for early users, and reduce the amount of bandwidth used by individual devices. Communications for North America are directed through its hub at its Ontario headquarters, while those for Europe, the Middle East and Africa run through its headquarters in Slough.
Here's a puzzle: where, or how, did the iPhone 4S drop 100 hours' standby time?According to official figures on Apple's site for the phone, it has a standby time of 200 hours (that's 8 days and 8 hours). That's a long time. But it's much less than the 250 hours quoted for Apple's first effort at its own phone, the iPhone in 2007 – and it's far less than the 300 hours given for the iPhone 3GS and iPhone 4. (See theiPhone comparison page on Apple's site.)Other battery life figures quoted by Apple marketing chief Phil Schiller during his presentation at Cupertino included lots of data about the new phone (on which the newSiri voice assistant is impressive), and itsbattery life: 8 hours of 3G talk time, 14 hours of 2G talk time, 6 hours ofWi-Fi3Gbrowsing, 9 hours of Wi-Fi browsing.Other battery life statistics for the iPhone 4S's battery life – 3G talk time, 2G talk time, 3G internet browsing, video playback – are the same or better, apart from the Wi-Fi browsing, which is given at nine hours for the 4S, and 10 for the iPhone 4.Here's the historical data (and the spreadsheet is below).Battery lives of different generations of iPhone compared. Note that standby time is given in tens of hours (to make the graph comprehensible). Data: AppleFor comparison, the Samsung Galaxy S II standby time isgiven as 710 hours on 2G and 610 hours on 3G standby. Samsung also gives talk time as 520min (8hr 40min) on 3G and 1100 minutes (18hr 20min) on 2G. It's hard to know exactly how comparable they are: Apple's tests, given on itsbattery test page, suggest that its standby configuration has Wi-Fi on: "All settings were default except: Wi-Fi was associated with a network; the Wi-Fi feature Ask to Join Networks was turned off." Samsung doesn't explain how its tests are done.While 200 hours is a long time (and 710 hoursverymuch longer), the reality is that nobody gets the battery life promised in specifications like these. But they're often indicative – so you might expect that this will indicate a notably shorter battery life for the iPhone 4S. (We will try this out in later tests.)So what's changed? I did ask Apple – repeatedly – but it had no response.Might it be the dual-processor A5 chip that's being used to power it? In thereplay on Apple's site, Schiller talks about battery life at 58:20. Speaking about the inclusion of the dual-core A5 chip in the phone, he says: "You would think if you put a processor that powerful inside a super-thin phone, one of the things you're going trade off is battery life – but the hardware and software teams have worked really hard to get industry-leading battery life as well."He then cites statistics for the battery life on various activities – but doesn't mention standby time.It's possible that powering the two cores, even in quiescent mode when the phone is just waiting for a call, is what uses the power. Possibly it's that the Siri natural language parsing system, which is activated when you lift the phone or speak directly to it, is using enough power in the background to shorten the life. (You can turn Siri off; it will be interesting to see if this makes a difference.)Or, alternatively, possibly it is the iOS 5 software, which was still under development when the phone would have been prepared. Some developers have indicated that the iOS 5 software is "hefty on the battery", or was until very recent builds. But there's no consistency there; some said they were seeing exactly the same battery life.Possibly there's some bugs to be worked out of the iOS 5 software, which we understand has now gone GM (Gold Master), and is officially released on 12 October.But for now, without a response from Apple, and without anyone having one in a reviewer's hands, there's no simple answer. The claimed battery life is shorter. Why? It's a mystery.iPhone generations' battery livesStandby time3G talk time2G talk timeInternet - 3GInternet - Wi-FiVideo playbackAudio playbackweb pageiPhone (2007)25086724Wayback Machine web pageiPhone 3G30051056724Wayback Machine web pageiPhone 3GS300512591030Wayback Machine web pageiPhone 43007146101040Wayback Machine web pageiPhone 4S200814691040Current Apple pagesource: Apple, Wayback MachineHere is the data confirming the graph:(Updated to correct 3G browsing time.)
Claims that David Cameron has forced a new "porn filter" on UK internet content have been disavowed by internet service providers, which said that the vast majority of customers will see "absolutely no difference" to their web content.Confusion arose after it was suggested that a new "filtered feed" system will be applied to everyone using internet connections provided by the biggest four ISPs – BT, TalkTalk, Virgin and Sky, which between them have 17.6 million of the 19.2 million broadband customers in the UK.It was claimed that the prime minister would unveil the measures on Tuesday as he hosted a No 10 meeting with the Mothers' Union, which earlier this year produced a raft of proposals to shield children from sexualised imagery.But ISPs moved quickly to insist that the provisions will only apply to people taking out completely new contracts, who will be offered the choice of a connection with "parental controls", or one without. "Customers will have to choose one or the other, but we won't be making either one the default," said a source at one of the ISPs. A spokesperson for TalkTalk said: "This is called 'active choice' rather than an opt-in or opt-out." People who change to a different tier of connection within the same service will not be obliged to change the setting. BT said that new customers will be offered a package of parental control systems, provided by the security company McAfee.However, it is highly unlikely that the initiative to be announced by Cameron will make any noticeable impact on UK web browsing. Very few people take out new contracts: during a typical quarter, fewer than 5% of any ISP's customers change provider.Data from uSwitchsuggests about 12 million people have not changed their broadband contract in the past year, and 5 million who have never changed it.In a statement, the ISPs said: "BT, Sky, TalkTalk and Virgin Media are pleased to have developed and agreed a code of practice, including measures to ensure that customers are provided with an active choice as to whether to activate parental controls in the home."The four internet service providers have worked closely with government and a range of stakeholders to swiftly introduce measures addressing recommendations set out in the Bailey report."The ISPs have committed to improve the way they communicate to customers, enabling parents to make simple and well-informed choices about installing and activating parental controls and other measures to protect children online. The four ISPs are working with parents' groups and children's charities on this important initiative and will continue to do so."But questions have been raised about the systems used to implement the blocking, for which TalkTalk will use a service called HomeSafe. As implemented by TalkTalk, every web location that a customer connects to will be recorded and checked for malicious software – even if they have not opted into the "parental control" system.The prime minister is expected to announce other moves in line with the Christian charity's review, such as restrictions on aggressive advertising campaigns and certain types of images on billboards.There will also be a website, ParentPort, which parents can use to complain about television programmes, advertisements, products or services they believe are inappropriate for children.The site, which will direct complaints to the regulator dealing with that specific area of concern, is expected to be run by watchdogs including the Advertising Standards Authority, BBC Trust, British Board of Film Classification, Ofcom, Press Complaints Commission, Video Standards Council and Pan European Game Information.Cameron gave strong backing in June to the Mothers' Union proposals after he commissioned a six-month review by the charity's chief executive, Reg Bailey. However, Cameron did not commit to legislation.Bailey's recommendations included providing parents with one single website to make it easier to complain about any programme, advert, product or service, putting age restrictions on music videos and ensuring retailers offer age-appropriate clothes for children.Cameron wrote to Bailey in June to thank him for his report. "I very much agree with the central approach you set out," the letter said."As you say, we should not try and wrap children in cotton wool or simply throw our hands up and accept the world as it is. Instead, we should look to put 'the brakes on an unthinking drift towards ever-greater commercialisation and sexualisation'."Bailey's report asked for government and business to work together on initiatives such as ending the sale of inappropriately "sexy" clothing for young children, for example underwired bras and T-shirts with suggestive slogans.However, he recommended that if retailers do not make progress on the issue they should be forced to make the changes in 18 months.
On 10 October at the GOTO conference, two Google engineers launched "Dart", a new language designed to help developers build web applications. (Slides from the keynote can be foundhere.) I first heard of it via Twitter, and my first thought was "What on earth is that craziness?" My response to the tweeter was not one of positivity and joy. However, when I sussed out this was a Google thing, I paid a little more attention.Evolution, not revolutionMy first (considered) reaction to Dart was that this was just an example of Google not getting it. In the world of software engineering, deliberately designed and executed revolutions don't work. Software languages and toolsets evolve, change and grow in keeping with the needs of the community that uses them. (Or, as this excellent cartoon from SMBC suggestsnew languages are just daycare for software developers. It's at the bottom if you don't want to click the link.)But is this true? Microsoft's .NET is unarguably successful and hugely important in the world of software engineering, but Microsoft deliberately engineered it as a way of getting round the problem that developing for the Microsoft stack was about as much fun as beingwaterboarded. (Anyone else remembering having to restart IIS every time you changed a business-tier COM component?) Java, likewise was a deliberate engineering exercise to build a "write one, run anywhere" language. Both of these languages define the way that most of us build applications today, and they were both deliberate (profit-making) efforts on the part of their vendors.On the other hand, awesome things likeJQueryspring up to solve problems that we have as software engineers and have ended up being more evolutionary in nature. Ruby, Erlang, Scala, whilst not my bailiwick, are also evolutionary in nature and hugely popular.So with Google's engineers intentionally setting out to "fix" web development with Dart, will they get any traction? After all, a language, toolset, framework, approach, or whatever that no-one uses isn't very much of anything at all.The smoking gunIn thisleaked memo from Google, there appears to be a smoking gun in the guise of a deliberate attempt to create a "clean break" from JavaScript; albeit in this memo "Dart" appears under its original name of "Dash". This quote stands out: "The goal of the Dash effort is ultimately to replace JavaScript as the lingua franca of web development on the open web platform". The question that remains is why Javascript needs replacing.The Twittersphere appears to have been downbeat. Many people are unhappy with the structure and syntax of Dart (it looks like Java/C), although having spent half my life working in some variant of C, I personally like it. (The counter view is that if you have a chance to build a new language, why make it look like C?) Most other dissenters are querying the premise as to why as a community we need Dart when we have JavaScript and myriad frameworks to support it. It's hard to find people who are really excited about it outside of a "one more nail in the coffin for JavaScript" view.If we look at the history of JavaScript, it's very evolutionary. Originally designed a way to control the document object model ("DOM") in web browsers, JavaScript has evolved to a point where it's a critical element in the stack of technologies that we use to "fix" the fundamental problem with web applications.Look at the basic way a web browser and server collaborate: initially the browser sends a request to the server for information. The server packages the request into a response and sends it back to the browser and, critically,throws away anything it ever knew about the request. The browser then receives the response and renders it. By throwing away the details of the request, the server can scale up to vast levels. The precursor to this technology - client/server, a topic we'll come back to - typically maintained information on both ends, creating a live connection between the two. However by keeping track of client state in server memory, the server was severely limited in how many clients it could handle simultaneously: as each request tooknbytes to track, your maximum support wasserver memory/n. Banning server-side state is what makes web servers possible.The problem with this approach is that the compromise position is that pages have to be rebuilt entirely from scratch whenever a request is made. By using just the raw technology provided in HTTP, you're in a world where the user experience is unpleasant. Back in the day client/server applications were fast and responsive and web applications were clunky and slow because of constant round-tripping and rebuilding of pages.But, by having the page described as a tree of objects in in the browser's memory (i.e. the DOM) and by having a language that can manipulate the DOM (i.e. JavaScript), and by having a runtime that allows us to punt back network requests behind the scene, it's possible to get closer to the sort of client/server user experience that's more responsive and slicker. This bunch of technologies is collectively known as "Ajax", or "asynchronous JavaScript and XML", and is something that came about in a "black swan" moment that changed web development forever.Google's black swanI remember being a room full of developers when I first heard about Google Maps. The atmosphere was electric - all of us were looking at a site displaying a map but done in a way that felt like a full-blown installed application. We could use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out, drag to pan the map around, etc. None of us there knew how it was done, being as we were normal web developers who had been using basic post-back implementations of yesteryear.What we had seen writ large was the fact that it was possible to build applications on the web that looked like desktop client/server applications. Google's coders had presented their black swan, and we loved it. Google had built Google Maps using Ajax technologies and, thanks in equal part to those technologies being open and developers loving to suss out how things work, it was now easy for us as a community to start building tools that allowed us to build applications with far improved user experience ("UX").[Let's slide past the fact that it was Microsoft that first devised Ajax - Tech. Ed.]Welded into the middle of Ajax was, and is, JavaScript, but JavaScript has some real problems.What's wrong with JavaScript?Well, actually, JavaScript has one problem, which is that it's doing a job it wasn't designed to do.JavaScript is a scripting languagethat's designed to manipulate a DOM. The fact that developers have managed to build some incredibly rich and complex web-based applications using it is a testament to applied ingenuity on the half of the software developer community. Admittedly, the language has been changing and evolving and what we have now is supremely better to what we had in 1995, but it's still basically crappy.If you look at a language that does do what it's designed to do - and my preference it so to look at how tools are used when developing applications for business, as opposed to fluffy web 2.0 consumerware applications - what you'll find is a clear structure.If we go all the way back we end up in the world of n-tier application design whereby (for example) we divide our application up into a data-tier, a business-tier and a presentation-tier. It's been a while since I argued the merits of n-tier, but what you're trying to do is divide the application up into responsibilities. Perhaps the most important tier in all this is the business tier - i.e. the one that does all of the heavy listing and contains expressions of the rules that keep your business running.Java and .NET were both built to create these self-contained tiers and as such they are appropriate tools to use at this level. Some readers may feel that they are other appropriate tools to use at this level - this is fine - the central point is that most people would look at you strangely if you built a business-tier, or data-tier in JavaScript. It's the wrong tool for this job because JavaScript is, today, a presentation-tier  technology.(Apologies to those in the Node community who are feeling hard done by re the above - my intention is to position Google's Dart offering, not to put down the great work that's been done with Node.)The reason why it's the wrong tool is that the business-tier is supposed to be "implementation agnostic", and what I mean by this is that it should not matter where you run it. It should be possible to run an operation that returns all customers with outstanding invoices from within a web application, or a service application with no user interface. Moreover, it's desirable to be able to take the functionality in the business tier for Application A and run it within Application B, and although Java and .NET both allow for this to be done by dynamic linking, a loosely coupled approach with a service bus of some description is the more winning way to do it based on current community understanding. JavaScript is, as mentioned above, designed for manipulating a DOM. If you don't have a DOM, it's a bit lame.DartIt seems that Dart is about un-welding JavaScript from the DOM and creating a language for building application that can run on the Web.In theDart technical overview, Google is looking to implement five design goals.• they're looking to build a "structured yet flexible" language. 9Of course they are. The alternative is an "unstructured yet inflexible" language, which would be nonsense.)• they're looking to make it "familiar and natural". The latestTIOBE surveyshows Java, C, C++ and C# taking 52% of the developer mindshare, so making it look like C makes sense. Plus they're looking to move JavaScript developers over to Dart, so it really has to look like C. Good news for me; I like semicolons.• they are looking for "high performance" and "fast application startup". This is the first interesting point, and it's interesting they're sticking these two together. There have been huge advances in JavaScript performance from all of the major vendors, including in Google Chrome. Fast application startup? People don't tend to talk much about this so it's unclear to me what the effort required to boot atypicalweb application is, but throughout some of the Dart information currently out there it's clear that this is a hot topic for them. (And by "typically", I'm saying that Google Mail, Google Docs, Google Maps, etc. are atypical types of application.)• they are looking for a "full range of devices on the web". OK, so what's that - desktop, laptop, iPad, other tablets and phones? Obviously JavaScript can call all of these home.• they are looking for support "across all major modern browsers". Another "duh" moment - what's the point of building something if developers can't rely on devices implementing it? In the time between now and this having widespread support (caveat: if ever), you can emit Dart code as JavaScript code, just like you can withCoffeeScript.Right, so at this point, we've just described five basic tenets of JavaScript. I'm still looking for the difference...To me, this is philosophical, and quite subtle in that (to return to my earlier point) Dart is about doing JavaScript properly, insofar as it's not about manipulating a DOM but about building applications.JavaScript is lousy at object orientation. To be honest, whenever I have to build a class in JavaScript I end up having to look up online how to do it. JavaScript's OO has been smeared onto the side of the thing in a half-baked fashion. It's really this which makes JavaScript "not Java", which as we know is a full-on OO language implementation. Dart does have proper object orientation, and from that you can build frameworks.And from frameworks, you can build proper applications.By frameworks, I am not meaning the sort of horrendous enterprise-class framework that are the staple of web sites which in turn keep sites likeThe Daily WTFin business. What I mean by "framework" is proper, lightweight, well thought-out libraries of functionality that businesses create in-house as part of their constantly developing operational methodology.Dart means that you can actually now build and compile these libraries and dynamically link them into a larger application. That's a million miles away from JavaScript today.All in all, I think this is what Dart promises: a shift in philosophy that's less "happy slappy" ad hoc wiring of bits and pieces in JavaScript, and more "old school software engineering".But can't you do all this with JavaScript?The answer to this question: "maybe".My background is old-school Microsoft server stack, so if I'm building a web application I'm using ASP.NET to emit HTML and JavaScript to tie it together. It would never occur to me to build an application that didn't have a business tier in .NET. It also wouldn't occur to me that this approach is necessarily a problem. Would I like to have better OO support in JavaScript or more sophistication in the language? Yes, of course I would. Would I find anything of interest if I looked at the various frameworks and libraries for building front-ends? I suspect the answer would have to be "yes".So Dart for me isn't solving any immediate problems. JavaScript will continue to evolve - notably in the so calledJavaScript Harmony. Harmony has OO and a module system - both things that Dart brings to the party. It also bringsstatic typing, something we haven't spoken about thus far, but something else that Dart brings. (Dart has a combined static and dynamic typing system so you can do both depending on what you're trying to achieve.)We also can't ignore Windows 8 in this. Windows 8 will bring "immersive shell"/Metro-style applications built on a foundation of HTML5 and JavaScript. I can't imagine Microsoft rushing out and building Dart natively into IE, and despite its dropping market share, Internet Explorer is still important.Finally, then, can Google encourage developers to ditch something they are familiar with, generally works, and which is supported by a vast array of competent add-ons and frameworks for something that's controlled by Google's team (who are not covering themselves in open software glory with regards to Android) and that has features promised in an upcoming revision of JavaScript?I very much doubt it.Oh, and we nearly forgot the comic.Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
The horse trading has escalated and the name-calling has begun. In a punchy put-down this weekend, Vodafone's UK chief accused rival network Three – the smallest and newest entrant to the market, of "dressing up in short trousers as they run around the playground complaining that they're being bullied by the older boys".Guy Laurence is worried about the next big auction of British airspace. He thinks the regulator, Ofcom, is giving too much protection to Three and the UK's largest network, Everything Everywhere.On Friday the proposed rules were torn up and the auction date was postponed for a further six months to the end of 2012, although even this is not set in stone.As the networks jostle for advantage, Ofcom is tying itself in knots trying to find a solution that will not lead to legal action by one or other of the participants.The government has had to intervene. The network bosses have been summoned to the headmaster's office. The culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, will meet them on 21 November and is hoping to thrash out a consensus.Embarrassingly, the UK will be the last of the big European economies to sell 4G spectrum. In the US, the three largest networks are already rolling out next-generation mobile internet.Ofcom argues delays don't matter too much. Two types of spectrum are being sold, but the most attractive chunk is currently being used to broadcast the analogue TV signal and won't be free until digital switchover is completed at the end of 2012.The TV spectrum is important for a few reasons. At the 800Mhz frequency, it travels further, which means fewer masts are needed and so the network is cheaper to build. More importantly, it travels through walls. As any basement flat dweller will know, the signal below street level or indeed inside many buildings is poor, particularly for internet but often for voice calls too.And finally, new spectrum will unleash a round of investment in faster internet services. Operators are planning to install Long Term Evolution technology, which is incompatible with the 2G and 3G networks currently in use, and so needs its own separate chunk of airwaves.LTE should bring mobile internet up to the level of the average decent household broadband connection. In the US, where LTE is already in use, connection speeds are averaging 7Mbps. The technology has been overhyped – don't expect the 100Mbps speeds that lab tests have produced.But the average 2.1Mbps found by Ofcom on today's UK networks doesn't cut it. Using the internet on a mobile phone is often a frustrating experience outside of Wi-Fi zones, with web pages loading at almost dial-up internet speeds.Until a year ago, network operators used to brag about how much spare capacity their 3G networks had to cater for increased data traffic. They have now gone strangely silent. Three, which has its own agenda, argues that the other chunk of spectrum awaiting auction, 2600MHz, could be used now to help boost busy urban locations.Its chief executive, David Dyson, has warned that in certain urban areas Three's network will reach capacity by the end of next year.Others say the capacity crunch will come earlier, during the Olympics, when 1 million extra visitors arrive in London.Laurence at Vodafone has a point. Three is not a small, helpless child. It is owned by Hong Kong tycoon Li Ka-shing's Hutchison Whampoa conglomerate, which has property, ports and retail interests, and controls mobile phone networks in 10 countries, including Australia, Denmark and Italy.And it does pose a threat to the other operators, but not just because its parent company has a market capitalisation of £22bn. Three is disrupting the market. Its numbers are a startling indicator of the pent-up demand for mobile internet.The three larger networks have for the most part been cautious, keeping data use at bay with the usual mixture of high prices and complicated tariffs. Three is offering unlimited data at affordable prices, and it now claims to be selling more iPhones than any of the other networks, despite its small size. Three has just 10% market share.While Enders Analysis estimates data usage in the UK across all networks is growing at 50%, Three's iPhone customers consumed 140% more data in August than they did in February.No wonder Everything Everywhere, which had to promise the European Commission to sell off a quarter of its spectrum as a precondition for its creation through the merger of T-Mobile and Orange's UK operations, is now asking to hold on to some of that airspace.Data may eventually eat into voice and text revenues, as customers turn to Skype-type services which use the internet to make calls for a fraction of the current price. But delivering the internet on the go is one of the big growth areas left to network operators.If customers cannot get the service they want from their mobile network, they will turn to alternatives such as Wi-Fi. Ovum says mobile broadband could generate $92bn of new revenues for networks between 2012 and 2015.Businesses do not thrive on defending entrenched positions. They grow by embracing new markets. Time for the mobile operators to put the conkers away and get on with what they do best – building our most valuable communication networks.
A selection of 11 apps for you today:Warm GunWarm Gun is the latest in a line of graphically stunning iOS titles using console-quality game engines - the Unreal Engine 3 in this case. It's a first-person shooter with a post-apocalyptic Wild West theme, with a single-player campaign and online deathmatching.iPhone / iPadAppysnapWewrote about Appysnapin March 2011 in the run-up to its release for iPhone, but now it's gone live for Android too. It turns photo-sharing into a game, with missions suggesting subjects, and points/prizes on offer including gift certificates, Kindles and MacBook Airs for players.AndroidGuardian for Windows PhoneApologies for the plug, but The Guardian's app is now available for Windows Phone smartphones as a free download. It uses the new features of Microsoft's Windows Phone Mango software, including Live Tiles where you pin your favourite section(s) to the homescreen. The app was developed in-house, and as with Android, it is free and ad-supported.Windows PhoneSlam Dunk KingWell-regarded iOS developer PikPok (of Flick Kick Football fame) has released its latest game for iPhone and iPad. As the name implies, basketball is the focus here, with a casual focus on dunking as many balls as possible in 90 seconds.iPhone / iPadSiegecraftDeveloper Crescent Moon Games made its name with impressive iOS titles like Gears, Pocket RPG and Rimelands: Hammer of Thor. Its newest app Siegecraft takes a medieval theme, as you fling arrows, rocks and battering rams at your foes, playing as knights, vikings or samurai.iPhone / iPadBoulder Dash: The CollectionRetro game franchise Boulder Dash has gone live on Android in a collection of five titles, including the original. Four of the games are sold as in-app purchases for cave packs.AndroidSquidsSquids has been described as "the spawn of Angry Birds and Final Fantasy Tactics", albeit with a necessarily more seabound theme. Tactical tentacle-based action abounds.iPhoneBejeweled 2/SimCity DeluxeEA is doing its bit to give BlackBerry PlayBook owners something to play with, releasing a couple more of its tried-and-trusted hits. Bejeweled 2 offers match-three puzzling, while SimCity Deluxe is one of the latest incarnations of the classic city-building franchise.BlackBerry PlayBookBMW Motorsport MagazineBMW has launched its official iPad magazine app, promising news on its motorsport activities, information on specific cars used, and a trailer for the documentary film 24hours – One Team. One Target.iPadSky Gamblers: Rise of GloryGames veteran Namco Bandai's latest iOS title is a World War I dogfighting game, offering a choice of solo mode and eight-person multiplayer online.iPhone / iPadLloyds TSB Mobile BankingBritish bank Lloyds TSB is the latest to come out with a BlackBerry banking app, enabling customers to access their personal accounts, check balances, view transactions and make transfers. Non-customers can use the app to find their nearest cashpoint, meanwhile.BlackBerry
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSmartphones and tablets drive nearly 7% of total US digital traffic &gt;&gt; comScore"iPads dominate among tablets in driving digital traffic. In August 2011, iPads delivered 97.2% of all tablet traffic in the US. iPads have also begun to account for a higher share of Internet traffic than iPhones (46.8 % vs. 42.6% of all iOS device traffic)."Also: "Although the Android platform accounts for the highest share of the smartphone market (43.7% in August), its total audience among mobile and connected devices in current use is eclipsed by the Apple iOS audience. The iOS platform had the highest share of connected devices and smartphones in use at 43.1%, fueled by the iPad's dominance in the tablet market, while Android accounted for 34.1% of the total mobile and connected device universe."Microsoft's conflicted cloud-mobile vision &gt;&gt; View From Above"Microsoft has to have a conflict regarding how to proceed with mobile. On one hand, it is first and foremost a software company. Job One is to sell software and its primary focus is supporting Windows–and probably even more so on Windows Phone 7 where Microsoft is competing fiercely with iOS and Android."And as a company, Microsoft surely wants users to buy Windows phones, but it has to know that at present their market share is fairly minuscule. That's why when it comes a popular enterprise software package like SharePoint, it has to be conflicted."Should it support iOS and Android versions of its more popular titles, and admit people might not be using Windows phones, or should it ignore these important rivals in spite of their huge market shares?"Facebook takes its applications platform mobile &gt;&gt; The Appside"Facebook's plans for 'Project Spartan' have been rumoured for months: an extension of its web apps platform to smartphones and tablets. Contrary to expectation there was no announcement at Apple's iPhone 4S event last week. Instead, the social network has unveiled its plans today."'Today, we are extending Facebook Platform on mobile, bringing all the social channels that have helped apps and games reach hundreds of millions of users on the Web to mobile apps and websites," blogs Facebook software development engineer Luke Shepard in a post aimed at developers."'You can now easily reach the 350 million people who use Facebook every month on a mobile device, including iPad, iPhone, iPod touch, and our mobile web site.'"On Steve Jobs &gt;&gt; Richard Stallman"Steve Jobs, the pioneer of the computer as a jail made cool, designed to sever fools from their freedom, has died."As Chicago Mayor Harold Washington said of the corrupt former Mayor Daley, "I'm not glad he's dead, but I'm glad he's gone." Nobody deserves to have to die - not Jobs, not Mr. Bill, not even people guilty of bigger evils than theirs. But we all deserve the end of Jobs' malign influence on people's computing."Unfortunately, that influence continues despite his absence. We can only hope his successors, as they attempt to carry on his legacy, will be less effective."So it goes.How iCloud works &gt;&gt; TUAW"During a recent edition of TUAW TV Live, the question of how iCloud works in applications came up. After some internal consultation, we came to the conclusion that Apple has fully announced this feature and that its workings would not be considered confidential."In that spirit, here's an introduction to iCloud's internals summarized from material in my upcoming iOS 5 Developer's Cookbook expanded edition. In its simplest form, iCloud is merely a special folder."A folder?? That's it??iPads less desired than Windows tablets, says study &gt;&gt; SlashGear"According to new study by Boston Consulting Group, there's a surprising amount of interest in tablets running Microsoft's Windows operating system, more so than iPads. Sales figures for Windows tablet PCs versus iPads certainly don't support the survey results, but the interest is perhaps generated from Microsoft's recent preview of Windows 8, which won't be hitting the market until next year."Survey size not detailed, though it does agree with one that appeared earlier this year by Forrester. So Windows 8 could get a good reception on tablets in late 2012.If Business Insider Was Around When.. &gt;&gt; 1492 blogHenry Blodget loves it. No, he HATES it. Actually, it's not quite that simple. Oh, just read it, dammit.iPhone 4S is cheaper, and more profitable, than the 4G Droids &gt;&gt; Fortune Tech"'We expect customers who do the math to opt for the iPhone,' writes Deutsche Bank's Chris Whitmore in a note to clients Monday.Moreover, he adds, so will customers who don't do the math.Whitmore's analysis involves comparing the price, features and total cost of ownership of the refreshed iPhone 4S with its leading competitors."At $199 with a two-year contract (and $649 unlocked), the iPhone 4S is roughly the same price as the 3G handsets that run Google's Android OS, and an average of about $60 less than 4G-based phones such as the Samsung Galaxy S 11 ($229 with contract), Droid Bionic ($299) and HTC Thunderbolt ($249)."And total cost of ownership for a 16 GB iPhone 4S, amortized across 24 months, is about $93 per month (450 min, unlimited text and 2GB data plan), roughly comparable to the other smartphones."No need to worry in the UK - we don't have 4G. And won't have for years, at this rate.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
That's Monday over, now let's give this Tuesday thing a go.
Subscribers to four of the UK's biggest internet service providers will have to "opt in" if they want to view sexually explicit websites, as part of government-sponsored curbs on online pornography.The measures will be unveiled on Tuesday as David Cameron hosts No 10 meeting with the Mothers' Union, a Christian charity. At the government's request the group's chief executive, Reg Bailey, led a review in tandem with Department of Education staff into the commercialisation and sexualisation of children. The Bailey report earlier this year produced a raft of proposals to shield children from sexualised imagery.The prime minister is expected to announce other moves in line with the review, such as restrictions on aggressive advertising campaigns and certain types of images on billboards.There will also be a website, Parentport, which parents can use to complain about television programmes, advertisements, products or services which they believe are inappropriate for children.The site, which will direct complaints to the regulator dealing with that specific area of concern, is expected to be run by watchdogs including the Advertising Standards Authority, BBC Trust, British Board of Film Classification, Ofcom, Press Complaints Commission, Video Standards Council and Pan European Game Information.The service providers involved are BT, Sky, TalkTalk and Virgin. Customers who do not opt in to adult content will be unableto access pornographic websites.Cameron gave strong backing in June to the Bailey report proposals after he commissioned the six-month review. However, Cameron did not commit his government to legislation.The recommendations of the report - Letting Children be Children, published on 6 June 2011 - included providing parents with one single website to make it easier to complain about any programme, advert, product or service, putting age restrictions on music videos and ensuring retailers offer age-appropriate clothes for children.Cameron wrote to Bailey in June to thank him for his report. "I very much agree with the central approach you set out," the letter said."As you say, we should not try and wrap children up in cotton wool or simply throw our hands up and accept the world as it is. Instead, we should look to put 'the brakes on an unthinking drift towards ever-greater commercialisation and sexualisation'."Bailey's report asked for government and business to work together on initiatives such as ending the sale of inappropriately "sexy" clothing for young children, for example underwired bras and T-shirts with suggestive slogans.However, he recommended that if retailers do not make progress on the issue they should be forced to make the changes in 18 months.• Several phrases and a heading in this article were amended on 11 October 2011 to make clear that the report on children was produced by Reg Bailey with Department of Education staff, not by the Mothers' Union.
Tens of millions of BlackBerry users in Europe, the Middle East and Africa have been unable to receive or send emails and messages through their phones, following an outage at the server systems of parent company Research In Motion (RIM) in Slough, Berkshire.The outage, which occurred at about 11am BST on Monday, was still affecting users more than four hours later with no time given for when it was expected to be resolved.The company released a brief acknowledgement of the problem at 3.30pm, saying: "We are working to resolve an issue currently impacting some BlackBerry subscribers in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. We're investigating, and we apologise to our customers for any inconvenience caused while this is resolved."BlackBerry systems receive and send emails and BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) communications via encrypted connections to RIM servers located around the world. The systems are particularly popular in a number of Middle East countries where they allow secure communication that the government cannot tap.RIM has come into conflict with a number of governments around the world, which have demanded oversight of email and BBM messages.The failure will be a huge embarrassment for the company, which has been successful in building up its user base in the so-called "EMEA" (Europe, Middle East, Africa) region even while it has been losing users in North America.At the end of August, RIM claimed that it had more than 70 million subscribers around the world. In July it claimed to have added 1 million subscribers in the EMEA region in less than three weeks. It would certainly have more than 10 million users in the total region.The cause of the outage is not known, but one former RIM employee has told the Guardian that RIM has been ignoring problems with its server architecture that could prove its downfall for years. "They didn't start looking at scalability until about 2007, when they had around 8m active devices," the former employee said: "The attitude was, 'We're going to grow and grow but making sure our infrastructure can support it isn't a priority.' They have their own clunky infrastructure to do something that you don't really need a clunky infrastructure to do anymore."The dramatic growth in the number of subscribers worldwide – nearly tenfold since 2007 – will have put serious strain on RIM's servers if such scalability has not been addressed urgently.
At tonight's recording of theTech Weekly Tech City Talkat Imperial College, we will be speaking with panelistsDavid Willetts MP(Minister of State for Universities and Science),Prof Jeff Magee(Principal of the Faculty of Engineering at Imperial College),Dan Crow(CTO,Songkick) andEmma Mulqueeny(Rewired StateandYoung Rewired State) about the UK's digital skills.We'll be asking why there's been a steady decline in numeracy degrees at A-Levels and GCSEs over the last with years, and whether initiatives like the government-backedBehind the Screenswill be enough to reverse this trend.We'll be asking what industry is looking for in its ICT graduates, and whether the UK's schools and universities are equipped to train - and, crucially, retain - the best and brightest.And we'll be asking what kind of relationship needs to be fostered between academia and industry to produce the successes of Silicon Valley, and whether this is the best model for our future digital economy.The event starts at 1830 at Imperial College and we're recording the debate live, to be published as aTech Weekly podcasttomorrow (Tuesday 11 October). If you have any questions for the panelists, add them to the comments below.The Twitter # for the event is#TWTC1.Find out more about the Tech Weekly Tech City Talks series here.
Lots of game developers are talking about the potential of cross-platform games that run across iPhone, Android and perhaps even Facebook. Relatively few are doing it. The growing interest around HTML5 may spur more attempts though, especially if Facebook's rumoured Project Spartan is as ambitious as expected.One of the companies hoping to help developers with the transition is Californian firmSibblingz. It is touting its Spaceport platform as a way for developers to code their games in JavaScript, then turn them into HTML5-based apps for the various mobile and social platforms."Mobile is huge, and all developers on Facebook realise that," says company founder Ben Savage. "On Facebook, growth seems to have slowed down, but mobile's going to blow that away. There are two billion people with mobile devices, and gaming is one of the biggest things. It's going to be an enormous market, and Facebook developers have realised that's where they have to move. They just need to figure out what to do."Savage says Facebook has thus far not provided the bridge from web to mobile for these developers: they can use its Facebook Connect API to tap into players' social graphs, but the Facebook applications platform itself has not had a mobile aspect. Project Spartan is expected to change that, of course.Savage also points to the keen interest in HTML5 from the developers already making mobile games as a way to free themselves from the restrictions he sees Apple, Google and other companies as imposing with their control over their stores and developer ecosystems."The major reason the industry is so excited about HTML5 is that it presents a competition to that monolithic approach," he says. "An app store is a really crappy way of getting distribution for iOS or Android games: the people in the Top 10 stay there, and there is a real problem of discovery. The root of the problem is the stores and the way they sort based on popularity. HTML5 will bring some much-needed perspective to this."Yes, Savage would say that, having founded a company whose business is providing the tools to easily make HTML5 games. The company raised a $500,000 seed round from incubator YouWeb in 2008 – the same company that spawned startups OpenFeint and CrowdStar – before taking another $1 million in August 2011 to continue developing and marketing Spaceport.He says it answers a strong need from the industry as companies look for HTML5 skills. "It's extremely hard to hire talented developers, and especially hard for brand new emerging technologies like HTML5," says Savage."Our technology is a great solution to that problem. We're trying to make it so that people who have skills building Flash games can apply that existing skillset to immediately building HTML5 games, taking their existing content with them. There's a high value in providing that transition path."Sibblingz certainly isn't the only company looking to do it: Adobe itself has been amping up its efforts to help Flash developers turn their games into native iOS titles, having seemingly accepted that Apple will not relent in its decision not to support Flash on its devices.Apple is actually one of the key reasons for the interest in HTML5 in a positive way: every new version of its iOS software includes significant performance improvements for browser-based games."Every time they increase the performance and support for the featureset of HTML5, it means better apps will be on the way," says Savage, while pointing to Spaceport's ability to also output games as native apps – ensuring developers aren't forced to choose native or mobile web. With some hardware features still restricted to the former, that's an understandable choice.Savage also has strong views on other current hot topics in the mobile games industry, including payments. It's fair to say he's a strong supporter of the freemium model."Paid apps cannot compete with free apps," he says. "You get 17 times as many downloads of a free app as of a 99-cent app, and by giving people the opportunity to pay what they want to pay as many times as they want, you get three times as much money out of those paying users. So you're getting 51 times as much money for having a free-to-play app as a 99-cent download."Savage also points to the fact that if Spaceport and other tools like it do their job, the ensuing wave of Facebook game developers going mobile are likely to stick with the free-to-play model that has been so lucrative on the social network. "They're the ones who completely understand that business model," he says.Here's an interesting topic though: even though this kind of technology makes it easier to develop freemium social games that run across multiple platforms, that doesn't mean to say that these should be the same game world: as in iPhone and Android users playing with/against Facebook users.In recent months, big social games companies like Zynga and EA's Playfish have opted to release standalone mobile games based on their big social titles (CityVille and Restaurant City respectively) rather than create mobile clients that tie into the Facebook games. Savage sees why."We have made games playable across both platforms and standalone games, and our experience is that the standalone game would be more successful on iOS than the companion product," he says."We're talking about different audiences that have different play patterns. Social games are very much about multi-tasking: you keep a tab open in your browser, tab over a couple of times and click back. That's not how you play mobile games: when you're stuck somewhere, you open it up and play very insistently for a longer period of time with much more focus, because these phones suck at multi-tasking."Savage adds that the economics of web social games and mobile social games are also different, and thus require "slightly tuned" dynamics for the different players. And he also thinks that the gameplay itself can't just be ported over."That's what some Facebook developers are struggling with: you can't directly port the exact same concepts. You have to understand the user experience, what the mobile device is good at, and what it sucks at. The biggest successes in mobile gaming will be the free-to-play virtual goods-based games that are really immersed in the mobile mindset."
I grew up in the era ofTomorrow's World, a time when I'd sit down in front of a 14-inch black and white portable TV in my room and watch a grainy picture about an impossibly distant the future. (Well, children, it was like Doctor Who, only less realistic.)From time to time, they'd talk about computers that were controlled via the awesome power of the human voice. And now, with Apple unleashingSirias part of the core of iOS (on iPhone 4S at least), how are those impossibly distant futures looking?Now this is how you do marketing...This morning, a few people tweeted a link to a YouTube video showing an Apple piece put out in the 80s for a thing called the "Knowledge Navigator". In places this video is spookily prescient. A university professor enters his office and opens up something like a cross between aMicrosoft Courierand an iPad. The device behaves like some quasi-self-aware personal assistant. In places, it's clearly mad, with the kind of Star Trek-style "Computer – analyse this data!" instructions, but in others it's weirdly spot on especially in areas of how we communicate and share information with others.If you compare theSiri videowith the Knowledge Navigator video, you're in for a bit of a shock because all of the "not mad Star Trek" bits in the 1987 video are writ large and implemented in Siri.Now, there are two options here. I've never seen that Knowledge Navigator video before, so perhaps Apple's engineers now have access to some sort of time-travel technology and have been able to go back in time and place said video in an alternative timestream of which we are now all part. Alternatively, Apple seeded links to the original Knowledge Navigator video over on Twitter the past couple of days over the past couple of days to get some viral interest going. Or I've been falling behind in my reading on impossibly distant futures. Whichever is true, that's some pretty clever marketing.Back to 1987So let's go back to 1987, when the Knowledge Navigator video was out and I was enjoying Tomorrow's World on a Thursday night. My problem with voice-controlled computers was that I could type, and so could all of my friends. My dad couldn't, and most people of his generation struggled with a computer, but I was fairly sure that by the time my generation got out of the school system and into work, we'd all be able to type. If we could all type, why would we sit in an office all day talking to our computers when we could type our way to work-related nirvana? I reasoned, in the way only a teenager could, that by the time my dad's generation passed into retirement, voice-controlled computing would be moot.(In fact, there was a dimension to this I didn't appreciate. I used to be regarded as quite a decent typist – but nowadays pretty much any 19-year-old can take me to typing school no problem.)Voice recognitionMy current phone is an iPhone 3GS, one that I've had for nearly two years. Before that I had a BlackBerry. Whenever I was in the car, the BlackBerry's voice dialling feature was simplyfab. From the 2,000-odd contacts on my phone, it would get it right nearly every time. On my 3GS, Ineveruse it. It takes 30 seconds to work through the contacts on my phone and never comes back with the right person. But, as we say in software engineering circles, perhaps the problem exists between virtual keyboard and chair.And, it would appear that my premonition about voice-controlled computing not being a big deal in business was right. I've yet to see anyone giving voice-recognition-powered dictation on a personal computer when in the office. (However, that's not to say all speech technologies should be written off; I've worked with at least one individual with dyslexia who uses a text-to-speech engine to read back to him reports as it helps with proofreading – and the Apple video linked above had a strong message for those with sight problems. But mainstream, it is not.)As we all know with Apple, though, the genius tends to lie in looking at things from a slightly different angle. Siri isn't about using speech technologies for dictation, just as an iPad is not about "doing work" and the iPhone is not about "making calls". Siri is about using a phone when you may not be able to hold it, or when you're doing something else. This to me is what's driving the current wave of mobile devices. No longer do you take a computer somewhere and use it; youuse it whilst you're moving. Siri represents a very natural and organic continuation of this idea. As the Apple Siri video shows, it's easier to talk to your iPhone to get it to set a timer while you're baking cakes than it is to physically go and touch the thing. (Also, 30 minutes for those cupcakes? Way too long. #burntcakes.)That said, the areas in the video where the user invokes Siri when they could instead touch the phone – those I think are wrong. It'salwaysgoing to be easier to touch a weather app than to talk to the thing, mainly because when you touch it you're going to get it right more often than not, and the turnaround time is measured in milliseconds. The win for Siri comes when the tradeoff on accuracy and latency is less than context switching to find and interact with the device – for example when you're baking a cake or out jogging. For that reason, I question whether Siri will ever make sense on OS X.Importantly, Siri does show a massive shift in confidence at Apple: it's starting to get back into more bleeding-edge stuff. We all remember the Newton and what a disaster it's handwriting recognition was. Conversely, the Graffiti input method on the Palm Pilot/Palm devices was hugely workably because of the simplification. With the iPad, Apple effectively cheated by dodging the whole handwriting issue and as it turns out no one really cared because that's not what an iPad was. But I wonder now with Apple riding high whether Siri means that they're now looking to take that sort of risk again. Apple is safe computing science done well – there's little magical innovation done in Cupertino so really we could do with them shaking it up a little more.The competitionI'm a huge Microsoft fan, but even I have to cringe at the clunkiness of this young gentleman taking us through thevoice recognition features of Windows 7. It's everything that Apple is tryingnotto do with Siri.For a PC, we know that doesn't work and that all that's happened with the Windows 7 voice features is that they've been "kitchen sink"-ed into the product on the off-chance that someone might fancy giving them a go. No one is going to talk to Word to control it, because the more natural way to use it is keyboard and mouse. The mouse might be replaced with the finger (something I'm increasingly starting to believe in), but the keyboard's not going away in that space. (Yes, yes, Kinect SDK Windows hacks blah blah blah. We'll come to Kinect's voice recognition a bit later. Be patient.)Right about now, vast swathes of Android platform developers and Windows developers are gathering in whatever equates to pubs (latte shops - Ed.) in Mountain View and Redmond and having a very, very careful think about how to counter Siri. The problem may not be easy to solve.Siri was not developed in-house by Apple, but was bought. Its heritage is really impressive. Siri was a spin-off project from a DARPA-funded project calledCALO, a five-year initiative involving 300 researchers to repurpose AI technologies to create a "cognitive assistant" – which is a pretty good way to describe Siri.So in the red corner, we have a DARPA-funded set of geniuses at the top of their field who may have already built what may be a breakthrough piece of software for iOS, an OS which pretty much is "the shizzle" so far our current wave of mobile tech goes.So unless DARPA funded a sibling programme to CALO that happens to have spawned a similar startup to Siri, it's unclear what the blue corner can offer. If Siri turns out to be a big deal, Microsoft and Google are going to have to play one hell of a game of catch-up.That's not to play down some very decent work thatMicrosoft has done in this area, but Microsoft's efforts are missing thewoahh!factor that Siri promises.Remember, Siri is not about pattern matching what you say to a database of preset queries. (That's roughly what Google's Voice Search does. It's clever, but it's limited.) Rather, Siri is about a cognitive understanding of what's being asked (hence "cognitive assistant" in the CALO work). This isn't about natural language; it's about applying intelligence. The whole point of it, as is the whole point of anything that Apple does well, is that you don't notice it's there. It will just work in a Stanley Kubrick/Arthur C Clarke kind of way, not aHoward Stableford, 80s kind of way.Developers, developers, …developers?Siri will be limited to the built-in Apple apps only for the time being, which is a shame because software engineers are a creative lot and this could be a great tool to sink our collective teeth into.With Apple, it's difficult to reliably guesstimate what's driving the internal developers' thinking, and it would be entirely within character for it to be kept as a special thing that they alone have for a while until they understand it better. Plus, if this thing turns out to be a complete turkey it's far easier to silently assassinate features from your own product than from a third party's.However, I wonder whether this might speak volumes as to the complexity of the Siri system and the likelihood of ever being able to reliable integrate it in with a partially controlled third-party ecosystem. One problem that occurs is how would you publish the intentions of those apps – how could you tell Siri that "you take notes" or that you "retouch photos", and so on? How could it play nicely with apps that share the intentions? For example, if you get the intentions mixed up on "set a reminder for 30 minutes", and the reminder gets routed to something that emails you, rather than sounding an alert on the device, then your cakes might get (even more entirely) burnt.Plus those apps will be right in there with the Apple ones, so any third-party screwing-up is going to make Apple look bad, as the user won't understand who screwed up – only that the phone screwed up. I've heard that Apple's not keen on third parties making it look bad.KinectApple isn't the only company looking at changing the way we connect with computers. Around a year ago,Microsoft launched Kinect, a peripheral for the Xbox that allowed for computer games to be controlled by movement. This was an extension of the idea of the (at the time) wildly popular Wii system, which moved gaming away from pressing buttons and into movement, which is a more natural way of interacting. The iPhone became a hit because of a similar shift – if you want to control a device, just touch it. No need to use a keyboard, or a stylus that gets in the way. In the same way, with Kinect you don't need a game controller to get in the way.Although Kinect is primarily about gaming, the uses outside of gaming show serious scope. One particularly attractive example is using Kinect in operating system environments where surgeons canmanipulate MRI and other digital scans without having to touch a device. Microsoft has also opened up theKinect SDK, although oddly at the moment you cannot use this SDK to build commercial products. (My theory on this is that Microsoft do not want people releasing Kinect tools for Office before they get a chance to, and hence restrict the license.)Whilst Kinect is primarily about detecting movement, it does have voice recognition too. At the moment, this is still on the "non-magical/non-cognitive" side – "play DVD", and so on. But you can see that Siri and Kinect could be on a collision course if Microsoft does manage to up its game on the cognitive side; and actually, it makes sense. Imagine a Kinect sensor in every room in your house with Siri's cognitive stuff, where you either wave your arm to snooze an alarm in your bedroom or you just talk to it. You start to look really, decently futuristic and sensible."Broadband is not working"And now we return to the real, right-now, present, to Yesterday's Tomorrow's World. Over the past couple of weeks I've had reason to call BT Broadband support a few times. The first thing you get is a lady – actually, a voice-synthesized answering system – asking you to state the nature of the problem. As a software engineer, it's obviously my duty to try and mess with these things (OK, to experiment and evaluate), but I've never been able to fox it. Whatever I say, it always gets it right – well, apart from one time, which happened to be the moment Apple had finished launching Siri and my wife's broadband had failed. That time, for some reason, it failed utterly and disastrously and often. Voice recognition? It's already pretty good. But then you get put onto a real human – and you realise that we haven't quite got the next bit done. That's what we're waiting for from Siri.Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
Top 20 UK video games, week ending 7 October 2011PositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (1)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (45)22 (–)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (32)13 (–)Dark Souls(16+)PS3 (58)Xbox 360 (42)14 (2)Gears Of War 3(18+)Xbox 360 (100)35 (3)F1 2011(3+)PS3 (49)Xbox 360 (48)PC (3)36 (4)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (88)Xbox 360 (10)PS3 (2)287 (5)Dead Island(18+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (31)PC (2)58 (6)Deus Ex: Human Revolution(15+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (40)PC (6)79 (9)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (29)DS (27)Xbox 360 (22)PS3 (14)2210 (13)Resistance 3(18+)PS3 (100)511 (8)Driver: San Francisco(12+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (44)612 (–)Nba 2k12 (3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (44)PC (5)Wii (1)113 (11)Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine (15+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (36)PC (8)514 (12)Rugby World Cup 2011(3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)715 (10)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (43)PC (5)Wii (4)4516 (14)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (35)PC (7)3817 (7)Ico & Shadow Of The Colossus Collection(12+)PS3 (100)218 (15)Cars 2(3+)DS (46)Wii (34)Xbox 360 (11)PS3 (10)1219 (19)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Wii (34)DS (32)Xbox 360 (17)PS3 (14)3220 (17)The Sims 3(12+)PC (41)DS (17)Xbox 360 (15)Wii (12)46UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft's Windows Phone boss says dual-core, LTE models coming &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"As for why none of the Windows Phone models have either dual-core processors or support for faster LTE networks, Lees said that both are coming. On the dual-core front, he said that the current crop of Windows Phones should hold up well even against dual-core Android models."'They're all single core, but I suspect that they will be faster in usage than any dual-core phone that you put against it, and that's the point,' Lees told AllThingsD in an interview last week. But, he insisted, Microsoft isn't opposed to dual-core chips, but wanted to wait until the software was more ready to take advantage of multiple cores."Microsoft is getting smarter and smarter, and not feeling the need to get partners to compete immediately on hardware specifications is just part of that.'They're no longer with the company' &gt;&gt; John's Blog"I remember the first all company e-mail that Steve sent around after becoming Interim CEO again — he talked in it about how Apple would release a few things in the coming week, and a desire to tighten up communications so that employees would know more about what was going on — and how that required more respect for confidentiality. That mail was sent on a Thursday; I remember all of us getting to work on Monday morning and reading mail from Fred Anderson, our then-CFO, who said basically: 'Steve sent mail last week, he told you not to leak, we were tracking everyone's mail, and 4 people sent the details to outsiders. They've all been terminated and are no longer with the company.'"Tim Cook: my first-person impression of Apple's new CEO &gt;&gt; TUAWA former sales exec: "I asked Cook what he thought about the direction of a certain software company whose products were closely tied to the Mac; about their lack of support for certain applications Mac users were clamoring to have."Cook's answer was detailed and thorough, and everything he said about the company in question, every prediction and outlook, ended up coming true in the two years that followed. But the fact that he was dead right about the future of that company wasn't why I remember his answer to my question so well. It was because he took his own sweet time answering it."Tim Cook is one of those rare people who stop and think before speaking. Standing in the same room with him I realized that he's comfortable with silence as long as that silence is productive and appropriate. He's not like other tech execs who ramble almost immediately and incoherently at any question lobbed at them, as if doing so will convince others they know everything about everything."The Art Of Google+ Comments &gt;&gt; Guy Kawasaki"For awhile, Google+ was a beautiful swimming pool filled with enchanting people making substantial, supportive and serene comments. Then hell broke loose On Sept. 21, 2011 when Google+ opened for anyone to join. Overnight, posts were inundated with clueless, crass or callous comments—is it possible to be nostalgic about the good old days when those days were only a few weeks ago?"Useful advice for those who use it on how to avoid the useless comments "floating in the pool".What I learned from Steve Jobs &gt;&gt; Guy KawasakiGreat list, especially the first item.Remembering Steve Jobs &gt;&gt; The New Adventures of Stephen Fry"After having written www, Berners-Lee noticed that there was a NeXt developers conference in Paris at which Steve Jobs would be present. Tim packed up his black cube, complete with the optical disk which contained arguably the most influential and important code ever written, and took a train to Paris."It was a large and popular conference and Tim was pretty much at the end of the line of black NeXt boxes. Each developer showed Steve Jobs their new word-processor, graphic programme and utility and he slowly walked along the line, like the judge at a flower show nodding his approval or frowning his distaste. Just before he reached Tim and the world wide web at the end of the row, an aide nudged Jobs and told him that they should go or he'd be in danger of missing his flight back to America."But would Jobs delay, or go?Yahoo management tells employees company is for sale. Or isn't. &gt;&gt; AllThingsDFrom late September, but consider this for the sort of corporate nonsense that has got Yahoo into the hole it's in, from co-founders Jerry Yang and David Filo, and chairman Roy Bostock: "In our recent all hands meeting, we talked about the Board's strategic review to help return the Company to a path of robust growth and industry-leading innovation. While our teams are working to evaluate the many opportunities by which Yahoo! can continue building on our success, all kinds of people have been — and will continue — speculating in the media about where that work is headed, so we thought it best to provide you with some additional context directly from those of us who are closest to it. We don't have specific news to share with you today, but we are committed to communicating with you directly from time to time — especially given the level of external swirl — so that you know where we are in the process. "External swirl? That they even use such a phrase shows how addled Yahoo now is.The women who made Google+: 22 developers behind the world's fastest growing social network &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebFrom Friday: "Today is Ada Lovelace Day, a day dedicated to celebrating the world's first computer programmer and to share inspiring stories about women working in science, technology and math. Surely some of the most significant technical work done by women since this day last year includes the creation of what is said to be the fastest-growing social network in history, Google Plus."Apple iPhone 4S: Five reasons It could be my first-ever iOS device &gt;&gt; GroovypostCurrently an Android user, Erick Mack - who didn't bother with the iPod either - is intrigued by the iPhone 4S. His reasons for not breaking his carrier contract any earlier are a reminder of what is often overlooked in the chatter around new phones.Steve Jobs: A Few Memories &gt;&gt; Stephen Wolfram's blogStephen Wolfram goes back decades with Steve Jobs. One day, he talked to him about the name for his new mathematics program. "I gave him lists of names I'd considered, and pressed him for his suggestions. For a while he wouldn't suggest anything. But then one day he said to me: 'You should call it Mathematica'."I'd actually considered that name, but rejected it. I asked Steve why he thought it was good, and he told me his theory for a name was to start from the generic term for something, then romanticize it. His favorite example at the time was Sony's Trinitron. Well, it went back and forth for a while. But in the end I agreed that, yes, Mathematica was a good name. And so it has been now for nearly 24 years."A fantastic array of memories, as you'd expect from Wolfram.3.5 Inches &gt;&gt; Dustin Curtis"I've been wondering why Apple chose to make the iPhone 4′s screen 3.5-inches when other comparable phones with Android and Windows Phone 7 have larger, more inviting screens. When you first see a phone with a 4-inch or larger screen, it seems like a much better experience. I thought it was a technical decision, and it could be, but since switching to an Android phone — a Samsung Galaxy S II, the "best Android phone you can buy, anywhere" — 15 days ago, I have realised another huge downside of larger screens."Remembering SJ &gt;&gt; Apple Outsider"And so more than ever, I find myself inspired. Steve's untimely death reminds uswe can never give up. He could have given up at any point in the seven years since his first cancer diagnosis, but he did not. The vast majority of Apple's unprecedented resurgence took place while Steve Jobs stared death in the face."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
For a brief period last year, it looked likeTigahad won. The trade body representing UK games developers had been campaigning for tax incentives similar to those operated in Canada, the US and France where studios receive  tax subsidies and often aid toward employment costs. The initiatives had seen development flourish, especially in Quebec, with Montreal hosting the likes of THQ, Ubisoft, EA and Eidos.Meanwhile, the UK was slipping down the global games development league, its publishing sector decimated and many of its brighest minds heading abroad for higher salaries and more glamorous projects.In March 2010, however, Alistair DarlingannouncedLabour's intention to provide the UK development sector with tax incentives. For a few months, it looked as though the Tiga campaign had been successful. But then came the general election, and although both the Conservative and Liberal parties had given lip service to the idea of tax support for the games industry, that alldissolvedin George Osborne'semergency budget, where he referred to the cause as 'poorly targeted'.In the aftermath of the budget disappointment, some developers and industry pundits wondered whether it was worth pursuing the fight for tax credits. Games analyst Nicholas Lovell has continuallyargued against tax breaks, claiming that they distort the market, create artificial value, and move too slowly for the fast-paced games industry, encouraging creative stultification.But Dr Richard Wilson, the CEO of Tiga, is continuing his campaign, backed by many high-profile UK games developers. He argues vociferously that tax incentives are what's needed to attract foreign investment into UK games and to grow an industry that already pumps a billion a year into the economy.Recently, we spoke to him about the tax credit cause, and about how the battle has moved on since Osborne's cutting indictment.Can you get us up to date with Tiga's campaign to bring tax credits to the UK games industry? What has happened over the last few months?TIGA is the only trade association in the UK to have consistently argued for Games Tax Relief, and it has continued to advance the case for a sector specific tax break for games production throughout 2011. We published a report, Investing in the Future, Second Edition, earlier this year, which updated the evidence in support of a tax break for games production.Our research showed that, over five years, Games Tax Relief would create or safeguard over 9,500 direct and indirect jobs, including over 3,350 jobs in the games industry). It would also lead to £431 million investment in development expenditure and £394 million in tax receipts to HM Treasury, at a cost of £194 million in tax relief to HM Treasury. In other words, Games Tax Relief more than pays for itself.Throughout the year we have emphasised the case for Games Tax Relief in meetings with MPs and officials. We have some important supporters. The Scottish Government and the Labour Party support a tax break for games production. Some Conservative and Liberal Democrats are sympathetic to the proposal. We are now updating and revising our case for a well-targeted tax break for games production, which we will publish in the near future.Have the current economic situation, and the 'austerity measures' being implemented by the coalition, had a detrimental effect on your campaign?The poor economic situation has given some politicians an excuse to sit on their hands, dither and take no action. Yet in fact, with the UK economy barely growing for almost a year, now is the time for the Coalition Government to look again at a carefully targeted tax incentive to enable the UK's highly skilled, high technology, video games sector to give a powerful contribution to economic growth.Recently, you sent out a press release about thee-skills report on the IT and games industries. What did that report find, and how does it relate to Tiga?This independent research confirms the thrust of Tiga's argument. Namely, that tax breaks and other forms of public financial support influence studio location and expansion plans and have a positive bearing on studio profitability and competitiveness.The Report provides empirical evidence that government financial support for game development in countries such as France and Canada is significant, widespread and impactful. At the strategic level, public financial support – including tax credits/tax relief – often influences overseas studios' location and expansion plans. At an operational level, public support enables studios to increase profitability, increase their productivity/competitiveness, increase their output of games, increase the quality and attractiveness of their games and/or increase their market share.Additionally the provision of tax relief has a direct bearing on recruitment and employment. The majority of overseas studios receiving public support were of the view that it had enabled them to attract/retain better quality staff, and/or increase domestic employment.The Report states that studios in receipt of public support in Canada are receiving support equivalent to 23 per cent of their turnover. Little wonder that some global publishers have increased investment in Canada at the expense of the UK.But what sort of evidence is there of UK companies continuing to be effected by the tax incentives offered elsewhere?Between 2008 and 2010 the UK video games industry's workforce declined by nine per cent. At the same time, annual investment in the UK video games sector has fallen from £458 million to £417 million. Overseas publishers have reduced investment in the UK and refocused their operations overseas. For example, earlier this year THQ confirmed that Digital Warrington will be closed down, but at the same time it has expanded its new Montreal office in Canada.Tax credits have a significant impact on the fortunes of the sector. The Canadian games industry's workforce grew by 33 per cent between 2008 and 2010, fuelled by tax credits. The UK games industry would have enjoyed more investment and created more jobs with tax credits for games production.So have you amended your tax incentives proposals to the government recently? George Osborne stated that the proposed measures were "poorly targeted". How have you addressed that?The number one priority for game developers/developer-publishers is finance. Tiga has therefore advanced three key proposals to policy makers. Firstly, we continue to campaign for a well-targeted tax break for games production to enable the UK games industry to compete on a level playing field with countries such as Canada, France and the USA, which all have tax breaks at either a national or state level. We are currently revising this proposal and will publish it in the near future.Secondly, we are calling for the existing R&amp;D Tax Credits to be made more effective and generous. The scope of R&amp;D tax credits should now be expanded to include other associated costs incurred in the development of a new game: premises costs, the costs of applying for IP protection and design costs.Thirdly, Tiga has proposed the establishment of a Creative Content Fund (CCF). This would make investment available in the form of matched funding (i.e. pound for pound) repayable contribution in approved game production projects. The CCF would recoup the money from recipients out of successful sales of those games once they had generated a certain amount of revenue and over an agreed time period, together with a defined share of the additional profits. It would invest in projects that have the potential for success, not prop up businesses that are in difficulties.So TIGA has a clear set of fiscal policies designed to enable UK game developers and developer publishers achieve their potential.How do your tax credit proposals compare with those being offered to the movie industry?Tiga's proposed Games Tax Relief is cheaper to the Treasury than the Film Tax Credit. Tiga's Games Tax Relief would cost the Treasury £194 million over five years - but generate £394 million in tax receipts and so pay for itself. Conversely, the Government provides £100 million Film Tax Credit and millions of pounds in lottery funding to the film industry every year!The Government is right to back the film industry, but it should also back the video games industry – with money and not just words. If a tax credit makes sense for the film industry, then it also makes sense for the video games development sector.Some argue that, in a difficult economic period, the games industry shouldn't be singled out for preferential tax treatment, and that talented studios with good ideas will find a way to recruit and make money in the industry – I suppose through VC funding. What's your response to this?With the economy in the doldrums, now is precisely the right time to introduce Games Tax Relief, improve the existing R&amp;D Tax Credits and introduce TIGA's Creative Content Fund. The UK economy has barely grown over the last year.  Weak economic growth has left the public sector deficit stubbornly high. With consumer spending suppressed by higher inflation, we urgently need economic growth to come from business investment and exports. New economic growth cannot come alone from manufacturing. We need to encourage new sources of economic growth. The creative industries, including the video games sector, could contribute to the economic recovery, provided that the Government introduces favourable fiscal policies.VC funding has a role to play in financing some game development, but it is very difficult to access such funding. VC funding by itself will not solve the wider access to finance problems facing the sector.Another concern at the moment – highlighted by last year'sNESTA report on the games industryand thee-skills report– is the skill shortage that seems to be affecting the UK industry. Is this the case? Is Britain not producing enough skilled games industry staff?The UK games development sector has an excellent workforce. We have some superbly talented and creative people currently working in our sector. However, we do also have some skill shortages: two fifths of developers experienced skill shortages over the last year. For example, some developers have difficulty accessing skilled programmers, designers and managers.The comparative shortage of programmers is partly because the domestic supply of high quality graduates in disciplines such as computer science is limited. The proportion of computer science graduates has fallen by a quarter in recent years. These skill shortages are amplified by a brain drain of talented staff to overseas jurisdictions, particularly Canada, facilitated in part by their tax credits.To ease skill shortages, the Government could pilot a scheme whereby tuition fees for students studying mathematics and computer science degrees are competitively priced in comparison to other degrees to incentivise the study of these subjects. The Government should also refrain from adopting an overly restrictive migration policy so that if necessary game developers can hire some skilled people from overseas. Developers and education providers also need to work closely together to continue to improve the quality of education and training. Tiga is working to make this happen.How do you think we can tempt more students into games development?Game development is already popular amongst students. 56 universities provide 141 video games specialist courses throughout the UK (generating 1,585 graduates in 2008-09), while private providers such as Train2Game and Escape studios offer additional industry relevant training.We need to work with all education providers to continue to enhance the quality of teaching and training. We need to encourage more students from disciplines such as computer science, mathematics and physics to consider a career in the sector. And we need Government to ensure that higher education is adequately funded. The UK currently spends 1.2 per cent of GDP on higher education, compared to 2.5 per cent in Canada, 2.6 per cent in South Korea and 2.7 per cent in the USA. Higher education sustains creative industries. The UK cannot be a knowledge economy on the cheap.Is there a concern that too many studios are turning to smartphone development? It seems every time a major studio shuts, several iPhone/Android studios crop up in its place - isn't this becoming a saturated market?It is a highly competitive market. Tiga's own research shows that 47 per cent of developers are self-publishing their own games, and of these, 67 per cent publish at least some content on the iPhone.There is ferocious competition on the App Store with over 500,000 apps, so it is very difficult to stand out. Tiga is working to help its members self-publish their games successfully through the provision of best practice information and advice.Britain has slipped down the chart of major game-producing countries. I know that the lack of tax credits hasn't helped, but I can't believe that's the only reason - whathashappened to the culture of game development in this country? Why aren't there more Rockstar Norths, Rares and Criterions? Is it that Britain has always specialised in smallscale development? Can we not compete with 200-man teams in other areas of the world?We have a wide range of highly creative and successful medium sized and larger studios throughout the UK, including Blitz, Climax, Codemasters, Crytek, Eutechnyx, Frontier, Jagex, Lionhead, Ninja Theory, Rare, Rebellion, Relentless, Sumo, Ubisoft Reflections and the Kuju, Rock Star and Sony studios.But the fact remains that developing AAA titles is expensive and potentially risky. Tiga's research does indicate that overseas publishers have cut back on investment in the UK and this has been driven to an important extent by the existence of tax breaks elsewhere in the world and the lack of tax breaks in the UK.  While Canadian studios are receiving public assistance to the tune of 23 per cent of their turnover, UK studios will be at a cost disadvantage.What's your hope for game development in the UK through 2011 and into 2012? Where do you want us to be in a year?From a political and governmental perspective, I hope that we will see the introduction of a carefully targeted tax break for games production, improved R&amp;D tax credits and the establishment of a Creative Content Fund to help support the new wave of game developer/developer publishers to achieve their potential. I also hope that we will see measures to further improve our education system.From an industry perspective, I hope that we will see more UK game development studios setting up, growing their businesses and self-publishing their own games. Tiga will be focused on helping these businesses achieve success.
A collection of 9 apps for you today:Paper Glider Crazy Copter 3DUK publisher Neon Play is on a rich run of app releases at the moment, with this 3D follow-up to the original Paper Glider Crazy Copter, which notched up more than two million downloads on the App Store. The gameplay puts a new perspective on whirring through levels dodging missiles and obstacles, with upgrades to help along the way.iPhone / iPadBumsterNot rude, despite the name. Bumster is all about keeping tabs on friends who owe you money (or vice versa): a running balance of personal debts using the Facebook Connect API. "Did you borrow $10 this week for dinner? No problem. Next week, maybe your friend will borrow $10 for a movie. Enter it into the system, and your total is now $0..."iPhone / AndroidRockford's Rock Opera Part 4Ecological musical Rockford's Rock Opera was one of the first apps covered on this Apps Blog back in February 2011. It's now into its fourth part, based on the popular audio book series of the same name.iPhoneMinecraft Pocket EditionWe've written about the Android version of cult creative game Minecraft before, but it was only available for one handset: Sony Ericsson's Xperia Play. Now it's got a wider release, working on a range of Android smartphones running the 2.1 software or later.AndroidCorona Indie BundleFive independent mobile game developers have teamed up to bundle five of their games together for £0.69. They include The Secret of Grisly Manor, Chickens Quest, Robot 99, Walkabout and Float. 17% of the proceeds will go to charities, and there's an Android version coming later this week.iPhone / iPadMob WarsSocial game Mob Wars apparently attracted more than 12 million players on Facebook at its peak, although it's down to less than 150,000 at the time of writing. Perhaps its new iPhone version will reinvigorate it. Developed by Metamoki, it's an old-school mafia social game that can be played against other iPhone or Facebook users.iPhoneGarfield's BooClips - Garfield's Pet ForceGarfield's BooClips is an interesting idea: an iPad book-app that includes animation, music and video from the film Garfield's Pet Force. Developer Castle Builders claims that it's "the only book platform that combines videos inside an interactive book", although we're not so sure about that: more adult-focused books from the likes of David Starkey have beendoing that for a while.iPadSiine Writer PioneerCompanies like Swype have made a splash by trying to reinvent the smartphone keyboard. The latest app looking to tweak the way we type is Siine Writer, which claims to be "the friendly keyboard". That means icons that act as typing shortcuts, which you can customise with the words and phrases that you use most often. For example, it promises that it will take just eight clicks to send "Hi my darling, I'll be there as soon as I can, Big kiss, Josh. (Do you need me to bring anything?)"AndroidScissrHats off to Scissr for creative naming: it's a "lesbian hookup" network taking its cue from the man-focused Grindr. That means location-based dating for gay women, currently in beta.Android
The hacker who styles himself "Sabu", erstwhile leader of the LulzSec hacking crew, claims to have a cache of emails copied from the Sun which are being stored on a Chinese server, along with data from a number of other hacks.But he claimed this weekend that they will not be released yet: "there are a lot of interesting dumps we're sitting on due to timing," he wrote on his Twitter feed. He claims that hackers have broken into banks including HSBC and "a few others" but that they have found "no smoking guns yet" in the data there.Sabu – who says his online handle is a tribute to theAmerican professional wrestler– says that after the arrests in the UK and US of a number of people alleged to have been involved with the crew, he is effectively on the run. But his writing also suggests he is staying put where he lives."I'm past the point of no return. Not trying to sound like a bad ass, however, it's the truth," he wrote. Later he added: "The ironic twist will be that my own friends will take me down, and not these idiots who hide behind the patriot veil." He also says that "technically, I'm on the run, so there you go."LulzSec was an offshoot of the Anonymous hacking collective which during a hacking spree in May and July 2011 broke into a number of sites, including Sony Pictures Europe, Fox.com, PBS and finally the News International site.At the latter it altered the Sun's web page so that it redirected viewers first to a faked story about Rupert Murdoch's death, and then to their Twitter feed. The group also attacked the US Congress's web site, an FBI affiliate and brought down the web site for the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency by using a "distributed denial of service" attack.Sabu effectively acted as the leader of the group, maintaining discipline over what they did, asleaked chatroom logs published in June by the Guardian show.At that time he told members of the crew not to give interviews – but says his willingness to do so now is because "that was during the height of LulzSec. We all agreed to do no interviews till the end if there was ever one."LulzSec's achievements, he says, were that it "exposed the sad state of security across the media, social, government online environments".After the Sun hack, Sabu claimed on his Twitter feed that he was looking at 4GB of emails from the company. The claim was never confirmed, althoughremote access to News International's systems had been compromised.Sabu's revelations came in a long and sometimes detailed"Ask Me Anything" (AMA) thread on Reddit. Sabu responds to a number of questions and appears to reveal a number of details about himself, such as that he is married, studied social sciences and English, that his technical hacking skills are self-taught, and that he teaches "sometimes". He claims to speak three languages – English, Spanish and German – fluently, and to have "decent" Portuguese and Italian. He says he turned towards computer hacking in 2000, when the US government "ignored the peoples' please to stop bombingVieques" – a part of Puerto Rico used by the US navy as a bombing range until 2003. He says he likes working on cars, playing music and spending time with his family: "I'm loving life a lot this year. I barely have time for ops [hacker operations] like I used to."That confirms other details that have been collected by rival hackers about Sabu which suggest that he is of Puerto Rican extraction, aged about 30 and based in New York.He insists that he had no knowledge of the identities of any of the other members of LulzSec. "I simply don't know anyone's identity at Anonymous." He says that when one alleged member was arrested in the Shetland Islands, north of Scotland, he had to go and look up its location: "I was a bit impressed, even." He vehemently denies the suggestions by some that he "snitched" on other LulzSec members to the authorities.The breakup of LulzSec meant he has "lost too many friends. [I] will probably never talk to them ever again." But he thinks that it "has already achieved what it set out to achieve".He suggests that one of the LulzSec members, called Avunit, who quit the group when it took aim at the FBI, "is relaxing somewhere on a boat".Asked whether he is "safe", he replies: "no one can prove it's me anyway. The beauty of Anonymous." The closest that the authorities have come to him is when in September theyarrested a hacker alleged to have gone by the online handle "Recursion", who was tracked down via logs held by the British company HideMyAss, which unwittingly provided a virtual private network (VPN) connection for the attack on Sony Pictures Europe.That arrest was "probably the closest they ever got", Sabu says. He also makes a veiled threat against HideMyAss: he alleges it "turns out to be owned by some … people who are going around buying smaller VPN providers ... We should have a nice exposé for HMA and its mother computer/investors soon. Point is: research your VPN provider thoroughly."He says he takes a number of precautions to evade law enforcement, using prepaid phones and BlackBerrys for calls and Twitter: "they're expendable. I don't ignore you, I simply don't know you." He trusts Twitter – to some extent: "believe it or not, Twitter has not been sleeping in bed with LEAs [law enforcement agencies]. In fact it's a process [for LEAs] to get account info."He rails at the sentencing guidelines in place for computer activity: "The penalties for any cybercrime (with the exception of child pornography) is severely archaic. And enforced by non-computer users. A DDOS (distributed denial of service) should not [attract a sentence of] 10 years at all especially when rapists and murderers do LESS than time." (The Guardian's James Ballmade a similar point earlier this year.)He thinks a hacking attack against Facebook "is pointless unless some very courages [sic] individual go and burn down its datacenter containing DBs [databases]". But he calls Facebook "a serious global cancer … they have half a billion people's psychology and family down in a database".LulzSec does not  have a Google Plus account, he says: "We do NOT have a g+ account. So whoever is running it is more than likely posing and has no affiliation to us." (Other Reddit users said that files distributed from that account contain malware.) Google Plus was launched well after LulzSec apparently broke up.His advice to would-be emulators: "Stick to yourselves. If you are in a crew – keep your opsec up 24/7. Friends will try to take you down if they have to."Anonymous, he says, is "no leaders, no hierarchy, no cointelpro [counter-intelligence program] drama. And we are a living, moving mass of like-minded individuals." He says it is "pure democracy", though that can be anarchic. But he thinks it will spawn "many organisations and political parties". But he says that "you don't need to be 'anonymous' or need to hack to be Anonymous. It's an idea, not a job."He says he hopes to give a talk at the next HOPE (Hackers on Planet Earth) conference in New York,expected to run in July 2012.
It's Monday. Coffee and video game talk will help.
Tuesday would be – so the hype machine assured us – iPhone 5 day. But Tuesday came and went and it turned out to be only iPhone 4S day, and the assembled chorus drawn from the Apple-obsessed region of the blogosphere and the "analysts" of Wall Street howled their frustration. Which made one wonder what these people expected – an iPhone 5 that did teleportation? It also made one wonder  if anyone on Wall Street has ever heard of thesigmoid function, the universal s-shaped learning curve that shows a progression from small beginnings and accelerates rapidly before creeping slowly towards its maximum point.The point is that the iPhone has been through the acceleration phase and is now at the point where it can only get incrementally better. What CEO Tim Cook and his colleagues announced on Tuesday represented an implicit acknowledgment of that reality: they announced an incrementally improved product. But within that constraint they unveiled two significant developments that went under-reported by Apple-watchers – whose attention was soon diverted to the sad passing of Steve Jobs.The first of these is the Siri natural language software that Apple is billing as an "intelligent personal assistant" to which one can issue instructions with a reasonable hope of getting an intelligent response. It uses natural language processing to answer questions, make recommendations and perform actions by delegating requests to other iPhone applications (calendar, email, text messaging, etc).Sirihas an interesting pedigree. It stems from a lavish research project funded by Darpa, the Pentagon agency that funds advanced research. It was eventually passed to the Stanford Research Institute, which in 2007 spun out a company (called Siri) that was acquired by Apple in 2010. The implication is that this isn't software created by a few geeks in a garage, but something that has had oodles of talent poured into it. Of course, as with all of this stuff, we'll have to see if it works as well in real life as it did in Tuesday's onstage demonstrations. But if it does, then other smartphone operators will find that the competitive bar has been raised by an unpalatable number of&nbsp;notches.The launch of Siri on the phone also serves to highlight what was really significant about the device in the first place – namely that it was a powerful handheld computer that just happened also to make voice calls. The great paradigm-shifting insight that Steve Jobs and his team had was that voice was secondary to computing power. They reasoned that once they got that tiny platform into millions of consumers' hands, then all kinds of interesting things would be possible. Apps, for a start. And now formidable software,  such as Siri, which needs computational horsepower in order to do its stuff.The second "incremental" change in the iPhone 4S is the inclusion of an eight-megapixel camera with improved optics. Given that the iPhone 4 camera is already pretty good, you might have thought that this would be of interest only to photography nerds. Think again. There's an old saying that the best camera is the one you have with you, and everyone carries a phone, whereas most people don't carry a camera. If the phone also happens to have a good camera, then you can predict what will happen: the most popular camera among Flickr users is not anything made by Canon or Nikon, but the iPhone 4. The 4S model will just accelerate that trend.Interestingly, the iPhone camera also highlights the importance of having substantial processing power. One of the most dramatic categories of photo app available for the device consists of programs that can provide high dynamic range (HDR) images. These are images of scenes where the contrast between shadows and highlights is too great for the camera sensor to handle: if the sunlit parts of the picture are properly exposed, then the rest of the image will be in shadow; and vice versa. HDR photography involves taking several pictures with different exposure times and then blending them into a composite image. Apps such asPro HDRmake the creation of these images such a breeze that one wonders why so few consumer cameras have this capability built in. The answer is that most digital cameras have puny processors, whereas the iPhone possesses the requisite horsepower.Some observers of Tuesday's event remarked on how low-key and understated it was, compared to the usual Apple razzmatazz. With hindsight, the explanation is obvious. Tim Cook and co knew that the man who made all of this possible was slipping away. They remembered – as we do – his famous description of death as "life's change agent". That may be true, but it doesn't mean we can't mourn the loss of a truly extraordinary man.
Nearly 20 years after it popularised the genre withDoom, developer id Software returns with another first-person shooter. This time, a clumsy asteroid, rather than a teleportation device linked to Hell, is the cause of all the bother, though the result is much the same: firing steadily more powerful guns at mutated men and beasts until everything is OK.Actually, there's a little more toRagethan that, aside from two decades of visual upgrades. Emerging from an apocalypse-proof ark into a sandy wilderness, our hero takes missions from friendly,Mad Max-style settlers, some bringing him into contact with the hostile desert clans, others driving the core story surrounding the mysterious "authority".It could scarcely sound more generic, yetRagesucceeds, thanks to tidy design and incisive combat. The game works wonders with a challenging palette of endless browns, the distinctive character of enemy clans a testament to the imagination lurking beneath all that beige (a favourite is the Wasted, a2000&nbsp;AD-tinged crew of British thugs). And crucially, while the shooting can be relentless (not even headshots are guaranteed to bring down Armageddon-bred thugs), working up the weapons from pistol to pulse cannon has the same big-grin-inducing draw thatDoomintroduced to the world.
There are two broad categories of flight combat games. First, the simulators: serious, sedate and rewarding only for the most dedicated players. At the other end of the spectrum are the arcade aeronautical romps: equal parts accessible and excessive, with scant regard to realism. Precisely midway between those two forms is the long-running and highly regarded Ace Combat series, which returns withAssault Horizon.Like its forebearers,Assault Horizondelivers the immediacy and intensity of an arcade air combat game, all the while making you feel like the master of a complex simulator. Set in a convincing fictional conflict in the near future, the latest Ace Combat boasts significant atmosphere, and setting yourself loose in its crowded skies is surprisingly engrossing.A very pretty game with a new emphasis on close-quarters dogfighting,Assault Horizonis a little more intense and somewhat less delicate than its predecessors. It's a worthy addition to Project Aces' series that has near-consistently impressed for some 16 years. For all those looking for a relatively serious flying game that isn't afraid to contradict the more staid conventions of a realistic simulator,Ace Combat: Assault Horizonmight be the perfect choice.
What's the toughest game you've ever played? Well, imagine playing it blindfolded, hands tied behind your back, prodding the joypad with your nose; that's just the teeniest fraction of what it's like to playDark Souls. This game is fearsomely hard.An old-fashioned, role-playing game,Dark Soulsblends graphics and audio seamlessly to create a dark, fantastical atmosphere. Players have to hack and slash their way through hordes of demons, clearing out the undead from one labyrinthine dungeon after another. The standard features of the genre are present and correct; you accumulate experience to level up and you enhance your abilities further by equipping various items with magical properties.Where the game departs from the norm is that it is utterly ruthless. Players aren't gently guided from one checkpoint to the next. Rather, they're constantly mocked and belittled. You can't even hit the pause button to take a breather, because there&nbsp;isn't one. A case in point is an episode early in the game, where you enter a large chamber and the door locks behind you. An enormous troll materialises, its mace raised aloft to squash you flat. At this point, all you have by means of an offensive weapon is a broken sword. You lamely prod it in the belly a few times and then you die.It's only after the umpteenth defeat&nbsp;that you realise you're supposed to run away through a side passage and&nbsp;come back later when you've found the proper equipment to do the&nbsp;job.The whole game is designed this way and there are no short cuts or easy routes to victory. You might stop to replenish your energy by a bonfire, for example, but in so doing all the enemies in the immediate vicinity will respawn. And when you die, all the precious XP you collected is left in a shimmering pile where your body fell. You have only one chance to recover it and if you fail it's gone forever.So what's the point of playing something so relentlessly difficult? There's certainly an element of masochism to it. ButDark Soulshits that sweet spot between pleasure and pain. Pain, because you will die; repeatedly, constantly, ignobly. Pleasure, because if you beat the challenge it presents, then you've earned your place as one of the most persistent, dogged and bloody-minded gamers on the planet.
Price £199,000MPG 20.8Top speed 155mphA posh wedding. In fact, the poshest I've ever been to. Some guests arrive by helicopter. For the land based, there is valet parking. The gravel on the drive is white, like crumbled feta. Next to the purpose-built dais where the bride and groom will exchange their vows, there is a field of matching Shetland ponies… Due to the perspicacity of the gods of motoring, the car I've been lucky to drive down in is a&nbsp;sapphire-blue Rolls Royce. Never was a car and its destination better matched. As I&nbsp;inch across the gleaming white gravel, a black-suited flunkey waves me to a halt. He hands me a&nbsp;slip of paper and drives the Ghost away. I&nbsp;panic as I wonder how this will play with the people at Rolls Royce. I've just handed over their&nbsp;200-grand car and all I have is a scrap of paper with No 28 on it. Could this all be an elaborate heist?And then comes the comment of the day. Two rich guests walk past me. One says: "Nice Roller!" and the other adds: "It's just the little one, isn't it?"Jaw dropping. But he was right. It isjustthe little one. It's the Ghost, not the Phantom. This 2.5-tonne, 12-cylinder exquisitely engineered and raffishly refined vehicle is the baby, the entry-level Roller. The Phantom, its palatial older sister, is £100,000 more. But the spectral Ghost is more than opulent enough for me. I arrived at the wedding a&nbsp;sweating heap, having helmed this land-yacht through the narrow streets of south London en route to the Surrey countryside.The exterior of these new Rollers can be an acquired taste. From the front they look like enraged Samurai warriors – or Michael McIntyre – with their high cheeks and small rectangular headlights. But the interior is a taste you can sink into without resistance. The footwells are padded with 3in thick woollen rugs. There are elegant lamps, violin-key switches, eyeball air vents and frosted white dials. There is so much chrome it feels as if you are in a hall of mirrors. Anything which isn't suede, leather, chrome or sheepskin is burnished wood. At the press of a button, the walnut dash rotates to reveal a state-of-the-art infotainment screen.The staggering scale of the "baby" Ghost is neatly counterpointed by the delicacy of the controls. The dainty steering wheel is only as thick as my finger; the instrument stalks as thin as asparagus spears. But touch the throttle and the great lady hoists her skirts to reveal a&nbsp;muscular pair of calves. Press the pedal and the sudden arrival of power is giddying.Driving a Roller is like engaging with history. After a century as the world's most famous brand, there is such a&nbsp;weight of narrative towing in its wake that it feels surreal to be doing something as mundane as navigating the choppy waters of the South Circular in it. Where's John Lennon? Where's the Bhagwan?And, as if I'd been driving a&nbsp;celebrity, people keep telling me their "interesting Roller fact". The first one sold for £395; seven out of 10 are still roadworthy; workers at the factory call them Royces; the radiator grille is made entirely by hand… And, best of all, in 1548 Nostradamus predicted its arrival: "From Albion's shore shall come a marvellous conveyance, a carriage silencieux bearing the arms of Rolles De Roi."
This is a prepared text of the commencement address delivered by Steve Jobs, CEO of Apple Computer and of Pixar Animation Studios, on 12 June, 2005.**The commencement address is one of the more venerable – and respectable – traditions of American academia, especially at elite universities such as Stanford and Harvard. Because Steve Jobs died at such a relatively young age (56) this is destined to be regarded as a classic. But it faces stiff competition – as thelist maintained by humanity.orgtestifies. Jobs's address is up against Barack Obama's lecture to Wesleyan University in 2008, Elie Wiesel's talk at DePaul University in 1997, Václav Havel's lecture on "Civilisation's Thin Veneer" at Harvard in 1995 and George Marshall's address to the same university in 1947 – to list just four. But Jobs's address has an unbearable poignancy just now, especially for those who knew him well. John Gruber, the blogger and technology commentator, saw him fairly recentlyand observed: "He looked old. Not old in a way that could be measured in years or even decades, but impossibly old. Not tired, but weary; not ill or unwell, but rather, somehow, ancient. But not his eyes. His eyes were young and bright, their weapons-grade intensity intact." The address also reveals something of Jobs's humanity, something that tended to get lost in the afterglow of Apple's astonishing corporate resurgence. **"I am honoured to be with you today at your commencement from one of the finest universities in the world. I never graduated from college. Truth be told, this is the closest I've ever gotten to a college graduation. Today I want to tell you three stories from my life. That's it. No big deal. Just three stories.The first story is about connecting the dots.I dropped out of Reed College [Portland, Oregon] after the first six months, but then stayed around as a drop-in for another 18 months or so before I really quit. So why did I drop out?It started before I was born. My biological mother was a young, unwed college graduate student, and she decided to put me up for adoption. She felt very strongly that I should be adopted by college graduates, so everything was all set for me to be adopted at birth by a lawyer and his wife. Except that when I popped out they decided at the last minute that they really wanted a girl. So my parents, who were on a waiting list, got a call in the middle of the night asking: "We have an unexpected baby boy; do you want him?" They said: "Of course." My biological mother later found out that my mother had never graduated from college and that my father had never graduated from high school. She refused to sign the final adoption papers. She only relented a few&nbsp;months later when my parents promised that I would someday go to college.** This is interesting because for many years Jobs was extremely reluctant to discuss his family background in public. He was asked about it in the famousPlayboy interview in 1985, for example, and refused point-blank to go into it.**And 17 years later I did go to college. But I naively chose a college that was almost as expensive as Stanford, and all of my working-class parents' savings were being spent on my college tuition. After six months I couldn't see the value in it. I had no idea what I wanted to do with my life and no idea how college was going to help me figure it out. And here I was spending all of the money my parents had saved their entire life. So I decided to drop out and trust that it would all work out OK. It was pretty scary at the time, but looking back it was one of the best decisions I ever made. The minute I dropped out I could stop taking the required classes that didn't interest me, and begin dropping in on the ones that looked interesting.** One of the most interesting back stories of the modern computing and IT industry is how many of its pioneers were college dropouts. Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg, for example, both left Harvard in mid-term, and one of Gates's proudest boasts is that he was responsible for persuading Steve Ballmer (now Microsoft's CEO) to drop out of Stanford.The listcontinues with Larry Ellison, founder of Oracle and Michael Dell, founder of the computer firm that bears his name. And although Google's co-founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, did graduate, they both dropped out of their PhD programmes. This rather runs against the conventional narrative – that an expensive college education and a good degree are essential prerequisites for success. **It wasn't all romantic. I didn't have a dorm room, so I slept on the floor in friends' rooms, I returned Coke bottles for the 5¢ deposits to buy food with, and I would walk the seven miles across town every Sunday night to get one good meal a week at the Hare Krishna temple. I loved it. And much of what I stumbled into by following my curiosity and intuition turned out to be priceless later on. Let me give you one example:Reed College at that time offered perhaps the best calligraphy instruction in the country. Throughout the campus every poster, every label on every drawer, was beautifully hand calligraphed. Because I had dropped out and didn't have to take the normal classes, I decided to take a calligraphy class to learn how to do this. I&nbsp;learned about serif and sans serif typefaces, about varying the amount of space between different letter combinations, about what makes great typography great. It was beautiful, historical, artistically subtle in a way that science can't capture, and I found it fascinating.None of this had even a hope of any practical application in my life. But 10 years later, when we were designing the first Macintosh computer, it all came back to me. And we designed it all into the Mac. It was the first computer with beautiful typography. If I had never dropped in on that single course in college, the Mac would have never had multiple typefaces or proportionally spaced fonts. And since Windows just copied the Mac, it's likely that no personal computer would have them. If I had never dropped out, I would have never dropped in on this calligraphy class, and personal computers might not have the wonderful typography that they do. Of course it was impossible to connect the dots looking forward when I was in college. But it was very, very clear looking backwards 10 years later.** One of the things that everyone who knew Jobs says is that he was obsessed with "taste". He was always ranting against Microsoft because they "had no taste"  and one of his great early insights was that computers would become consumer products and, as such, would have to be attractively designed and easy to use. **Again, you can't connect the dots looking forward; you can only connect them looking backwards. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future. You have to trust in something – your gut, destiny, life, karma, whatever. This approach has never let me down, and it has made all the difference in my life.My second story is about love and loss.I was lucky – I found what I loved to do early in life. Woz [Steve Wozniak] and I started Apple in my parents' garage when I was 20. We worked hard, and in 10 years Apple had grown from just the two of us in a garage into a $2bn company with over 4,000 employees. We had just released our finest creation – the Macintosh – a year earlier, and I had just turned 30. And then I got fired. How can you get fired from a company you started? Well, as Apple grew we hired someone who I thought was very talented to run the company with me and for the first year or so things went well. But then our visions of the future began to diverge and eventually we had a falling-out. When we did, our board of directors sided with him. So at 30 I was out. And very publicly out. What had been the focus of my entire adult life was gone, and it was devastating.** Jobs hired John Sculley, who had been CEO of Pepsi, the drinks company, in the mistaken belief that having an experienced chief executive would free him to do what he really loved doing – which was creating great products. His pitch to Sculley to persuade him to leave Pepsi was: "John, do you really want to spend the rest of your life selling sugared water?" In the short term, appointing Sculley looked like the defining, catastrophic error of Jobs's life. But – with the 20/20 vision of hindsight – he came to see it differently. The idea that getting fired might be a good&nbsp;thing is a bracing idea for young graduates, even Stanford ones. **I really didn't know what to do for a few months. I felt that I had let the previous generation of entrepreneurs down – that I had dropped the baton as it was being passed to me. I met with David Packard and Bob Noyce and tried to apologise for screwing up so badly. I was a very public failure, and I even thought about running away from the valley. But something slowly began to dawn on me – I still loved what I did. The turn of events at Apple had not changed that one bit. I had been rejected, but I was still in love. And so I decided to start over. I didn't see it then, but it turned out that getting fired from Apple was the best thing that could have ever happened to me. The heaviness of being successful was replaced by the lightness of being a beginner again, less sure about everything. It freed me to enter one of the most creative periods of my life.During the next five years, I started a company named NeXT, another company named Pixar, and fell in love with an amazing woman who would become my wife. Pixar went on to create the world's first computer-animated feature film,Toy Story, and is now the most successful animation studio in the world. In a remarkable turn of events, Apple bought NeXT, I returned to Apple, and the technology we developed at NeXT is at the heart of Apple's current renaissance. And Laurene and I have a wonderful family together.** Again, a rare insight into his personal life. In amoving tributehis friend Stephen Wolfram recalls seeing this side of Jobs for the first time. "One time I went to see him in NeXT's swank new offices in Redwood City," he recalls. "I particularly wanted to talk to him about Mathematica as a computer language. He always preferred user interfaces to languages, but he was trying to be helpful. The conversation was going on, but he said he couldn't go to dinner, and actually he was quite distracted, because he was going out on a date that evening – and he hadn't been on a date for a long time. He explained that he'd just met the woman he was seeing a few days earlier, and was very nervous about his date. The Steve Jobs, so confident as a businessman and technologist, had melted away, and he was asking me – hardly a noted known authority on such things – about his date. As it turned out, the date apparently worked out – and within 18 months the woman he met became his wife, and remained so until the end." **I'm pretty sure none of this would have happened if I hadn't been fired from Apple. It was awful-tasting medicine, but I guess the patient needed it. Sometimes life hits you in the head with a brick. Don't lose faith. I'm convinced that the only thing that kept me going was that I loved what I did. You've got to find what you love. And that is as true for your work as it is for your lovers. Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven't found it yet, keep looking. Don't settle. As with all matters of the heart, you'll know when you find it. And, like any great relationship, it just gets better and better as the years roll on. So keep looking until you find it. Don't settle.My third story is about death.When I was 17, I read a quote that went something like: "If you live each day as if it was your last, some day you'll most certainly be right." It made an impression on me, and since then, for the past 33 years, I have looked in the mirror every morning and asked myself: "If today were the last day of my life, would I want to do what I am about to do today?" And whenever the answer has been "no" for too many days in a row, I know I need to change something.Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. Because almost everything – all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure – these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important. Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart.About a year ago I was diagnosed with cancer. I had a scan at 7.30 in the morning and it clearly showed a tumour on my pancreas. I didn't even know what a pancreas was. The doctors told me this was almost certainly a type of cancer that is incurable and that I should expect to live no longer than three to six months. My doctor advised me to go home and get my affairs in order, which is doctor's code for "prepare to die". It means to try to tell your kids everything you thought you'd have the next 10 years to tell them in just a few months. It means to make sure everything is buttoned up so that it will be as easy as possible for your family. It means to say your goodbyes.I lived with that diagnosis all day. Later that evening I had a biopsy, where they stuck an endoscope down my throat, through my stomach and into my intestines, put a needle into my pancreas and got a few cells from the tumour. I was sedated, but my wife, who was there, told me that when they viewed the cells under a microscope the doctors started crying because it turned out to be a very rare form of pancreatic cancer that is curable with surgery. I had the surgery and I'm fine now.This was the closest I've been to facing death, and I hope it's the closest I get for a few more decades. Having lived through it, I can now say this to you with a bit more certainty than when death was a useful, but purely intellectual, concept:No one wants to die. Even people who want to go to heaven don't want to die to get there. And yet death is the destination we all share. No one has ever escaped it. And that is as it should be, because death is very likely the single best invention of life. It is life's change agent. It clears out the old to make way for the new. Right now the new is you, but some day not too long from now, you will gradually become the old and be cleared away. Sorry to be so dramatic, but it is quite true.** This breaks the first rule of contemporary American culture – never talk about death. Work out, lose weight, don't smoke, eat carefully. It's a wonderful, liberating break from that infantile, stultifying convention. One wonders if it made his audience shift nervously in their seats. **Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma – which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of others' opinions drown out your own inner voice. And, most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.** Jobs never allowed the opinions of others to drown out his own "inner voice". One of my favourite stories about him is about the moment when the Apple design team presented him with the first version of the iPod. He looked at it for a while, turned it over and over, weighed it in his hand and then said: "It's too big." The engineers protested that it was a miracle of state-of-the-art miniaturisation – 1,000 songs packed into that tiny space. Jobs walked over to the fish tank in the corner of his office and dropped the prototype into the water. He then pointed to&nbsp;the bubbles that floated from it to the surface and said: "That means there's still some space in it. It's too big." End of conversation. **When I was young, there was an amazing publication called theWhole Earth Catalog, which was one of the bibles of my generation. It was created by a fellow named Stewart Brand not far from here in Menlo Park, and he brought it to life with his poetic touch. This was in the late 1960s, before personal computers and desktop publishing, so it was all made with typewriters, scissors and Polaroid cameras. It was sort of like Google in paperback form, 35 years before Google came along: it was idealistic, and overflowing with neat tools and great notions.Stewart and his team put out several issues&nbsp;of theWhole Earth Catalog, and then, when it had run its course, they put out a final issue. It was the mid-1970s, and I was your age. On the back cover of their final issue was a photograph of an early morning country road, the kind you might find yourself hitchhiking on if you were so adventurous. Beneath it were the words "Stay hungry. Stay foolish". It was their farewell&nbsp;message as they signed off. Stay hungry. Stay foolish. And I have always wished that for myself. And now, as you graduate to begin anew, I wish that for you. Stay hungry. Stay foolish.Thank you all very much.
Late on Friday, October 7, Oracle and Google submitted their lists of witnesses for their patent and copyright infringement trial, in which Oracle asserts that Android, Google's mobile operating system, infringes on its intellectual property.Efforts to settle it out of court have so far come to nothing. Oracle has sought around $2.2bn, but may accept a per-device payment if the case goes its way.The trial is formally still scheduled to begin on Halloweenbut "will likely be postponed".Here's the document; we'll discuss the most notable names below.Witness 1: Larry Ellison (Oracle's founder and CEO)Oracle volunteers his testimony "regarding Oracle's reasons for acquiring Sun Microsystems; the importance of Java to Oracle's business; Oracle's use and licensing of Java prior to its acquisition of Sun; the effort and resources that Oracle has invested in developing Java; Oracle's Java licensing business; the pre-lawsuit Java-related discussions between Oracle and Google; and the harm caused by Android".Google wants Mr. Ellison to "testify about negotiations and communications relating to Oracle's acquisition of Sun, including communications about either Java or Android; Oracle's valuation of Java; Oracle's business plans with regard to Java, both pre- and post-acquisition; Oracle's management of Java post-acquisition; Oracle's efforts in the mobile computing space; Oracle's participation in and communications with the Java Community Process; his and Oracle's communications to the public, Google and third parties about Android, open sourcing and/or Oracle's defensive use of patents and copyrights; and communications with  Google regarding Android. He also may testify concerning documents on the exhibit list that are either authored by or were sent to him".Witness 2: Eric Schmidt (Google's Chairman and former CEO; previously Sun Microsystems' CTO)Oracle expects Mr. Schmidt to "testify regarding Google's Java-related discussions with Sun and Oracle; Google's awareness of Sun's Java intellectual property rights and the need for Google to obtain a Java license for Android; his knowledge of Java technology and Sun's Java licensing practices from his tenure at Sun; the benefits associated with Java and Google's lack of alternatives; Google's business plan and marketing strategy for Android, including the acquisition of Motorola; benefits to Google from Android; Google's revenue and profit projections for Android, including advertising revenues; Google's efforts to prevent Android fragmentation; and facts relating to Google's willful patent and copyright infringement.Google doesn't have him on its list of witness certain to be called but says he "may testify about communications between Sun and Google concerning a potential technology partnership in the mobile computing space; Google's efforts to develop a mobile platform, and Google's business model and goals in the mobile market; communications with Sun and Oracle regarding Android; Google's background, history, product development, advertising business, and revenues; and Sun's communications to the public and third parties about Sun's position on copyrightability, licensing and enforcement of alleged intellectual property rights. He also may testify concerning documents on the exhibit list that are either authored by or were sent to him".Witness 3: Larry Page (Google's co-founder and CEO)Oracle expects him to "testify regarding Google's Java-related discussions with Sun and Oracle; Google's awareness of Sun's Java intellectual property rights and the need for Google to obtain a Java license for Android; the benefits associated with Java and Google's lack of alternatives; Google's business plan and marketing strategy for Android, including the acquisition of Motorola; benefits to Google from Android; Google's revenue and profit projections for Android, including advertising revenues; Google's efforts to prevent Android fragmentation; and facts relating to Google's willful patent and copyright infringement".Like his chairman and CEO successor-predecessor Mr. Schmidt, he is not on Google's must-testify list. However, according to Google he "may testify about Google's acquisition of Android; negotiations between Sun and Google for a potential technology partnership in the mobile computing space; Google's efforts to develop a mobile platform, and Google's business model and goals in the mobile market; communications with Sun and/or Oracle regarding Android; and Google's background, history, product development, advertising business, and revenues. He also may testify concerning documents on the exhibit list that are either authored by or were sent to him".Witness 4: Scott McNealy (former CEO and chairman of Sun Microsystems)Oracle may ask him to "testify regarding Sun's Java business and Java licensing; Java-related discussions between Sun and Google; Oracle's acquisition of Sun; the interest of Sun and its Board of Directors in preventing Java fragmentation, enforcing Java intellectual property rights, and protecting Java licensing revenue; and Sun's position regarding Google's release of Android and the harm caused by Android".Witness 5: James Gosling (former software engineer and CTO at Sun MicrosystemsGosling is widely credited with being the "Father of Java" and inventor of one of the patents in the lawsuit). According to Oracle, "{h]e will testify regarding the inventions of the '104 patent [which he invented] and their benefits; the development history, design, and innovations of the Java platform, including the Java virtual machine and class libraries; the creation and importance of the Java APIs; and the importance of Java implementation compatibility and Sun's efforts to ensure compatibility and prevent fragmentation".Other notable namesOracle's list of "may present" witnesses includes Oracle President and chief financial officer Safra Catz: "She may testify regarding Oracle's reasons for acquiring Sun Microsystems; the importance of Java to Oracle's business; Oracle's use and licensing of Java prior to its acquisition of Sun; the effort and resources that Oracle has invested in developing Java; Oracle's Java licensing business; the pre-lawsuit Java-related discussions between Oracle and Google; and the harm caused by Android."Obviously, Android chief Andy Rubin is also going to testify. It also comes as no surprise that Tim Lindholm, the author of an email that ispotentially "damning" for Google, will appear.Google has lined up Jonathan Schwartz, Sun Microsystems' last (and in a number of peoples' opinion, worst-ever) CEO. He was mentioned in some of Google's internal emails that are in the case file, such as one about Sun at some pointeyeing a Red Hat-style Android distribution. Schwartz previouslygave some testimonysupportive of Google, claiming not to have objected to Android's use of Java.If and when this trial takes place, there will definitely be some interesting testimony to watch...This blogpostfirst appeared on on Florian Mueller's FOSSPatents blog. Used with permission.If you'd like to be updated on the smartphone patent disputes and other intellectual property matters Florian Mueller covers, you canfollow him on Twitter @FOSSpatentsandGoogle+.
So if you're thinking about getting an iPhone 4S, you may be thinking that actually signing up to a 24-month contract with an operator just looks too expensive.It turns out that's not the case: once you calculate how much the contract costs if you add on the pure cost of the phone (which can be found on theonline Apple store), you can find some deals that are cheaper than buying the phone outright and then having a SIM-only contract. (We've used GiffGaff as the SIM-only example, using its £15 per month tariff. This is a cheaper tariff than any of the mobile operator is presently offering.)It turns out, for example, that for any of the models of phone, over the life of the contract it's cheaper to go with O2 or Orange than just to buy the phone and have the SIM-only contract. Note however that you might not get the same details: GiffGaff says it offers unlimited web, where the other two do not.The entire phone contract field is a thicket, in fact. The prices offered here are generally for people who are getting a contract for the first time, or upgrading from a feature phone to a smartphone (and so need data) for the first time. If you already have a smartphone (including an old iPhone) or you're on a contract of some sort, you may be able to negotiate a better deal. You should also check what it is that the "minutes" deals offer - some will offer free landline calls, some will have cheaper mobile rates than others, and so on. Have a look at your existing pattern of calls, texting and data usage (if any) to see which best suits you.These spreadsheets are not comprehensive, because the possible combinations involved are enormous. For O2 (which announced prices late on Friday) we have assumed the normal contract plus the £5 per month data "bolt on" which gives you 500MB, and thus makes it generally comparable with the other offerings.Not all the contracts are exactly £20, £25 etc per month, but where they vary, we have calculated the TCO using the exact contract price. Prices have been rounded up to the nearest pound in all cases.From our calculations, the best deals generally come from Three. The most expensive ones - generally (but not always) - are with Vodafone.But here are the pictures which compare the costs of the phones. The cheapest phone and contract overall:Three, for the 16GB iPhone 4S, which costs a total (over the 24 months) of £849; that's for a phone which costs £499 unlocked, on a contract of £30 per month (which works out to an effective saving of £370 on the total cost. To get the same from buying just the unlocked phone, you'd need to be on a contract costing £14.60 per month.Generally,Threecomes out cheapest in many of the contract plans if you're looking at large data or phone use, though O2 and Orange also work out cheaper. On multiple occasions, at least one (and often two or three) of O2, Three and Orange works out cheaper than a SIM-only contract. Note though - I'll emphasis again - this doesn't say anything about minutes, texts or data (which are very hard to compare directly in this sort of analysis).Note also that the graphs use a false origin, starting at £700.Here's the graph for the 16GB iPhone 4S:iPhone 4S 16GB total cost of ownership, 24 months. Click for larger version.And now here it is for the 32GB model:iPhone 4S 32GB total cost of ownership, 24 months. Click for larger version.Finally, for the 64GB model:iPhone 4S 64GB total cost of ownership, 24 months. Click for larger version.And because it's more complex than it seems - and you need to make careful comparisons between the different offerings based on what you need in terms of minutes, texts and data. (The data is very important on a smartphone, of course. For most people, 500MB is plenty in a month.)Here's the data we used to calculate the TCO graphs.iPhone 4S total cost of ownership6045403530252015monthly contract16GB: TCO: 24 monthsO28168989389881,0581,1281,512(Apple price: 499)Orange7908409149641,0141,1041,464Vodafone9831,0031,0231,0431,1041,488T-Mobile8539059581,0101,1031,470Three8498891,0091,032GiffGaff85932GB: TCO: 24 monthsO29161,0081,0381,0881,1481,2081,512(Apple price: 599)Orange9309801,0141,0841,1741,2441,464Vodafone1,0631,0831,1031,1231,1831,488T-Mobile9931,0051,0781,1701,2431,470Three9399791,1491,122GiffGaff95964GB: TCO: 24 monthsO21,0361,0981,1481,1581,2281,2881,542(Apple price: 699)Orange1,0001,0501,1241,1341,2041,2941,564Vodafone1,1431,1631,1831,2031,2631,517T-Mobile1,0631,1151,1281,2001,2931,570Three1,0291,0691,2391,212GiffGaff1,059Operator 16GB handset costO23002501701005000Orange3102401701003000Vodafone3592591595900T-Mobile2401701003000Three12949490Operator 32GB handset costO2400360270200140800Orange4503802702201901400Vodafone439339239139790T-Mobile3802702201901400Three21913918990Operator 64GB handset costO252045038027022016030Orange520450380270220190100Vodafone51941931921915929T-Mobile450380270220190100Three309229279180source: carriers. Monthly contract prices vary from £5 increments but amounts are calculated using exact valuesAnd here's the minutes, texts and web information.iPhone 4S talktime, text and minutes(U= unlimited)1520253035404560MinutesO21002003006009001,200UOrange50125200UUUUVodafone1003006009001,2003,000T-Mobile1003006009001,200UThree3005002,000900GiffGaff400TextsO2UUUUUUOrange50125200UUUUVodafone500UUUUUT-Mobile100300500500500500Three5,0005,0005,0005,000GiffGaffUDataO2500500500500500500500Orange1002505005007507501,000Vodafone2505005007507501,000T-Mobile5005005005007501,000Three5001,000UUGiffGaffUsource: carriers.
How can you tell if a&nbsp;cycling obsession has gone too far? When you pedal away from your wedding reception with your bride on the back of a tandem? When your bike starts sleeping in your bedroom? While moving house again recently, entirely by bicycle, it occurred to me that I had probably crossed a line.Previously I've moved mostly by taxi, but I got fed up with impatient drivers tsk-tsking when they realised they were being used as a removal service – and by someone who, despite owning four decent-sized suitcases, always ends up supplementing them with a dozen carrier bags, a blue Ikea holdall full of coathangers and a bin bag with my bedding in it.So when I was offered the chance to try out a cargo bike for a few days around my moving date, I jumped at the idea. I picked up the Bullitt from a bloke in Berlin called Gizmo, who has a workshop in the solarium of a&nbsp;disused leisure centre. As he wheeled out the magnificent machine, I realised I was going to have a storage problem. The bike racks in my old flat were in an inner courtyard accessible via two sets of&nbsp;steps; in my new place, they are in a communal cupboard. The Bullitt&nbsp;was going to have to sleep in&nbsp;the street: a nerve-racking proposition given that it would cost more than two grand to replace.What separates the Bullitt from other freight bikes is that it's only as wide as a normal bicycle and just a few kilos heavier (24kg: about the weight of a Boris Bike). This means it's much easier to cycle in traffic than many of its rivals and you can rattle along at quite a pace. It does not initially feel like riding an ordinary bike, however – I had to practise on a&nbsp;quiet side street, repeating Gizmo's sage advice not to look at the front wheel (too discombobulating), before I was ready to hit the open road.You can carry well over 100kg on the front – it's actually slightly easier to handle with some sort of cargo. My issue was not having one of the £270 (£270!) purpose-built plywood boxes on the front and instead having to improvise with two knackered crates and a baggage belt to keep everything in place. Rather that the bigger the load, the harder the bike is to steer – I found sharp turns very hairy when I was doing a monster trip with all my books. For £295 you can buy a big, lockable aluminium box, and if you have small children, you can fit a double or single seat.It was great fun to ride and I loved the smug feeling of self-sufficiency – I'd seriously think about getting one&nbsp;for supermarket trips if I were a)&nbsp;richer and b) had somewhere to store it. But I'd still hire a removal van next time.Bullitt BluebirdPrice£2,170Size245cm x 47cmFrameAluminiumWeight 24kgGearseight-gear Shimano Alfine hubUK stockistthebullittbike.co.uk
I have a three-year-old Apple Mac and that's it (How Steve Jobs changed our world, G2, 7 October). And thanks to Jonathan Ive for its design. When I bought my Mac I didn't convert to a religion, adopt a cult or endorse a new visionary and allegedly benign form of capitalism. I just bought a laptop. My&nbsp;condolences to Steve Jobs' family, but the apparently global Diana-like outpourings of grief that have to be linked to the willingness of many to queue for hours to part with large of amounts money for the latest version of the iPad say something about the way materialism has warped our sense of proportion.Yvonne RobertsLondon• On Monday you reported how the phenomenal growth in consumer electronics in recent years has pumped carbon into the atmosphere (Gadgets send home energy use through the roof, 3 October), cancelling out energy savings in other areas. On Thursday the man responsible for these toys died (Steve Jobs). Given his Buddhist credentials, will he be reincarnated as a coral reef, or an endangered animal, suffering from climate change? How's that for karma?Paul BrazierLondon• We are living in strange times when news about the incremental and gradual collapse of the western world economy is eclipsed by news about the launch of a new phone and the demise of its creator.Barrie BlostoneScole, Norfolk (sent from my iPad)• It's the nerds' Princess Di moment, isn't it? At least Stephen Fry has an excuse now for an extended period of quiet mourning. Small mercies, eh?Jim McDermottWoodford Halse, Northamptonshire• A few years ago, we had Steve Jobs, Johnny Cash and Bob Hope. Now, we have no jobs, no cash, and no hope… I'll&nbsp;get me coat.Dan AdlerFarnham, Surrey• Five pages in G2; front page, two inside pages, obituary and second leader in the main paper – wow! As a PC user, I can't comment on the product, but he certainly got the PR right.Lynda MarshChichester• Steve Jobs – may the Lord guard him as the apple of his eye(pod) (cf Deuteronomy 32:10 etc).Fr Alec MitchellManchester• iPod, iPad, iConquered.Dermot ByrneRoyston, Hertfordshire
The biography of Steve Jobs,  which the notoriously workaholic co-founder of Apple authorised saying  "I wanted my kids to know me", already tops the Amazon bestseller list on pre-orders, a fortnight before it is rushed into print.As shrines mourning his death, aged 56, sprang up outside Apple stores all over the world, publishers Simon and Schuster announced that the release date for Steve Jobs – discarded potential titles included The Book of Jobs and iSteve – in print and ebook formats will now be 24 October, instead of the planned late November.Jobs last met his biographer Walter Isaacson, the former managing editor of Time magazine and author of books on Einstein and Benjamin Franklin, only a few weeks ago, when he knew his death was close. In a piece to be published by Time on 17 October, Isaacson recalls finding Jobs curled up in pain in a downstairs bedroom at his home in Palo Alto, California. Jobs told the writer he was too weak to climb the stairs to his old room. But, Isaacson says, "his mind was still sharp and his humour vibrant".Jobs, the universally recognisable figurehead of Apple, stalking the stage in jeans and black polo-neck at product launches, was always careful to keep his private life out of the limelight, including his son and two daughters with his wife of 20 years, and daughter by an earlier relationship.  But he told Isaacson: ""I wasn't always there for them and I wanted them to know why and to understand what I did."The book is based on more than 40 interviews with Jobs, and scores more with family members, friends, admirers, business opponents, and present and former colleagues.Simon and Schuster describe Jobs as "driven by demons", a man who could drive those around him to fury and despair."Although Jobs cooperated with this book, he asked for no control over what was written nor even the right to read it before it was published," the publishers say. "He put nothing off-limits. He encouraged the people he knew to speak honestly. And Jobs speaks candidly, sometimes brutally so, about the people he worked with and competed against. His friends, foes, and colleagues provide an unvarnished view of the passions, perfectionism, obsessions, artistry, devilry, and compulsion for control that shaped his approach to business and the innovative products that resulted."On the Amazon website one of those who has pre-ordered the book posted: "Great man, it will be some time before we see someone who has a mind like this again!"Another customer, who would surely have pleased Jobs, boasted that he has paid less by ordering the title through his iPad2.
Samsung, the biggest rival to Apple in the smartphone business and which is involved in a number of bitter courtroom battles with the US company, has abruptly postponed its scheduled launch of a new top-end phone next Tuesday.The apparent motive was not to be seen to intrude on the reactions around the death of Apple's co-founder and former chief executive Steve Jobs, whose death was announced late on Wednesday at his California home.Update:sources close to the companies confirmed to The Guardian on Friday night that they didn't feel it was right to hold a product launch so close to Jobs's death.The South Korean company, which said on Friday morning that it expects smartphones to be the main profit engine of its business, had been expected to launch its new Nexus Prime phone, running the latest version of Google's Android software – numbered 4.0, and dubbed "Ice Cream Sandwich" – on Tuesday at the CTIA trade show.But in a curt statement on Friday afternoon, it said: "Samsung and Google decided to postpone the new product announcement at CTIA Fall. We agree that it is just not the right time to announce a new product. New date and venue will be shortly announced."The company would not elucidate, though it is understood that the reason is not connected to any hardware or software problems around the phone.That implies that the decision was taken because it would be seen as too close to the death of Jobs. No new date has been given by Samsung for the announcement. No date has been given either by Jobs's family for his funeral.Samsung and Apple are battling in a number of court cases around the world, with Apple claiming that Samsung's products copy significant elements of the appearance of its iPhone and iPad devices, and that it infringes a number of patents. Samsung has hit back by claiming that Apple is infringing a number of its patents, including some on mobile devices: it has threatened to prevent sales of Apple's iPhone 4S, announced only on Tuesday, in France and Italy.Last year Jobs tried unsuccessfully to intercede in the dispute before it escalated into a full-scale court battle. The first shots in the legal battle were filed in April 201.Samsung, the largest electronics company in the world, announced on Friday morning that it expects to rack up record profits from handset sales. Analysts think that it could have passed Apple in the July-September period for the total number of smartphone handsets shipped around the world.However its other divisions are under pressure amidst squeezed consumer spending. The South Korean firm estimated its quarterly operating profit at 4.2 trillion won (£2.3bn) versus a consensus forecast of 3.4 trillion (£1.8bn) won by analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. That would be down 14%, from a year ago but up 12% from the preceding quarter.Samsung sold 19m smartphones in the second quarter, and analysts expect shipments to have risen to more than 28m units in the third quarter, helping it towards its target for the year of 60m units. Samsung sold only about 1m fewer smartphones than Apple in the second quarter.It plans to release its first smartphone based on the latest version of Microsoft's mobile operating system this month, Windows Phone "Mango", while a 5.3-inch screen Galaxy Note, a hybrid of a smartphone and a tablet, is set to go on sale later this year.Samsung leads a pack of companies selling phones on Google's Android operating system."The Galaxy S II probably played a key role in boosting the company's earnings and it will continue to do so pretty much unchallenged, until Apple unveils a better new version of iPhone," said Kyung Woo-hyun, a fund manager at Daishin Asset Management.Samsung, which worked out how to make black and white TVs in the 1970s by tearing apart Japanese models, has become a top global brand over the past decade.It boasts a market value of £76bn, much bigger than the combined value of rivals such as Sony, Nokia , Research In Motion, Toshiba and Panasonic. Samsung's shares have fallen 5% over the past three months versus a 12% drop in Apple's shares.• Sony is said to be in talks to buy Ericsson out of its share in their joint venture in the mobile phone business, Sony Ericsson. The companies must decide this month whether to renew their 10-year-old pact that created the company. The deal could be worth up to $1.3bn, depending on what arrangement they come to over the use of Ericsson's telecoms patents.Yoshiharu Izumi, an analyst at J P Morgan in Tokyo, said the deal could be worth upwards of $1.3bn, depending on what agreement the two reach about the continuing use of Ericsson's telecoms patents."Up to now Sony's products and network services have all been separate. Unifying them would be positive," Izumi said."If they can leverage their games and other network services I think they can lift their share," he added.Should any buyout go ahead, Sony will need to take steps to protect itself from legal challenges to its patents. Thus far the joint venture has been protected from the kind of court room challenges seen by rivals because Ericsson, the world's largest mobile telecom gear maker, holds one of the largest patent portfolios in the industry."Sony will definitely want to bolster its portfolio in such a deal so it can defend itself in the most litigious segment of the technology industry," said intellectual property expert Florian Mueller.
Understandably, much of the post-keynote analysis of Apple's "Let's Talk About iPhone" event focused on hardware: the new iPhone 4S and the lack of an iPhone 5. Software also got a look-in, particularly the Siri voice control features of the new handset, and the imminent debut of Apple's iCloud service.Less feted, but no less important, were some significant figures around Apple's content business. 250 million iOS device sales have pushed total App Store downloads past the 18 billion mark, leaving music downloads from the iTunes Store (16 billion and counting) in their wake. Not that useful a direct comparison, of course, because a much bigger proportion of Apple's music downloads are paid than for iOS apps.There is still some fun to be had contrasting the value of music and apps for Apple, though. Asymco's Horace Dediu – one of the most perceptive analysts writing about the mobile industry right now – has taken the above numbers as his starting point foran exploration of the respective financial valuesof these two areas. He calculates that around 34 million iOS apps are being downloaded every day, versus around 8.3 million songs.Then, taking another big figure announced by Apple at its iPhone 4S event – $3 billion paid out to developers since the App Store's launch in 2008 – as well as standard music payouts for iTunes sales, he estimates that Apple is making around $75 million a month from apps, and $85 million from songs (admittedly, before costs including payment processing, bandwidth, storage, testing and marketing bring both closer to break-even)."Break-even or not, the way the data is trending it's pretty clear that Apps will be responsible for a the majority of content cash flow at Apple," writes Dediu. "At a billion downloads a month (and rising) the value in terms of revenues is already a run rate of $2.9 billion per year. This has been enough to overtake a business that has been running for more than seven years."Which is true. But these numbers can't be considered without also thinking about the bigger picture for Apple: sales of its hardware.In itsfiscal third quarterending on 25 June 2011, Apple generated $13.3 billion of revenues from sales of iPhones and related products, with another $6 billion from iPads. Its total sales from the iTunes Store, App Store and iBookstore were bundled into the $1.3 billion Apple made from "Music related products and services" – a category that also includes iPod accessories.This is hardly a shocking statement: the main function of apps and music alike is to sell Apple devices. And while music used to be the main driver for selling iPods – albeit music already stored on people's hard drives rather than bought from the iTunes Store – apps are now one of (if not the) most important selling points for iPhones, iPod touches and iPads.Apps overtake music in value to Apple? That's already happened. Which is not to say the company has lost interest in its music industry partners: the delicate licensing negotiations around iCloud and its iTunes Match service have made sure of that. Music is also part of the apps ecosystem, from Bjork's Biophilia album-app to Spotify and its streaming competitors.But if we're gauging the relative importance of different forms of entertainment to Apple, the iPhone 4S launch told its own story. Traditionally, Apple's Autumn product launch has been focused around music. The October 4 launch, however, was very much about iOS and apps.
We need a new business model for the UK's creativity. Globally recognised as a world leader in innovation in areas like music, fashion, design and art, British makers are struggling to make a buck in a landscape where their highly valued work can be infinitely replicated.The UK is also recognised as a leader in making recommendations on Internet regulation, and theHargreaves Report, delivered to the government earlier this year, proposes a whole new approach to copyright. But how realistic are its guidelines? Whose interests are catered for in the controversialDigital Economy Act? And how can people make a living from their digital creations? This debate gauges the temperature of the current creative climate by bringing together Ministers, makers and media-savvy consumers to find out where to draw the line in this politically-charged battle.The panelists are:Ed Vaizey MP(Minister for Culture, Communications and Creative Industries),Professor Ian Hargreaves(Chair of Digital Economy at the Cardiff School of Journalism, Media and Cultural Studies),Feargal Sharkey(CEO of UK Music),Jonathan Haskel(Professor of Economics at Imperial College Business School) andJeff Lynn(Chairman of Coadec).Join Tech Weekly for the live recording of this debate on Monday 31 October at Imperial College London, South Kensington Campus, Exhibition Road, London SW7 2AZ (Find it!).Do you have a question to ask? Add it to the comments or send it to techweekly@guardian.co.uk.OnTwitter? Contribute to the discussion and follow the debate with the hashtag#TWTC3.
The British music streaming service, We7, reduced its losses to about £3m last year as the Peter Gabriel-founded company managed to triple its annual turnover.We7 recorded a loss of £2.97m in the year to December 2010, according to the company's latest Companies House filing, an improvement on the £3.66m loss reported in 2009. The Milton Keynes-based music firm reported a turnover of £965,374 last year, up from £361,081 in the previous year.Steve Purdham, the We7 director, said in the report that 2010 was the "first major milestone" in proving a viable business model for streaming music online.We7 shifted its focus from allowing free music streaming to a personalised radio player, as rivalSpotify stepped up its free and premium offeringto music lovers."To date, digital music services have been investment-led companies with the key to long-term sustainability being the evolution of an economic model that can add up," said Purdham. "For most companies in this market this has proved to be an elusive goal. However, with increasing focus on the economics, the model for We7 has become clearer and continues to be the basis of our increasing confidence and belief that the opportunity that can be attained provides the foundation for a significant high value proposition."We7 secured £3.6m in funding in May this year from investors, including Qualcomm Ventures and Pentech Ventures, with a further £2.1m to be paid in the final quarter of this year. It also won a government grant worth £1.8m for this year and 2012.•To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".•To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
Just a quick post to let you know that Indie Dozen participant, Charlie Knight, has released his latest game this afternoon. Available viaits own official website, Scoregasm is a hypnotic shooter, with gorgeous retro-futuristic visuals and some neat game mechanics.We have followed the title's development throughought the year and it's great to see the first major Indie Dozen game come to fruition. Scoregasm is playable on PC, Mac and Linux systems. Go and give it a shot.To find out more about our Indie Dozen project, gohere.
