In what appeared to be almost a panic last-minute decision, last Thursday the Government invited more than a dozen IT industry executives to a private Downing Street breakfast briefing with Tony Blair and a Cabinet team.  The Prime Minister told them that a paper on government plans for electronic commerce - first promised more than two years ago but held up by a long internal Whitehall battle between intelligence agencies and economic interests - would be published the next day.  Legislation will follow within the current session of Parliament.Mr Blair revealed that the Government had decided to drop plans to require British companies that provide electronic signature services to provide "key escrow" or "key recovery" systems which would allow the police or security services covertly to read private files and e-mail.But he asked the industry executives to offer the Government alternative ways of supporting police and security agencies in countering what he, Home Secretary Jack Straw and Cabinet Secretary Richard Wilson all portrayed as a serious and developing threat from encryption. He invited them to join a task force which, in three weeks, is supposed to provide the answers. These and other comments on the Department of Trade and Industry paper (www.dti.gov.uk/cii/elec/ elec_com.html) have to be submitted by April 1.The time which it has taken British governments of both parties to produce electronic commerce legislation is a testament to the entrenched power of the American electronic eavesdropping agency NSA, which 50 years ago joined Britain, Canada, Australia and New Zealand in a secret treaty to monitor the world's civil and military communications by means of Sigint (signals intelligence). 
Since the late 1970s, NSA and its British partner agency GCHQ have battled to suppress public, commercial and academic knowledge of cryptography. In Britain and the United States, academics and companies were threatened, research grants were withdrawn, and academic papers were banned as "munitions exports". In 1993, the inventor of the famous PGP encryption system, Philip Zimmerman, was arrested by the FBI and for more than two years faced trial and possible imprisonment.When commercial encryption seemed unstoppable, in 1993 the Clinton administration proposed that anyone using encryption should fit an NSA designed microchip, codenamed Clipper, inside their phones or computers. Copies of the keys to decoding any information sent would be held by US government agencies.When the Clipper chip plan collapsed, the US government proposed first that alternative key "escrow systems" should be introduced - meaning that government agencies would still hold copies of everyone's secret keys. In a final attempt to win the world over, this plan was later renamed "key recovery" - meaning that non-government "trusted third parties" could hold the keys instead.
"The British decision effectively not to adopt this plan is the last nail in the coffin" according to David Banisar of the Electronic Privacy Information Center in Washington. For more than eight years, he and others have battled successive US government plans to keep personal communications visible to the Sigint agencies."If the British Government does go this way then key escrow really is dead," he said this week. 
Britain was first promised an early start in electronic commerce by the Conservative government in June 1996, as part of its Information Society initiative. Six months later, according to US diplomatic dispatches obtained by EPIC under the Freedom of Information Act, the US government appointed a special ambassador for cryptography, David Aaron, and sent him to lobby US allies to support its scheme.The released documents show that Aaron visited Britain on at least three occasions in late 1996 and early 1997, meeting with officials from the Cabinet Office, the trade department and GCHQ.  He told them: "Our goal is a world in which key recovery encryption systems are the dominant form of technology in the commercial market."Aaron's dispatches show that, despite claims by the US government that key recovery systems were designed to assist law enforcement, meetings were attended only by staff from the Sigint monitoring agencies. When he arrived in London he was accompanied by the Deputy Director of NSA, Dr James J Hearn, who was then the NSA senior liaison official to GCHQ. Police and Home Office representatives did not attend. When Aaron reported the results of his meetings in London, he sent them to the NSA - not the FBI, the US law enforcement agency.His lobbying was effective. In March 1997, Ian Taylor, then Science and Technology Minister, announced that Britain was going with the US and that it would be compulsory for 
anyone providing cryptography services to give keys to a government-run "central repository". New Labour was elected on a firm pledge to abandon the scheme - but then faced renewed lobbying by intelligence agencies and the US.But the delays drew the Government into a crisis. During 1998, country after country legislated for electronic commerce but not for key recovery. Even countries often inimical to privacy rights - like Singapore, Taiwan and France - have  abandoned the US cause.Pressure on the Government to make up its mind increased in January, when the Commons Select Committee on Trade and Industry began hearings on e-commerce. The committee has heard increasingly harsh criticisms of key recovery proposals from major IT figures. Starting next Wednesday, Trade Minister Michael Wills will be questioned in detail by the committee about future policy. 
A week ago, Ian Taylor, who first proposed key recovery, also recanted the US-backed policy. "I'm beginning to think I was wrong," he told Computing magazine. By the start of last week, new Labour had no choice but to make a clear decision, one way or the other.But in a last minute dither that is likely to please nobody and is being seen as cynical, Blair has asked the IT industry to sort out the problems police face by April 1. "He wants us to respond in three weeks when they've spent three years talking uselessly about key escrow," complained Tim Pearson, chairman of the UK Internet Service Providers' association.Pearson criticised the 
government for having failed to provide the police with a national centre of expertise for IT-related crime and criminal activity. ACPO, the Association of Chief Police Officers, says that a plan for a national centre is now being prepared. But the organisation fears that,despite the Prime Minister's exhortations last week, the government may not be prepared to make extra funds available to the police.
"If as a nation we can't afford the several millions of pounds per year to properly fund such a unit, why burden UK plc with many tens or hundreds of millions of pounds to maintain a key escrow system?" he asked.• Duncan Campbell is a freelance journalist, and not the Guardian's crime  correspondent of the same name
You wake up at 3 am to go to the bathroom and stop to check your e-mail on the way back to bed.You get a tattoo that reads "This body best viewed with Netscape Navigator 1.1 or higher."You name your children Eudora, Mozilla and Dotcom.You spend half of the plane trip with your laptop on your lap... and your child in the overhead compartment.You stay in college for an extra year or two, just for the free Internet access.You start using smilies in your snail mail :-)Your hard drive crashes, you haven't logged in for two hours. You start to twitch. You pick up the phone and manually dial your ISP's access number. You try to hum to communicate with the modem. . . and you succeed.You find yourself typing "com" after every period when using a word processor.comYou refer to going to the bathroom as downloading.You start introducing yourself as "dot at dot com".All of your friends have an @ in their names.You tell the cab driver you live at http://1000.edison.garden/house/brick.html.
You refer to your age as 3.x.You can't call your mother ... she doesn't have a modem.You check your mail. It says "no new messages". So you check it again.Your phone bill comes to your doorstep in a box.You kiss your girlfriend's home page.Your bookmark takes 15 minutes to scroll from top to bottom.Your glasses have a Web site burned in on them.You refuse to go to a holiday spot with no electricity and no phone lines.Your dreams are in HTML.You step out of your room and realise that your parents have moved and you don't have a clue when it happened.You turn on your intercom when leaving the room so you can hear if new e-mail arrives.Your wife drapes a blond wig over your monitor to remind you what she looks like.You tell the kids they can't use the computer because "Daddy's got work to do" and you don't even have a job.As your car crashes through the guardrail on a mountain road, your first instinct is to search for the "back" button.
Dr Jonathan Miller, neuroscientist and opera director, will be turning his powerful intellect to the problem of the human brain. Fleetwood High School students will be staging a presentation on why things float or sink in different media, and have impertinently called it Titanic And Branson. The University of Kent at Canterbury is doing an extravaganza on chemistry, called The Last Alchemist Presents The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy.Hams on the the Isle of Wight have set up a special radio call sign to mark the pioneer work of Sir John Ambrose Fleming, who invented the thermionic valve. Mike Maran - once with Uriah Heep, Steeleye Span and the Electric Light Orchestra - will perform Surely You're Joking, Mr Feynman in both London and Cambridge; a couple of percussionists will help him tell the entirely theatrical story of the bongo-playing, Nobel prizewinning, safecracking, raconteur and genius of quantum electrodynamics. Cambridge will field a 10-day programme which ranges from the horizons of the cosmologist and author Stephen Hawking to the real life adventures of Nasa astronauts and Mir cosmonauts; from the physics of boomerang throwing to an encounter with the "father of fractals", the mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot. It could only be national science week.Strictly speaking, SET 99, to be opened tomorrow with a governmental fanfare, is the National Week of Science, Engineering and Technology, and it is now in its sixth year. It began when the British Association for the Advancement of Science and Technology, an august body that has promoted science since about 1832, approached William Waldegrave, then Conservative science minister, and asked for a national week to celebrate British ingenuity."He said yes, but keep it small. So we did," says Brian Gamble of the British Association. Actually, there will be 7,000 events all over Britain from tomorrow until March 22. "Grandmothers and grandchildren will be popping up in unexpected places to see the wonders and career opportunities that are available and to find that science is actually very interesting and quite relevant to them - and they can enjoy themselves and nobody will complain. We reckon nationwide about 1.5 million people actually encounter science in the streets. Feedback from the public is: ‘Goodness we didn't realise it was that interesting. And scientists are actually quite nice people'," Gamble says. "This year we had a whole rash of amateur radio stations bursting in. We even have somebody called SET99 GB - all of these lonely radio hams sitting in their garden sheds telling everyone it's UK SET week."The argument about whether we call it SET week, science week or science and engineering week is raising its head again. We are quite happy to call it science week but then the engineers get the hump, don't they?"Official visitors from Austria and Croatia will be in Britain for SET week. "They don't have one and want to know how we do it," says Gamble. Professor Colin Blakemore, the Oxford neuroscientist, wants, quite literally, to know how we do it: he has organised a public debate on the human brain, and roped in Jonathan Miller, and Dr Susan Blackmore, the psychologist, and Professor Margaret Boden the artificial intelligence expert, to address the conundrum. The problems are almost stupefying, says Blakemore. The neurones in the human brain make a million billion connections. With activity on that scale, it's no good thinking of the human brain just as an ever-so-big computer. "The mere task of trying to define what all that might do is horrendous, and even the largest present day computer is minute, just microscopic, compared with the size of the brain," he says. "We have to see whether we need a new kind of mathematics to see how the brain works."Then there is a little philosophical difficulty: 
all the thinking about the human brain has to be done with the object itself under examination. "Are we up against a fundamental 
problem of understanding? My view is optimistic. We have always been able to advance in our knowledge by using 
the intellectual abilities of 
the most supreme members 
of the human species. Because Einstein was capable of conceiving what he did, 
now even sixth formers 
can get to grips with the 
theory of relativity," says 
Blakemore.But even if that works, there could be bigger problem yet, he says. "It is whether, with the issue of consciousness, we are up against the barriers of an unknown fundamental law of the universe: that the nature of subjective experience is just different from anything else in the physical universe. It could just be that we are left, as with the concept of infinity, or as with what there was before the Big Bang, just simply saying, ‘We recognise there is a problem here, we can't really get our minds around it. But at least we will recognise that there is a problem.'"Either way, he says, it is the most important challenge in science. "It tests the very nature of what we  are as human beings. Because what we are as human beings is undoubtedly the product of our brains."• Tim Radford will chair 
the debate: Can The Human Brain Understand The Human Brain? at 
6.30 pm at the ICA theatre 
in London on March 16.SET99 programmeor 
Science Line 0345 600 444
The Internet means the end of censorship, a conference on guerrilla journalism was told on Tuesday. "There has never been a successful attempt to censor the Net. It is very difficult to remove something once it is online," said Adam Powell, a vice president of the Freedom Forum (www.freedomforum.org), a US foundation promoting freedom of expression, at an international gathering of journalists and Web publishers in the forum's offices in London.Authoritarian regimes have a choice between censorship and development, Powell noted. "More and more, it is development that is winning. They want to restrict information but they have to give access to data for business development - which makes censorship much more difficult."Journalists from around the world described the power of the Net in resisting attempts to control the flow of information. Babafemi Ojudu, a Nigerian newspaper editor, turned his laptop into a mobile newsroom, travelling from one hiding place to another and filing 
stories to the Internet after the printed version of his paper was suppressed by the country's former regime.In the Middle East, journalists from several countries 
are co-operating in a site for uncensored newswww.amin.org. Daoud Kuttab, a 
Palestinian journalist, said: "There is a problem of 
censorship of local news, but papers can cover news of other Arab countries. Our aim is to break the censorship of local news by getting Jordanian news, for example, from Syria or Palestine."
The site allows journalists to exchange stories about each other's countries. Some 
journalists also file uncensored versions of their stories to the site, which can later be 
compared with the printed versions. "For the first time the traditional censorship of newspapers arriving across borders is becoming useless and worthless," Kuttab said.Broadcasters faced with censorship are also turning to the Internet. The Yugoslavian radio station, B92 (www. b92eng.opennet.org), had its transmitter shut down, but continued putting out audio programmes - often derived from smuggled cassettes - over the Internet. As a 
safeguard against sabotage, it has three mirror sites: in the US, the Netherlands and the Balkans.
Some of the new possibilities opened up by the Internet can be seen on a Gibraltar Web site (www.frontier.gibnet.gi), which has four live cameras - probably costing no more than $50 each - documenting hold-ups at the border. Powell said: "Think of the applications. You could also use them to monitor police stations, villages threatened with attack, and so on." The Spanish authorities have now blocked one of the cameras by putting up a screen in front of it, but other 
governments have found 
more sophisticated ways of fighting back.Internet users in Tunisia who look upAmnesty, for example, are likely to be directed to a site resembling that of Amnesty International, the agency that campaigns for human rights. But instead of seeing data documenting the country's poor record in the field, they will be offered descriptions of  the Tunisian government's wonderful achievements in human rights.Bogus press releases are another ploy. Several organisations, including Amnesty and the American Association for the Advancement of Science, now include digital signatures on e-mailed press releases so that they can be authenticated.Many authoritarian regimes restrict Internet access by allowing only one (state-
controlled) service provider, and often charge prices that are beyond the reach of all but businesses and a wealthy elite. The alternative for users is to dial up a service in a nearby country, which is also expensive.But whatever barriers they erect, ultimately there is no way to stop Web information reaching any corner of the world. The big question is how much of it actually filters through to a wider audience.
One view is that the 
information will get through if it is important enough. To beat the censor you need only one Web browser with a printer. But you also need an awful lot of photocopiers.
The Internet means the end of censorship, a conference on guerrilla journalism was told on Tuesday. "There has never been a successful attempt to censor the Net. It is very difficult to remove something once it is online," said Adam Powell, a vice president of the Freedom Forum (www.freedomforum.org), a US foundation promoting freedom of expression, at an international gathering of journalists and Web publishers in the forum's offices in London.Authoritarian regimes have a choice between censorship and development, Powell noted. "More and more, it is development that is winning. They want to restrict information but they have to give access to data for business development - which makes censorship much more difficult."Journalists from around the world described the power of the Net in resisting attempts to control the flow of information. Babafemi Ojudu, a Nigerian newspaper editor, turned his laptop into a mobile newsroom, travelling from one hiding place to another and filing 
stories to the Internet after the printed version of his paper was suppressed by the country's former regime.In the Middle East, journalists from several countries 
are co-operating in a site for uncensored newswww.amin.org. Daoud Kuttab, a 
Palestinian journalist, said: "There is a problem of 
censorship of local news, but papers can cover news of other Arab countries. Our aim is to break the censorship of local news by getting Jordanian news, for example, from Syria or Palestine."
The site allows journalists to exchange stories about each other's countries. Some 
journalists also file uncensored versions of their stories to the site, which can later be 
compared with the printed versions. "For the first time the traditional censorship of newspapers arriving across borders is becoming useless and worthless," Kuttab said.Broadcasters faced with censorship are also turning to the Internet. The Yugoslavian radio station, B92 (www. b92eng.opennet.org), had its transmitter shut down, but continued putting out audio programmes - often derived from smuggled cassettes - over the Internet. As a 
safeguard against sabotage, it has three mirror sites: in the US, the Netherlands and the Balkans.
Some of the new possibilities opened up by the Internet can be seen on a Gibraltar Web site (www.frontier.gibnet.gi), which has four live cameras - probably costing no more than $50 each - documenting hold-ups at the border. Powell said: "Think of the applications. You could also use them to monitor police stations, villages threatened with attack, and so on." The Spanish authorities have now blocked one of the cameras by putting up a screen in front of it, but other 
governments have found 
more sophisticated ways of fighting back.Internet users in Tunisia who look upAmnesty, for example, are likely to be directed to a site resembling that of Amnesty International, the agency that campaigns for human rights. But instead of seeing data documenting the country's poor record in the field, they will be offered descriptions of  the Tunisian government's wonderful achievements in human rights.Bogus press releases are another ploy. Several organisations, including Amnesty and the American Association for the Advancement of Science, now include digital signatures on e-mailed press releases so that they can be authenticated.Many authoritarian regimes restrict Internet access by allowing only one (state-
controlled) service provider, and often charge prices that are beyond the reach of all but businesses and a wealthy elite. The alternative for users is to dial up a service in a nearby country, which is also expensive.But whatever barriers they erect, ultimately there is no way to stop Web information reaching any corner of the world. The big question is how much of it actually filters through to a wider audience.
One view is that the 
information will get through if it is important enough. To beat the censor you need only one Web browser with a printer. But you also need an awful lot of photocopiers.
Wind farms of the future could be run by intelligent turbines that learn the best way to generate electricity and still keep themselves working. A Danish company is developing turbines with brains - or at least with neural networks.Research on a 1MW turbine has shown improved efficiency of up to 10 per cent - enough to make a difference in a highly competitive market. "Our industry is so pressurised by cost demands that a few per cent is worth taking," says Henrik Stiesdal, Technical Director for Bonus Energy which is developing the system.Stiesdal presented the intelligent turbine at this year's European Wind Energy Conference in Nice last week. Although wind energy is a fast-growing area - Europe has seen a 40 per cent annual growth in the industry since 1991 - it is still a relatively small concern. European wind turbines produce only 6,000 MW of electricity every year, equivalent to just a couple of nuclear power stations. At the moment wind energy is only slightly more expensive than energy from coal and gas. Every improvement in efficiency, Stiesdal says, brings wind energy closer to competing with the major energy producers.
The intelligent turbine responds to changing wind conditions. Sensors embedded in the blades at strategic points measure the stress and strain on the machine. They send this information to a neural network that has been "trained" as a turbine using a simulator.The network then changes the angle of the blades and the speed of the generator  to keep the machine operating efficiently and safely. Constant feedback about performance  allows the network to optimise the turbine for life in the real world."It implements the kind of behaviour that was best in the simulator, but it also observes the real-life consequences," Stiesdal says. "After a while it learns the best way to act when something changes." 
As well as improving the electricity generating efficiency, Bonus's intelligent turbine will also reduce maintenance problems, since the action of the blades is optimised for reduced stress and strain. This is important  as  wind turbines need to be as robust as possible. Most wind farms are in remote or largely inaccessible locations, so service visits have to be kept to a minimum."These machines operate without attendance for months," says Stiesdal. "Generally, it's a half-year interval - 3,000 operating hours - between service visits. You would certainly never ask that of your car."In the Bonus system, each of the three blades on a turbine can be given individual settings. On a wind farm most blades operate in the wake of other turbines, and this can drastically affect the system's performance and stability. The neural network is able to compensate for these effects, even if they change during one revolution.If the wake from another turbine hits a blade only at certain points in its cycle, the stress on the blade will be varying constantly. The intelligent turbine can alter the pitch of the blades during revolution so as to minimise the impact of this varying load. "This is very important for the lifetime of the machine," Stiesdal says.Artificial intelligence could soon be applied to increase 
the efficiency of machines, making them twice as 
powerful as ordinary machines. At the Nice 
conference Stiesdal unveiled  the biggest commercial 
turbine yet: a 2MW machine with a 70m-diameter rotor. 
Its tower stands 60m high, only 10m higher than the 
average commercial turbine which produces half the power. This could help with one of the industry's biggest problems: aesthetics."Our industry does have visual impact problems, and big machines have an advantage: you only need half as many of these," Stiesdal says. "This is very much a driving factor in the industry."
Would you be better off if the line from your home to the telephone exchange was controlled by a co-operative board instead of BT.The answer is yes, according to a plan presented this week to theOftel, the telecoms regulator, by the Campaign forUnmetered Telecommunications, a non-profit group lobbying for US-style free local calls.Oftel is consulting on affordable access to high-bandwidth Internet and video. CUT's plan focuses on the "local loop" - the copper wiring linking 85 per cent of homes and businesses to the telecoms system.The local loop runs only narrowband services, but Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) technology  in testing will use the same wires to transmit data at up to 2Mb per second. To ensure fair competition for the new services, Oftel has suggested five regulatory options, including "local loop unbundling" - access to the loop by rival firms to attach their own DSL or other equipment, managed at the exchange by BT.CUT technical officer Nick Mailer says the US experience with unbundling has revealed conflicts of interest, such as competitors finding the loop owner was slow to carry out repairs. "Complaints are made to the regulator but it takes many months for a ruling to be made," he says.CUT is proposing that the Government pays compensation to BT  and transfers ownership of the loop to a co-operative board with representation from the telecommunications industry, users, regulators and the public sector. The model copies non-profit Internet bodies like the London Internet Exchange (www.linx.net).Mailer says this would even benefit BT by relieving its "schizophrenic burden" of juggling competitor access with its drive to compete.CUT says the proof the current system is dysfunctional lies in high charges for improved Internet access using BT's Home Highway service. With true competition others would be offering the service cheaper.BT says extension of competition rules such as "carrier pre-selection", which enables customers to use other companies over BT lines, will ensure a fair deal. Its full response will be posted on theOftel Web site.
Linuxworld, the first big trade show for the Linux operating system, was held in San Jose, California, last week. Richard Stallman's GNU (GNU's Not Unix) organisation used it to launch Gnome 1.0 (GNU Network Object Model Environment), a user-friendly graphical interface developed by Mexican programmer Miguel de Icaza and about 250 supporters of free software around the world. (Gnome will be added to Red Hat's GNU/Linux software or can be downloaded from www.gnome. org) Highlight of the show was a talk by penguin-loving Finn, Linus Torvalds (above), lead developer of the Linux operating system core. He told the crowd: "It's no longer a small Unix, it's up there with the big boys and the big boys are nervous."Tongue in cheek, he also said: "Don't get caught up with the hype. We want to take over the world, but we don't have to do it tomorrow. It's OK by next week."IE5, THE next version of Microsoft's Internet Explorer Web browser, will be launched next Wednesday. In a break with tradition, it is expected that versions for Windows 3.1, 95,  98, NT 3.51, NT 4.0, Sun Solaris (Unix) and HP-UX (Unix) will be released at the same time, though Apple Mac users will have to wait. The Windows code seems stable (it has been on test since  June) and will presumably be added to the next release of Windows 98.Microsofthas announced BizTalk, intended to help small companies sell things via their Web sites. The framework is based on three new products, Microsoft BizTalk Server, Commerce Server, and Small Business Commerce Services, none of which has yet been released for testing. In the US, MasterCard International and Clarus Corporation will provide BizTalk's payment services. Microsoft announced Passport, described as "a single sign-in and registration system intended to make it easier for consumers to log on to Web sites while protecting their personal information". Luckily this announcement was made before it emerged that users registering Windows 98 online were "inadvertently" sending Microsoft a number that would identify their PCs. That might have made it tricky to answer pointed questions such as: If consumers have to trust someone with personal information, why pick Microsoft?Ina damagelimitation exercise, Yusuf Mehdi, director of Windows marketing, posted what amounted to an apology on Microsoft's Web site saying, in a rough paraphrase, that they didn't realise they were doing it, they don't know if they've got the information in a database, and they'll change the Windows registration wizard so it doesn't do it in future. In other words, rather than some sort of Machiavellian plot, this was nothing more than incompetence. Probably not even Mehdi thinks that explanation is going to convince an Internet populated by conspiracy rather than cock-up theorists, but what else was he going to say? "Sorry, guv, you got us bang to rights there"?X-stream, which claims to be the UK's first successful supplier of a free Internet service, is celebrating its first birthday by making access completely free - an 0800 number means there no phone charges either. To pay for the service, users have to download X-Stream software that displays adverts in their Web browser. It's planned to run the free service from midnight Friday to midnight Sunday over the next three week-ends (March 12, 19 and 26). Access software can bedownloadedor call 0800 358 5678 for a CD-Rom.Riscos Ltdhas been formed to complete the development of Acorn's Risc OS 4 operating system, independently of The Company Formerly Known As Acorn, now called Element 14, after silicon. Paul Middleton, Riscos's managing director, reckons that, with access to the source code, it should be possible to remove the operating system's dependence on proprietary chips such as the IOMD and VIDC input/output and video chips in Acorn computers. This would make it easier for new companies to enter the hardware market. Riscos has a long and venerable tradition. It started as Arthur on the Acorn Archimedes (the name was apparently derived from ARchimedes by THURsday) and was used to control Doctor Who's spaceship, the Tardis.TAFKAP(The Artist Formerly Known As Prince) has filed three federal lawsuits against Web sites distributing bootleg copies of his music or using his image or trademarked symbol to sell other goods. Sadly, the lawsuit doesn't tell us what name the purple squiggle surfs under.
Are computers important?... for you?... for the world in general?Computers are sort of dominating my life and sometimes I want my life back! This is only because in the last 15 years so many conventional forms of work have eased their way over to the PC. Music production now involves a lot of  sitting andstaring at a computer screen. For the world in general... well, try thinking back to when there weren't computers!Does the Internet threaten or enhance individual freedom?Never seen the Internet and individual freedom as connected. You have the freedom to log on and the freedom to log off except for the addiction/compulsion side of things.Do you use an Apple Mac or a PC?I think the platform is irrelevant. It's the job that you're doing that's important  and anybody who flies one flag or the other is a bit of an anorak saddo really! At the moment most of my work is done on IBM platform.What do you use the machine for?In the workplace I have one dedicated to making music, one in the office, which is part of a network, that I use for e-mail and day-to-day stuff. I've also got one at home which I mainly use for Web development and graphics.Any particular favourite software?Sonic Foundry's Sound Forge &#91;sound editing software&#93; and Cubase VST &#91;a virtual recording studio&#93; are not really particular favourites but they are what I use everyday. In the office Microsoft Outlook and for graphics and Web stuff Macromedia Fireworks is fast becoming a favourite. I've got loads of little weird things that nobody ever uses but I'm trying to avoid looking like too much of an anorak here - which is, of course exactly what you want!Any favourite Web sites? or news groups on UseNet? If I've got a problem with my server or problems with particular pieces of software or hardware, UseNet is where to find the answer. Post a message saying, "What the .... is going on here?" and someone will always help you.Do you get into dialogues with strangers on the Net?Have done, yeah! Having our own chatroom on the Cocteau Twins Web site sort of helps that. I'm not very narcissistic but every so often I'll drop in just to see that people are still there and then lurk about a bit, see what people are saying.Do you use your own name when surfing?Yeah.Spend long at the terminal?I have been known to!!Are you a geek? Got any favourite geeks?I have got favourite geeks but I can't tell you who they are! I probably am a geek because I do spend a lot of time with my computer. I find the term a bit degrading because in my book a geek isn't a term of flattery!On a desert island, a human or a computer for company? Which year?Has the island got a connection?Professionally, what's taking up your time?I'm in the middle of producing a Japanese pop group called Yu-Ra and shortly starting work on an album with Simon ( Raymonde ) who was also in the Cocteau Twins . We also recently started a record label,Bella Union, which we run from our studioSeptember Soundsand we set up Web sites for both.
The future of the video games market belongs to a Japanese company with a four-letter name beginning with S. Until last week, it sounded like Sega. But after a "technology  preview" of the PlayStation 2 at the Tokyo International Forum in Japan, few in the trade will bet against it being Sony. The response to the demonstration by Ken Kutaragi, Sony Computer Entertainment's executive vice president, could be described only as rapturous.Jez San, managing director of north London-based games developer Argonaut Software, said: "It could take over the world, this machine, it really could. The processor is more powerful than the fastest &#91;Intel&#93; Pentium III you can buy, the graphics chip is more powerful than the fastest workstation you can buy. It's not just an incremental improvement, it's a huge leap forward."San is an expert on video game graphics. His company's string of hits includes Croc for the PlayStation and Star Fox/Lylat Wars for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES) and Nintendo 64 consoles. He's not often impressed, but the PlayStation 2 managed it.Where today's PlayStation has a 33MHz processor and a bus (data highway) that can handle 132 megabytes of data per second, the PlayStation 2 will have a 300 megahertz processor and a memory bus bandwidth of 3,200Mb per second. That's roughly a 10-fold performance improvement over the five-year-old PlayStation.But like all games consoles, the PlayStation 2 really depends on special graphics processing chips: in this case, a 128-bit "Emotion Engine" that Sony and Toshiba unveiled at the International Solid State Circuits Conference in California last month. Since 3-D games are the result of drawing and shading huge numbers of polygons, performance depends on how many  a system can render. The PlayStation can manage about 300,000 polygons per second, while Sega's Dreamcast will render more than 3 million. For the PlayStation 2, Sony is claiming 66 million or more. 
So how has Sony done it?"There's no magic," says San, "these chips are absolutely massive. They've packed the biggest chips they could build with the most electronic circuits they could come up with. The leap is getting them down to a consumer price point."The PlayStation 2 represents a huge gamble that will pay off only if it sells in vast quantities. The development cost, including chip production facilities and software tools for games developers, will come to around $500 million, says Sony. If it sells five million PlayStation 2s, it will never get back the development cost of $100 per unit. If it sells 50 million, that drops to only $10 per unit.Sony hasn't given any target figures, but it has sold 50 million PlayStations, and must be hoping to shift more than 100 million PlayStation 2s (the PlayStation 2 will still run PlayStation games).
Glen O'Connell, spokesman for Psygnosis, a Sony-owned games developer in Liverpool, says the PlayStation was more successful than Sony expected because it changed the market. Earlier games consoles had been aimed mainly at children aged between nine and 12."The PlayStation has gone much wider than games enthusiasts," says O'Connell. "It's become a lifestyle accessory. It's bought by people who've got their own disposable income, and it's installed next to the video and hi-fi, not just in kids' bedrooms."Argonaut's San thinks this market shift has been a strong influence on the design of the PlayStation 2. "It's obviously their play to become the interactive device in the home." It will play DVD movies, as well as CDs. And like Sony's latest PCs, the PlayStation 2 has high speed USB (Universal Serial Bus) and 1394 (also known as i.Link and FireWire) communications ports for  VCRs, video cameras and home networking systems.This could be bad news for Sega. Frederick Diot, a games industry analyst with Datamonitor in London, says the preview has cast a shadow over Dreamcast, the next-generation consumer appliance Sega launched in Japan last year.In the early 1990s, Sega dominated in the games market, and Sonic the Hedgehog, a character in its best-selling games, became famous. But when the market moved on from cartridge-based games to CDs, Sega's machines were trounced by the PlayStation, so it went back to the drawing board.Sega designed Dreamcast around a 200MHz Hitachi SH-4 processor and a new 128-bit 3-D graphics engine based on the PowerVR system developed by Britain's VideoLogic and Japan's NEC. At its unveiling last May, Sega's chairman Isao Okawa said: "I am confident that Dreamcast will become a de facto standard for the future of digital entertainment."  Where all previous games consoles had used their own operating system, Dreamcast used Microsoft's Windows CE (originally, consumer electronics), which provided easy access to the Internet via an optional modem, and online gaming capabilities. It also meant Dreamcast programs could be written using Windows development tools, opening the market to tens of thousands of PC programmers. And it offered the prospect of a games machine that could be upgraded like a PC.The problem is that Sega is still hyping last year's technology, while Sony is promising next year's.
Bernie Stolar, president of Sega of America, made a belated attempt to redress the balance in a 20-minute telephone conference call on Friday. He said Dreamcast was a "living system" that would evolve with new technologies as they became available, and would feature DVD rather than a CD-Rom drive when the market was ready."On paper, Sony's machine sounds impressive," Stolar admitted, "but the fact is, it's still on paper. Sega Dreamcast is here now. Frankly, Sony really has their work cut out for them. Creating a machine with the specs they unveiled on Tuesday and supporting it with a strong line-up of games with a launch just a year away will be a challenge. While Sony is working to create that hardware, Sega will already be in the marketplace with Dreamcast building our installed base and developing an impressive library of games."Well, Dreamcast may be out in Japan but it isn't in Britain, the US or Europe. (The launch is expected on a memorable date: 9/9/99.) But it is true that, as Nintendo's slogan claims, "the name of the game is games".The best hardware doesn't win, because anyone who waits a few months can always come up with better technology. The video games market is littered with the corpses of companies that played the "best technology" card, including Atari (Jaguar 64), Commodore (CD-32) and 3DO (REAL Multiplayer). That doesn't mean good technology isn't important, but that companies also have to get the production, marketing and distribution right, and they have to offer great games.Sony's PlayStation triumph was based on its superb planning and execution in production, distribution and marketing and its skills as a consumer electronics giant. As a newcomer to the games scene, its disadvantage was that it didn't have Sega's arcade hits to draw on, nor a figure like Nintendo's Sigeru Miyamoto,  developer of games like Super Mario Brothers. To make up for that, it bought a leading British software house, Psygnosis, to develop early hits like WipEout and Destruction Derby, and it worked hard to win the hearts of the independent software houses, who have since given the PlayStation the biggest selection of console games.Sony's Alan Wellsman, director of marketing who launched the PlayStation in the UK, doesn't want us to get too enthusiastic about the PlayStation 2 yet. Sony has made "a technical announcement, but there's no release date, no release strategy, and no development machines to send to software houses", he says.And as Sony trumped Dreamcast, Nintendo will certainly try to trump the PlayStation 2. Last week in  Italy, Howard Lincoln, president of Nintendo of America, said he would announce something more powerful than the PlayStation 2 before the end of the year.Nonetheless, the signs from Tokyo are that what worked last time will work again. No company has ever  dominated two generations of games consoles, but at the moment it looks as though Sony will do it.March of the machinesGames consoles typically have a life-span of five or six years before new machines make them obsolete. The result is "boom and bust" cycles that make the games industry exciting but hazardous to everyone's financial health. The main players are:Atari, from Sunnyvale, California, started the boom in electronic arcade games and dominated the first 4-bit generation of home games consoles with the Atari VCS (Video Computer System) launched in 1977. Its 64-bit console, the Jaguar 64, and the Lynx, a handheld machine with a colour screen both failed. At its peak, Atari's turnover was more than $2 billion a year.Nintendo, a manufacturer of Japanese playing cards, diversified into the games console business in 1983, after producing handheld Game &amp; Watch systems. Its 8-bit Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) dominated the second generation of consoles. Nintendo also pioneered the handheld games 
market - which it still dominates - with the GameBoy. The success of the NES made it slow to move to the next generation with the 16-bit Super NES, and its attempt to leap a generation with the Nintendo 64 in 1996 has had limited success.Sega (from Service and Games) was founded in Japan in 1951 as a manufacturer of coin-operated amusement machines. It now runs hi-tech arcades in many countries. Its 16-bit MegaDrive console, launched in the US as the Genesis in 1989, dominated the third generation of home games consoles. However, Sega fluffed the transition to machines based on CD-Rom discs, and its 
Saturn system was trounced by the Sony PlayStation.Sony, best known for the Walkman stereo, entered the games market with the 32-bit PlayStation in 1994-95. It wiped the floor with Sega and Nintendo, and, with PlayStation 2, could become the first company to dominate two generations of games machines.Second that emotionSony calls the processor at the heart of the PlayStation 2 the "Emotion Engine", but any emotional stimulation will be provided by software, not hardware.So Sony has signed a deal withAnimation Scienceto produce versions of Rampage and Outburst, it's 2-D and 3-D "behaviour engines", for the PlayStation 2. Eyal Cohen, president and chief executive officer of Animation Science, says theprograms are widely used in the "high-end animation market, for film and television. The effects you see today in the movies, you'll see in the next generation PlayStation".Animation's rule-based programs are designed to give realistic effects in a wide range of applications, including flocking (large numbers of creatures moving together) and effects such as smoke, dust, fire, and snow."Our software is based on physics," says Cohen, "so when we do a simulation of rain or an explosion, we use the laws of nature. Sony thinks that you can create emotion by showing things that look like real life. You don't get that in games today, and it limits the emotional impact a game can have. " 
The fact that the programs are based on physics doesn't mean they are constrained by physics, says Cohen.Programmers can define new rules or modify the physics-based rules to produce realistic images of "unreal life", such as a war between Earthlings and Martians.March of the machinesGames consoles typically have a life-span of five or six years before new machines make them obsolete. The result is "boom and bust" cycles that make the games industry exciting but hazardous to everyone's financial health. The main players are:Atari, from Sunnyvale, California, started the boom in electronic arcade games and dominated the first 4-bit generation of home games consoles with the Atari VCS (Video Computer System) launched in 1977. Its 64-bit console, the Jaguar 64, and the Lynx, a handheld machine with a colour screen both failed. At its peak, Atari's turnover was more than $2 billion a year.Nintendo, a manufacturer of Japanese playing cards, diversified into the games console business in 1983, after producing handheld Game &amp; Watch systems. Its 8-bit Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) dominated the second generation of consoles. Nintendo also pioneered the handheld games 
market - which it still dominates - with the GameBoy. The success of the NES made it slow to move to the next generation with the 16-bit Super NES, and its attempt to leap a generation with the Nintendo 64 in 1996 has had limited success.Sega (from Service and Games) was founded in Japan in 1951 as a manufacturer of coin-operated amusement machines. It now runs hi-tech arcades in many countries. Its 16-bit MegaDrive console, launched in the US as the Genesis in 1989, dominated the third generation of home games consoles. However, Sega fluffed the transition to machines based on CD-Rom discs, and its 
Saturn system was trounced by the Sony PlayStation.Sony, best known for the Walkman stereo, entered the games market with the 32-bit PlayStation in 1994-95. It wiped the floor with Sega and Nintendo, and, with PlayStation 2, could become the first company to dominate two generations of games machines.
"Eve is probably older than you think," says Adam Eyre-Walker of the University of Sussex. He and colleagues at the Centre for the Study of Evolution have just published research which casts serious doubt on one of the main methods used to trace human lineage.This method looks at  mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). Mitochondria, the power houses of the cell, have their ownDNA, and reproduce like bacteria. They are passed on in the egg cell and their DNA was presumed to be inherited only from the mother. So variations between individuals' mtDNA could only be the result of mutations accumulated in maternal lineages since divergence from a common ancestor. Similarities would indicate close common maternal ancestry.Information on mtDNA has been used to build up evolutionary trees to show how different human groups are related and when they might have diverged. DNA tends to evolve at a relatively constant rate so the mtDNA "clock" has been calibrated by comparing humans to chimps. On the basis of fossil and other evidence, we were pretty sure  these two lines diverged about 6 million years ago. All human mtDNA is remarkably similar and the differences between the most divergent mtDNA sequences were thought to be the result of about 200,000 years of evolution. This has led to the widely-held view that we all have a common female ancestor (Eve?) who lived in Africa.Now, Eyre-Walker, Noel Smith and John Maynard Smith, writing in the current Proceedings of the Royal Society of London, series B (Biological Sciences), have cast doubt on the assumption that mtDNA is inherited only from the mother. Using human mtDNA sequences, as well as material from a number of apes, they found homoplasies (genetic similarities between diverged members of the tree, where they should not be) at about 8-10 times the frequency that would be expected from random mutation.The best explanation is that there has been sexual recombination of the DNA  involving mtDNA from the male parent. Recent research has shown that mitochondria from the sperm can enter the egg and that they contain the necessary enzymes.In the same journal, other researchers have come to a similar conclusion on the basis of work on the mtDNA in the human population of a Melanesian island.This has far reaching repercussions as mtDNA has been used extensively in the study of human evolution. In much of this work, clonal inheritance has been assumed and so the conclusions will have to be reassessed. We may even have to revise opinions about our relationship with the Neanderthals. Data will be harder to understand as recombination makes the mtDNA in separated lineages look more similar than it should do. So, says Mr Eyre-Walker, the differences we see may be older than we thought. As may Eve.
If music be the food of love, log on." Okay, those weren't quite William Shakespeare's words but with music breaking out all over the Net they could be yours. All you need is a Net connection, multimedia PC and some free software.Internet music comes in two styles: local and streaming. Local music is downloaded into your PC and then played. It's the network equivalent of a record: you have to get the whole thing before you can listen to it. Streaming music is downloaded as it is needed in real time. This is great for live broadcasts or when you want to start listening to Wagner's Ring Cycle without waiting for the whole thing to download. On the other hand, downloading complete pieces of music is good if you want to play them over and over again.Just like records, CDs and tapes, PC music comes in three major formats: WAV, MP3 and RealAudio.
WAV, or wave, files are a simple PC sound files. Windows uses WAV for its beeps, whistles and "You've got mail"s. Go to Control Panel and double-click on Sounds for a list of sounds.The Windows Media Player (included with Windows 98) and available fromwww.microsoft.com/windows/mediaplayerplays them automatically. Try searching Yahoo! for WAV or visitwww.jukeboxcentral.com.
The main disadvantage with WAV files is their size. For example, the 59-second theme tune for the TV program, The Dukes Of Hazzard, comes in at 2.5 megabytes and on a good day takes 12 minutes to download on a 28.8 kilobits/second modem.MP3, which stands for MPEG Audio Layer 3, is an advanced compression technique that creates small files with near CD quality. Technical wizards can read  details atwww.mpeg.orgThe site also gives details of software for platforms such as Macs and Amigas. To play MP3 files either use Windows Media Player or download a player like the cool .Sonique software.Once you have a player, you need to get the files, either from the Net or your own CDs. Two starting points arewww.mp3.comwhere you'll find information and a huge collection of legal MP3 files andwww.mp3.lycos.coma search engine dedicated to finding MP3 files on the Net. MP3.com makes available free, legal MP3 files from artists wanting the exposure. Visit the music sectionwww.mp3.com/musicOf course, downloading a ripped-off version of, say, the All Saints' Never Ever is the digital equivalent of bootlegging (bitlegging?). But MP3.com advises a legal alternative: buy the CD  then use a "ripper" to create an MP3 file for your own use.Download MusicMatchwww.musicmatch.com, pop a CD in your computer and start converting. Other rippers can be found atwww.mp3.com/software/windows/cdrippers.htmlIf you have a CD writer then you can create your own greatest hits CD from a collection of MP3 files.
Alternatively, Diamond Multimediawww.diamondmm.comhas a portable MP3 player, the Rio PMP300, capable of storing up to 60 minutes of digital music with no moving parts. 
Connect the cigarette pack-sized player to your PC, download music into it. Then carry it around like a Walkman. You can buy one online from Diamond Multimedia for $199.95 (around £125).The popular streaming format RealAudio is used for many online radio stations and special events. Use Windows Media Player or go towww.real.comto get the Real Player to listen to RealAudio. Then visit www.real.com/realguide/ music/index.html to find sources of live music.Streaming converts a piece of music into a digital "groove", sending just the part of the groove needed in time for it to appear under the digital needle in the PC's player.  When the Internet is congested or your connection is slow the player tells the site  to alter the speed or quality it sends to ensure that the right part is played at the right time.A popular source of music are radio stations that broadcast live on the Net. Many radio stations provide a streaming version of their output, thus increasing their range by thousands of miles. 
With RealAudio, expats around the world can get a dose of wireless nostalgia across the Net. Go to www.timecast.com/ stations/index.html to find stations.You can listen to Virgin Radio,www.virginradio.co.uk/radio.html, theBBC World Serviceand even local Ipswich stationSGR, from any Internet PC. Internet broadcaster Broadcast.com has many live and pre-recorded music events. Start atwww.broadcast.com/musicAnd for those of you who can't live with out a bit of video with your music there'swww.broadcast.comNaturally, Microsoft has a competing streaming system. ASF or Advanced Streaming Format is understood by the Windows Media Player and a large number of music events can be found on the Microsoft Network,Just click on Music.• John Graham-Cumming designs software to manage computer networks. This is the seventh in a series of articles about living with the Net
A call for "lifelong learning" echoes from the Chancellor's perch in parliament as more (and more) investment is promised to raise levels of technological knowledge and expertise. The rekindled interest in technology follows the Government's much delayed statement on the future of e-commerce and its re-assertion of an arbitrary target to have a quarter of UK citizens and business dealing electronically with official agencies by 2002. E-commerce was doomed to haunt New Labour after it backtracked on pre-election promises to relax rules covering encryption of online communications, citing reasons of national security and law enforcement.While the Government wasn't bothered about upsetting the Net's privacy lobby, it hadn't counted on getting on the wrong side of business, too. The latest statement offers an olive branch to business, by suggesting that Government demands for authority over communications could be eased . . . but only if business brains can come up with a satisfactory solution. Satisfactory to Government, that is. And in an effort to show how serious it is after nearly three years of internal debate, the Government sets a deadline for consultation of just three weeks. Privacy for the average citizen will be dealt with another time, presumably. Meanwhile, amiable ex-footballer, Vinnie Jones, whose off-ball skills were matched only by testicular cancer specialists, turns up in OnLine's office looking for a credit for a new online video film store. That'swww.blackstar.co.uk(and happy to oblige, naturally).
The wheel thing?Investigating the second-hand tyre market, Auto Express magazine bought 15 from independent traders and scrap dealers in London, Glasgow, Manchester, West Yorkshire and the West Midlands, for as little as £5. And of the 15, the number found to be illegal was...15. Could be a false economy.Girl powerYet more evidence that women are better drivers than men: of nearly 200,000 people who called the AA for motor insurance quotes, 16.9 per cent of men had at least one driving conviction compared to just 11.5 per cent of women. Meaning men are 50 per cent more likely to have done something wrong than women.Knowing me, knowing carsIt seems they could have finally found a Clarkson replacement for Top Gear: Brendan 'Brother of Steve' Coogan. Brendan, four years younger than Steve, has presented the Channel 5 programme: The Mag. He seems ideal for the job - in an interview for the Mirror he described his car/transportation as 'the number 17 bus'.Quote of the Week'Honda has decided to become a sort of automotive Eagle Eye Cherry, a snow-boarding 'yoof' with a chiselled jaw and a torso the shape of Dairylea cheese. Its new car is aimed at Britain's drug-crazed youngsters, perhaps why it's called the High Riding Vehicle, or HR-V. Great name - only two stops down the line from the Honda HRT homeland.' Jeremy Clarkson, Sunday Times.
What are you driving?A Toyota Rav 4, a little silver jeep. People are always taking the mickey out of my car.It's all a bit modish, isn't it?They say it's a Chelsea cruiser or a hairdresser's car: a flash person's idea of a country car, not a real country car. It's very good for where my family has a house, in South Wales; for all its city looks it is a four-wheel drive. It's very nippy, and it gets me very high off the ground.What state is it in?I've just had it valeted. I'm not too bad with litter. But the great thing is the two wells where you can put cappuccinos. But it's taken me a while to get to use them. Twice, I've put them on the floor, and they've fallen off. The smell of milk is horrendous and takes forever to go away.What do you think it says about you?I'm nippy and racy - which is one of my nicknames at work. My name's R Lacey, so it's stuck. I haven't been able to shake that for two years.How would you describe your driving?Too fast. But I generally think of myself as a good driver.What do you do if someone cuts you up?Probably swear, not badly though. Maybe shout 'idiot'. I'm not the type who winds down a window and goes for it. If someone puts grief my way, I just drive on. Life's too short.Do you get recognised?No. Everyone at work says they know it's my car, but not because they can see me. I'm too short, so they can't see me behind that high wheel.Have you ever had sex in a car?No I haven't. So there's something to look forward to.
Come midnight on December 31, people all over the country will be welcoming in the new millennium with a bang. But for those who own the 5.3 million cars still running on leaded petrol this bang could quickly turn into something of a phut-phut, because on January 1, 2000, the retail sale of leaded petrol will finally be banned in Britain.Although it has been said that a small supply of leaded fuel will be available to owners of classic cars (we don't yet know what the definition of 'classic car' will be), this move could spell the end not only for classic models but potentially for anything made before 1992.Apparently not, according to Dave May, Manager of the AA's Technical Advice Department, who says three million cars currently using leaded petrol could switch to unleaded either immediately or after a small engine adjustment. Most Japanese cars have been able to run on unleaded since 1978 but through lack of knowledge and advice some owners have continued to pay heavily for the less environmentally friendly fuel.'The owner of an older model Nissan Micra who drove the annual average mileage of 12,000 miles during the last three years will have spent nearly £900 extra by sticking to four star,' May says. An engine re-tune, costing £15-30, could be all that's necessary for some cars made in the late 1980s to switch.The issue becomes more complex with older, classic cars. Engine modification, lead replacement petrol, and petrol additives all enter the equation. MG specialist Robert Dicks of MG Motoring in Kilburn, north London, explains that lead found its way into petrol because it is a lubricant: 'Without it the fuel can cause the valve seats and valve guides to burn away... you will lose compression and power.'To convert an engine for unleaded it's necessary to replace the old valves and valve seats in the cylinder head with those made of a material that isn't reliant on lead as a lubricant. Dicks sees engine modification as the best approach if you intend to run your car for years to come. He says unleaded cylinder heads for an MGB can be bought and fitted for around £350 plus VAT - £200 parts, £150 labour - and, if planned, shouldn't involve being without your car for more than a couple of days. With more valves, the more expensive the process could be.There is still a certain mystery attached to additised pump fuel (LRP). It is not yet freely available and it might end up costing the same as four star if the Chancellor tries to recoup the income lost through culling this particular cash cow. This leaves petrol additives as the final alternative to leaded fuel, which involves using an additive in conjunction with unleaded petrol from the pump. There are likely to be four main brands of additive, each based on a different chemical composition, so it'll be important to stick to one brand.Dosing your car with additive sounds quite straightforward, but May points out that the faster and harder you push your engine, the higher the dose of additive you'll need. For ambling around town a dose of 250ml per tank will be fine, but motorway driving will double that. Not a perfect solution for the spontaneous motorist. The savings are negated by the cost of the supplement.If none of these sound appealing, you could always just fill up with unleaded and see what happens. Both Dicks and May are sceptical, however. 'If you run a leaded petrol car on unleaded fuel, sooner or later something's going to seize up or burn out,' says Dicks, 'and if the cylinder head is damaged beyond being re-conditionable, you'll end up paying a surcharge if you do eventually have it replaced.'No option is likely to be cheap but, if determined to keep your car on the road, beware of miracle cures in the form of pellets for the petrol tank, as neither the AA nor the MG Owner's club is willing to recommend this type of product to members.
Jackson Pollock did it, in a Ford; James Dean did it, in a Porsche; even Princess Grace did it, in a Rover - died in a car crash. Celebrity car crashes are strange, gawpish things. They haunt the imagination, popular and private. There's the suddenness, the brutality, human and machine, oil and blood, fatally congealed - carnage. The 'there but the grace of God' factor. The infinite sadness.Some stars are almost as well known for their violent, car-induced deaths as for the films they starred in or the songs they sang. Like Marc Bolan - inspired seventies songster or simply a spangled, tousle-haired young guy who died when his Mini crashed into a tree on Barnes Common?Or Jayne Mansfield - a second Marilyn Monroe, star of The Girl Can't Help It, or just a curvacious blonde decapitated by a passing car when leaning out of hers on the road to New Orleans? Or James Dean again. The infamous crash in a Porsche 550 after that famous sulk. The star of Rebel Without a Cause and Giant, teenage icon, or just a moody young driver out of control in an exotic sports car that demanded a surer hand than his?The list is as long as you want it or can bear it to be. Eddie Cochran (C'mon Everybody), Ford Zephyr, crashed on the old A4 near Swindon. Princess Diana, underpass, Paris, Mercedes-Benz. Lawrence of Arabia, Brough Superior motorbike, near Bovingdon Camp, Dorset. Albert Camus, Facel-Vega, driven by publisher. Jan Berry, of Jan and Dean who sang Dead Man's Curve about a fatal race between an XK-E and a Corvette; injured for life after a smash.Sad, you might think, but so what? Each year about 3,600 drivers and passengers die on British roads. A further 45,000 pedestrians are killed or hurt. Pure chance, then, if a smash-up doesn't kill but turns you into a Department of Transport casualty statistic. Or is it? Are some people more likely to die than others?Those with heart conditions or other bodily malfunctions aside, is there a type or types - rock stars, Hollywood heart-throbs, national idols, for example - for whom sudden, violent death is more prevalent than for prosaic chaps who live quietly and drive cautiously in regularly serviced and lovingly polished Austin Montegos and Ford Fiestas?And is there some curious relationship between makes and models of cars and a predisposition towards violent death on the road? Before you say 'nonsense, it's largely fate, assuming you're well, sober and your car is running properly,' consider the very first fatal car accident in Britain. It happened on Grove Hill, Harrow on February 25 1899. A roadside plaque commemorates the event.E R Sewell, an employee of the Daimler Motor Company, was at the wheel of a new car he was demonstrating to Major James Richer. Sewell took the curve winding down Grove Hill too fast. Driver and passenger were killed. The motor car had lost its innocence.I watched, purely by chance, a white Ford Capri 3.0-litre driven by a surly young man, caught out at the same spot 85 years on. The butch car spun. The surly one looked horrified, managed to stop the beast and got away with his and possibly several other lives.Was he challenging fate, or just a bit dim? Perhaps he learned not to drive so stupidly; perhaps he is dead. If he'd had a fatal crash his would not have been a glamorous death (if death can ever be glamorous). He wasn't beautiful, nor was his surrogate dick: he wasn't James Dean and he wasn't driving a Porsche or Facel-Vega.Of course he may have been having sexual fantasies. A four-year Australian study investigating driver behaviour and the state of mind just prior to a crash found that 66 per cent of drivers involved in a crash said they had lost concentration and 42 per cent admitted to sexual fantasies or anger.'The irritability caused by sexual frustration', says the RAC, commenting on the findings, 'is now considered to be a contributing factor in road accidents.' But Conrad King, a consulant pyschologist working for the organisation, says 'Whilst sexual fantasy or frustration is going to be an element of some drivers' profiles, the less erotic frustrations of cones, congestion and competition will have more effect on the overall state of mind.'This report will be of interest to the novelist J G Ballard, and David Cronenberg, the Hollywood director who translated Ballard's pyscho-sexual novel Crash onto the big screen. Crash is a clever if perverse story about a couple who become wrapped up in a world of sexual fantasy involving car crashes.Certainly there are writers, publishers and film-makers who seem to specialise in crashes; the more glamorous the car and the more galactic the star the better. The deaths of James Dean and, more recently, Princess Diana, have been gone over and over with the detailed scrutiny and ultimate monotony of porn. Car magazines regularly run pieces on the death of Mike Hawthorn, who died in his Mk1 3.4-litre Jaguar on the Hog's Back in Surrey. There are people who seem to have little better to do than to pace up and down the road T E Lawrence swerved off to his death, as if, 64 years on, they might learn something new - some new conspiracy, a secret car that materialised as if from nowhere, forcing him to a coma and premature death.And, of course, plenty of car crashes are positively celebrated on celluloid. Not just Alan Gibson's 1976 low budget Crash (lots of archive footage of horrible and spectacular acccidents), but funny stuff too - a smooth villain smashing a beautiful Lamborghini Miura into a bulldozer planted by the Mafia in a road tunnel in 1969's The Italian Job.There are many more. And in them lies the answer to the question, do certain types of people (who drive interesting cars) have a propensity beyond the rest of us to crash and die? I doubt it. The truth, if there is one, is that it is those crashes that have the most dramatic appeal that attract us.For anyone who has ever lost loved ones in a car crash or witnessed the outlandish mix of brains, blood and car body parts, there is nothing remotely romantic about the sudden and brutal deaths of James Dean, Jayne Mansfield, Princesses Grace and Di. Or Jackson Pollock.
What happens when you raise taxes?" "Why, the citizens riot, of course." So answered a 14-year-old expert at SimCity, the best-selling, challenging simulation game that lets you design and manage a city.You can raise and lower taxes, manage public works, establish zoning laws, induce natural or man-made disasters, build roads, hire or fire police. It's a wonderful way to learn about interdependencies and the complexities of the real world and its institutions.Of course, I can't cite the details of this story, and SimCity is just one of (though certainly one of the best of) a variety of simulation games and tools. In fact, as I mentioned in an earlier column, I'm an investor in one of them, Stagecast. But this column is about their dangers as well as their benefits.Do citizens always riot when taxes go up? Of course not. Simulations are as reliable as the assumptions built into them - whether you're simulating a fictitious city and expecting programmed reactions to new traffic rules, or predicting a company's steady, strong growth on the basis of spreadsheet calculations.Long ago, concerned adults worried about children's maths skills; now they should worry rather about their simulation literacy.The question used to be whether a child could add and subtract, multiply and divide. When calculators came in, children could do the arithmetic, but could they understand the results?Now, the challenge goes one step further. A whole new generation of simulation games is coming out: SimCity 3000 (since 2000 is passé), Populous: The Beginning, and Alpha Centauri. The originals (SimCity, Populous and Civilization) were best-sellers, deservedly.The new versions are likely to be even more fun, and to feel even more realistic.They're great, in that they teach children about cause-and-effect, about complexity, about subtle, nonlinear changes and responses that are not easily predictable.But, just as you need to understand the relationships behind the exchange rate even if you can let a machine do the calculations, so do you need to understand the assumptions behind a simulation, even if a machine generates the results.The hidden message may be that everything is predictable, if you can only get the equations right. But the equations are what these games hide. There is too much concentration now on projections and calculations and too little on the underlying assumptions.The real game should be not to change the numbers, but to design the underlying behaviour. And in real life, that is the real game. Good chief executive officers are hired not to deliver predictable numbers, but to change the underlying behaviour in order to produce better numbers.That is, it's more interesting to ask, "How can we change the behaviour of citizens in response to taxes", than simply, "How much can we raise taxes without inciting a riot?" That's what real-world mayors ought  to be worrying about.In a world that's so easy to represent, we can forget that we don't have the ability simply to change the rules in real life. How many people have said, "Well, let's assume we get the growth rate up to 25 per cent", and put the number into the business plan without stopping to question the assumption?We need to give people the tools to see the underlying assumptions more clearly. Then analysts will realise that analysis means seeing changes in the assumptions, not just in the trends. And managers will understand that their job is to change assumptions - the behaviour of the things they control, whether it's employees, customers or production rules.How can you fix it so that costs don't go up linearly when you increase product sales?
How can you lower the absentee rate and raise employee retention?
How can you get the citizens to accept higher taxes?As it gets easier and easier to run simulations, it will become easier for people to lose touch with the real world. Just as we receive hidden messages both in advertising and editorial, we need to be aware of hidden messages in our games and tools.There are nowWeb sitesthat let you, for example, compare your pension plan with a private portfolio, sponsored by the US-based Cato Institute. But that assumes a lot about stockmarket performance.Fortunately, Cato is honourable and straightforward enough to make its assumptions clear - and to let the user modify them.More and more such simulations are likely as people learn from Cato's and others' clever approach. Simulations are indeed powerful for making a point.
Expect an increasing number of politicians to use them as they go online. Campaign pamphlets will give way to Web site demos.Likewise, companies will use simulations in advertising. It's pretty easy to judge the truth - or otherwise - of a simulation that shows you dressed in a particular vendor's clothing.But what about a simulation  that shows your income rising as you follow a given career path, or the growth of your city if voters approve a particular roadway or the privatisation of the Tube?Not every simulation will be as transparent as Cato's. As the world gets more complex, we do indeed need better software to interpret and manage it, and better games and learning tools to educate people.But we need to make sure that the tools don't hide the underlying assumptions. 
So, the next time your kid asks, "What happens when you raise taxes?", the answer might be, "What should happen when you raise taxes? Could you change attitudes through a public education programme? Do you think it would make a difference how the taxes were spent? What do you think would be the impact of a flat tax versus a progressive tax?"A good simulation doesn't answer questions: it raises them.© Esther Dyson, 1999
Are computers important... for you?... for the world?For me, hugely. Arthur and I wrote our first scripts on a typewriter and, while I miss the resistance of typewriter keys (and the satisfying thump of metal imparting ink to thick A4), 
I couldn't imagine going back to rewriting a script by shuffling paper about and so on. For the world in general, I would imagine so -I haven't asked everybody.What about the Internet? Does it threaten or enhance individual freedom?There is certainly a lot more pornography available, so more people are feeling it's OK to sit in front of a computer in the nude. That's a kind of freedom.Do you use an Apple Mac or a PC?A Mac, which has proved a pain in the arse because I love computer games and there aren't any for it. There's a certain kind of game that's perfect for a computer-point and click adventures, strategic games and so on, and they tend to require a bit more thought than the driving or fighting games that are such a cancerous blight for all us N64/PlayStation owners.What do you use the machine for?Oh . . . you know . . . stock reports, world news . . . only joking! I use it exclusively for pornography.Any favourite software, and anything you'd like but can't have yet?I'd like something that finds pornography when you're asleep.Any favourite spots on the Net?I have lots and lots of bookmarks. I look at them once (when I'm adding the bookmark) and then never visit them again, like everyone else in the world. The only good non-pornography Web site I've ever seen isThe Craggy Island Examiner‚ which is just a knockout Father Ted site -  (I know it's suspicious that the only site I like is about Father Ted, but if you're a fan of the show, visit it yourself and see if I'm right.) I don't know how to access newsgroups because I'm an idiot.Do you get into dialogues with strangers on the Net?I don't know how to.Do you use your own name when surfing?I have to, because I chose a really stupid e-mail address that includes my name. I think I'd enjoy the Net a lot more if I was anonymous.Spend long at the terminal?Hours and hours and hours and hours. Then an equal amount of time loathing myself.Are you a geek? Got any favourite geeks?BR&gt;
Harry Hill has a joke - "I don't think I'm getting enough use out of my computer. What I do is, I turn it on and use it as a light." That's me. Any favourite geeks? Do people have favourite geeks? I like the scientist in The Simpsons.On a desert island, would you prefer a human or a computer for company?Either would end up being torture. I've gone into a depression thinking about that one.Professionally, what's taking up your time?Thinking up jokes and showing them to Arthur.
Next Tuesday, as the nation's drinkers, drivers and smokers listen with heavy hearts to Gordon Brown's budgetary broadsides, the IT industry will be hanging on his 
words like a starlet at an awards ceremony.In a pre-budget report the Treasury sets out four key elements of the government strategy for prosperity including "international economic stability, rewarding work, creating a fairer society and improving productivity - the contribution the IT industry can make".In fact the IT industry's contribution is more significant than you might imagine. In 1996, the last year for which Department of Trade and Industry figures are available, the software and services industry represented 7 per cent of the GDP, a ratio which is now growing at between 16 and 18 per cent per annum, says Keith Telford, European Economic Adviser at IBM Global Services, and a member of the government/DTI Electronic Skills Strategy Group. "So we expect &#91;software and services&#93; to cancel out the effects of manufacturing which is undergoing slowdown, and technically is in recession."Telford points out that a million people work in software and services, and that this is growing at a rate of 50,000 a year, a trend set to continue well into the next decade and a growth rate unrivalled by France or Germany. Hence the expectation that this budget will bring recognition of the new electronic economy."There's no simple step," concedes Telford, "no equivalent of raising fuel duties to ease congestion, but the Chancellor has an over-arching view of the economy and has identified... intellectual property and royalties as issues of competitiveness."As a result, the measures expected from that battered red box include a clarification of intellectual property rights, and simplified tax on royalties earned through such rights, greater efforts to measure and report on technical innovation, and steps, possibly even tax breaks, to encourage corporate venture capital investment - currently seen as a weak point.If we are to sweep into the millennium on the tide of the new infoconomy, our brave new world is going to need its very own brave new budget.
micro litesA little something for you techie types," is what the fellow from the Taoiseach's office in Dublin quipped as he forwarded these reactions to 
a glass of milk left next to his 
keyboard.Optimist:The glass is half full.Pessimist:The glass is half empty.Futurist:The milk's in the wrong half of the glass.Pascal programmers:Well, what type of milk is it?C Programmers:No thanks; I drink straight from the jug.Assembly programmers:No thanks; I drink straight from the cow.Basic programmers:No thanks; I'm still breast feeding.MIS:I'll drink it if you can give me 'til next year.Fuzzy logic guys:I may or may not have drunk some part of that milk.Prolog programmers:I know I drank it - just don't ask me how.Non-procedural language programmers:I drank it when nobody was looking.UI designers:What's that crap in my glass?Pentium users:I drank Glass * .49999999... but don't hold me to that.Windows users:Where's my straw?Mac users:Where's my pump?UNIX users:Nahh... too easyMultimedia author:Shareware game author:That glass is free; the next one you have to pay for.Security consultant:Where'd the rest of the milk go?CIA:What makes you think that's milk?NSA:We know what it really is.Copy protection crazies:Somebody drank half my milk and didn't pay for it!Free Software Foundation:That milk is the cow's contribution to all mankind!Bill Gates:Not enough market share to be Microsoft Milk.Apple Computer:You guys really oughta be drinking Perrier.IBM:Rent the glass from  us and we'll fill it with something we know is good for you.IRS:Thanks for getting your milk withholding correct this year.National news media:Hey, we wanted OJ!
Eight IT graduates began their careers with Allied Domecq, the drinks company, this week. According to the company's research, most were initially attracted by the array of wines and spirits on the Allied Domecq stand at last October's Graduates In IT recruitment exhibition. The next exhibition begins on Tuesday at the Wembley Conference Centre, but Allied Domecq will not be there: thanks to their marketing display (in part, at least) they have filled their graduate vacancies for the year.Now some 30 other firms must find ways to attract the graduates. Deutsche Bank, which attends only two or three recruitment fairs each year, will be at the fair for the first time, seeking about 35 top-flight graduates to join its IT training programme. Helen Burrows, IT recruiter for Deutsche Bank, says the firm is relying on its reputation to pull in the best graduates, but is aware of the stiff competition. "There are simply not enough IT graduates to go around," she admits.It is hard to distinguish the hunter from the hunted. Although they are competing for the plum appointments, IT graduates are generally in high demand. That results in a shopping mentality among the best candidates: there is a sense that the companies are on show, not them.About 3,000 undergraduate and postgraduate students are expected to attend the two-day fair. But the firms are only really interested in the pick of the crop. Burrows is looking for "high calibre IT-specific graduates". That means at least a 2:1 degree, good A-levels and experience working for a blue chip company in sandwich course placements or summer internships. "Experience helps enormously because they start to understand the working environment," she says. From the graduate's point of view, experience is almost a necessity these days.Ambition and a single-minded desire for a career in IT also hold great weight. Coupled with good personal skills and experience, these qualities can make up for the lack of a technical background. Allied Domecq's recruits were almost exclusively non-technical. "We were looking for the softer behavioural skills: achievement, drive, communication and interpersonal skills; people who were self-starters, able to learn rapidly," says Rachel Payne, Allied Domecq's corporate human resources manager. "They'll be doing a full technical training programme with us when they start, so we weren't necessarily looking for IT experience."Payne says the necessary qualities can be seen as soon as people approach the stand. "We talk to them for two or three minutes, and from that we can tell whether they can communicate, and how they come across. That face-to-face feedback, even just for a short period, helps us to decide whether to put them forward for a preliminary interview."Interview facilities are available on the Wembley site - some firms take advantage of them, some don't. They will all, however, leave with briefcases full of CVs, notes and definite ideas of who should receive further approaches.This opportunity to meet graduates costs £7,000: the price of a stand at the event. For large firms this is a drop in the ocean. "Some companies are looking for hundreds of graduates over the course of a year; for them, £7,000 is quite a small part of their recruitment budget," says Simon Bennie of Computer Publishing, the event organiser.Even for the smaller firms, it can be a price worth paying. On a university campus these firms lack the reputation of the IT and finance giants. "For the smaller fish in the pond, it's not always so easy to get recruits," Bennie says. "But if they book a stand at our fair, they get a full-page colour advertisement in the 16,000 show programmes sent to UK universities, and three months of advertising on our Web site."Computer Publishing, a company which spends most of its resources producing IT recruitment magazines, set up the event in response to requests from advertisers. "Our clients asked us for a medium in which to meet graduates - they are interested in making the recruitment process more cost and time effective," says Bennie.Prutech, the IT arm of the Prudential, has high hopes of the event, and expects to recruit around 20 people. "This will be our first graduate recruitment fair, and I expect this to be the most successful means of attracting graduates that we have tried so far," says David Cole, Prutech's recruitment consultant. "We're running our next assessment event at the end of March, so the people we see at the fair will be able to book in directly."&#149; Graduates In IT runs from March 9-10 at the Wembley Exhibition and Conference Centre. Contact Simon Bennie for details on 01442 289 600.
These two parties need names, and I propose to call them Gouldians and Dawkinsians. This won't please anyone involved. They will point out that the parties in question are vague and disorganised; that they don't have leaders and that if they did the candidates would be the men who got most respect as scientists in each party: Maynard Smith, perhaps, and Lewontin, not Dawkins and Gould. All this is true. But the fact remains that the parties do exist, and that Stephen Jay Gould and Richard Dawkins are not only their most visible proponents but also essential to defining them. Each man has in his rhetoric given enormous hostages to fortune. Both have written things which seem to their opponents to be unforgivable oversimplifications or flights of windy rhetoric.To the extent that everyone interested in these questions is either a Gouldian or a Dawkinsian, the litmus test to decide which party they belong to is to ask them not whether it is Gould or Dawkins who most truly captures the scope and spirit of Darwinism but the opposite - which writer has done more damage to popular understanding of Darwinism. It would be difficult to find any working biologist who found this question unanswerable.Other names for these 
parties have been proposed. It might seem simpler to call the Dawkinsians "sociobiologists" but that would imply a 
continuity of doctrine which is not really there. Their testable scientific beliefs about human nature have changed and been considerably refined since &#91;Edward O.&#93; Wilson's book &#91;Sociobiology, 1975&#93; came out.To call the Dawkinsians "Darwinian fundamentalists", as Gould does, is an inspired piece of polemical mud-slinging, but neither fair nor accurate. For one thing, the dismal view of human nature which the early sociobiologists promoted could stand quite independently of Darwin, and be reached by people who knew nothing of him, such as Machiavelli. For another, Gould claims Darwin himself as a sympathiser 
with his own catholic view of 
evolutionary processes.On the other side, Dawkinsian philosophers like Helena Cronin and Daniel Dennett do tend to describe those who agree with them as "Darwinian" (you can hear the capital letter when they speak) and only in passing to concede that their opponents are Darwinian too, at least in the sense of not being Creationist. Both sides, in fact, claim to be the true heirs of Darwin, and put up good 
arguments to this effect. But their quarrels range far more widely than mere historical legitimacy. They encompass not only arguments about 
scientific fact - these are in some ways the least important 
- but disagreements about the 
role and purpose of science, and personal animosities too.These elements mix unpredictably. There are friendships across parties and there have been quarrels within them. But, despite their fuzziness, the contending parties do clearly exist.
Like the original sociobiologists, their opponents form a well-defined group, held together by bonds of friendship and mutual esteem as much as by ideological agreement. The key opponents of adaptationism were Richard Lewontin, Stephen Jay Gould and Steven Rose, disparate figures from differing areas of biology. Gould was a palaeontologist, Lewontin, a biologist, and Rose, an 
Englishman now professor of biology at the Open University, started off as a neurologist who was drawn into the field by the controversies over how much of IQ is inherited. It is relevant that all are Jewish and were more or less Marxist: being Jewish gave them a historical reason to be suspicious of anything reminiscent of a traditional eugenic way of thinking. Being Marxist gave them a strong bias against any theory which saw human 
biological nature as more important than human culture.Stephen Jay Gould, one of the leaders of the opposition, was at least as ambitious as Wilson. Like Wilson, he has ended up working at the Museum of Comparative 
Zoology at Harvard. But he was in most other ways his opposite: a New York Jew, the urban child of Marxist parents, and always eager to sign up for the awkward squad, whereas Wilson reminisces fondly about his time as an Eagle Scout and education in a military academy. Wilson grew up a lover of live insects; Gould of extinct dinosaurs. Both men like to show off their erudition; as well as his technical work on land snails, and his general work on evolutionary theory, Gould had written on a huge range of subjects, from baseball to 17th century Puritan theology. Yet the astonishing thing about Gould as a show-off is that he gets his facts right; and he combines this accuracy with a voracious sympathy for his subjects. This wide-ranging mix of fluency and accuracy has given him a huge public. He has as an essayist a happy, Mozartian knack of making you think without realising you've done so. That is one reason for colleagues to loathe him.Another is his controversial skill. His sympathies are extended to opponents only after their deaths. While they are alive, he can make them wish him dead, as so many of them appear to do.What especially maddens them is that he spends as much time writing about scientists as about science. As his friend Lewontin put it recently: "Gould is only 
concerned with what the nature of organisms, living and dead, can reveal about the social construction of scientific knowledge. His repeated demonstrations that organisms can only be understood as 
historically contingent, underdetermined Rube Goldberg devices are meant to tell us more about the evolution of human knowledge than of human anatomy. From his early Mismeasure Of Man, which examined how the 
political and social prejudices of prominent scientists have moulded what those scientists claimed to be the facts of human anatomy and intelligence, to his recent collection of essays, Eight Little Piggies, which despite its subtitle, Reflections On Natural History, is a set of reflections on 
the intellectual history of 
natural history, Gould's deep
preoccupation is with how knowledge, rather than the organism, is constructed."His opponents put a similar point rather differently. "Gould occupies a rather curious 
position, particularly on his side of the Atlantic. Because of the excellence of his essays, he has come to be seen by non-biologists as the pre-eminent evolutionary theorist. In 
contrast, the evolutionary 
biologists with whom I have discussed his work tend to see him as a man whose ideas are so confused as to be hardly worth bothering with, but as one who should not be publicly criticised because he is at least on our side against the 
Creationists. All this would not matter, were it not that he is giving non-biologists a largely false picture of the state of evolutionary theory," wrote John Maynard Smith in a passage since gleefully requoted by endless Dawkinsians and Dawkins himself.The general charge against Gould is that he has overstated the importance of his own theories. The philosopher and historian of science David Hull points out that there are two ways in which a
scientist can try and spread a new idea: he can claim that it is an uncontroversial and natural development of what everyone already believes, or he can market it as a revolution, whose strength is derived from the fact that only a chosen vanguard understand it. Both strategies have been adapted by both sides in these disputes, but Gould himself has tended to claim that his novel ideas are 
revolutionary, whereas Dawkins has preferred to argue that his are simply what everyone believed all along 
without noticing. Hull concluded his discussion with the delicate, dry observation that it was impossible to 
discern any correlation between the originality claimed for an idea and that which it might actually possess.Other assessments of Gould's originality have been less polite. To some of his enemies, he has supplanted orthodox Darwinism, as practised by working scientists, with a self-aggrandising construct of his own. (There, of course, is a symmetry with Dawkins here. Compare Lewontin's remark that "Dawkins's vulgarizations of Darwinism speak of nothing in evolution but an inexorable ascendancy of genes that are selectively superior, while the entire body of technical advance in 
experimental and theoretical evolutionary genetics of the last 50 years has moved in the direction of emphasising non-selective forces in evolution".)To some extent this is an inevitable consequence of writing about people still alive. As a journalist you can hope to make people laugh at your descriptions of them, but you never hope that all your subjects will consider you just. Historians have their problems, but at least they do not usually have to consider the amour propre of their subjects.© Andrew Brown, 1999This article is extracted from The Darwin Wars: How Stupid Genes Became Selfish Gods, by Andrew Brown, to be published on March 11 by Simon &amp; Schuster (£12.99). To order a copy for £9.99 (plus 99p UK p&amp;p), freephone 0500 600 102, or send a UK cheque (payable to "The Guardian CultureShop") to 250 Western Avenue, 
London, W3 6EE, ore-mailRecipe for a dispute... what dispute?The easiest way to illustrate this dispute is by an analogy which Dawkins originally used in another context. Genomes are like recipes. Bodies are like cakes. The original, and important, point of this analogy was to argue against the idea that there were simple correspondences between genes and bodies. If genes were like blueprints for buildings, as opposed to recipes, you could add something to the blueprint and know what effect it would have on the building. Conversely, you can look at a building and reconstruct its blueprint. This makes reverse engineering possible and would, if biology were like that, make Lamarckianism possible in principle. But biology is not like that. You cannot reconstruct a genotype from a phenotype because the only way to find out what phenotype you get from a genotype is to grow it.You cannot read the cake directly off the recipe, and if you change the ingredients or the cooking methods, the cake will change in unpredictable ways. It is impossible to point to part of a finished cake and claim that it corresponds to a particular ingredient or cooking process. All this corresponds to the varied and complicated effects that genes have when constructing bodies.Yet if we look at the history of cooking, what has survived are not cakes, but recipes. So the Dawkinsians argue that only recipes have been selected. Cakes are merely eaten. Against this, the Gouldians would reply that there is no "merely" involved. No one ever ate a recipe: selection acts on cakes, or bodies, and not on genes, or recipes.
Unusually enough, this dispute has now been resolved to the satisfaction of both sides. The key to it is realising that "selection" can refer to both parts of what is a two-stage process. For natural selection to occur there must be 
competition among the things being selected; and this involves both copying and winnowing. The winnowing determines what is copied. The copying determines what will be winnowed. But what is copied and what is winnowed are not the same. Genes (or recipes) are copied. Bodies (or cakes) are winnowed. And both processes are necessary for evolution.Indeed, both sides will now tell you that this is what they meant all along. "I can't imagine what it would mean to say that natural selection acted directly on genes," says Helena Cronin, echoing Dawkins.
In an Austrian physics laboratory, researchers have learned how to play the particle pied piper, leading atoms wherever they want them to go. Until now, individual atoms have been hard to handle - generally they move around incredibly fast, and even cooling them until they are almost stationary hasn't helped a great deal.Although you can slow them down, holding on to them or guiding any movement has remained a difficult problem.It turns out, however, that the hi-tech equipment necessary to lead atoms through space is probably just above your head.Inside most light bulbs is a piece of tungsten wire that glows when an electrical current is passed through it. In research to be published in next week's Physical Review Letters, Austrian researchers have shown how a current passing through tungsten wire can guide a stream of atoms to wherever the wire ends up. "It's not technically difficult, it's just that no one had thought of doing it," says Joerg Schmiedmayer, the leader of the research team. The simplicity of the process, he says, belies its huge potential. "Where this might go is completely open."Researchers already know how to write information into atoms. Now it might be possible, for example, to send that information-carrying atom from one electronic component across a microchip to be processed at another component. Or to carry out the most sensitive measurements possible by sending atoms, one by one, in to tiny instruments.If you fancied a bit more fun, though, you could make an atomic rollercoaster. The Austrian scientists have made atoms spiral through space and travel in a simple straight line - what more do they need?Twisting the wires to make a miniature white-knuckle ride could work in principle, Schmiedmayer says, although it would involve some formidable calculations.Atoms contain constantly moving electrons, which give each atom a small magnetic field. A wire carrying an electrical current also has a magnetic field, shaped like a sleeve around its length. As with any magnets, their fields exert forces on each other: when ultra-cooled atoms find themselves next to a current-carrying wire, the magnetic fields make the atoms spin around the wire like planets moving round the sun. Given a bit of momentum in the right direction (for instance, with a kick from another magnetic field), the atoms will spiral off, following the length of the wire.Getting them to travel in a straight line is a little more tricky, but, for physicists, much more useful. It is done by combining the wire's magnetic field with another field, perpendicular to the wire, produced by a standard magnet. The combination of these fields creates a "magnetic pipeline" parallel to the wire and just to one side. Once caught in the tube, the atoms can only move parallel to the wire.The next goal for the researchers is to miniaturise the apparatus, so that the magnetic pipeline could carry atoms just above a wire that would fit on a microchip. "You could imagine building transistors that have a reservoir of atoms and move them along one at a time," says Schmiedmayer. "My dream is to take atoms one by one along a wire to an experiment."While this kind of ability will be useful in taking experiments to previously unreachable scales, the spiralling atoms are less practical. But they are more fun. "We're going to look into this some more," says Schmiedmayer. "It's not really useful as an application, but it's very cute physics."
The launch of the Intel Pentium /// (a slanting Roman numeral that harks back 15 years to the Apple ///) will no doubt stimulate sales of PCs. But it could create problems for the US government, which controls the export of supercomputers (defined as any machine that can do 2,000 million theoretical operations per second) because of their potential military uses. The naked P/// already comes close. A PC or server with two chips will qualify, and the next version of the P///, code-named Coppermine, will take millions of users over the limit. Every PC may have to be accompanied by a man with a red flag to prevent users from running programs too fast. However, since the P/// has been optimised for 3-D graphics and sound, there is a  solution: redefine supercomputers as "excluding games machines".At least that would amuse fans of the GNU/Linux operating system - a clone of the user-hostile Unix - who this week enjoyed their first Linux World conference in California. It's catching on fast: according to leadingWeb tracking systemsLinux already has 0.2 per cent of the market. However, it faces competition from Be's BeOS operating system, which was designed to be better than Apple's Mac OS or, to put it more simply, "the Amiga done right". Last week, Jean-Louis Gassée, the former Apple research director who founded Be, offered BeOS free to any PC manufacturers who would install it alongside Microsoft Windows. Let's hope he has better luck than when he tried to give away the Mac version, before Apple wiped out the Mac cloners.Amiga owners must try BeOS, though Amiga Inc (a subsidiary of the PC manufacturer, Gateway) and Amiga International are still talking about bringing the once-mighty games machine back to life. Reports from San Diego, where Amiga Inc has moved, say new boss Jim Collas believes "the Amiga platform is ideal for the Internet-ready consumer-oriented digital appliances of the future". Oh, and the new Amiga OS will be based on a core from QNX Software Systems. Meanwhile, Michael Dell (above) of Dell Computer has produced his first book. It's called Direct From Dell: Strategies That Revolutionised An Industry. Learn from Mike and you too could be a billionaire. Bill Gates also has a new book due: Business At The Speed of Thought: UsingA Digital Nervous System. Learn from Bill and you could buy lots of Microsoft software.
Jump Ahead Baby(also available Jump Ahead Toddlers, Jump Ahead Preschool, Jump Ahead Nursery, Jump Ahead Starting School)
Knowledge Adventure 
(0118 920 9100) from £11.99PC: Windows 3.1; 8Mb RamMac: System 7; 8Mb RamI was initially sceptical about introducing my daughter Mabel to the world of computers at the tender age of 12 months. But after just half an hour of trying out Jump Ahead Baby, she was bashing the keyboard with great gusto, making it difficult to get her back to doing normal baby things - like eating and sleeping.Jump Ahead Baby - the latest product in the fast-expanding "lapware" software market - is aimed at children from nine months to roughly two years. The idea is for parents to help babies get to know how to use a computer keyboard and mouse through play, by encouraging them to interact with the screen by responding to a series of prompts.Teddy the Bear is your "adorable, animated" host, who guides baby through a colourful, if repetitive maze of familiar scenes: baby's room, farmyard and so on, with musical accompaniment. If baby clicks the mouse or presses any key, a whole host of farmyard animals emerge to moo, neigh and bark.The software features eight different activities, including counting, hide and seek, singing along to nursery rhymes and puzzles. You can also help Teddy get dressed, and even turn a black-and-white colouring book into brightly coloured pictures - without all the usual mess.Mabel was captivated and kept leaning forward to touch the characters on the screen. After half an hour, I must admit I'd had enough. But Mabel clearly hadn't and even I was surprised at how quickly she got to grips with the keyboard. 
Now she points at the computer when she is in the room. I can feel another half an hour coming on soon.RSRugrats: Search For ReptarTHQ (01483 767 656) £34.99Sony PlayStationWhat a pleasure it was to give my seven-year-old son a game that was all good, clean and exciting fun, without a hint of violence. Brilliant graphics, bright colours and catchy music made Rugrats a hit from the start.Search For Reptar incorporates all the popular characters from the TV show, including the main character, Tommy, who interacts on different levels with Chuckie, Phil &amp; Lil, Spike the dog and the cunning Angelica. You can find yourself chasing Chuckie who is kidnapped by a duck, playing crazy golf, fighting giant lobsters, sliding on icy floors and searching for Grandpa's teeth. On the 
way, collect Reptar tokens 
and puzzle pieces as rewards for completing each level.This game has real character and appeal.
Easy-to-follow instructions mean even children at the younger end of the 5-to-15 recommended age group can work their way through the different levels as their skills improve.The downside is 
that older children (from streetwise seven-year-olds upwards) may pick up 
the idea of the game very quickly - and may just as quickly lose interest.ABLearning LadderYear 3 (for 7-8 years)DK Interactive Learning(0171-836 5411) £19.99PC: Windows 95/98Mac: System7.5.1+12 Mb Ram Windows 95 and Mac; 16Mb for Windows 98Dorlimg Kindersley's new series, covering the pre-school stage to Year 3 of schooling, aims to help children secure their footing on the lower rungs of the learning ladder.This disc is designed to tie in with the National Curriculum and government literacy and numeracy initiatives: 250 activities cover English, Maths and The World Around You, generally taking the form of exercises. I found the maths ones most successful. The program was visually attractive and the guide character engaging enough. The chance to explore a child's bedroom and discover interactivities provided light relief from the serious business of education.The series aims to reinforce the content of the school curriculum and certainly covers the necessary ground. To pursue the metaphor of its title, the choice is to travel upward and onward, or jump off. There is no room to meander.FG
These two parties need names, and I propose to call them Gouldians and Dawkinsians. This won't please anyone involved. They will point out that the parties in question are vague and disorganised; that they don't have leaders and that if they did the candidates would be the men who got most respect as scientists in each party: Maynard Smith, perhaps, and Lewontin, not Dawkins and Gould.All this is true. But the fact remains that the parties do exist, and that Stephen Jay Gould and Richard Dawkins are not only their most 
visible proponents but also essential to defining them. Each man has in his rhetoric given enormous hostages to fortune. Both have written things which seem to their opponents to be unforgivable oversimplifications or flights of windy rhetoric.To the extent that everyone 
interested in these questions is either a Gouldian or a Dawkinsian, the litmus test to decide which party they belong to is to ask them not whether it is Gould or Dawkins who most truly captures the scope and spirit of Darwinism but the opposite - which writer has done more damage to popular understanding of Darwinism. It would be difficult to find any working biologist who found this question unanswerable.Other names for these parties have been proposed. It might seem simpler to call the Dawkinsians "sociobiologists" but that would imply a continuity of doctrine which is not really there. Their testable scientific beliefs about human nature have changed and been considerably refined since &#91;Edward O.&#93; Wilson's book 
&#91;Sociobiology, 1975&#93; came out.To call the Dawkinsians 
"Darwinian fundamentalists", as Gould does, is an inspired piece of polemical mud-slinging, but neither fair nor accurate. For one thing, the dismal view of human nature which the early sociobiologists promoted could stand quite independently of Darwin, and be reached by people who knew nothing of him, such as Machiavelli. For another, Gould claims Darwin himself as a 
sympathiser with his own catholic view of evolutionary processes.
On the other side, Dawkinsian philosophers like Helena Cronin and Daniel Dennett do tend to describe those who agree with them as "Darwinian" (you can hear the capital letter when they speak) and only in passing to concede that their opponents are Darwinian too, at least in the sense of not being 
Creationist.Both sides, in fact, claim to be the true heirs of Darwin, and put up good arguments to this effect. But their quarrels range far more widely than mere historical legitimacy. They encompass not only arguments about scientific fact - these are in some ways the least important - but disagreements about the role and purpose of 
science, and personal animosities too. These elements mix unpredictably. There are friendships across parties and there have been quarrels within them. But, despite their fuzziness, the contending 
parties do clearly exist.Like the original sociobiologists, their opponents form a well-defined group, held together by bonds of friendship and mutual esteem as much as by ideological agreement. The key opponents of adaptationism were Richard Lewontin, Stephen Jay Gould and Steven Rose, 
disparate figures from differing areas of biology. Gould was a palaeontologist, Lewontin, a 
biologist, and Rose, an Englishman now professor of biology at the Open University, started off as a neurologist who was drawn into the field by the controversies over how much of IQ is inherited. It is relevant that all are Jewish and were more or less Marxist: being Jewish gave them a historical reason to be suspicious of anything reminiscent of a 
traditional eugenic way of thinking. Being Marxist gave them a strong bias against any theory which saw human biological nature as more important than human culture.Stephen Jay Gould, one of the leaders of the opposition, was at least as ambitious as Wilson. Like Wilson, he has ended up working at the Museum of Comparative 
Zoology at Harvard. But he was in most other ways his opposite: a New York Jew, the urban child of Marxist parents, and always eager to sign up for the awkward squad, whereas Wilson reminisces fondly about his time as an Eagle Scout and education in a military academy. Wilson grew up a lover of live insects; Gould of extinct dinosaurs. Both men like to show off their 
erudition; as well as his technical work on land snails, and his general work on evolutionary theory, Gould had written on a huge range of 
subjects, from baseball to 17th 
century Puritan theology. Yet the astonishing thing about Gould as a show-off is that he gets his facts right; and he combines this accuracy with a voracious sympathy for his subjects. This wide-ranging mix of fluency and accuracy has given him a huge public. He has as an essayist a happy, Mozartian knack of making you think without realising you've done so. That is one reason for 
colleagues to loathe him.Another is his controversial skill. His sympathies are extended to opponents only after their deaths. While they are alive, he can make them wish him dead, as so many of them appear to do. What especially maddens them is that he spends as much time writing about scientists as about science. As his friend Lewontin put it recently: "Gould is only concerned with what the nature of organisms, living and dead, can reveal about the social construction of scientific knowledge. His repeated demonstrations that organisms can only be understood as historically contingent, 
underdetermined Rube Goldberg devices are meant to tell us more about the evolution of human knowledge than of human anatomy.From his early Mismeasure Of Man, which examined how the political and social prejudices of prominent scientists have moulded what those scientists claimed to be the facts of human anatomy and intelligence, to his recent collection of essays, Eight Little Piggies, which despite its 
subtitle, Reflections On Natural History, is a set of reflections on the intellectual history of natural 
history, Gould's deep preoccupation is with how knowledge, rather than the organism, is constructed."His opponents put a similar point rather differently. "Gould occupies a rather curious position, particularly on his side of the Atlantic. Because of the excellence of his essays, he has come to be seen by non-biologists as the pre-eminent evolutionary theorist. In contrast, the evolutionary biologists with whom I have discussed his work tend to see him as a man whose ideas are so confused as to be hardly worth bothering with, but as one who should not be publicly criticised because he is at least on our side against the Creationists. All this would not matter, were it not that he is giving non-biologists a largely false picture of the state of 
evolutionary theory," wrote John Maynard Smith in a passage since gleefully requoted by endless Dawkinsians and Dawkins himself.The general charge against Gould is that he has overstated the importance of his own theories. The philosopher and historian of science David Hull points out that there are two ways in which a scientist can try and spread a new idea: he can claim that it is an uncontroversial and natural development of what 
everyone already believes, or he can 
market it as a revolution, whose strength is derived from the fact that only a chosen vanguard 
understand it.Both strategies have been adapted by both sides in these disputes, but Gould himself has tended to claim that his novel ideas are revolutionary, whereas Dawkins has preferred to argue that his are 
simply what everyone believed all along without noticing. Hull 
concluded his discussion with the 
delicate, dry observation that it was impossible to discern any 
correlation between the originality claimed for an idea and that which it might actually possess.Other assessments of Gould's originality have been less polite. To some of his enemies, he has 
supplanted orthodox Darwinism, as practised by working scientists, with a self-aggrandising construct of his own. (There, of course, is a symmetry with Dawkins here. 
Compare Lewontin's remark that "Dawkins's vulgarizations of 
Darwinism speak of nothing in 
evolution but an inexorable ascendancy of genes that are selectively superior, while the entire body of technical advance in experimental and theoretical evolutionary genetics of the last 50 years has moved in the direction of emphasising 
non-selective forces in evolution".)To some extent this is an inevitable consequence of writing about people still alive. As a 
journalist you can hope to make people laugh at your descriptions of them, but you never hope that all your subjects will consider you just. Historians have their problems, but at least they do not usually have to consider the amour propre of their subjects.© Andrew Brown, 1999The disputeThe easiest way to illustrate this dispute is by an analogy which Dawkins originally used in another context. Genomes are like recipes. Bodies are like cakes. The original, and important, point of this analogy was to argue against the idea that there were simple correspondences between genes and bodies. If genes were like blueprints for buildings, as opposed to recipes, you could add something to the blueprint and know what effect it would have on the building. Conversely, you can look at a building and reconstruct its blueprint.This makes reverse 
engineering possible and would, if biology were like that, make 
Lamarckianism possible in principle. But biology is not like that. You 
cannot reconstruct a genotype from a phenotype because the only way to find out what phenotype you get from a genotype is to grow it.You cannot read the cake directly off the recipe, and if you change the ingredients or the cooking methods, the cake will change in unpredictable ways. It is impossible to point to part of a finished cake and claim that it corresponds to a particular ingredient or cooking process. All this corresponds to the varied and complicated effects that genes have when constructing bodies.Yet if we look at the history of cooking, what has survived are not cakes, but recipes. So the Dawkinsians argue that only recipes have been selected. Cakes are merely eaten. Against this, the Gouldians would reply that there is no "merely" involved. No one ever ate a recipe: selection acts on cakes, or bodies, and not on genes, or recipes.Unusually enough, this dispute has now been resolved to the satisfaction of both sides. The key to it is realising that "selection" can refer to both parts of what is a two-stage process. For natural selection to occur there must be competition among the things being selected; and this involves both copying and winnowing. The winnowing determines what is copied. The copying determines what will be winnowed. But what is copied and what is winnowed are not the same. Genes (or recipes) are copied. Bodies (or cakes) are winnowed. And both processes are necessary for evolution.Indeed, both sides will now tell you that this is what they meant all along. "I can't imagine what it would mean to say that natural selection acted directly on genes," says Helena Cronin, echoing Dawkins.• This article is extracted from The Darwin Wars: How Stupid Genes Became Selfish Gods, by Andrew Brown. The book is due to be 
published on March 11 by 
Simon &amp; Schuster (£12.99).• To order a copy for £9.99 (plus 99p UK p&amp;p), freephone 0500 600 102, or send a UK cheque (payable to "The Guardian CultureShop") to 250 Western Avenue, London, W3 6EE, ore-mail
Jeff Papows is not a name on everybody's lips, but as president and chief executive officer of IBM's Lotus Development software arm, he occupies a key position in the Internet/ intranet business. And in a world where hype shades all too often into lies, Papows has a reputation for straight talking that makes him one of the few people worth taking seriously. In sum, any bright publishing company would finger Papows as just the right kind of guy to write enterprise.com, a book about the business implications of the Web.But he blew it.Somewhere along the line, the Papows who survived the hand-to-hand combat in the chaotic but critical groupware market - Lotus Notes v Microsoft Exchange v Netscape Communicator v Novell GroupWise - has got lost. While a few flashes survive, the Papows in enterprise.com is mainly the earlier version, with a master's degree in human resource management from Pepperdine University (an independent Christian university in Malibu, California) and a PhD from Colorado Christian University. Well, it's probably useful to know about the five carefully-numbered areas of impact of market-facing systems, the six Cs (Choice, Customisation, Consistency etc), the seven areas of industry transformation, the top ten reasons why America succeeded, etc.But almost everything in the book is listed, numbered, bullet-pointed, laid out in a matrix or graphed. It's what people call, in homage to Microsoft's ubiquitous slide presentation program, "death by PowerPoint".Papows's use of italics is even more annoying than Lucy Ellmann's capitals. For example: "Television advertising used to be both broad and shallow , whereas direct mail was often narrow but deep." It's as though someone has already read the book and highlighted the key words. This gets very tedious very quickly.It's a shame because Papows is sharp, and knows what he's talking about. Unlike our cliché version of the Ugly American, he is also acutely aware of the global nature of the information business, and his coverage does not ignore Europe, Asia and Japan.Papows's book also makes the essential point that, while it has been made a million times before, people (and governments!) brought up with traditional economic theories have never been able to grasp. That is, with global economies of scale based not on atoms (physical products) but on bits 
(software), the marginal cost of production falls practically to zero.The 
networked world is not 
just a development of the industrial world, it's a fundamentally different one. It is, in Papows's words, "a quantum leap in the way civilisation works".
As an introductory 
handbook for IT people, all this is useful stuff. But  "Enterprise.com was not written for the techie," says Papows, "but for every poor Joe or Jane in a Red Carpet Club &#91;airline lounge&#93;, bleary eyed and suffering from time-zone meltdown." 
There really is a need for such a book, and this isn't it.
After the balloon went up, its record-breaking progress was tracked on theCable &amp; WirelessWeb site at
Maps, logs, pictures of Andy Elson and Colin Prescot, it's all here, including a section for kids by Dorling Kindersley.The Budweiser beer companyoffered a $1-million prize to the first team to circumnavigate the globe non-stop in a balloon,and  has links to many challengers, including theBreitling Orbiter 3but not the C&amp;W-sponsored team.Avalanches are a world-wide phenomenon, but on the Net, most of the information is about the US and Canada. The best site is Winter Kills by theDiscovery Channelat  For background information, go to the site hosted by theAmerican Association of Avalanche Professionals.  If you're going skiing, try the Cyberspace Snow and Avalanche Centre's www.csac.org/Bulletins/ or theSwiss Federal Institute for Snow and Avalanche ResearchThe Word has nothing to do with the naff TV show, but everything to do with the London Festival of Literature, (March 19-28). About 60 world-class writers will be taking part, from Chinua Achebe to Terry Pratchett to Benjamin Zephania. The event's partners include Time Out and Carlton Television. The Guardian has produced theofficial Web site.With News At Ten coming to an end tomorrow, ITN has launched a Web radio station,ITN Now. It's operating on an experimental basis from noon to about 5pm.Treasures from Europe's National Libraries have been assembled by the Conference of European National Librarians on five Web servers, with theLondon sitebeing hosted by the British Library . Many exhibits are wonderful but finding the best one is pot luck, thanks to one of the worst pieces of Web design ever inflicted on a major exhibition.Sub Zero, BBC2's new Sunday morning quiz show, was supposed to feature a nationwide knockout quiz with teams based in cybercafés round the country. However, the Web was having a bad day and the BBC's video feeds weren't up to it, so the producers now hope to hold the first TV-Web quiz this Sunday. Participating cybercafés from Truro to Glasgow will be opening their doors at 9.30am.Skins really haven't taken off for Microsoft Windows, but that could change now that StarDock Systems is cranking out new versions of WindowBlinds (look out for version 0.45) and Object Desktop, which originally appeared for IBM's failed OS/2 operating system. With Quake-style skins - also known as textures or styles -you can make a Windows desktop look like a Mac or something out of Star Trek (see below) or perhaps   an extremely bad dream. WindowBlinds is free and those not worried about making their PCs more unstable can download it fromhere.You can also tryWWW.skinz.orgor evenhttp://chunkymunky.com/Internet stocks are a great way to make, or lose, money, and Dow Jones has now produced an Internet Index to track the sector. The site at http://indexes.dowjones.com./djii/djiihome.html is still under construction, but Internet World magazine has been running its own Internet Stock Index, called Isdex, since April, 1996. The Isdex benchmark was set to 100 on December 31, 1996, and now stands at about 410. Seefast quote andYahooVirgin Radio has combined music and football to complement its Saturday afternoon radio show with a Rock &amp; Goal site. Yahoo! is also ready to rock athttp://rock. yahoo.com/The Beatles conquered America in the 1960s, and their mop-topped assault was quickly followed by the Rolling Stones, The Kinks and many other beat combos. Now Encyclopedia Britannica is celebrating the 35th anniversary of the British invasion with aspecial site.Egghedz will love the eggsplosive and eggstremely yolk-filled Cadbury'sCreme Eggsite. Just remember to clean your brain afterwards.Dyson, the bagless vacuum cleaner company, has opened aWeb siteto sell products, spares and accessories.THE DEADLINE for submissions for the third annual Hollywood Film Festival is March 31, so it's too late to start a re-make of Ben Hur. But you can still check outHollywood festivalandHollywood conferencefor film funand fact.
It has to be a hoax. I mean, Richard Dearlove. Who could possibly be called that? A vicar, possibly, or a maker of stuffed toys, or the host of a daytime television gameshow, or . . . well, you get the picture. If you wanted to invent an innocuous-sounding name, that would be it. If you wanted to make the new head of MI6 sound cuddly, approachable, New Labourite, Richard Dearlove's your man.Where would 'Mr Dearlove' live? Why, Putney of course, that anonymous suburb of South-West London, no doubt in a three-storey semi-detached Edwardian house hidden behind a seven-foot hedge. How old would he be? Fifty-four - born 'somewhere in Cornwall' on January 23 1945. How many children would he have? Three - two sons and a daughter. His wife? Strangely anonymous: the neighbours say 'they keep themselves to themselves; we thought they were spies'. Ho, ho, ho, who wrote this script? Educated? Monkton Combe, a minor public school near Bath, and Queen's College, Cambridge, neither of which is willing to talk about its distinguished alumnus. Career? Spying, man and boy, in Nairobi, Prague, Geneva, Paris and Washington.'Mr Dearlove's' life is curiously fleshless. The Dearloves have two phone numbers, both ex-directory. An address is said to appear on the Internet, but searches have proved fruitless. Photographs are thin on the ground, the best on offer showing him as a cadaverous 19-year-old at Cambridge. So what would prove he exists? A quote from his mother - and the Mail claims to have unearthed her, living 'in a picturesque village in the West Country'. 'I don't know much about the job myself, but it's surely no more dangerous than crossing the road every day,' says the delightful 'Rhoda'. No picture of Mum, of course.So 'Mr Dearlove' had a classical English education, lives in Acacia Avenue, has an adoring mother and three fine children, and is thought by colleagues to be 'very successful and hard-nosed'. Is anyone that boring, let alone someone who has allegedly spent 30 years in the highly-charged world of international espionage? The answer surely is that 'Mr Dearlove', who is due to take over from the far more interesting David Spedding in August, is a fictitious character, invented to send us to sleep. Spedding, a key figure in Britain's covert operations in the Gulf war, has an entry in Who's Who; 'Dearlove' does not, though one will doubtless be concocted for next year. Recreations: hill-walking, listening to Baroque music, and stamp-collecting.The giveaway is that the character of 'Dearlove' draws so heavily on the patient, anonymous figure of George Smiley, John Le Carre's enigmatic spymaster, who was himself based in part on Le Carre's old tutor at Lincoln College, Oxford, the Rev Vivian Green. (Are you following this?) Le Carre created a master spy who could well have lived a tedious life in Acacia Avenue; now MI6 is trying to persuade us that Smiley is real.The operation is designed to convince us that MI6's chief (codenamed 'C' and the model for Ian Fleming's 'M') is OK. QED. A decent chap, one of us, someone we can trust. MI6 has had a rotten press recently: former agents David Shayler and Richard Tomlinson have been alleging all manner of shady dealings, not least an MI6 plot to kill Colonel Gadaffi; Our Man in Prague was outed on Czech TV as gay; it was suggested that Dylan Thomas had acted as an MI6 agent in Iran; and Hollywood is threatening an expose of the 'brutal and bungling' British secret service based on the life of Kim Philby. Only Smiley could put the lid on all that excitement; enter 'Richard Dearlove'.What MI6 hopes to escape with its suburban spymaster is the legacy of that stream of interesting but flawed post-war spies - Philby, Burgess, Maclean and Blunt. Those were the days when being a member of the Cambridge Apostles and an active homosexual, having a working knowledge of Greek, and liking Poussin and Stalin (not necessarily in that order) were the key attributes of the spy. That was the time when someone such as Dylan Thomas - a wholly unreliable poet, drunk and blabbermouth - could be signed up for a sensitive spying mission. None of this drinking halves and living in Putney nonsense; these were spies who knew how to live and wore their astrakhan coats with pride.In those days, spies took their lead from the original 'C', Captain (later Sir) Mansfield Cumming, the UK's first head of counter- espionage. Cumming saw spying as part of the great game. As he told the author Compton Mackenzie when trying to persuade him to stay on in MI6: 'Here, take this swordstick. I always took it with me on spying expeditions before the war. That's when this business was really amusing. After the war is over we'll do some amusing secret service work together. It's capital sport.' Cumming considered himself a master of disguise, a claim perhaps undermined by the fact that he wore a gold monocle and only had one leg (he lost the other when he crashed his father's Rolls-Royce into a tree on the way to Paris). He used to enjoy riding up and down the corridors of Whitehall on a child's scooter, conducted his correspondence in green ink, and signed all his letters 'C'. The codename and the green ink remain, though no one is quite sure what happened to the scooter.You knew where you were with spymasters like Cumming, who favoured codewords, invisible ink and the use of initials. James Bond would have adored him. What would 007 have made of 'Dearlove'? As little as us, I suspect. In any case, we have been here before. When MI5 engaged in a burst of glasnost, it tried to convince us that its chief was 'housewife super-spy' Stella Rimington, who was even photographed doing her weekly shop. The modern security services' obsession with normality is deeply worrying. What are they trying to hide?
Vauxhall says that the average Vectra driver covers 27,000 miles a year, which means that they're spending around 14 working weeks a year behind the wheel.That's time enough for any flaws to irritate like sand beneath the skin, and in fact the old Vectra had two terrible failings - namely an uncomfortable driving position and soggy, uninvolving handling.The new Vectra goes on sale on March 18, with prices broadly as before, and it actually looks very much like the old model. Only the clinically car-fixated will notice any changes beyond the Astra-style 'jewel-effect' headlamps, but Vauxhall says that it has actually made over 2,500 improvements, and that this Vectra is in effect a brand new car.So is it? Let's take the all-important driving position first. I drove a Vectra for several months when it first came out, and in no time the car's bad seats and fixed steering-wheel combined to induce chronic neck and back pain. But the new seats are fine, although the height-adjustable steering wheel is still set too far away for me, and I suspect for many other tall or long-legged drivers.When it comes to the new Vectra's ride and handling, there's also been a big improvement. A combination of re-worked suspension and steering, combined with bigger wheels and brakes, has sharpened things up no-end, and even if it still doesn't handle or ride quite as well as the best cars in its class, the Vectra is now far from being disgraced in either department. And safety features are good, with standard ABS and twin air-bags across the range.The new Vectra's cabin is classier too, while 12 per cent more glass in the overtaking mirrors has made pulling out a safer business. And although Vauxhall is keen to emphasise that the Vectra will be driven by successful business types who could be summed-up as 'the opposite of rep', it's clear that the Vectra is designed very much as an office on wheels. So the Trafficmaster congestion-warning system is still standard, while another £1,250 buys you the excellent Carin navigation system.If that's too much money, Vauxhall has a new alternative called OnStar. By using a specially adapted mobile phone, new Vectra drivers can access a special call-centre for route planning help, and advice about almost anything else, too.The OnStar package includes a GPS positioning system - so that the call-centre knows where you are when you phone - and in future they'll be able to 'talk' to your car's electronics, too. So if you crash, OnStar will receive a signal and quickly call for help, and if your car is stolen they'll even be able to lock or immobilise it for you.Vauxhall promises that it will answer 100 per cent of calls within 15 seconds, which will take some doing if the system does take off, and I have my doubts. The special phone and GPS gubbins costs around £700, and then you'll have to pay another £10 a month plus 55p a minute for using the service. Vauxhall is saying it's a 'peace of mind benefit', but the costs would have to fall sharply before I'd be remotely tempted by OnStar.That's not to say that the new Vectra isn't good value, however. The private motorist should look first at the £14,800, 1.8-litre Club model, because the car's well specified and competitively priced. And if you want a quick Q-car, an extra £1,000 will buy you the smooth and powerful V6 Vectra, which is the one I'd want in my garage.Having said that, Vauxhall's diesel engines are also excellent; combining good refinement with excellent economy.However, you must give the base-model 75bhp, 1.6-litre Vectra a miss, because I'm convinced it's only on the price list as a horrible warning to the reps who miss their sales targets for three years in a row. But the rest of the new Vectra range is miles better than the original, and if you're an opposite of rep with a new-car decision to make, then don't write the Vectra off without giving it a test-drive first. I was pleasantly surprised, and you might be, too.
One afternoon last summer, Melanie Morris drove into a Liverpool garage for some petrol after dropping off her boyfriend round the corner. She had to wait a few minutes because the staff were changing shifts, by which time her R-reg Vauxhall Vectra was the only car on the forecourt. 'I put the petrol in, got my purse and closed the door,' she recalls. 'I'd just got in front of the car when this lad came from nowhere, pushed past me and dived into the driving seat.' Unfortunately, as many people do when they're only going to be gone a minute, Morris left the keys inside. 'I froze on the spot,' she says. 'He was revving and revving and I thought, "Oh my God, he's going to run me over". Then I backed off and he screeched out of the garage. I'd only had the car about a week. I stood there shaking. I thought your car got stolen when you weren't there - you know, you come back and it's gone.'Which is also what City banker Felipe Rein thought. As he parked his lefthand-drive Mercedes SLK near his flat in west London late one evening 18 months ago, he spotted two young men hanging around. 'All of a sudden, in this empty street, I heard the rubbing of nylon trousers just behind me and these two guys jumped on me,' he says. 'I would have given them my underwear if they'd wanted it, but it was instinctive to fight. We all ended up in the road. I started shouting, "What do you want?" One said, "The keys to your car". Then one started closing his arm around my neck. I couldn't breathe, and I collapsed. I woke up - it was probably only a minute later - in the middle of the road with blood all over me.' A stone had got stuck in Rein's head and he needed stitches, while his Merc didn't turn up until last October - in Johannesburg, in the hands of a nightclub bouncer. 'I don't have a car in London anymore; I don't want the worry,' he says.No figures are available on the number of incidents in Britain like these. However, in the United States there are about 35,000 attempted hijackings each year - in 1997, the state of Louisiana voted to allow its citizens to shoot would-be carjackers on the spot. South Africa, though, is the global hotspot for the crime, despite the comparatively low incidence of vehicle ownership. There were 13,500 carjackings last year, many of them resulting in murder. So endemic is it, that a potentially lethal device can be fitted to cars that blasts a 10ft flame out of the sides if the driver doesn't like the look of anyone who approaches.Although the problem is still comparatively small beer in the UK, according to police and insurers, snatching vehicles in transit is a growing trend. Norwich Union believes that nicking cars from petrol stations is becoming particularly common. It stems from the introduction of under-the-bonnet security systems on cars - opportunist thieves who can't readily circumvent the technology are opting instead to steal car keys from your tantalisingly placed hook near the front door, or to hop into the driving seat while you've kindly got the engine running.'I don't want to whip up hysteria, but as security devices get more sophisticated, thieves have to move to the next weakest point - and that's the keys,' says Detective Inspector Mike Barron of Merseyside police force's stolen vehicle wing. 'One side of that is hijacking and sneak thefts. It probably accounts for under 10 per cent of vehicle offences, but a few years ago I'd have said it was under 2 per cent.' Barron's concern is that, while state-of-the-art car alarms are all very well, there's a displacement cost. 'Security brings the volume of car crime down, but the offences that are left are more serious than they've been in the past. With hijacking, the potential for confrontation and physical injury is terrible.'Insurers are now getting in on the act. 'Worrying trends have developed in other parts of the world, especially South Africa, so we're very concerned about it increasing here,' says Roger Snowden, underwriting manager at Privilege Insurance. He admits that it is now the case that owners of fancy motors will not have full insurance cover without additional car protection, but naturally denies that insurers are talking up the risk of carjacking to fleece motorists. 'High-class cars are being stolen at knife-point and thieves are targeting sets of traffic lights where Aston Martins and Mercedes are going past. And the mentality of the British male means they'd try to fight off an attacker. That will work in some cases, but why bother?'Why, that is, when you can splash out £200 to foil audacious robbers, then stand back on the pavement safe in the knowledge that your prize possession will conk out on them up the road anyway. Auto-security expert Graeme Frankland has developed just such an anti-hijacking gadget through his company Impact-G (details on 01748 821400). It's a kind of credit card that sends a signal to an aerial in the vehicle to allow you to drive. If an intruder tries to swipe the car they'll get only about half a mile before the motor gradually shuts itself down, sirens sound and the offender is obliged to leg it.While technology can be the motorist's friend, it can also be an accessory to crime. Thieves who prefer to keep their hands clean have found a nifty way of gaining access to tasty motors. Seven men were jailed in January for their part in a car-theft racket that involved grabbing infra-red signals from car alarms and using the stored codes to collect the vehicles later. One of the tools used by 'mastermind' Sajj Aslam was his £50 Casio wristwatch. He would ask garages in Greater Manchester for a test drive, then secretly copy the alarm code from the car's key-fob using his watch's 'learn' function - it catches the signal when you fire the remote near it. His accomplices would go back later, de-activate the alarm and drive off into the sunset.Reports of the scam follow the revelation in New Scientist magazine before Christmas that a Danish computer journalist had used his Palm Pilot mini-PC to unlock a car in the same way. Of course, a thief who wanted the car itself and not just its contents would need to be able to get it started. Aslam had also taken impressions of the keys.The Motor Insurance Repair and Research Centre (MIRRC) scoffs at the suggestion that umpteen British car owners could be swindled in this way. 'The number of criminals capable of using this technology is pretty low and the thief would have to be within 1ft of the car-alarm remote and in the direct line of fire to grab the code,' says Ken Roberts, the centre's director of research.Not so, says Graeme Frankland. 'With a remote of reasonable quality, if you stand behind the person or even if you're walking past on the footpath, there's a good chance you'd pick up the signal bouncing off the metal parts of the car, though you might not catch it every time.' Despite the MIRRC's claim that code-snatching isn't easy, in order to stamp out the practice, it has insisted that manufacturers install new security systems that have rolling codes which can take decades to repeat. However, there are still thousands of motors on the road using the vulnerable technology - and universal remote controls, which can copy car-alarm signals as well as codes from videos and stereos, are available from any high street gadget shop.The fact that valuables could be stolen from inside without any sign of forced entry makes an insurance claim tricky - as, in its way, the Association of British Insurers acknowledges. 'There is the potential for fraud,' says a spokesman.
Quote of the week'It was a dreadful drive, from Swakopmund on the Skeleton coast 400 miles into the wilderness on roads that were part gravel, part dried-up riverbed. You'd be hurtling along at 90 mph when there'd be a trough into which the car would crash with the sort of crunch that can loosen hair.' Jeremy Clarkson on driving in Namibia, Sunday Times.90 mph Jeremy? Autoparts called the Namibian High Commission to find out if that was legal, and was told the speed limit in Namibia is 120 km/hour - roughly 75 mph.Bad boy.Drunk and orderlyA man in Germany who was found to be driving over the limit was let off because he was driving so well. The judge acquitted Bernhard Bauer, a salesman, because the law there requires evidence of inability to control the car. Apparently he was driving better than the policemen chasing him.Another drunk German......a wild boar this time, which rammed a police car in Wolfhagen. The car was a write off, and on examining the boar, forensic experts found that it had consumed two cans of beer. Strange place, Germany.Topless modelThe new Audi TT Roadster looks cute in the publicity photos we have seen. But they have all been with the hood down - does this mean it isn't so cute when the roof's up? What the hell, we want one anyway.Pass at MineheadIf you're having trouble with your driving test, you might consider going down to Minehead in Somerset, where candidates have a 16 per cent higher chance than the national average of passing. Hurry up though - the Driving Standards Agency is so worried about the situation, it's thinking of closing it down.
From Seattle to Washington, the question hanging over the US government's anti-trust suit against Microsoft is this: Why can't Bill Gates, the world's richest man, get a decent legal defence?As the trial entered a month-long recess last week, Microsoft executives were left licking their wounds after a series of credibility-damaging mishaps, embarrassing admissions, contradictions between witnesses and discrepancies in evidence. Microsoft has of late suffered so many reversals in Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's courtroom that the Redmond-based colossus is beginning to look like the underdog. Although Judge Jackson's decision is still at least three months away, Microsoft's defence is in such disarray that the judge has questioned key elements of the software giant's case.Even some of the company's supporters now suggest it may have been better to concede that Microsoft is a tough competitor, exerting dominance over PC operating systems, and then to argue that this has benefited consumers and that the company should not be restricted by government intervention.Instead, Microsoft lawyers have chosen to fight every charge. They have maintained that the company - which has a 90 per cent market share of PC operating systems - does not have a monopoly. They have argued that it doesn't bully its competitors, despite internal e-mail and documents suggesting otherwise. Their strategy has set up Microsoft executives and expert witnesses for a flaying by the government's lead prosecutor, David Boies.When the Justice Department and 19 states filed their case last May, few dared speculate about the outcome. Fewer still even mentioned the idea of a break-up of Microsoft in the light of the government's central charge - that the company had used its Windows muscle to capture the market for Internet browsers. Yet Microsoft's catalogue of courtroom blunders has given rise to widespread debate about how the company can best be punished. A breakup - the ultimate sanction in American antitrust law - could happen in two ways. Microsoft could be carved into two companies - one to sell only the Windows operating system; another that would sell other software such as word processors. The other approach would be to split the firm vertically into two or three nearly identical units, already dubbed 'Baby Bills'. But would such a move really create new competition? And which company would get Gates?In a recent survey, the Association for Competitive Technology - a pro-Microsoft industry body - found that 63 per cent of 'computer and software industry executives' would oppose any effort to break up Microsoft, and a further 77 per cent opposed any move to force Microsoft to share the secret code for Windows - another sanction being considered by government lawyers.Microsoft officials maintain that they are winning the case, and that talk of possible sanctions is premature. It is 'wishful thinking by the government', says company spokesman Mark Murray, who calls the threats 'an attempt to distract attention from the weakness of their case'.But that is not the popular view in the press gallery. On Wednesday, Boies accused Microsoft's manager of new technology, Daniel Rosen, of making up evidence to support the claim that the giant never illegally pressured rival Netscape to divide up the browser market.Rosen was not only forced to admit that Microsoft tried to 'influence' Netscape against competing with it at a crucial June 1995 meeting, but also to reverse his sworn testimony that he had never seen a copy of Netscape's browser prior to the meeting.'It's always inspiring to watch young people embark on heroic endeavours,' noted Judge Jackson dryly.Rosen's credibility was further undermined when Boies argued against his contention that Netscape at that time was not considered a threat to Microsoft. That view is at odds with Gates's May 1995 'Tidal Wave' memo, which identified the Internet as Microsoft's main source of competition. It also contradicted Rosen's own e-mails.Such mishaps have become a regular feature of Microsoft's defence. In a significant concession, Microsoft's Cameron Myhrvold, brother of the company's chief technology officer, Nathan Myhrvold, conceded that the company had placed restrictions on its contracts with Internet service providers to inhibit consumer choice of browsers. Myhrvold said such arrangements were not illegal; Boies replied that they were - for monopolies. Boies also illuminated the tangled relationships at the top of the PC industry. Documents from Compaq, the world's largest PC maker, showed that its executives feared Microsoft would retaliate if it installed software from other companies. But despite Compaq's insistence that Microsoft never prevented it using the Netscape browser, a very different picture emerged from depositions and e-mails. These, Boies argued, seemed to suggest that when Internet service provider AOL pressured Compaq into removing icons for the Microsoft browser and Internet service from its computers, Microsoft threatened to terminate Compaq's Windows license. Compaq backed down, and the icons were restored.Microsoft's final defence witness before the six-week recess was Robert Muglia, a senior vice-president, who refuted earlier testimony that Microsoft sought to undermine Sun Microsystems' rival Java technology, which allows software to run on a variety of operating systems.Earlier, a Microsoft executive acknowledged that he had tried to get Apple to adopt Microsoft's multimedia technology, but denied sabotaging Apple's QuickTime multimedia software to do so, as Apple had testified. Some of the trial's most striking moments arose from Microsoft's habit of presenting video demonstrations. In January, crucial Microsoft witness James Allchin was shot down over a video purporting to show that Windows did not function well using Netscape. Boies's dissection of the video prompted the judge to say the tape was so deeply flawed that it 'cast doubt on the . . . entire reliability' of that evidence.Microsoft's trial strategy appears to reflect Gates's combative style - although the company will not say whether he is involved in formulating the day-to-day arguments. Nevertheless, Microsoft's defence continues to be haunted by Gates's defiant and unco-operative videotaped testimony last year, when the famously hands-on chairman appeared forgetful, obfuscated terms such as 'market share', and repeatedly insisted he wasn't involved in key strategy decisions.But there is no sign that Gates has lost faith in his legal team or its tactics. William Neukom, the company's silver-haired general counsel, says there has been no second-guessing on the defence team - 'not a minute's worth'. But many observers feel that Microsoft has failed to recognise that the case is as much a PR battle as a legal one.Repeatedly clobbered on that front by Boies's courtroom efforts to dismantle the credibility of the company's witnesses, Microsoft lawyers have frequently appeared overly legalistic and defensive. 'Once you get to the point where people are laughing, you have to do something,' Stanley Liebowitz, a University of Texas economist who has been a strong Microsoft supporter, told the Wall Street Journal. The defence team, he says, 'doesn't seem to have any fallback position'.In the end, though, gaffes and mistakes are not a crime. Boies may have won a list of damaging concessions - that no viable alternative to Microsoft's operating systems exists; that the company imposed restrictive contracts for its Internet browser because it feared Netscape; and that the Windows operating system works just as well with its competitor's browser.But the government has yet to prove the central point of anti-trust legislation: that a company's monopoly, if it is unfairly won, does have a negative impact on consumers.'This is a strange anti-trust case,' says one Microsoft lawyer. 'Where are the customers and their complaints?'Microsoft may be arrogant, bullying and feared. But despite its best efforts, Netscape has managed to distribute 150 million copies of its browser since 1995. Moreover, in closing arguments in April - when it is rumoured that Gates will take the stand again, despite his earlier performance - Microsoft can argue that far from harming consumers, the competition has benefited them: the software has not only improved but is now free - an echo of Gates's mantra, 'the right to innovate'.If Judge Jackson rules that Microsoft is a monopoly, and it looks as if he will, this will give rival software companies a head-start in their private anti-trust suits against the company. A verdict against Microsoft would also place the case in the political realm: Microsoft has significantly upped its contributions to the Republicans and recently retained several prominent Washington lobbyists.Microsoft has suffered so many setbacks, and Boies has been so effective in building the government's case using the company's own words, that it may be too late for the software giant to change course. When the court returns, Boies must build a factual record to persuade Judge Jackson to rule against the company. Before one afternoon session two weeks ago, Jackson offered an allegory that he carefully insisted was irrelevant to the Microsoft case - though that was not how it was taken. 'When you discover you are riding a dead horse, the best strategy is to dismount,' he said. But lawyers, he went on, have other strategies - including 'buying a stronger whip, changing riders . . . declaring that the horse is better, faster and cheaper dead, and, finally, harnessing several dead horses together for increased speed.'
The spooks from GCHQ,the government's communications headquarters, organised a conference on Tuesday for the Cabinet Office, the Ministry of Defence, the Home Office, the secret services and other departments, various businesses (BT), and other interested parties. It seems the GCHQ's CESG (Communications Electronics Security Group) is concerned about protecting the Critical National Infrastructure (CNI), whatever that is.We were not allowed into the conference hall - that would prevent delegates from speaking their minds. However, thanks to closed circuit television, we were able to watch Margaret Beckett, Leader of the House of Commons, give the opening speech. And while we couldn't ask her questions, we could quiz representatives from the main government departments - as long as we didn't publish who they were.So did anything emerge from this exercise in 'open government'? Yes. No one is sure what the CNI is, but it's under threat. There is no money to protect it ('existing budgets' can be used). No one can tell anyone what to do, and there are no global agreements that cover this global problem. However, if everyone was accredited under BS7799 - a British Standard for managing networks that the Government hopes will be widely adopted - then, as an unnamed source from GCHQ said, 'the world would be a happier place'.Meanwhile in part of the less critical national infrastructure, Richard Branson is spending A50 million to put all his Virgin companies online. He plans to make Virgin Net a free Internet service from May 1, and today, Virgin Trains will announce the first online train booking servicewww.virgintrains.co.uk. Will users be given vouchers if e-mail doesn't arrive on time? Compiled by Jack Schofield
A young computer scientist at the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute (MSRI) in Berkeley, California, has put the Fibonacci numbers back in the news and shown a link between rabbits and the number 1.13198824...The story begins in the early 13th century, when the great Italian mathematician Fibonacci posed the following problem. A man puts a pair of baby rabbits into an enclosed garden. Assuming each pair of rabbits bears a new pair every month, which from the second month on itself becomes productive, how many pairs of rabbits will there be in the garden after one year? Like most maths problems, you must ignore such realistic happenings as death, escape, impotence, or whatever. It is not hard to see that the number of pairs of rabbits each month is given by the numbers in the sequence 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, etc, and that after one year there will be 377 pairs.The numbers arising from the rabbit problem is called the Fibonacci sequence. The general rule is that each number after the second one is equal to the sum of the two previous numbers. (So 1+1 = 2, 1+2 = 3, 2+3 = 5, etc.) This corresponds to the fact that each month, the new rabbit births consists of one pair to each of the newly adult pairs plus one pair for each of the earlier adult pairs.Most popular expositions of mathematics mention the Fibonacci sequence. The Fibonacci numbers arise in nature, in connection with the pattern of cells in a nautilus shell, the spiral arrangement of seeds on the face of certain types of sunflower, the pattern on a fir cone, and the arrangement of leaves on the stems of several kinds of trees. The same numbers also arise in computer science: in database structures, sorting techniques, and random number generation, to name three examples.The Fibonacci sequence also has a number of curious mathematical properties, perhaps the most amazing being that, as you proceed along the sequence, the ratio of the successive terms gets closer and closer to the 'golden ratio' number 1.61803... , the 'perfect proportion' ratio beloved by the Ancient Greeks.Another way to express the same result is that the Nth Fibonacci number is approximately equal to the Nth power of the golden ratio. This gives a way to calculate the Nth Fibonacci number without generating the entire sequence: Take the golden ratio, raise it to the power N, divide by the square root of 5, and round off the result to the nearest whole number. The answer is the Nth Fibonacci number.Most numerically minded citizens will nod appreciatively and move on to something else. But mathematicians ask 'What if?' questions. For example, suppose that, when you generate the Fibonacci sequence, you flip a coin at each stage. If it comes up heads, add the last number to the one before to give the next number, just as Fibonacci did. But for tails, you subtract.For example, one possible sequence way is: 1, 1, 2 (H), 3 (H), -1 (T), 4(T), -5 (T), -1 (H),...Another is: 1, 1, 0 (T), 1 (H), -1 (T), 2 (T), 1 (H), 1 (T),...Random sign changes can lead to sequences that suddenly switch from large positive to large negative, such as: 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, -8, 13, -21,...as well as to sequences that cycle endlessly through a particular pattern, such as: 1, 1, 0, 1, 1, 0, 1, 1, 0, 1, 1, 0,...If like the character in Tom Stoppard's play Rosenkrantz And Guildenstern Are Dead your coin keeps coming up heads, you can even get the original Fibonacci sequence 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34,...With such a variety of behaviour, it's not obvious that they follow the nice kind of growth pattern of the Fibonacci sequence. But they do. Last autumn, Divakar Viswanath showed that if you ignore the plus or minus sign, the Nth number in any random Fibonacci sequence generated as described is approximately equal to the Nth power of the number 1.13198824...That's not quite accurate. Because the sequences are generated randomly, there are infinitely many possibilities. Some will not have the 1.13198824 property (such as the sequence that cycles endlessly through 1, 1, 0) but those are special cases. What Viswanath showed is that if you start to generate such a sequence, then with probability 1 the sequence you get will have the 1.13198824 property. In other words, you can safely bet your life on the fact that for your sequence, the bigger N is, the closer the Nth number gets (neglecting any minus sign) to the Nth power of 1.13198824...Viswanath's result brings to an end a puzzle that first arose in 1960 when H Furstenberg and H Kesten showed that for a general class of random-sequence generating processes that includes the random Fibonacci sequence, the Nth member of the sequence will, with probability 1, get closer to the Nth power of some fixed number (apart from a possible difference in sign). Since their deep result applied to the randomised Fibonacci process, it followed that, with probability 1, the Nth number in any random Fibonacci sequence (neglecting any minus sign) will get closer and closer to the Nth power of some fixed number K. But no one knew the value of the number K, or even how to calculate it.Viswanath found a way to compute K - at least to the first eight decimal places. Almost certainly, K is another of those mathematical constants such as pi (3.14159), e (2.71828), or the golden ratio, that have an infinite number of decimal places. Viswanath presented his new result at a colloquium at MSRI earlier this month.Since there is no known formula, Viswanath had to adopt a circuitous route, involving large doses of mathematics, some heavy duty computing, and a detailed mathematical analysis of any possible errors in the computation. He says: 'The problem was that fractals were coming in the way of an exact analysis. What I did was to guess this fractal and use it to find K. To do this, I made use of some devilishly clever work carried out by Furstenberg in the early 1960s.' Viswanath's exact result is that K equals the mathematical constant e raised to the power P, where P lies somewhere between 0.1239755980 and 0.1239755995. Since those two numbers are equal in their first eight decimal places, that meant he could calculate K to eight decimal places. And with that computation, mathematics has a new constant, a direct descendent of a pair of rabbits in 13th century Italy.• Viswanath's paper, soon to be published in the journal Mathematics of Computation, can be downloaded as a Postscript file fromwww.msri.org(click on People then Current visitors).• Keith Devlin is dean of the school of science at Saint Mary's College of California, Moraga
It's a spherical world and that's how it should be photographed, according to Dave Ripley, co-founder and chief executive of Infinite Pictures Inc, a small software house in Portland, Oregon.Last week he unveiled the SmoothMove Spherical Photo Solution at the Photo Marketing Association trade exhibition in Las Vegas, Nevada. With a SmoothMove image on a computer screen, users can scroll smoothly around a 360 degree panoramic view in any direction. These are sometimes called 'panospheric' images, to distinguish them from the traditional cylindrical type of panoramic photograph.'Our customers tell us that full spherical panoramas are important in many contexts, including architecture, real estate, crime scene analysis, and location publicity, such as hotel properties,' says Ripley.The $1,499 system, which will go on sale on May 1, includes Infinite Pictures' SmoothMove software and a QuickPan Spherical Tripod Head supplied by US panoramic image specialist, Kaidan. The software assembles panoramas by stitching together up to 10 images - perhaps five taken from the horizon up, and five taken from the horizon down - using a 14mm or other wide-angle lens on an ordinary 35mm camera.Panoramas can be displayed on Web pages in either Apple's QuickTime VR (Virtual Reality) or LivePicture's Reality Studio formats. Users have to download a small viewer - a free browser plug-in - to display the panospheric image.Spherical panoramas have already been used on the Web. The market leader is the Ipix immersive system created by another American company, Interactive Pictures. Ipix is used by a string of blue-chip customers such as Hilton Hotels, Walt Disney, Honda and Toyota, Microsoft and Intel, CNN and MTV, Kodak and Columbia/Tri-Star. It has offices in several US cities, Japan and the UK.Last week, at the Editor &amp; Publisher Interactive Newspapers Conference in Atlanta, Georgia, Interactive Pictures presented the second annual Ipix Awards for pictures taken using its system. Winners included Nasa (Space Shuttle Launch With John Glenn) and the New York Times (Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade).Ipix panospheric images are assembled from two back-to-back photographs taken using a 180-degree fish-eye lens, which creates a circular image. However, Interactive Pictures uses a key-based licensing system so photographers have to pay for each image. Typical retail prices are $25 per Ipix Wizard Key and $100 per Ipix Builder Key.Julie Stark, spokeswoman for Infinite Pictures, claims SmoothMove is better than Ipix because it allows the use of a wider range of photographic equipment, it produces high-quality images, it doesn't involve per-panorama fees, and because its software will be available for both PCs running Microsoft Windows and for Apple Macintoshes. 'That's important because a lot of photographers use Macs.' However, Interactive Pictures still has an advantage that could help the Ipix system become much more widely used on the Web, albeit with a sacrifice in image quality. Ipix panoramas can now be viewed without users having to download a browser plug-in. Instead, an 'applet' (a small program written in the Java computer language) is downloaded in the background, along with the image.You can check out the companies at:www.smoothmove.comwww.kaidan.comwww.Ipix.com
Intel's 500-megahertz Pentium III chip hits the market today and raises two big questions: is its extra speed worth the extra money and will it infringe your privacy?No, not really, unless you are a hard-core gamer desperate to get the best 3-D graphics on your machine. And yes, arguably, because a unique serial number inside the chip could give away more than you'd like if you're not careful.The Pentium III is being launched with two different clock speeds: 450 and 500 MHz. The 500MHz version will cost just under $700 and the 450MHz version just less than $500. In a month, a 600MHz version is coming out, and speeds of 700 to 800MHz are expected later this year or early in 2000. The chips can be connected to the PC's motherboard using the same 'slot 1' cartridge as the Pentium II. So system manufacturers will have no difficulty building PCs based around this chip, assuming Intel can overcome its customary early supply problems.Technically speaking, there's little to differentiate a Pentium III from a Pentium II - Intel itself admits that a photograph of the new chip's die is indistinguishable from one of the Pentium II's die. Both are manufactured using Intel's basic .25 micron process technology, which defines the scale of the chip's electronic components. The two big differences are that the Pentium III is the only Intel processor available at 500MHz and that it comes with the new, enlarged instruction set known as Streaming SIMD extensions.Put simply, SIMD (single instruction multiple data) extensions allow a single microprocessor instruction to work on several pieces of data simultaneously, whereas the norm is to work with only one piece of data. They are best used in multimedia applications such as audio and video playback where the same function is performed over and over again while the data keeps changing (for example 'play the next video frame').The idea is not new - Intel introduced it with the MMX (matrix math extensions) technology used in earlier Pentium processors. But MMX works only with integer functions, not with floating points. Integer functions are much faster but floating point arithmetic - which is far more accurate - is essential for 3-D games that require complex calculations to perform transformations (mapping a three-dimensional space to a two-dimensional display) and lighting (illuminating certain areas of an object where others fall into shadows, or supporting multiple light sources). The new chip's streaming SIMD extensions add 70 new instructions, of which 52 are floating-point instructions.The effect of these new instructions on speeding up transformation and lighting can be dramatic, but support for them - the main source is Microsoft's DirectX 6.1 software drivers - is limited at present. Intel insists, however, that developers will soon be launching applications written to use DirectX and SIMD functions.A cheaper alternative to the Pentium III is already on the market: AMD's 3DNow! technology, launched with the K6-2 microprocessor, adds 21 floating point SIMD instructions and was supported in the DirectX 6.0 release, nearly a year ago. This has gained AMD a new level of respect in the gaming community.But the key question for business users is whether the new processor is worth the extra money. There's virtually no difference in performance between old and new Pentiums of the same speed for typical business applications (and the price of the Pentium II is set to drop by about $90 to around $470, well below the $500 tag of the cheaper Pentium III). The 500MHz Pentium III is 10 per cent faster than the 450MHz version - but does this justify the 40 per cent price difference? Probably not.But the one feature corporate buyers might find appealing is the processor serial number (PSN) function that Intel is building into every new Pentium III and will put into every new generation of microprocessor. Essentially, the PSN is a unique identifier that allows a PC to be identified by either a Web site, other users or to network management software. Originally, Intel said this feature would be on automatically, though users could turn it off. Privacy advocates were immediately up in arms, citing the potential for privacy-invading marketing and other abuses, and calling for a boycott of Intel products (www.bigbrotherinside.com).The benefits of the PSN are, arguably, for identifying users for electronic commerce and to permit or deny access to areas of the Internet, as well as for tracking the processor (the most expensive component in your PC excluding the monitor - it makes up 30 to 40 per cent of the price) on a corporate network. In cases of theft, this indelible number could be used to identify a machine.Intel has since announced it will ship the processor with the PSN turned off, and that the user will be able to choose whether to turn the function on. Most new BIOSs (the basic input-output systems at the very heart of the computer) designed for the Pentium III will allow users to turn the PSN on or off.In time, there will be applications to allow users to manage their online identity through the PSN, just as there are utilities to manage cookies sent to your computer. And as Scott McNealy, CEO of Sun Microsystems said about online privacy recently: 'Get over it. You have no privacy anyway.'In all, the Pentium III is more of a speed bump than a great leap in performance. Unless you are a hard-core gamer waiting for the next advance in game software, it's hard to recommend the Pentium III at its premium price.The good news is that the Pentium III will push down the price for the Pentium II systems, which is a welcome advance for anyone in the market for a new PC.&#149; Bob Kane is editor in chief of PC Magazine. For the full report see April's issue, out tomorrow
Cautioning reason'Genetic modification of organisms can offer enormous benefits to medicine and agriculture. Biotechnology industries based on genetic techniques are developing rapidly across the world. We know that genetic modification of crops and micro-organisms will lead to evolutionary change. The question is how far that could offset the benefits of biotechnology.'Natural Environment Research Council, in a briefing note on GMOs And The EnvironmentReasoning caution'In 1907 Hugo de Vries, the most influential biologist of his day, and the man who 'rediscovered' Mendel's laws, was the only person to realise that in an applied science like agricultural genetics, economics took precedence over science. He understood what Monsanto and its ally-competitors use as a guiding principle today: what is profitable affects, or even determines, what is 'scientifically true'.'Jean-Pierre Berlan, director of research at the National Agronomic Research Institute, and Richard C. Lewontin, professor of population genetics at Harvard University, on the 'Terminator' technique, which makes plants sterile so that new seeds must be bought every crop growing season. Le Monde diplomatique, republished in the Guardian
A reader writes: 'I'd like a second Net account and was thinking of FreeServe until I read that it can screw up any existing connection.'Well yes, possibly, says Jack Schofield, but there is a way of joining FreeServe (using Windows 95/98) without going anywhere near the Dixons disk that is credited with causing some bother.1. Go to the 'My Computer' icon, open the 'Dial-Up Networking' (DUN) folder and double-click 'Make New Connection'.2. Set up FreeServe using the phone number 0845 0796699. Use the log-in name: freeservesignup Use the password: signup3. Dial the connection, run your browser and go to https:// signup.freeserve.net/4. Follow the instructions. This involves choosing a username such as fred@myplace.freeserve.net and a password.5. At the end, don't click the 'Finished' button; if you do, a file called 'install.ins' will be downloaded... and it is this file that seems to cause the problems by changing your browser set-up.6. Close the FreeServe connection.7. Double-click your FreeServe connection to log on to FreeServe again. This time, type in the second part of your username, that is myplace.freeserve.net (Please note the format: this is where people usually go wrong.) Also type in your password. This should find you logged on to FreeServe without affecting any other Internet service you may have installed.You may also find these addresses useful:  WWW server:www.freeserve.netPOP mail server:pop.freeserve.netYour Web page:www.myplace.freeserve.co.uk
Village traders bring rare monkeys in tiny cages to sell as pets in Blok M, south Jakarta's swishest shopping mall, less than half a mile from the World Wide Fund for Nature's Indonesian headquarters.Out in the swamps of East Kalimantan, forests are burnt to root out the turtles which are part of a thriving new trade in reptiles. Urban Indonesia may be in economic crisis, but the country's natural resources are being plundered.Indonesia vies with Brazil as the most biologically diverse nation on Earth. Spread across an archipelago of thousands of islands, its rainforests, mangrove swamps and coral reefs house 10 per cent of the world's plant species, 12 per cent of its mammals, 17 per cent of its birds and 25 per cent of its fish. Many of these species are found nowhere else.Pole-axed by the forest fires of 1997, the economic crisis of last year and the fall of President Suharto, the country has come back fighting - with chainsaws, guns and firebrands. Economic power has shifted from the half-empty tower blocks and factories of the capital Jakarta, on the island of Java, to the forests of Kalimantan, the palm-oil plantations of Sulawesi and the mines of Irian Jaya.Behind all this is last year's drastic devaluation of the currency, the rupia, says William Sunderlin, a senior researcher at the Centre for International Forestry Research in the hill town of Bogor outside Jakarta. Imports are impossibly expensive and capital for industry impossible to obtain. But exports of natural resources have become fantastically profitable. Timber, fish, gold, shrimps, crops such as cocoa and palm oil, all are in boom times.'The crisis in Indonesia is an urban crisis,' says Sunderlin. 'In places rich in natural resources, such as Kalimantan and Sulawesi, there is no economic crisis - only an environmental crisis.' Forests are being ripped up both for timber and to make way for millions of hectares of plantations of oil palm, cocoa and coffee, and for shrimp farms.For the poor this is a matter of survival. The migration of tens of millions of Indonesians to the cities over recent decades has been reversed as tens of thousands of the 15 million unemployed have fled back to the countryside in the past year.This month, I watched hundreds of workers fresh off boats from Java being trucked to illegal logging grounds in the peat-swamp forests of Kalimantan. Every few hundred metres along the road out of Palangkaraya, the capital of Central Kalimantan province, there are makeshift wooden tracks, used to slide logs over the boggy ground.A few miles away, I visited a gang of Javanese gold hunters working illegally on an island of rafts lashed together on the river Rungan near the village of Tangkiling. Their noisy Yamaha pumps sucked up muddy sediment and sprayed it onto a chute covered in old carpet that filtered out the gold. They reckoned to get five grams of gold a day here. In the London bullion market, that might be worth A15, though probably only a quarter as much to these men. Meagre earnings, but better, they said, than farming.Out in the swamps, they are even burning forests to root out turtles, says Paul Jepson in a research report for the WWF in Jakarta. The reptile trade began suddenly a year ago during drought, he says. As rivers and lakes dried up, fish became
Imagine a museum in which exhibits size you up before deciding how best to inform you, follow your movements, or even unceremoniously boot you out. Students on the computer-related design course at the Royal College of Art have already imagined it for you and built the prototypes.They were challenged by office automation company Gestetner to demonstrate ways of using technology to control information flow. In a normal business environment that would mean e-mails and intranets. In the RCA it is rooms that wail at you, intelligent exhibits, and what looks like a second cousin to the sinister white ball from The Prisoner - all on display last week in the Gestetner Digital Art Experience at the RCA in Kensington Gore, London SW7.A tour of the futuristic museum would start traditionally enough with a glance at the gallery map on a wall. But this map, titled Navigation, receives crowd information from the surveillance cameras and maps it on to the floor plan as video 'noise'. If a room on the plan starts to crackle and fuzz then you might want to give it a miss until things calm down.If the creators of 'Pavlov's Box' have their way, you may find the building itself guiding you, with sensors following your steps. While you stick to a predetermined path it's all sweetness and light, but if you, stray the soft whispering soundtrack gets louder and the lights around you get darker until the room and its attendant technology are almost menacing you back on to the straight and narrow. 'Beam me up Scotty' applies the 'point and click' approach to exhibits. Shining a torch on different parts of a space suit triggers sensors that project text about that element on to the suit itself.3'20' is a personalised museum concept. You start by loading data 'blocks' with the subject that interests you. Information, images and sounds from a database are played in sequence as you walk through the museum. Anyone walking into a room as you left would be greeted by an entirely different audio-visual display.A very different greeting awaits you if the museum decides you are de trop. 'Displace' is an inflatable cube, covered in a soft orange membrane, that monitors the number of people in a room. If that number exceeds safety limits it starts to inflate, physically forcing people out. The overall impression is of someone accidentally inflating a large rubber life raft in a telephone box.The display closed yesterday, but all the prototypes for the museum of the future will be at the Design, Communications, and Humanity degree show at the RCA from June 23 to July 4. See www.rca.ac.uk
On the web, pornography is just a misplaced keystroke away. Last week, Brian Milburn, president of California-based Solid Oak Software, said: 'Our researchers have discovered thousands of registered domain names that are extremely similar to those of major companies. We call them 'typo' sites.' The increase in such sites was 'an alarming trend', said Solid Oak Software which tracks sites for its Cybersitter censorship software.Suppose an innocent user is trying to reach Microsoft's site but hits a 'y' instead of 't': www.microsofy.com sends the browser to www.babekiss. com instead. The company behind that has also registered www.netscapr.com, and other misspellings such as www. ferarri.com. Mistyping www.motrola.com or www.mickrosoft.com leads to Jenni &amp; Ashley's XXX Playground. This is registered to West Coast Entertainment Inc and the interesting sounding Mike Mickrosoft. But his phone number led to an answering machine for Dallas Construction, and so far he has failed to return our calls.Getting the right letters in the wrong order, as with www.ecxite.com and www.webcralwer.com, can also lead to unwanted Web sites. Other popular search engines also have unrelated parasites (or para-sites), such as www.altabista.com and www.altavesta.com, www.hotvot.com and www.hoybot.com, www.yahhoo.com and www.yeahoo.com, www.infosek.com and www.infodeek.com.Web sites have exploited users' mistakes for years. After President Clinton brought the White House to the Web at www.whitehouse.gov (government), others registered www.whitehouse.com, www.whitehouse.net and www.whitehouse.org. The com address, used by a pornographic site, is particularly easy to reach by accident because most modern browsers automatically put www. on the front and .com on the end of any word typed in.In 1997, two American entrepreneurs, Robert Hoffer and Timothy Kay, formed a company called Typo.net to try to profit from Web surfers' cacography. They registered the domain names of almost 100 common misspellings. Their idea was to display an advertisement on the misspelled page before sending users on to the site they were trying to reach.Not all mistypings lead to pornographic sites. Many go to http//:37.com, which offers a search facility using 37 popular search engines. However, 37.com includes a link to an 'adult' site.Some companies have taken legal action against 'para-sites'. Late last year, Chrysler, the US-based car manufacturer, sued The Net Inc, claiming it 'pirated the name 'Dodge' to promote sexually explicit and offensive material'. Chrysler was upset that users seeking its 4adodge.com site could end up at the pornographic foradodge.com instead. The site no longer exists.Sharper companies now register common variants of their Web sites as well.
Are computers important . . . for you? . . . for the world?For me, essential. For the world, perhaps not. One should retain one's quality of life but not at the expense of progress. Shopping is a good example. Just browsing a virtual supermarket, then sitting back and waiting for some spotty youth to deliver my weekly choice directly to my door has got to be the way forward. However, pottering around your local country deli for some unusual delights should not be eradicated.What about the Internet? Does it threaten or enhance individual freedom?It's a paradox. My solo project, Recoil, takes advantage of the Net to spread the word and benefits from fans being able to exchange material (essentially bootlegging); whereas Depeche Mode, my other source of income, needs to take precautions to prevent unauthorised material flying around.Do you use an Apple Mac or a PC?Strictly Mac, because that's where I started (best for music). I use a 9600 with two 21-inch monitors for music running Digidesign's Pro Tools Z24 &#91;a 24-bit, 32-track digital music studio&#93; (and nothing but music-related software is installed). For the office and Web site, I use a G3 and a 7600 with 17-inch monitors.What do you use the machines for?Primarily making music but also running a Web site (www.recoil.co.uk). No games. I have a strong aversion to Sonic The Hedgehog.Any favourite software, and anything you'd like but can't have yet?Logic Audio and Recycle for music; and Go Live Cyberstudio and Photoshop for Web design. And no! Any favourite spots on the Net? Stories of foreign objects lodged in the body along the lines of 'I was Hoovering my signal box in the nude when I tripped over the dog and accidentally sat on the kettle . . .' complete with X-rays and full medical jargon (www.well.com/user/cynsa/newbutt.html); to translate anything into 'Saaf Lahndahn', 'Redneck', Swedish and more (www.rinkworks.com/dialect/); The Citroen DS- An Homage to the Goddess (www.id-ds. com/Pages/the.godess.htm); Anton Corbijn Photographer (www.photogenic.net/corbijn/index.html); Lord's (http://lords.msn.com/scoreboard/scores/default.htm); and Mouth Almighty Records - Bringing the Muse to Market (www.mouthalmighty.com/index.htm).Do you get into dialogues with strangers on the Net?Yes, a little. I quite enjoy talking to faceless people on occasion. Perversely, it can be a freeing experience.Do you use your own name when surfing?Generally, no. I prefer Norman Gland or Dr Feschel.Spend long at the terminal?Yes, an unreasonable amount of time. I'm taking fresh air therapy at the moment.Are you a geek? Got any favourite geeks?Yes, I sit up late into the night, writing e-mails wearing nothing but Y-fronts and socks. Stephen Hawking (a Recoil fan, so he says :-).On a desert island, would you prefer a human or a computer for company?A human. I'm not quite that sad.Professionally, what's taking up your time?Making a new Recoil album - on a computer. And running a Web site - on a computer.
His meticulous and beautiful photographs of America's vast western wildernesses, including the California coast, the soaring Sierra Nevada, the New Mexico desert and, in particular, his 1930s and 1940s shots of the granite splendour of Yosemite, have made photographer and environmentalist, Ansel Adams, an American legend. Europeans should trywww.corbis.com/anseladams. The site, a collaboration between Corbis and the Ansel Adams Publishing Rights trust, offers an online gallery of classic prints and a rotating monthly exhibit (do enlarge them), each with Adams's notes, background on Adams, and posters, prints and cards for sale.Sadly, your life is not complete. There you are with a spare £80,000 or so and you still haven't managed to find that fiesta red 1963 Aston Martin DB4 Series 5 Vantage GT which would pull the Bond girls and make you a happy man. Bliss beckons - one is available right now on the nifty classic car search facility atwww.classicdriver.com. Along with getting plenty of classic car news and local club contacts, you can price your vehicle in pounds, dollars, deutschemarks or euros.American evangelist Jerry Falwell caused a furore when he insisted that the Teletubby Tinky Winky was gay. That purple outfit! The gay pride triangle on his head! Now the sleuths atwww.cyberwolves.com/tinkywinkyoffer irrefutable evidence that Tinky Winky is as straight as a Teletubby can possibly be.Up to one in four women and their children experience domestic violence at some point. Women's Aid atwww.womensaid.org.ukhas information and resources to help survivors and victims of domestic violence. The group hopes the site will also be used by the public, researchers, students, and agencies.If you use your home computer to receive faxes you'll know the frustration of trying to ensure it's on when a fax is coming in. Now, two companies, CallWave atwww.callwave.comand eFax atwww.efax.comoffer free services that allow people to send faxes to a phone number, where they are then forwarded to your e-mail address as attachments. The numbers are in the US (although that won't matter to some people) and you can only receive, not send, faxes.We've all prayed before our computers, usually when the Windows Blue Screen of Death or little Mac bomb appears, bringing tidings of discomfort and despair. But the Jesuits would like us to try a more serious form at Sacred Spacewww.jesuit.ie/prayer. The site, launched on Ash Wednesday for Lent, aims to promote a deeper spirituality, and features a new scripture each day and a range of Jesuit writers to guide people through a 5- to 10-minute prayer session.It's about the stupidest site you'll look at all week, but the URL has been flying across the Web as everyone mails it to friends: it's the dancing hamsters atwww.hamsterdance.com. If it doesn't make you laugh, then you're clearly the kind of person who enjoys reading Windows programming manuals.
Sometimes  you can be too far ahead of the game, writes Chris Long. When a company I was talking to said it would have a limited stock of Pentium III computers (for a mere £645 plus VAT) I jumped and became the proud owner of a 500-megahertz model over a WEEK before it came out.And this is where my troubles really started. Trying to drop the fact that 'I have an ultra fast processor with 9.5 million transistors' into conversation isn't easy. The truth is few people understand what it is. There are also, and you are going to have to trust me on this, only so many people interested anyway. This was more than a trifle disappointing.Also,I know it was dumb to buy the first processor off the conveyor belt. Think how irritated the first 386-processor users were back in 1986 when their 16MHz machines were quickly eclipsed by 25 and 33MHz versions? And what about the early Pentium users? Little did they know that Intel would completely change the design for MMX instructions.I know I have blundered but as one of the few people in the country with a 'PIII' I have been dining out on it as much as possible. Because today it will be launched officially - and instantly go out of date.
Computer-generated worlds where people can interact in real time over the Internet came closer last week. This was the effect of MCI WorldCom's quadrupling the capacity of its Very High Performance Backbone Network Service (vBNS) in California.'In essence, this is a distributed Holodeck,' says MCI's lead engineer for vBNS Rick Wilder, referring to the holographic environment used for entertainment by crew members in the show Star Trek: the Next Generation.The San Francisco-to-Los Angeles leg of vBNS, which strings together California's leading universities and five supercomputing centres, is part of the US government's Next Generation Internet (NGI) project. Like the similar, university-led Internet 2 project (I2), NGI is a research-only set-up intended to create the infrastructure and applications for the Internet of the future. The vBNS, funded by MCI WorldCom, already links most major American cities.The vBNS is now the fastest Internet link in the world, capable of moving data at 2.5 gigabits per second (a gigabit is 1,000 megabits). Most corporate networks transfer data at 10-100 megabits per second. A standard home computer modem creeps along at 56 kilobits per second.The upgrade required no additional laying of fibreoptic cable. Engineers are using a new technique: sending different colours of light through the cable. Each colour handles different types of data.According to Vinton Cerf, one of the Net's pioneers who is now MCI WorldCom's senior vice president of Internet architecture and technology, 'VBNS is really a testbed for extremely high bandwidth facilities.' What makes the new service unique, he says, is that it can offer 'sustained bandwidth' of 622 megabits per second for a specific application due to advances in routing traffic over the network.This is important for ultra-high bandwidth applications required for creating 3-D worlds. Any fluctuation in the sending speed will disrupt the real-time continuity of the environment, with potentially disastrous consequences. For example, researchers believe virtual environments could enable a surgeon in California to perform an operation in Thailand. But the slightest lag in the arrival of data could threaten the patient's life.However, such uses of the Net are still well in the future, Cerf said. 'We've got plenty more mountains to climb.'
The racially motivated murder of James Byrd in Jasper, Texas, took place at a time when the membership of hate groups in the United States, particularly the Ku Klux Klan, was increasing sharply.According to a report by the Southern Poverty Law Centre, the Klan extended its reach by almost a third in just one year, growing from 127 chapters (branches) in 1997 to 163 last year. Its rapid growth reflects a nationwide surge in groups dedicated to racial hatred.'The organised hate movement in this country is quite clearly growing and has been for several years,' says Mark Potok, a spokesman for the centre, which is based in Montgomery, Alabama.The report says there were 537 hate groups in the US in 1998, 63 more than in 1997. At the same time there was an almost 60 per cent increase in the number of racist websites, to 254.Racist rock music, by bands with names such as White Terror, is also widely available on the Internet, the report says.The 537 groups active in 1998 included 163 Klan organisations and their chapters, 151 neo-Nazi groups, 48 racist skinheads and 29 black separatists. Between them the groups have more than 100,000 members.The growth in KKK groups is largely attributed to the rise of the American Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, now the largest Klan faction in the US. The Knights, founded in 1995, include many members with criminal backgrounds.The KKK was created in America's Deep South in the years following the defeat of the Confederacy in 1865 as groups of whites terrorised blacks who were trying to exercise their newly won freedoms.The latest rise in race-hate groups has to be seen in the context of the historic decline of white supremacist groups in American society in the last decades of the 20th century, the authors of the race-hate report stress.'There were 5 million Klan members in the 1920s and 11,000 at the highest point in the 1960s during the civil rights era,' Mr Potok said yesterday.'Now its 5-6,000. It's quite small relative to the other groups.'As some white racist groups have surged in influence, others have declined, the report says.Although the killing of Byrd might seem to confirm the traditional picture of white racist violence as a phenomenon of the American South, the recent growth of white supremacist groups is a country-wide problem.'&#91;The KKK&#93; is not a Southern organisation at all,' Mr Potok said. 'It's most active in the Mid West. Places like Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, that's where the action is.'The growth of race-hate groups has been particularly marked in old urban areas where traditional white communities have suffered the collapse of blue-collar jobs in industries such as steel, motor cars, mining and textiles.'That has created a great deal of rage, and the white supremacist movement is using this as a recruiting tool,' Mr Potok said. 'The new racism reflects America's two-tier economy.'The report says the increased numbers of race-hate groups also reflects a decision to classify the controversial Council of Conservative Citizens as a racist group for the purposes of this year's survey. The report identifies 33 chapters of the CCC, formerly the White Citizens Councils, a largely Southern group which opposes civil rights and integration for blacks.The council hit the headlines earlier this year because two prominent Republicans, the Senate leader Trent Lott and Congressman Bob Barr, a member of the 13-man prosecution team in President Clinton's impeachment trial, were revealed to have addressed CCC meetings.
Mary from Georgia has a problem. Her husband doesn't listen to her. They have the same argument again and again. And she's afraid the relationship might come to a violent end. Clearly Mary needs advice. But she skips the therapist and doesn't even bother with an agony aunt. Instead Mary calls one of America's most popular public radio shows: Car Talk.Tom and Ray Magliozzi have spent the last 22 years doling out advice about cars over the radio. The brothers from Massachusetts answer just about any question, from the technical (How do you fit a V6 engine into a 1982 Chevette?) to the silly (Is it okay to use the restroom at McDonald's while on a road trip without buying anything?)Every week two million people tune into Car Talk on the 480 stations that carry the show. Ray, who like his brother can't resist a corny joke, says the reason the show has such popularity is that cars are 'just a vehicle' to talk about other things. They particularly like giving out relationship advice...Mary: I need some marriage counselling here on a car problem.Tom: Oh, excellent. The husband is right. Get off the phone. What are you wasting our time for?Mary: Right, right. So, I know that ya'll are going to take my side on this.Tom: Well, we might.Mary: Okay. My husband goes to the gas station and we're all in the car and he gets out of the car and, in order to keep the air conditioning running, he pumps the gas while the car is running. And I told him to turn the engine off.And he says: 'Have you ever heard of anybody blowing up while they're pumping gas in the car?' And I say 'No, because everybody else turns the engine off.'Ray: And he's the only dope that doesn't.Mary: Right. He said he would abide by what you guys say...Tom and Ray champion her cause, cautioning that if the car does blow up, her husband wouldn't be able to run fast enough to get away. 'Well,' says Ray, 'he might run that fast if his butt were on fire!'They often side with women, and many women listen to and call the show. In New York, more women listen than men. 'I think we attract women callers because we don't berate them for not knowing anything,' says Ray. Tom adds: 'We've always said guys are harder to deal with because, either they think they know something about cars, or they think they ought to sound like they know something. Whereas women are more than happy to say they know nothing. And we say, 'Neither do we."The show's even popular with people who don't drive; in fact, a third of Car Talk listeners in New York don't own cars. Part of the reason for its popularity, says Torey Malatia - general manager at WBEZ in Chicago where Car Talk is the most popular single hour of programming - is that it's just plain funny. 'It's particularly potent on public radio. Public radio in the US is fundamentally humourless,' said Malatia. Car Talk is 'sort of like putting a splash of pink in an otherwise black room.'Nobody enjoys Tom and Ray's jokes as much as Tom and Ray do. They often have to stop talking because they are choked by howls of laughter at something they just said. 'They are off the air what they are on the air,' says Dean Cappello, vice president of programming and operations for WNYC radio in New York.'There's no pretence. They're not actors. There's no fru fru.' On the show, on their website, in their twice-weekly syndicated column which appears in, among others, the Washington Post, the Dallas Morning News and the Boston Herald, they are never afraid to speak their minds. And as the following show, there's little they don't have an opinion on...• Peugeots and the French Caller: The car does not start when the engine gets warm. You wait a good 20 minutes, and it eventually will cool down and then it will start.Tom: It may sound like a technical problem. But the fact is that it is a cultural problem. All Peugeots do this. But in France people drink a lot more coffee. They sit around in little coffee shops, so no one would ever shut off an engine and come back to it in less than 20 minutes. So no one in France even knows that Peugeots do this because, during that 20-minute period, they are sitting in a little bistro or a sidewalk cafe. They are drinking cafe au lait and smoking cigarettes. They come back and every single Peugeot starts right up.•Hopeless British carsRay: Brits fell out of love with their cars because they didn't run for shit.Tom: I've owned a couple of British cars.Ray: Notice he didn't say: 'I've driven a couple of them.' He's owned a couple. All I can say is thank God the Japanese make cars whose steering wheels are on the same side as British cars. Otherwise the Brits would be doomed to driving their own cars.•The stupid letter RCaller from Australia: I feel comfortable with you guys &#91;they have New England accents&#93; because you don't say your Rs either.Ray: An R is a stupid letter.Tom: Totally unnecessary.Ray: Except at the beginning of a word. So you don't say Obert instead of Robert. That's okay. But otherwise it's completely unnecessary.They poke fun at their callers, and anything else they can think of - and they are their own favourite targets. Both have lived most of their lives in and around Boston. Tom, 60, led an unsettled life for years, working a range of jobs: house-painter, army cook, college professor. He has a heavy beard and unkempt hair, and a tendency to rant about his favourite social issues on the air.Ray, 12 years younger, started out as a teacher. In the early 70s, he convinced Tom to open a garage with him.Their show first aired on a Boston public radio station in 1977. In the early days, it was much more technical, with Tom and Ray fielding questions from grease monkeys who stood over their car engines as they talked. Since Car Talk was syndicated nationally in 1987, it has become less technical and more whimsical. Even after 22 years they still sound like they are having a good time. And they can't resist giving themselves one last kick in the pants as they sign out every week.Ray: Well, you've squandered another perfectly good hour listening to Car Talk. Thanks so much for listening and remember, don't drive like my brother.Tom: Don't drive like my brother.
What do you drive?I've got an eight-seater Toyota Previa people mover. It's a great vehicle, like a mobile conservatory because it's so big and has so many windows. I've always liked vans, customised vans. When I saw the Previa, I thought: 'There's the future - the car of the millennium.'It's metallic blue, but I've had it customised. I changed the trim, put big fat alloys on it, and got the windows done with a half tint so people can't look in. People like to gawp, but it stops them having too much of a stare.Aussies have a bit of a reputation - how would you describe your driving?Have they? I'm a careful driver. No, what's the word? I'm a defensive driver, anticipating all mistakes. It can get hard when people do stuff in front of you. You think: 'Where did you get your licence? Out of a cornflake packet?'Are Aussie drivers different to the English?I like English drivers. They're calmer and more considerate, especially around cities like London. In Australia, because there's so much space and the roads are so big, it's a bit like driving in a Grand Prix. You can pass on the inside there, so it's like a giant video game.Do other people think you're a good driver?I think people feel comfortable when I'm driving. I'm not a maniac, but I'm not a wuss either.Do you have a big stereo?Not yet, that's the next step, getting a big woofer in the back - and I'm not talking about the dog! That's all it lacks at the moment.What do you listen to as you're driving?I like to pump out a bit of that big Brighton beat. But really anything will do - bit of Tchaikovsky, say, and all them classical dudes. Motoring around England with classical music cranked up is fun.What does your car say about you?Well, obviously it says I've got a family. I've got two boys, an 11-year-old and an eight-year-old, and they're not little any more. They can get any of their mates in they want, so there's always lots of people in it. All the seats fold down so you can get a lot of shit in it - put the dog in, take stuff to the dump. I use it for everything.Ever had sex in the car?Well, I've been married for 17 years. There's been a fair bit of snogging in the car, though.What's the future of the car?The Previa - although the new VW Beetle is pretty smart. There have been attempts to copy it, but they don't get it right. I've got a feeling the fins look might come back.
