Internet retailer Amazon.com and Toys R Us indicated a shift in sales strategy yesterday when they announced an online alliance to market toys and baby products. The 10-year deal marks a departure for Amazon in pairing with an established "offline" brand and the first time that Toys R Us has joined an online rival to develop its majority-owned website, Toysrus.com.Some Wall Street analysts said the deal reflected the fact that both groups were finding it difficult to thrive in the online toy market.  Heath Terry, internet analyst at CSFB, said: "This is a good deal for both companies as they are bringing their expertise in the space to bear." Jeff Bezos, Amazon's chief executive, said it could form similar alliances with retailers in other sectors.Toys R Us will manage the inventory for the two co-branded online stores for toys, video games and baby products while Amazon will run the website, order fulfilment and customer service. The website is expected to be launched before Christmas and the baby products site will begin next spring.An important part of the deal for Amazon is that Toys R Us is to assume the inventory risk. The Seattle-based online retailer was forced to write down the costs of unsold goods this year after over-stocking for Christmas. Toys R Us was forced to offer $100 compensation tokens before Christmas because online glitches and delays prevented toys being delivered on time.  In a statement John Eyler, the chief executive, said yesterday: "The strength of the Toys R Us brand and our merchandising expertise combined with Amazon's unbeatable internet savvy will create an online presence second to none."The financial terms of the deal were not disclosed apart from the fact that Amazon will receive occasional fixed payments for goods and a single-digit percentage of revenues.  One analyst said that this structure could help to stem losses at the online company.  Amazon also receives warrants which entitle it to buy 5% of Toysrus.com. Shares in Amazon edged down a little less than $1 to just over $30 after the deal was announced. Shares in Toys R Us moved marginally higher to almost $18.
You wouldn't know it under our cloudy summer night sky, but there is a huge meteor shower going on right above our heads this month; so stare into cyberspace atwww.hubble.stsci.edufor a good gander at all things Patrick Moore. Launched as a cyber-branch of the Hubble Telescope Project, the site hosts a stunning array of out-of-this-world photographs, including black holes, galaxies, star clusters, cosmic silhouettes and the odd 1,000mph storm on Saturn. With its easy-to-understand science-speak the site explains away the most complex intergalactic phenomena under headlines such as "young stars found in cosmic dance" or "star tears neighbourhood apart", banners more at home in the Sun (or should that be the Star).Of course, if you want to know how the Hubble, or telescopes in general, work, log on tohttp://howstuffworks.com, to find out, courtesy of resident expert Marshall Brain (yes, it is his real name), how anything from telescopes to lavatories, or from WD40 to MP3s, work. With more than 1m visitors a month,
it is a stellar offering.Anyone wanting to buy a telescope factory should visitwww.businessesforsale.com, a site featuring thousands of firms for sale right across the globe; be it a fish'n'chippie in Lincolnshire (£22,500) or a sparkling wine factory in Hungary ($2.5m). If that doesn't whet your appetite there's always a floating prison ship for 450 inmates, moored in Hawaii ($7.5m), a private university in California ($798,400) or a zoo in Cape Town: offers, please.Once you buy your dream business, you will have to leave work, which means you will have to find out how much cash your colleagues will put in the envelope. Go towww.collectioncalculator.comto see just how much you should put in a colleague's envelope. Answer "yes" or "no" to hard-hitting questions such as: whether or not they ever bought you  a pint; if they earn more than you; if they know your name; if they groped you at a Christmas party; and whether you 
liked it. The calculator will then suggest a fitting contribution.
You can deny it all you like, but if you have internet access and have yet to visit theBig Brotherwebsite you are either lying or are working for one of those Brotheresque companies that monitor their workers' every online move. Proving the point, last Friday, one million of us - a large number via the site - voted who should be the next contestant to pack their bags.The Sunseems to have caught the bug too. Has it got someone watching for developments (read sex) 24 hours a day? Whatever the methods, it managed to publish a picture of evictee Andrew and bookies' favourite Mel kissing before the "event" had even been screened on TV.A couple of days later news of the Sun's stunt to airdrop "Kick out Nick" leaflets on the contestants' house was quickly countered on the site by a statement saying that the show's producers had prevented any leaflets reaching the intended eyes. Relieved fans immediately flocked to the show's &lt;A HREF="http://forumuniverse.com/
bigbrotheruk"TARGET="_NEW"&gt;dedicated newsgroups. "Alan" summed up the mood: "It is nothing but a cheap stunt on the Sun's part that could really ruin the game for all us BB fanatics. Half the fun of the game is watching Nick's antics and how the other housemates deal with him."Another popular site - endorsed by Tony Blair no less - was in the news, this time for all the wrong reasons.TheSite.org, a teenage advice site, was booted off an online directory calledjust35.comfor being too "vulgar". The charity-run site attracts 65,000 young viewers a month but click on the "sex" section and you are presented with articles such as "G-spotting: What is it, how does it work, and where's the switch?" and "Penis extenders - the truth - but do they really work?". Well, it was all too much for just35.com's managing director, Roger Frenton: "I wouldn't want any children visiting the site." Even the &lt;A HREF="
http://www.number-10.gov.uk"TARGET="_NEW"&gt;Downing Streetspin machine was activated: "Websites are organic and change  We have no idea what it looks like now."Landlords are not going to win any new friends with the launch of awebsitethis week that aims to "name and shame" dodgy tenants. Registered under the Data Protection Act, it allows landlords to alert their like about the "hundreds of thousands" of people who owe rent or steal from their property. The site was set up by Paul Routledge, a landlord who co-owns, count them, 160 properties across England - an investment that nets his company up to £100,000 each month. Tenants, it appears, are not held in high regard by Routledge: "I had to do something about it. It's like theNews of the Worldprinting the names of paedophiles. OK, so some paedophiles might have suffered but someone has to start it off."
Mondus.com, the Oxford-based business-to-business specialist, yesterday proved that fledgling internet firms can still raise large sums of money despite investors' nervousness about companies in the hi-tech sector.Italian business directories group Seat Pagine Gialle said it was paying $150m (£100m) in cash and shares for a 40% stake in Mondus - representing one of the largest private fundraisings by a European internet company. Mondus was founded by two Oxford university Rhodes scholars last year and operates business to business sites for large firms; it is valued at $375m after the fundraising.Around $10m of the new money will come in cash, with the balance in Seat shares which Mondus expects to sell for cash later in the year. Seat issues telephone and business directories in several European markets and is in the process of merging with Italian internet service provider Tin.it.Earlier this week Seat announced the acquisition of TDL Infomedia, publisher of the Thomson Local directories circulated to 22m homes in the UK. Mondus co-founder Rouzbeh Pirouz said the combination of Mondus' technology and e-commerce experience with Seat's directories and client base presented "a powerful proposition" for connecting buyers and sellers. Gary List, chief executive of TDL Infomedia, said: "Mondus will enable Thomson to take our leading business directory into a whole new dimension - that of an online dynamic marketplace, providing a more efficient way for listed businesses to communicate and trade."Mr Pirouz, 28, co-founded Mondus with Alexander Straub. He was raised in Canada after his parents were exiled from his native Iran. He won a scholarship to Oxford after completing degrees at Stanford and Harvard.
Have you ever wondered what the real motive is behind supermarket loyalty cards? They are a front for tying you up with the things that you buy. Till records are no longer lists of anonymous purchases, but preferences attached to real, reachable people.One day you will turn on your internet terminal, log onto your customary grocery supplier and will be greeted with a personalised message such as: "Special offer on Chateau Neuf du Pape." The system will have noted your love of red wine at around &#163;7 a bottle and will try to nudge your spending up a notch.When you have negotiated this temptation, you will check your regular, default list and make some amendments as Auntie, who is staying for the weekend, likes that revolting tinned salmon and, as the cat has just been run over, you cancel its food. Otherwise, it's the order as usual.This model, of a supply being tempered by our own behaviour, is already part of some email systems. If you regularly answer email from Jack before anybody else, the system can put Jack at the top of your list every morning. But if a deal falls through with Jack, he will slip down the running order.Soon the same kind of system will help to regulate our viewing behaviour. In a world of multi-channel, pay per view, unscheduled television, every minute you faff about with your remote control is a minute of unsold entertainment.So entertainment sellers will log what we watch and when; football on Monday, cartoons with the kids on Tuesday; pornography when the wife's out at her needlework class on Wednesday; documentaries when the husband is out at darts on Thursday, and so on. You will   be reminded of the special two-hour episode of your soap opera to be released at midnight at a special price.These examples of intelligent agents are the simple part of information delivery based on "data mining" and behavioural analysis. We have much more to look forward to when probability software based on the theories of Thomas Bayes, an 18th century clergyman, will analyse huge quantities of data to produce manageable search reports.Type in "Lions" without the prefix "British" and the system will guess that, as you watch a great deal of rugby but never wildlife programmes, you probably want the latest news of the tour.These developments will save us all a lot of bother. But the usual reaction is that we don't need all this help. So many of us are speeding into the future with our back to the engine, analysing where we are going in terms of where we have been, that we are not ready for broadband technology and what it will do.Soon your internet terminal will be an interactive, digital television, a telephone and a search engine but it will undergo a massive qualitative and quantitative shift once freed from conventional telephones. This is when we will need default grocery lists, narrowcasting and supersmart searching software.Conventional supermarkets are limited in what they stock by their space and your trolley pushing patience. But their online services will be virtually unlimited.We will soon forget the constraints of terrestrial television, no longer united by watching the same things at the same time. But no average human being will be able to navigate all the world's available digital entertainment.Even with the conventional tools for building boring web sites, the amount of data on the web is doubling annually.Soon we will be out of the messy experimentation and the gentle academic internet of the 1980s and 1990s into serious business and commerce. Instead of the annoyance of the "Illegal operation", we will not be allowed to fail. The combination of ruthless retail, intelligent systems and unlimited capacity has the potential to overwhelm us.On the other hand, we will be able to buy intelligent systems that work for us against the salesmen.The crunch will come when the dot.coms can survive only on the sale of advertising. What will happen when our privately purchased software automatically cleans out the stuff we don't want, even while we sleep?
Governments all over the world have suddenly become embroiled in controversy about electronic surveillance of the internet. In the United States, a political storm has arisen over a new FBI internet tapping system codenamed Carnivore. In Britain, the Regulation of Investigatory Powers (RIP) Act has just extended telephone-tapping powers to cover internet service providers (ISPs), and allows the government to arrange indiscriminate tapping or email interception for foreign police forces and security agencies.In the Netherlands, the Dutch security service BVD admitted two weeks ago that it has been collecting emails sent abroad by companies. In the Hague, laws are being prepared to allow the Justice Ministry to tap into email and subscriber records, scan messages and mobile phone calls, and track users' movements.The Australian government has passed laws allowing security agents to attack and modify computers secretly to obtain information. Many other governments have similar schemes in the pipeline.These developments are no coincidence but the direct result of secret planning over seven years by an international co-ordinating group set up by the FBI, after Congress twice refused to extend its telephone tapping powers for digital networks. Under the innocuous title of the International Law Enforcement Telecommunications Seminar (ILETS), the group has met annually to plan for and lobby to make telecommunications systems "interception-friendly".ILETS excluded lawyers and industry specialists who might have advised on the arrangements to protect privacy and human rights, or on the feasi bility and cost of the intelligence officers' wish list of interception requirements. As a result, the laws based on their recommendations have repeatedly caused controversy.The work of ILETS first came to light in late 1997, when a British researcher, Tony Bunyan, revealed collaboration between EU staff and the FBI for many years. Details of plans to compel ISPs all over the world to install secret internet interception "black boxes" in their premises appeared inOnlinelast year.A month ago, the European Parliament appointed 36 MEPs to lead a year-long investigation into Echelon - the codename for a mainly US system for monitoring traffic on commercial communications satellites. Echelon has become common parlance for the worldwide electronic eavesdropping or signals intelligence (Sigint) network run by the Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) together with the US National Security Agency   (NSA). The inquiry will ask if the rights of European citizens are adequately protected and ascertain whether European industry is put at risk by the global interception of communications.French politicians and lawyers have taken the lead in accusing the US and Britain of using their electronic intelligence networks to win business away from foreign rivals. US politicians have riposted that France runs a worldwide electronic intelligence system of its own - "Frenchelon", based at Domme, near Sarlat in the Dordogne, and includes an eavesdropping station in New Caledonia in the Pacific (seewww.zdnet.co.uk/news/ 2000/25/ns-16207.html).Electronic eavesdropping has become a battleground between the US and Russia. The Russian-American Trust and Cooperation Act of 2000, passed on July 19, stops President Clinton rescheduling or writing off billions of dollars of Russian debts unless a Russian spy base in Cuba is "permanently closed".This base at Lourdes, located on leased land near Havana, was the former Soviet Union's most important intelligence facility. It uses Echelon-type systems to collect data from telephone calls and satellite links covering the US.Lourdes allegedly provides "between 60% and 70% of all   Russian intelligence data about the US". A defector has said that spying from Lourdes has grown dramatically following an order by Boris Yeltsin to step up economic and technological espionage against the west.The White House wants to stop the campaign to close Lourdes because other countries might then ask the US to close down its identical bases. Documents suggest the US would particularly fear the Lourdes effect spreading to Britain, Germany and Australia, where the NSA operates large   sites. Its station at Menwith Hill, Yorkshire, is the largest electronic intelligence base in the world.The US is not alone in this spying. By the end of the year, the Government Technical Assistance Centre (GTAC) will have begun operations from inside MI5's headquarters at Thames House, Millbank. Its primary purpose will be to break codes used for private email or to protect files on personal computers. It will also receive and hold private keys to codes which British   computer users may be compelled to give to the government, under the RIP Act.Development of GTAC has been pioneered by the Home Office's Encryption Co-ordination Unit, which says that the centre will "provide the capability to produce plain text/images/audio from lawfully intercepted communications and lawfully seized computer media which are encrypted". The Home Office has not confirmed reports that GTAC will also be the collecting point for intercepted   internet communications relayed from the "sniffer" boxes to be installed inside British ISPs.The cost of building GTAC, said to be &#163;25m, is likely to include the price of ultra-fast   super-computers, of the type previously used only to break Soviet codes and attack other special military targets. Code breakers from the communications intelligence agency GCHQ will be seconded to work at GTAC.GCHQ has used sophisticated computers for many years to examine foreign or "external" messages and phone calls, as part of the worldwide intelligence network operated with other English-speaking countries. The key part of this system utilises computers called Dictionaries, which hold lists of thousands of target names, addresses and key words. They are used to select messages of interest, while discarding the majority of communications.GCHQ was not normally permitted to encroach on domestic communications. Now the RIP Act says that as many domestic internet communications travel on the same "trunks" as external communications, GCHQ will be allowed to trawl through these messages without restriction.Another limitation, which had prevented the direct targeting of people in Britain by GCHQ without specific authorisation has also been dropped. The Home Secretary has been given powers under Section 16 (3) of the Act to sign an "overriding"   warrant every three months. This will allow general surveillance without the need for individual warrants.This will apply to "serious crime", which can include organising demonstrations that may affect public order. The government has offered no justification for its willingness to allow GCHQ to intrude on domestic political and policing matters. The RIP act will also allow any agency nominated by the Home Secretary to tap into the addresses of emails sent and received (though not their content) without a warrant.Caspar Bowden, whose lobbying organisation, theFoundation for Information Policy Research, FIPR, helped to bring some important changes to the RIP Act, believes that letting Dictionary type computers carry out broad-ranging surveillance on much internal UK traffic will break the new Human    Rights Act.The FBI has just been granted funds for an $85m electronic surveillance programme called Digital Storm. This foresees the quadrupling of telephone tapping in the US over the next decade, because of the convenience of digital processing and the automated delivery of intercepted messages and conversations to FBI agents.The FBI hopes to build in automated transcription and translation systems. According to its budget application for the next US fiscal year, a related programme called Casa de Web will include central computer archives for intercepted audio and data reports. It will also provide "analytic tools for automated speaker identification, text key word spotting, and voice key word spotting".The existence of Carnivore, the FBI tapping system, was revealed three months ago as the result of a lawsuit between a US ISP and federal marshals,   who demanded that the ISP wire a Carnivore box into its network. The FBI initially wanted to install its own version of a commercial "sniffer" programme called Etherpeek. Then it turned up with Carnivore and a court order to install it.The FBIclaims there are only 20 Carnivores, and that they have been used only 25 times in the last 18 month. But the system is so controversial that the US Congress held special hearings two weeks ago. A judge has ordered the FBI to answer requests for details made under the Freedom of Information Act.Carnivore consists of a laptop computer and communications interface cards. It runs a packet sniffer programme to select the data it wants from inside the ISP local network. According to Marcus Thomas, head of the FBI's Cyber Technology Section, they are PCs   using proprietary software and acting as a "specialized sniffer".The bureau claims that although Carnivore's hardware sees all the traffic passing through the ISP where it is installed, its software looks only at the origin and the destination of each internet packet. If the addresses correspond with those specifically authorised in a court order, then the information and/or   the contents are extracted and forwarded to the FBI. The agency claims no other data is recorded or examined.But US computer experts do not believe this is possible. For example, many ISPs dynamically allocate internet addresses to their customers. This means that every time you dial in to your ISP, you will use a different internet address. Unless Carnivore is also intercepting this type of data, it cannot work.The experts have asked the FBI to reveal the source code of Carnivore. The FBI has refused, but says it will arrange a "privacy audit". US Attorney General Janet Reno has publicly regretted the woodenheaded selection of the codename Carnivore. She says it will soon be changed to a less threatening name.Despite the power of systems such as Echelon or Carnivore, they face many practical difficulties in conducting the type of extensive surveillance that some people fear.The risk they pose to civil liberties has often been questioned because of the simple techniques that criminals or terrorists can use to outrun surveillance.Setting up new internet accounts and email addresses to use for a few days or weeks takes barely a minute to do, yet can limit or defeat law enforcement or intelligence targeting.For the ordinary computer user who wants their email and web surfing activities to regain at least the same level of privacy enjoyed by ordinary letters, the best and probably the only tool to use is a system called Freedom.Pioneered by the Canadian-based Zero Knowledge company, Freedom uses multiple encrypted links to carry every kind of internet traffic. The first step is a secure connection to a local ISP running a Freedom   server. Several are now operating in Britain. Your message, re-encrypted each time it travels, is passed among one or more Freedom servers before being inserted onto the internet at a distant location. The system used means that no one, including Zero Knowledge itself and the ISPs you use, knows what messages are being sent or who is sending them.For those less worried about intelligence agencies but infuriated by the privacy-destroying habits of some websites and internet companies, the American-based Junkbusters group offers an excellent free tool which stops unwarranted data collection and also limits the time-wasting effects of downloading of advertising material.Systems like Carnivore and the black boxes, which MI5 and the police want to install soon in British ISPs, are based on internet technologies used every day by network managers and trouble-shooters.Packet sniffers utilise the fact that all the traffic being handled by an ISP will travel on one or more very high-speed data links. These typically handle hundreds or even thousands of megabits of data every second.Everyone's data travels on these shared links, in the form of datagrams, or packets of data. Each packet contains details of the sender and the intended destination of the   data packet. In principle, this information can be used to select only the data being sent to or received by the target of a government approved warrant.But the ISP has no way of knowing how much data is being extracted from their clients' private messages. It all depends on how the software is programmed, and this is kept secret.One program used by the FBI to tap email is Etherpeek, which can be programmed to select any type of data from an internet data stream. Its manufacturers say it can "capture all conversations on a network segment, much like a tele phone tap". It costs less than $1,000 to buy and may be the proprietary software used for Carnivore.Another commercial packet sniffer modified for internet surveillance is WireSpeed, which can analyse more than 300 different network types. The WireSpeed analyser, developed by a US corporation, Radcom, was recommended for use in a recent Home Office report, which noted that it was "a major component of another country' s interception solution - it would enable the user to view the content portion(s) of electronic messages".Industry and civil liberties   critics in Britain and the US say that packet-sniffing technology is so powerful and undetectable, that it poses a threat to civil liberties and privacy that could not have existedpreviously. As even the ISP to whose equipment it is connected will not know what it is doing, there can be no means of verifying that surveillance is being limited to what is legally allowed.LinksFreedom internet privacy protection systemwww.zeroknowledge.comJunkbusterwww.junkbusters.com/ht/en/ijb.htmlWireSpeed Internet Analyserwww.radcom-inc.com/products/wire-spec.htmEtherpeek packet snifferwww.aggroup.com/products/etherpeek&#149;   Duncan Campbell is a freelance investigative journalist and not the Guardian's Los Angeles correspondent of the same name.
Unmetered internet services, which let you sit online for hours at no extra charge, have had a bad press recently. Nonetheless, there are several services with satisfied users, and I'm a very happy user of two of them: BT's Surftime and Telewest's Surf Unlimited.I'm happy because I have had no problems connecting with either service, and the Telewest connection is particularly quick. Better still, I'm paying less for internet access than I have for years. My British Telecom phone bill has plunged from &#163;350 a quarter in July 1998 (and that, sadly, was not a record) to just &#163;72 for the same quarter this year.That is not the whole story, because some of the costs have shifted to extra lines and mobile phones. We used to have one line for three people, whereas now we have four lines - two BT lines, two Telewest lines - and three mobile phones. Well, my 15 year old son runs a couple of websites and my wife has friends. But even adding up all the bills, we're still spending only half what we used to.BT Surftime, announced in March, provides unmetered net access in the evenings and at weekends via an 0800 number for &#163;5.99 a month on   top of the ISP (Internet Service Provider) charges. We use BT Internet, but the Surftime package is now available from other suppliers too. Demon has just announced "Premier Connect, our BT Surftime offering".BT has also added an Anytime version of BT Surftime, which provides unmetered internet access 24 hours a day for &#163;19.99 a month. We had already signed up for Telewest's similarSurfUnlimited, announced in February, because we already had cable TV and two Telewest phone lines.Telewest charges &#163;9.99 a month for SurfUnlimited, but this includes the subscription to Cable Internet, which was &#163;11.75 a month. I also have to pay for a Telewest line rental and make at least &#163;10 worth of voice calls a month. That is not a problem in our house. Other cable networks, includingNTL, may have similar deals.The surprising thing about Surftime is not that it is cheaper but that it changes the way you use the net. Instead of planning surfing sessions in advance, and getting offline as quickly as possible, you start to look for things to download just so you can stay online.Because one drawback with most "always on"   services is that they chuck you off if they don't detect any activity. In fact, BT chucks people off after two hours whether they are in the middle of a file download or not.I used to be a super-efficient surfer. I'd draw up a list of websites I wanted to visit and mail it to my Yahoo mailbox. Mailing a plain text message of correctly-formed addresses (including the http://) to Yahoo turns them into links. Then I'd go down the list, clicking the links to open all the pages I wanted. I would sometimes open 30 or 40 then close the connection to read them offline. (Yahoo doesn't load external pages in frames, so if you're still using Hotmail, switch.)When downloading files, I'd always useGetRight. This is the best of several utilities that can pause and resume downloads - as long as the server supports resuming. With GetRight, I used to pause slow downloads and continue them later when the net was less congested. If the connection is dropped, GetRight can redial automatically and carry on. It is still a good idea to use GetRight with an unmetered connection, but it doesn't cost anything when downloads fail.An unmetered internet connection is also an open invitation to download short movies fromAtomFilms, to listen to music atwww.spinner.comand play gameshttp://zone.msn.co.uk. It lets you watch the world through a webcam  atwww.camcentral.comor even pick up a Big Brother feed (usehttp://bbukhurl.real.com/ramhurl.ram?file=bbenc1.rmto6.rmto avoid the Channel 4 website). When cost is not a barrier, neither is pointlessness.SurfUnlimited-type deals may not only change what you do online but when you do it. You don't have to wait for cheap rate phone charges to start; you don't have to wait for the homework rush to subside, usually at about 10pm. You may even be able to surf in the mornings: the net is quicker when the kids are at school and America is asleep.Some companies, such as LineOne, are retreating from unmetered services because they are uneconomic. The problem, said one spokesman, is that too many people stay logged on all the time.That's probably inevitable to begin with. Like a child in a chocolate factory, I logged 27 hours online during BT's first "free" weekend. But after a few months, the novelty wears off. And SurfUnlimited means I no longer feel obliged to do things for free on Sunday night when they are still free on Monday morning.In fact, for the first time in years, I can now get through most of a weekend without hitting the net at all. That's not what I expected from an "always available" service. Maybe there's hope for me yet.
Infobank International, the business to business e-commerce software provider, yesterday announced that half-year pre-tax interim losses widened to almost &#163;10m.The loss for the period to June 30 was more than three times the &#163;3.2m recorded last year.As of June 30 Infobank said it still had &#163;112m of the &#163;122m in cash it netted from a fundraising in April sitting in the bank.The results were distorted because of recent restructuring at the company.Continuing operations generated revenues of &#163;444,000, compared with &#163;21,000 in the same period last year.Analysts were unconcerned by the losses, which were in line with their expectations, particularly because Infobank had so much money in the bank. Infobank has invested heavily in new staff and offices around the world as part of its aim of becoming a global player.In the past three months Infobank has won 18 customers, taking its total number to 37. Analysts said they were confident that the company could exceed its target of attaining 50 customers by the end of the year.Graham Sadd, the company's chief executive officer, cautioned that "meaningful revenue" was unlikely to kick in before 2002.Infobank's software helps companies, such as British Telecommunications and the government do business with their suppliers online.
You could be forgiven for thinking thatQXLwas the UK's biggest internet auction site considering all the publicity it has received. However, largely through word of mouse, this position looks likely to belong toeBay.co.uk, the recently opened branch of ebay.com.EBay UK had quietly built up to 127,000 users by the end of March, and is confident this figure will double by the end of the year. What is remarkable is that while QXL built up its user base through a constant stream of media coverage, eBay.co.uk, echoing its US parent site, has not yet resorted to large advertising campaigns.Ebay.com is a salutary tale for all those recent venture capital-backed web launches. It started in September 1995, an experimental site set up by Pierre Omidyar of San Jose, California. Only when it took off did Omidyar give up the day job.Although much imitated, eBay.com kept a lead by a constant process of customer- led innovation. Perhaps eBay's greatest innovation is its advanced feedback system, which rates traders by the number of successful transactions they have made. In a sector still plagued by fears of fraud, this has stimulated confidence in trade at eBay. It is estimated that 20% of those selling on eBay.com make a living from it.In contrast to the slickness of eBay, QXL's pages suffer slow links, poor site navigation and tiny print that take all the fun out of browsing. Where eBay's much copied green, blue, red and yellow logo on a white background suggests the variety of the auctions on its site, QXL's clumsy grey and orange graphics conjure up poor taste and drabness. This surely will be changed soon, though, worryingly, QXL seems to be spending its   shareholders' money, on charging around Europe buying any auction site of note.QXL will not provide an exact figure of its UK users, but its current figure for its eight country European operation is 680,000. If the UK changes to the euro then QXL will be laughing. In the meantime, cross-Europe trades are problematic, not only because of currency differences, but also because of the language barriers.EBay's advantage over QXL creates its own problems. The demands that eBay's 15.8 million users worldwide (July 2000 figures) make on its system have led to lengthy system outages. At worst these breaks in service, when its system gets updated and cleaned, have led to down-times lasting days. There are weekly Friday morning shutdowns, between 1am and 5am West Coast time to cause minimum distress to US users. Unfortunately. for UK users, who are eight hours ahead, this wipes out most of the daylight hours of Friday morning.EBay has promised to reduce these outages to several minutes some time in the future. Still, tackling eBay head on with consumer-to-consumer auctions is not a battle QXL looks likely to win. But this does not mean   eBay is unbeatable: in the USA, many online auction sites are thriving by offering services different to eBay.In the UK, auction sites such as Firedup.com do this by concentrating on merchant   auctions alone. Owned by News International, the site benefits from constant free promotion in the Sun, Sunday Times and Times.Another site offering a different service is UK Yahoo auctions. The US branch has become eBay.com's only serious competitor through its policy of charging no listing or sales fees. In return it offers a low-profile site with next to no customer assistance.This policy of minimum maintenance has encouraged sellers of hardcore pornography and Nazi memorabilia, to the detriment of the site's reputation. It also has had a number of prank auctions. Recently someone from Oklahoma was selling a certain "Jake Martin" in the other goods and services category under the heading "Stupid Person".Other auction sites well worth    checking out includehttp://sothebys.amazon.com, which features the auctions of accredited dealers in collectables and memorabilia.The Beverley Hills charity auction site, where you can bid for signed photos of Warren Beatty, Robert De Niro, Sharon Stone et al, is good for a browse. Lastminute.com is experimenting withwww.holidayauctions.netwhere it offers a bigger range of package holidays.How to get the best from auctionsEBay's invention of the feedback system was the making of online auctions. The system gives a fair indication of how experienced and trustworthy other users of the site are.At eBay after each successful trade, the buyer and seller can award each other either a neutral, positive or negative comment. Each positive comment earns a point, the more points a trader accrues the happier   people are to do business with them.Any auction site of any note now has such a system, though eBay is still the most popular and advanced with its awards of a gold or yellow star at 10 points, a blue star for 100 points a purple star for 500 points.These stars signify status and create great customer loyalty to the site, owing to users trying to reach these points targets.
News is free on the web - so what role is there for a news "aggregator " like Moreover.com?It is precisely because news on the web is free and abundant that aggregators such asMoreover.comexist. Readers need an up-to-date guide to breaking stories and perceptive analysis, whether the articles are posted on www.guardianunlimited.co.uk,http://mckinseyquarterly.comor the thousands of other high-quality sources.What will newspapers look like in five years time?Much as at present, with offline and online outlets. One difference: online, newspapers will be forced to differentiate more strongly to stand out. Readers will be able to cherrypick articles: media coverage from the Guardian, celebrity gossip from the Sun. General-interest newspapers will have to develop their areas of expertise.What other sparky things do you see on your visits to California?Paypalis one of the few startups with buzz. If someone buys me a coffee from Starbucks, I'll refund them with a Paypal email for $1.35. The service is free, and makes money on the interest on the cash balance users maintain in their Paypal accounts. The clearing banks ought to be scared.Vicinitiesis a service for workgroups and other communities. There is nothing particularly revolutionary about its components: a discussion forum, newsfeeds, a calendar, an online photo album. But Vicinities has put the package together so well that I can actually imagine using the service.Where do you see e-currencies going?Nowhere. If it become easy to email real money, why would anyone want to make do with tokens?Why aren't more innovative things happening in Britain?There is innovation in software in the UK. But internet services are typically derivative. In entrepreneurship, Silicon Valley has a two decade lead over the rest of the US, and the rest of the world. And the region has a concentration of engineers. They tend to be the ones with truly innovative ideas, not the management consultants and investment bankers who start most UK internet businesses.What will happen when Wap grows up?Wap is stillborn and it will be another two years before the mobile internet buzz returns. When it does, the mobile internet will look much like the internet itself. People will use it for email and looking up stuff. The difference will be that the user will not need to hunt around for a phone socket.Any favourite web sites?Newsbloggerlets anybody read the news and become a weblog publisher - it is done in partnership with Moreover.com.OctopusandOnepagelet a user create a custom home page, with search engine, news and other features, then publish and share that page. Jim Romensko's site atwww.poynter.org/medianews;PersonalReader.com- a business built around blogging;Search Engine Watch;Google.
When Anglo-Dutch publisher Reed Elsevier announced it planned to invest &#163;750m into migrating its business on to the internet the market reaction was surprisingly adverse.This was February after all, a month before the correction which took place and when the mere whiff of the internet was enough to set a rocket under a share price.Reed though was in the unfortunate position of being the latest in a series of companies which had made similar noises, including Reuters and Pearson. Reed shares had already been ramped in expectation and when chief executive Crispin Davis began talking about three year programmes the "hot" money looking for instant fixes such as spin-offs or flotations got out. The share price plunged from a peak of &#163;6.66 to less than &#163;4.Yesterday, though, Reed began to provide evidence that the turnaround has begun in earnest.Profits were down 5% as a result of the increased investment in online activities, but were better than most analysts expected at &#163;351m for the first half of the year. Online revenues are running at &#163;400m, keeping the group on course for its &#163;1bn target in 2002.In a climate of growing cynicism over the ability of the internet to make money, Reed is well placed. The group is focused around the legal, science and business-to-business publishing and information sectors, much of which can be sold via the internet on the more surefire subscription model.The company has been building its content-base through an aggressive acquisition policy and that is unlikely to stop. Mr Davis said the company has "run its slide rule" over US textbook publishing business Harcourt International put up for sale in June.Shares in Reed, which is dual listed in London and Amsterdam, were among the best performers in the FTSE-100 yesterday, closing 7.4% higher at 566p.
The prime minister Tony Blair's vision of an "internet for the people" is turning out to be a mirage.In March this year Mr Blair hailed plans by the US internet firm AltaVista to offer unlimited online access for a one-off payment of around &#163;30 and a small annual fee."Our goal must be to see prices comparable with anywhere in the world," Mr Blair said, fearing the UK's "new economy" would lag behind unless call charges were cut to allow affordable web access.But since then a series of unmetered services have been launched and have sunk, their founders realising that their plans were not economic. As a result, the government's aspirations of extending internet access beyond wealthy and educated sectors of society remain a long way off.Richard Branson's Virgin Net recently announced a delay in its flat fee, unlimited access service, while this week CallNet 0800 - the first UK company to offer unmetered access - announced that it was scrapping the service on September 5 and replacing it with standard pay per minute charges for surfing the net.Even AltaVista - which received a blizzard of publicity for its plans, including front page news in the Sun and the Daily Mail - appears to have struggled to make its unmetered service work.Tim Richardson, internet editor of The Register, a specialist information technology website, said the ambitious plans of internet service providers such as AltaVista had not benefited ordinary users."AltaVista has yet to provide any evidence that it is providing unmetered internet access for the 120,000 users it claims to have," Mr Richardson said.The company originally said it had received more than 1m inquiries from potential customers since its announcement, and planned to add 90,000 new users each month.But yesterday an AltaVista spokesman said the company was "not prepared to say" how many active users it had.The firm may make a statement next week, but fears in the industry are that AltaVista is running into technological and access worries that have plagued other internet service providers.CallNet this week told its customers that it blamed "substantial changes in the telecommunications industry", which it said had "altered the fundamental economics" of its unmetered service. Another operator, Breathe, was recently forced to bar 500 customers for using its unmetered service too much.But many in the sector blame BT for dragging its feet on reducing call charges for internet service providers. "Many of them had higher hopes for wholesale access from BT," said one analyst."It's very hard to build a business plan for unmetered access when you are paying per minute to BT."Negotiations are still going on between BT and other telecommunications companies over wholesale packages that would inject new life into flat-fee internet access for home users. But it may be several months before a deal is signed.Earlier this year BT came under fire from the chancellor, Gordon Brown, when he demanded that the company open up its local network to cheaper, faster suppliers.Net lossesAltaVistaAnnounced unmetered annual flat-fee internet service in March, launched on June 30, but yet to get off the groundCallNet 0800Launched unmetered net access at the end of 1999, will scrap the service in September and return to metered accessBreatheKicked 500 users off its unmetered service for overuseVirgin NetAnnounced delay in the launch of its &#163;15 a month flat-fee serviceLineOneAxing unmetered 24/7 net access service at the end of next monthLiberty SurfU-turn on unmetered net access offer
Will the Vatican enter this year? There is a special new category for best religious website and the Vatican has apretty snappy one. And how about, say, the Afghanistan government? There is also a new category for the best government site. But whoever tries to claim a Webby in the next annual awards ceremony from the International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences, it is already clear that one certain winner is...Tiffany Schlain.As founder and president   of theWebbys, which has in four years become the premier awards ceremony for the internet, Schlain, 30, has pulled off an achievement that might seem to merit an award all of its own. Next year, the Webbys will be shown live on TV for the first time, sponsors are now falling over themselves to back it and entries for 2001 are pouring in to the offices in South Park, San Francisco. Not for nothing has she been named the Digital Diva by San Francisco's mayor, Willie Brown."I hated award shows personally," says Schlain. "It was almost like my conundrum.   The challenge I set forth was an award show that I would be interested in watching."She duly created an extravaganza "dedicated to the creative, technical and professional progress of the internet and evolving forms of interactive media". In its first year in 1996, there were 19 award categories. This year, 27 were awarded for the best websites covering everything from Activism and Arts through Health, Humour and Kids to Services, Travel and Weird.The judges assembled for each category included David Bowie, Bjork, Francis Ford Coppola, Anita Roddick,   Laurie Anderson, Courtney Love, Matt Groening and Jim Clark. Sponsors included everyone from Visa and Intel to Adobe and Netpulse.What distinguishes the Webbys from the other proliferating ceremonies where tearful expressions of gratitude to mothers, agents and directors are obligatory is that acceptance speeches are limited to five words. "I hated acceptance speeches," says Schlain. "The internet is all about speed and time is such a commodity."This has led to many gnomic and eliptical speeches. "Technical innovation means class war," said the Webstalkers when they won this year. "They said I could only..." said Mike Loew of the online humour magazine,Onion, as he accepted.Tiffany Schlain is nothing if not a child of the Bay Area. Born in Mill Valley in Marin County across the Golden Gate bridge at the time when everyone from Van Morrison to Rambling Jack Elliot was hanging out in the area, she is also the child of surgeon and writer Leonard Schlain and psychologist Carole Lewis. Her sister is chairwoman of ShoppingtheWorld.com, her brother chief executive officer ofMedicinePlanet.comand her husband, Ken Goldberg, is an engineering professor at Berkeley who doubles as a digital artist. Family dinners must be exhausting."As a kid, I was fascinated that flicking a switch activated   light," she said of her first memory of technology.As a teenager she went to the then Soviet Union as part of the People to People Student Ambassador Programme before studying film at Berkeley and working as an independent film-maker. She still makes films, she says, and has made 27 short ones in all. Frederico Fellini is her god and every year she throws a Fellini cocktail party in his honour in her Winnebago at the Burning Man festival in the Nevada desert.Just as the late George C Scott and Woody Allen hated and shunned the Oscars, so some of the internet achievers see no point in awards either. "Ugly capitalist sons of bitches," was what Jodi.org came up with as their five-worder last year when they won the arts award. The director of the Academy, Maya Draisin, said that another nominee was "too humble" to want an award. But those who say "beware of geeks bearing awards" seem   to be a minority. Schlain thinks that most people do want to be stars: "Even in tribal cultures, there is a very primal need for attention and approval."Religion and Government will be the two new categories for next year. Schlain foresaw potential problems with judging - "what happens if you have a Catholic, a Jew and an atheist?" - but was curious as to who might enter.It still seems unlikely that the Pope would be joining the likes of Sandra Bernhard, Bill Gates and Tina Brown who attended this year's ceremony last May at the Masonic Auditorium in San Francisco.Schlain is very keen that entries should become more international. Anyone who thinks they have a chance is asked to contact Webbyawards.com. There were entries from 27 countries this year. Schlain hopes that this will increase and is looking for more judges from other countries: "The Oscars model is that they have a foreign category which is very wrong.   I would rather it was infiltrated in every category."Just like winning an Oscar, winning a Webby can change careers. "We see our role as shining our light on new success," said Schlain. "It's a new version of the American dream."This year's personal website winner was Cockybastard.com. Schlain said she was lecturing in Austin when "this gorgeous man" walked up to her and said "I'm going to win a Webby". She told him that it was a cocky thing to say but win he did."He sent me an email last week and said his life had totally changed. Lots of businesses get put on the map if they win. There's such noise out there and a Webby can   elevate you because there is no filter right now."New York has been trying to lure the Webbys across to the east coast but Schlain, whose offices are in South Park in the SoMa (south of Market) area of the city - also the home of Wired and   countless other dot.com enterprises - is committed at present to San Francisco.There have, of course, been clashes between the new and old cultures of the city with fears expressed that the old alternative culture is being driven out by the property prices prompted by the dot.com boom."I'm a big believer that change is good. I think that people who try to pretend that this world is not changing are not foolish but naive. Heraclitus. said 'the only thing permanent in the world is change'. I love that expression. That being said, I'm a native and I've watched this city go through many evolutions."Heraclitus is only one of many distinguished sources quoted by Schlain. Einstein, Goethe and HG Wells are all referred to reverentially in Webby literature and publicity.Next year's Big Thing for the Webbys? She reckons the services category. "I haven't been to a grocery store in a year - I use web.van. That has changed the way I live. I have not left the house for anything. I get all my books through Amazon, I get all my music through CD.now and my movies through Cosmo."Because I have saved that amount of time, I exist differently and I think those kind of services make people understand on a very palpable, tangible level how it's changing their life. I think this year is going to be the year that the 'awe with the money' part of the industry gives way to the practical ways. The consumers and the internet are going to be woven together."In her introduction to this year's Webby awards, Schlain paid tribute to HG Wells's The Time Machine, which she said was "like the internet today..., bravely twisted assumptions about space, time, chance, order and chaos. Out of chaos, the Webbys attempt order."Space, time, chance, order and chaos. Now there's a challenge for church and state.&#149;   Duncan Campbell is the Guardian's Los Angeles correspondent.
Blown back to the fun of the arcadesSilent BomberSony PlayStation	&#163;29.99 Bandai/VirginSomething of a misnomer, that title: the main character, Jutah Fate, is most definitely a bomber, but silent he ain't. At least we've moved away from the "Atavistic Bomb Panjandrum" school of Japanese game-naming. Fate's mission - should you choose to care, which is not recommended - is to destroy   the command ship of his evil former boss.Using two wrist-mounted bomb launchers, you direct Fate to blow up everything that moves, and everything    that doesn't, for a laugh. There are four types of bomb (standard, gravity, paralysis and napalm), and several ways of using them: drop them on the floor, stick them   on the wall, lock them on to a target, stack them, use them in devastating combinations.If this all sounds a little daunting, the control system is surprisingly easy to pick up.Silent Bomber is a return to the golden days of the arcade: end-of-level bosses, health bars, wafer-thin plot, even high score tables. This, combined with its simple,   frantic, compulsive gameplay, will have you reaching for a 10p piece every time your man goes down.And thanks to the legions of re-spawning baddies and Gauntlet-style monster generators, go down he will, repeatedly. (If this was a coin-op, it would set you back a fortune.) But the explosions are so natty, the sound effects so beefy and the rumbles on the Rumblepak so rumbly, that you even get a kick out of kicking the bucket.The action seems a little far off at times, as the isometric view is set way above Fate's head; but the graphics always remain smooth and, more importantly, crystal clear.For sheer originality, Silent Bomber is well worth a blast.  (AB)Killer android strikes goldDeus ExPC	&#163;44.99 Eidos/Ion StormIt is dark, raining, and you are an android in a futuristic urban cliche. Yup, Blade Runneritis - the disease that affects 80% of all computer game scriptwriters - has struck again. But maybe we   shouldn't mind too much when this latest casualty is such a genre-bending success. Deus Ex mixes Quake, Thief, and Baldur's Gate to produce one of the finest PC games for years.Initially such hyperbole seems misplaced. The perfunctory graphics are underwhelming as you sneak off towards a headless Statue of Liberty, hugging the shadows in pure Thief style.Kill a guard or two, causing all hell to break loose, and watch all the Quake fans switch off. With ammo scarce and the guards particularly   intelligent, simple blasting will get you nowhere.However, perseverance is amply rewarded as the game evolves from simple first-person shooter into a time consuming obsession.This is mainly due to two factors: freedom and character building. The RPG (role-playing game) elements are surprisingly flexible, allowing you to update your android bodily parts quickly and easily, without all the normal jargon. Also, even more than its console sibling, Perfect Dark, Deus Ex gives you the freedom to decide.Kill an unarmed terrorist leader? Or let him live and face the career consequences. Essentially you can play through as peacefully or as violently as you want.Occasional AI glitches and dubious voice acting detract, though even the formulaic cyberpunk story engrosses, with plenty for conspiracy theorists to mull over.It also makes you wonder why most game developers simply re-heat Quake when they could be cooking up new recipes like this.  (GH)
PS2 laterSony has delayed the European launch of the PlayStation 2 games console. The first hope   was that it would arrive on September 29, the fifth anniversary of the PlayStation launch. Later, Sony said it would start shipping systems in the UK on October 26, but this has now been put back another month to November 24. Chris Deering, president of Sony Computer Entertainment in Europe, said: "This revised date allows us to provide increased quantities."The PS2 will cost the same as the original PlayStation at launch: &#163;299.99.Sony has supply problems partly because it is trying to   enter both the American and European markets before Christmas. Usually, console manufacturers leave six months or more between the Japanese, American and European launches. Also, the PS2 has been very popular in Japan, where Sony says it has already shipped 3m units.Xbox developsMicrosoft has started shipping software development kits for its Xbox games console, which should offer much better graphics performance   than the PlayStation 2 but will not appear until autumn 2001. Microsoft is shipping more than 1,000 kits to more than 100 companies.The PC-based XDK includes early graphics hardware, a large hard drive, a pre-launch copy of DirectX 8 software, and off-the shelf game controllers that simulate Xbox functionality.007 racingFormula 1 would no doubt be more interesting if the cars had James Bond-style gadgets,    but since that is not going to happen, you can try 007 Racing instead. The game is being developed in the UK by Eutechnyxwww.eutechnyx.com, and Electronic Arts will publish it on the PlayStation later this yearhttp://007.ea.com. Other versions will follow.EA has a licensing deal withDanjaq LLC, the Cubby Broccoli company, andMetro-Goldwyn-Mayerto produce a series of games based onBond.Eutechnyx specialises in driving games.Deadly deer"Help, I'm naked and I have a pizza" and "Free beer here" are among the "genuine hunter calls" used in two PC games, Deer Avenger and Deer Avenger 2, which AAA Game plans to release in the UK next month. These are parodies where hunters become the hunted and "Bambo" gets his revenge. You, as a deer, can use a variety of weapons including an M-16 and a bazooka, or simply fart your prey to death.
Rot the dotDot.com scepticism is all the rage these days, especially since so many people failed to get rich quick after the stock market "corrections" of    March. Express your frustration - and raise a laugh - with this delightfully titled site's collection of dot.com-cynical stickers. There are entertaining examples of what you can do with your stickers, including a guerrilla-style sabotaging of the toilets at the Webby's - the internet's "Oscars" held earlier this year in San Francisco. Seewww.blowthedotoutyourass.comDaring viewA great thing about the web is that it allows other people to do stupidly dangerous, yet exciting, things then let you    relive the experience vicariously. A perfect example is explorer Kevin Kelm's home page, which takes us on a tour of an abandoned underground missile silo in the US. Alongside pictures of the    rusting machinery and tunnels winding into darkness, is a running commentary, peppered with scary phrases. "Flaking asbestos lining", "flooded lower levels" and the "immortal radioactive gas    radon builds up" give you an idea of the fun to be had. Fascinating stuff:www.xvt.com/users/kevink/silo/silo.html.Web ringIs your mobile phone ring just not irritating enough? Then it is time to get yourself along to Your Mobile, and download a new tune for your Nokia or Ericsson handset. Many phones are capable of receiving a new ring tone by SMS message. This site sends that message, and gives instructions for changing your tune. At the time of writing, the James Bond theme was top of the tinny pops, with Alice Dee Jay's Better Off Alone at number two. We're not quite convinced by the adaptation of Tom Jones' Sex Bomb, but the version of John Williams' Star Wars Imperial March is just fantastic. Go towww.yourmobile.com.The prisonerSome people have given up their freedom to promote the noble cause of e-commerce. Takedotcomguy, (that really is his name), who, noble chap, has locked himself in his home supported only by e-merchants, and watched by several webcams, all to promote the cause of ecommerce. Each day there are events in his home sponsored by dotcoms, just to prove how well you can live using only your PC and friendly internet merchants. Sadly, the important effort has been derided in Salon, the online magazine, which cruelly branded him a poster child for internet idiocy. Seewww.salon.com.Very FetchingUrban Fetch, the US delivery service for gifts, gadgets and food, is now in the UK. If you live or work in London, it will whisk whatever you want to your desk within the hour. Anecdotal evidence on delivery times is positive so far, although users must have deep pockets - six bagels costs &#163;3.60 and gourmet cream cheese weighs in at &#163;2.10 a tub. Music, games and books seem better deals for the terminally impatient, or idle. Seewww.urbanfetch.co.uk.Royal watcherAfter the raw emotion of last week's royal birthday celebrations, you're probably desperate for 360-degree,    panoramic pictures from inside Buckingham Palace. Luckily, this is exactly what you'll get at the online royal magazine, Royal Insight. Spin, zoom, uncover some hotspots! Seewww.royalinsight.gov.uk.Tartan flashIt's great news that the Highlands of Scotland tourist board is trying to sell itself to the 16-35 age group, normally more likely to be found avoiding sunlight in Ibiza, rather than avoiding the midges in Inverness. A first glance at the board'snew Flash "enhanced" sitesuggests they've made quite an elegant job of it, too - some funky Celtic music and cute animations sell it well. It's just a shame you have to back out of the Flash bit and go into the plain HTML version to check out prices and booking information.Look backAlready there's a web nostalgia business hankering back to those innocent days in the early 90s.Deja Vulets you see the web of today through the browser of yesteryear, providing geeky entertainment for those of us who remember the browsers first time around. And it should be required surfing for all web designers who complain today's web doesn't give them enough control...New and notedOrganise your night out atwww.latenightlondon.co.uk, buy some posh shirts and ties atwww.tyrwhitt.co.uk, or play virtual basketball (and give away lots of personal information) atwww.sunnyd.com.Six of the bestNationwide kick-offNewly promotedwww.bbc.co.uk/sportEuro 2000 kingswww.sportal.co.ukFormer champwww.football365.comRedesignedwww.soccernet.comTwo weeks in...www.scottishfootball.comWho else?www.footballunlimited.co.uk
It's a snapOlympus is beginning its rollout of new digital cameras with a new medium priced model aimed at home users.The &#163;469.99 Camedia C-990 Zoom, pictured here, boasts a resolution of 2.11 megapixels, comes with an 8MB SmartMedia card and incorporates QuickTime Movie facilities. Other features include a 1.8inch LCD monitor, a pop-up flash and programmed auto exposure   options. Three new models and a printer will go on sale in the autumn.For the recordAmericans will soon be able to take home a DVD recorder. Later this month Panasonic is to start selling its DMR-E10   DVD-ram video recorder in limited numbers for $3,999.The recorder uses 4.7GB discs to store up to two and half hours of high quality video and is compatible with both PCs and AV equipment.The recorder can download VHS-based video, clean up the image and then store it on the DVD-ram disc.Panasonic expects to start selling the recorder in the UK next year and has plans to launch several other DVD-ram-based products in the next year including a PC drive and a camcorder.Computers featuring a DVD-ram drive are scheduled to go on sale in the US before the end of the year.  (AN)Plush PalmPalm Inc this week launched a new palmtop computer for the fashion conscious with &#163;130 ($149 in the US) to spare. The m100 is black, but can be customised with mobile phone-style snap-on face-plates available in silver mist, blue mist, green mist, pacific blue and ruby pearl for &#163;19 each ($19.95 in the US). This follows a deal, announced in May, for aClaudia Schiffer edition of the Palm Vx).The m100 has a rounded base and looks a lot like Compaq's iPaq PocketPC palmtop, except that model is silver. Compaq will also take the faceplate route with a new   range of Presario PCs and Presario 1400 notebooks that take MyStyle Accent Colour kits.Palm has dominated the market for pen-operated palmtop computers but is under pressure from Handspring, a start-up founded by the original Palm team. Handspring's Visor is already available in a range of colours and has a Springboard expansion slot that the Palm lacks.The m100 is more aggressively priced than earlier Palms. Although the Palm m100 HotSync Cradle - for synchronising data with a personal computer - costs another &#163;28, it is still &#163;20 cheaper than a comparable 2MB Visor with free USB cradle.Read this!Microsoft has introduced a version of its Reader software, familiar from Windows CE 3-based PocketPCs, for desktop PCs. It can now be downloaded free from atwww.microsoft.com/reader.The launch is part of an "eBook initiative" involving Barnesandnoble.com, the bookseller, which will sell 2,000 titles in the Microsoft format, adding about 150 titles every week. Seewww.bn.com/ebook.Barnes &amp; Noble already supports the Rocket eBook handheld, and offers free Glassbook Reader software for Windows.  (JS)
Free spiritHow could anybody complain about a service that isn't costing them a penny? When Freeserve was launched, internet access was for a minority, yet all I remember reading at the time about the ISP (internet service provider) was the poor service that it provided.I didn't care. It was the first time I could afford to go on the web, even if I might have to dial up more than once due to the line being engaged.Would the e-revolution have happened in the time scale that it did without Freeserve?Charles Hendersoncharlie@orpheo.co.ukOpen accessReading the article Heavy surfers pay the price (August 3) made me ponder the determination of the communications industry to make a success of the huge opportunity that is before them.Customers need to be able to take their time in making decisions that involve parting with money. When they are online, they are less likely to do this if they have a per minute charge in the back of their minds.I spend much of the year in Japan and struggle with the internet when I return to the UK. In Japan I have a cable internet connection at a set monthly fee (part of a cable TV package). The internet portion costs me around &#163;35 a month for two computers to be continuously, at my discretion, connected to the net. There are no other charges.The infrastructure requires investment and planning, but it is possible. Stop the excuses and give us the services the net and its users need.Steve Lewisslewis@senri.ed.jpReading Heavy surfers pay the price, I could only laugh (several times). Were these whingers so naive that they thought they really would get something for nothing?Joseph Nicholasjosephn@globalnet.co.ukYou report Sean Gardner of Breathe as saying "There was no forward visibility as to what usage patterns would be." Wouldn't it have been simpler and more honest for him to just say: "We hadn't a clue what would happen?"I can just see the adverts for Breathe now... "Breathe Easy - you haven't a clue what will happen when you try to use us, but don't worry, we don't either."Mark PackLondon N4It amazes me that any company complains about "excessive demand". Surely this is why they are in business in the first place?Richard Rance,London N16In March, I signed up to 4unet.co.uk, paying &#163;20 to receive a box which plugged into my BT socket, and which would enable me to make cheap phone calls via calls4u and get free internet access. The box arrived in early April but after one month of trying, I was still unable to access the check number let alone get free internet access. I rang to cancel my account and to request a refund.It has still not been made, and when I rang last week to complain yet again I was told that this was "a common problem".How many others are awaiting a refund?A.L. Ronalda.l.ronald@theronalds.clara.co.ukReal dreamI was very interested to read Jim Giles' article Pipe Dreams, (August 3) in which he states that "high-quality full-screen moving images will need more like 30 Mbps, leaving ADSL up to 10 times too slow".Mr Giles may be surprised to learn that I possess a magical technology that allows me to watch crystal clear video with 5.1 sound, all at a normal data rate of 5Mbps and a maximum of 9.8Mbps.Its name? DVD.Edward Moyse,London, E1Jim Giles paints a familiar picture of how wonderful things will be when we have high-bandwidth personal internet connections. As someone who already "enjoys" such a thing I have a few home truths to anyone waiting with bated breath.Servicing broadbandwidth consumers in any quantity requires the kind of computa tional power with which you could solve the question to the answer of Life, the Universe &amp; Everything. A media company offering video at Jim's 6Mbps (let alone his 30Mbps) even with only hundreds of thousands connected (which is "pathetic" even for a small national traditional broadcaster) would require bandwidth of hundreds of Gigabits - never mind server resources.Organisations like CNN, ITN, BBC etc cannot even secure sufficient IT resources to reliably deliver streaming content at around 30Kbps.Even using ancient MPEG1 compression technology, VHS quality can be delivered at around 1.4Mbps. The 30Mbps requirement quoted in the article would be approaching that necessary to deliver cinema quality using current technologies!John WaltersIpswich, Suffolk.Wap a wasteThe suggestion in Second Sight (August 3) that Wap (wireless application protocol) will be a big carrier of news and other stuff is a little naive.Let's be honest, Wap is a stinking failure, and people still talk about it because of the vast amount of money spent promoting it.If you can get online there is nothing to find (we tried looking for football results during Euro 2000 to no avail) because it is so difficult to make a site Wap-enabled.Compare this with Japan, where its mobile technology i-mode has raised mobile internet surfing to way beyond the desktop bound surfer. This is because it works, and there is a lot of stuff to find because it is simple to prepare a website. So let's ditch Wap now and adopt a useful technology with a proven record.Nik Kraakenesnik@gemisis.co.ukWhat a sad person Victor Keegan seems. The words "applications for Wap phones are starting to become more interesting and useful" caught my attention (Wap watch, August 3). I read the column with mounting excitement, only to find that Victor is turned on by online wine reviews and something which will tell him where his nearest curry house is.Perhaps I'm not the only person who is not suprised that Wap services are used so infrequently.Andy Howellandy.howell@ecotrend.net
American investment company  ACMGIis seeking to boost its presence in the internet access business in a move that could accelerate consolidation among European internet service providers.CMGI, which has $2bn (&#163;1.3bn) in cash to spend, is targeting markets such as Britain, France and Germany, according to its European president Marcus Bicknell.Though it would be some time before CMGI makes a move, Mr Bicknell said yesterday : "I wouldn't be surprised if we go a little deeper into the internet access business, either by associating with major telecom companies or by acquisition of internet service providers.""It's time for a shake-up. The effect of the internet market downturn hasn't been felt yet   in Europe. Consolidation among medium-sized business is necessary."As CMGI was outlining its European ambitions, which would broaden the reach of its Altavista portal, Dutch internet service providerWorld Onlinewas confirming that it has held talks with Italian telecoms and internet company,Tiscaliabout possible cooperation.A combination of World Online and Tiscali would create Europe's second biggest internet service provider, after Duetsche Telekom'sT-Online.But though World Online acknowledged the talks with Tiscali, it said that it was looking at other options. "Discussions with Tiscali are exploratory. It is not just Tiscali. We are talking to a lot of companies," said a spokeswoman.Industry analysts argue that, though a combination of   World Online and Tiscali would make sense, there is a case for a more broadly based pan-European alliance. France'sLiberty Surfand Britain'sFreeserveare names that have been mentioned, though Freeserve has denied it has been approached.One problem that would have to be resolved centres on valuations for Tiscali and World Online. The Dutch group has a per-subscriber valuation of &euro;1,500 (&#163;900) while Tiscali's valuation per subscriber is more than double that. However, some analysts believe that Tiscali would be prepared to pay a premium for World Online.The Dutch company is also facing legal action by the Dutch shareholder group, VEB, which is claiming lack of information in a prospectus for World Online's initial public offering.
An international arbitration body has awarded a domain name, already belonging to one company, to a new owner in Barcelona. The World Intellectual Property Organisation,    Wipo, has ruled that the owner of the domain,barcelona.com, who registered it over four years ago, has no right to the name. Instead it should be awarded to Barcelona city council, which owns Parc Guell (above).   Barcelona.com was bought in 1996 by two Spanish citizens, Joan Nogueras and Conchita Riera, who wanted to build a city portal web site. The city council had already launched its own portal site atRieraand Nogueras set up a US company, Barcelona.com Inc last year, as well as other companies in Spain and the UK.Barcelona city council showed an interest in backing the barcelona.com project last winter.But the tables were turned in February this year when the council hired a firm of lawyers to wrestle the .com domain name from its owners and leaked   a series of stories to the Spanish press accusing Barcelona.com Inc of cybersquatting.Nogueras and Riera have been unable to do business since the city council filed the complaint. They plan to file a US court action.One of the main planks of their appeal will be the judge's alleged conflict of interest. Mr Marino Porzio, a Chilean,is a former assistant director general of Wipo and chairman of its assembly. He also serves on its main policy committee, presently working on a ruling on the ownership of domain names. Pricewaterhouse Coopers, lawyers for Nogueras and Riera, argue that Mr Porzio   therefore has conflicting roles as both lawmaker and judge.They have 10 days to appeal before barcelona.com is handed over to the city council.In the meantime, Wipo's decision creates legal uncertainty, with the ownership of many thousands of other city dot.coms around the world now liable to be claimed by city councils. The US and UK use dot.gov domain names for government and dot.com for business sites, but domain naming is more disorganised in the rest of the world, with many organisations wanting to .com their local web sites.Dot.namesLondon.comis owned by Mail.com Inc, a US company that offers 'vanity' e-mail addresses, such as yourname@london.com. They also own paris.com, berlin.com, madrid.com, tokyo.com, rome.com and dublin.com.Edinburgh.comis owned by Edinburgh Imports Inc, a Californian company that sells teddy bear kits.Bristol.comis owned by Bristol Technology Inc, a US company.Cambridge.comis owned by Cambridge Research Associates Inc, in the US.
Colt Telecom'schief executive, Paul Chisholm, shocked the market yesterday when he announced his intention to quit - sending the network operator's shares into rapid descent.Colt's shares fell almost 9% to &#163;19.65 as investors digested the news that the American who helped steer it to its present success was leaving.No date was set for Mr Chisholm's departure, though he apparently intends to remain as an adviser member of the board.Mr Chisholm said he was leaving Colt in order to be with his family in Boston. He joined the company in 1992 from Teleport Communications Boston, and holds about 2.4m shares in the group. Colt is 51% owned by the American investment group, Fidelity.Phil Campbell, an analyst at Schroder Salomon Smith Barney, said of the resignation: "It's a little bit of a shock. The shares are basically down on the back of that."The company is searching both internally and externally for a replacement.The executive's resignation did adversely affect the reception of Colt's second-quarter results. The company reported that earnings before interest, tax, depreciation improved from &#163;845,000 to &#163;1.6m.It was Colt Telecom's fourth consecutive reporting of positive data. Analysts were expecting the group to report a loss of &#163;1.35m.Pre-tax losses, however, widened from &#163;26.4m to &#163;33.7m, with analysts not expecting the group to break even until 2003.Colt Telecom's turnover rose from &#163;94.3m to &#163;151m - with some two-thirds of that being generated outside Britain."The numbers are very good   and are better than expectations," Mr Campbell said.However, most forecasts for the company's full-year results were held steady - given the margin pressure expected from the substantial costs related to the development of website hosting and asymetric digital subscriber line, or ADSL, services.Colt Telecom provides high bandwidth data, internet and voice services to business and government customers in 22 European cities.It expects to introduce its ADSL services in Germany and the Netherlands during the fourth quarter of this year.The company has six website hosting centres.Colt's strong sales growth in the quarter was driven by increasing demand for its services; it added high-profile clientsSema,AxaandBloombergin the same period.The company also won a new contract for voice services for the London borough of Hammersmith, and is providing internet hosting forChannel 5andCopernicus Global Billing, a multi-service billing application service provider."Strong demand for our range of high bandwidth data, internet and voice services, an expanding product and service portfolio and extended market reach have all contributed to an excellent second quarter performance," said Jim Curvey, chairman of Colt."We remain confident about the outlook for the rest of the year and beyond."Colt Telecom also has a joint venture with network groupCisco Systemsto develop net protocol services. The company expects its future growth to rely on the provision of business and government customers with net and software application services from its website hosting centres.
If mobile phone manufacturers, the Consumer's Association and the government had got together to work out how they could sow the greatest possible confusion in the public's mind about the safety of mobile phones, they couldn't have done a better job than they have this year.Three separate reports have come up with three different messages. In April, Which? reported that tests of hands-free kits showed they channeled radiation from mobiles to the brain.In May, the Stewart committee on general mobile phone safety hedged its bets by saying there was no evidence mobiles were dangerous, but there was "a risk of a risk."Now the Department of Trade and Industry has responded to the Which? report by coming up with its own research, apparently flatly contradicting the Consumer's Association message.It confirms what one would instinctively expect - that a hands-free kit, which moves the source of radiation, the mobile handset, further away from the head, cuts down the amount of radiation received by the brain.The good news is that, on closer inspection, the reports are not so contradictory. The key thing to understand about the two reports on hands-free kits is that they were using completely different ways of measuring radiation.Scientists hired by Which? were measuring the amount of radiation transmitted by the phone. The DTI's scientists were using a synthetic human head to measure the amount of radiation received by the brain.he argument is not, then, about contradictory results, but about different ways of measuring radiation.The government and mobile phone makers say a test called an SAR test - for Specific Absorption Rate - is the right one. Which? says it was never designed to test hands-free kits and is inaccurate.Perhaps more importantly, the squabble over the safety of hands-free kits obscures the wider message of the Stewart committee, which found no evidence that mobile phones damaged human health.Mindful of the scientific and bureaucratic arrogance which deepened the BSE crisis, the committee added that there was no evidence they did not damage human health either, and mobile users - particularly children - should be cautious.The amount of heating caused in the brain by mobile phone radiation is too slight to damage or mutate DNA, the stuff genes are made of.But one piece of research suggests that, in other organisms, the radiation can be enough to "switch on" genes which are associated with stress.
Traditionally, the word "community" conjures up village fairs or small groups of like-minded people getting together, but it has taken on quite a different meaning with the internet.It was not always this way. The first internet communities bore some relation to the original meaning of the word, formed by groups of scientists or people with shared interests, a world vividly and enthusiastically portrayed by Howard Rheingold in his classic 1993 book, The Virtual Community. Now "community" conjures up an image of commerce as much as of cosy fellowship.Go to any networking event, sooner or later someone with a new website or about to create one will utter the word like a mantra. Entrepreneurs harp on about community for several reasons. First, the larger the membership of an online community, the greater the number of advertisers attracted. Second, the community represents a mini mass-market for companies as the market becomes increasingly fragmented.With the advent of the internet, that hoary old chestnut, "the customer is king", becomes more of a reality. Customers can browse for bargains, making it difficult for a company to build up customer loyalty. The internet is a paradox: It creates a virtual global market yet fractures it into millions of pieces at the same time.Take Amazon.com. The online bookseller says it can ship to virtually any address around the globe, so the world is its oyster in a sense. The only problem is that other companies such as Barnes and Noble, its bricks and mortar rival, also sell books on the net. If Barnes and Noble offers better service and cheaper books, customers may desert Amazon with the speed of its tumbling share prices. Amazon's defence is to build up a sense of loyalty and community.In building up a community, Amazon also acquires data about customers. This data amounts to a valuable currency because the more a company knows about its clients, the better placed it is to offer them what they want, although it has to take care not to rile them over-eager marketing. Because of this database, Amazon can exploit the information to sell other products besides books, which is why it has branched into other areas such as tools and hardware, beauty products and electronics. Amazon is creating a virtual department store based on the relationships that have been developed through its client base."Amazon is more than just about selling books," says Gerard Davies, an internet consultant. "It's about forming relationships and managing those relationships."The community thus is no longer a group of like-minded fellows, swapping jokes and recipes but a potential commercial nirvana to corporations. That is why entrepreneurs like Michael Zur-Szpiro, who has set up a site for home buyers and sellers called Mooov.com, harp on such much about community. The site - one of several devoted to the housing market - invites people to share their horror stories and runs stories about celebrities and their stories about moving.With the importance of communities, a whole new industry has cropped up around community building on the net. Amy Jo Kim, who has been building online communities for 10 years for companies like America Online and webzines, has written a useful guide for community builders. She sets down a number of fundamental principles, such as the importance of designing a site that can adapt to the changing needs of its members and of creating and maintaining feedback loops."Successful community building is a constant balancing act between the efforts of management (that's you) to plan, organise and run the space, and the ideas, suggestions and needs of your members," she writes. Other community gurus such as Cliff Figallo, part of the Futurize Now consulting group in San Francisco, also stress the importance of listening to community members.But as desirable as it is for companies to build or tap into communities, such close links to consumers can bring risks. Proximity to users gives companies a treasure-trove of data to exploit, but mistakes can be magnified to an embarrassing degree. Push the wrong button and a message can zip its way to the wrong person. Worse still, the wrong message can go to thousands of people by mistake. If that happens, companies have to be pro-active and apologise immediately.Companies really have to listen to customers instead of merely paying lip service to the notion. Mr Davis says companies are horrified when he urges them to give out the managing director's email address on their websites. What happens when he gets inundated with emails? He replies: "It's a quick way of knowing if a company has got a problem, isn't it? So it's a good way of making sure the company doesn't make mistakes."mark.tran@guardian.co.ukUseful linksNaima.comFuturizenow.com
Trying to value shares in Irish e-security firmBaltimoreis a thankless task. Few companies inspire such a diverse range of opinions.The stock is one of the most volatile in the hi-tech sector, but yesterday it held steady at 640.5p.Some analysts believe Baltimore is on the verge of becoming a global power and a fairer value is around 900p; others rate them an outright sell. Nomura describes Baltimore as "one of the most overpriced software stocks on the market" - even after it fell from March highs of almost &#163;14.Nomura analysts say last week's deal with Commerce One in the US is indicative of their concerns. Under the deal Baltimore will supply its public key infrastructure to the company but the contract is non-exclusive and Baltimore did not put any monetary value on it.Nomura argues that Baltimore is valued as if it has proprietary technology and will make high margins. However, the standard it is based on is non-proprietary and Nomura predicts Baltimore will never earn much more than 20%-25% margin.Current market value of &#163;2bn is 46 times this year's forecast sales and 87 times 2002 forecast earnings. Nomura says this is unrealistic.What Nomura would like to see is a bigger presence in the US market, arguing that more than half of the world's leading multinationals are based in the US and the big decisions on security will be taken by corporate headquarters. Baltimore's US revenues are growing but mainly through acquisition. Further smart buys would help to calm some analysts' nerves.Dealing room whispers suggest a possible target is Entrust Technologies, a US rival that last month saw its shares fall more than 50% after warning that second-quarter earnings will be much lower than expected. It is valued at around $1.5bn.A combination of the two groups would be a very different proposition. Investors should hold, but be prepared for a rollercoaster ride.
&#149; Deal The UK's JSB Software Technologies said it has bought CSM Security Management for $17.3m (&#163;11.5m) in an all-paper deal. Steve Purdham, JSB chief executive, said the deal would accelerate the company's expansion into Europe by giving it immediate access to the German-speaking markets.&#149; R&amp;D Computer maker IBM said yesterday researchers were running the Linux operating system on a prototype wristwatch device, in a test to show that it can be used as the basic software on the smallest devices.&#149; Team Online booksellerBarnesandnobleis teaming up with Microsoft to open the first major internet store selling digital books, a Barnesandnoble.com spokesman said.
Durlacher will today announce that KVault Software, a firm in which it owns a 66% stake, has been valued at &#163;35.5m following a &#163;5.5m fundraising.KVault was founded by Durlacher in December last year to develop software that enables large companies to organise the vast amounts of emails, web pages and other unstructured electronic information that they receive each day and often have to store for long periods of time to comply with financial regulations.The firm is based around a product called Enterprise Vault, which links to data held in Microsoft Exchange servers and was designed by Compaq. Durlacher bought the product and its designers from the US company at the end of last year for a small undisclosed sum.Software industry executive Mike Hedger will today be appointed to head the new firm.Researchers at Durlacher believe that the market for unstructured information management tools is worth more than $5bn (&#163;3.3bn) and is growing at 40% per year.
BT was attacked by Oftel yesterday over its &#163;40 monthly charge for high-speed internet access, after a survey by the telecommunication watchdog found consumers wanted cheaper web services.A survey by Oftel of 2,070 consumers found that those interested in asymmetric digital subscriber line technology - which delivers internet access at about 10 times the speed of today's modems - were only prepared to pay an average of &#163;13 a month.Oftel said that even with an additional monthly fee of &#163;10 to have unmetered access that meant the total charge would still be short of the &#163;40 being quoted by BT Openworld.However, BT said yesterday that &#163;13 would not cover its costs of offering ADSL services.ADSL, which is just being rolled out, has had at least 100,000 possible users express   interest. It also allows the delivery of video on demand and traditional television services via telephone lines.A BT spokesman said the company had conducted its own marketing and research which suggested customers were prepared to pay its &#163;40 charge. "We believe it's competitive and that people will pay this price."At least 30 other companies are planning to offer ADSL services - a move which is expected to lead to price competition.Oftel said not even higher-income groups or keen internet users were prepared to pay more than &#163;13 on average. Only larger households were willing to pay more, but then only &#163;20.Oftel's survey was conducted by Mori in May and also found one in four homes is connected to the internet with the majority of users online for little more than one hour a week.
Here's some bad news if you like to keep up with the new economy: your reading list is about to get even longer. You won't merely need to catch the monthly print editions ofRed Herring(482 pages in a typical issue),Fast Company(404 pages),Business 2.0(410) orUpside(290) - not forgettingWired(merely 266), and weeklies such as theIndustry Standard,RevolutionandNew Media Age. Prepare now for the next global burst of internet brands - a raft of new local editions of established magazines. If you're lucky, you'll get through August's editions by December.Future Publishing has just imported Business 2.0 from Brisbane, California, in a slimmed-down localised UK edition, soon to be followed by German, French and Italian versions. Haymarket's Revolution is about to launch a Hong Kong edition, only months after entering the US market. And, in an ambitious global expansion that is causing some twitching among local competitors, San Francisco's Industry Standard - a trade title that happened last year to sell more display-ad pages than People magazine - is about to launch a pan-European edition from London, as well as a series of local-language versions from Scandinavia to South Korea."The new economy is both an American and a local story," explains Michael Parsons, London-based editorial director of the Industry Standard Europe. "This is all about the flow of investment into the tech sector. A lot of money is now coming into the European theatre, and people here are desperately hungry for information about where the deals are, where the money is going. That interest won't go away as the American money won't go away."Parsons has been with the Standard since its launch in April 1998 as a mere 64-pager; today the issue size has to be capped at 365 ad-crammed pages "as the printer can't cope". He is busy recruiting big names in net journalism for an October launch: Mike Butcher from New Media Age, Chris Nuttall from the BBC and Georgia Cameron-Clarke from the Telegraph will be among 25 journalists working on the European edition under editor James Ledbetter. Up to half of the magazine will comprise material from the US edition, allowing access to the material produced by 130 people in the US. "The success of First Tuesday shows there's clearly a tremendous interest at a grassroots level about what people can do in their own markets," says Parsons. "We will be a bridge between the experience of the US entrepreneurial and investment community and the rest of Europe. UK web companies are thinking of themselves as European - everything else is provincial."Several US net magazines have long been cult items among UK net entrepreneurs, offering the lessons  - lately, the mistakes - of west coast start-ups, and hundreds of pages of intimidating advertising from financial institutions boasting of $2bn mergers and follow-on offerings. Comag, the UK's largest magazine importer, now handles 20 internet magazines among its 500 titles. It estimates the internet magazine  sector's annual market value at about £11m - compared with £5.6m in March 1999. "Generally when there is a UK edition we stop importing the US edition as they compete with each other," says Sarah Marshall of Comag. "The arrival of a local edition is a sign that the market is picking up for that sector."And picking up it is. Research from Future Publishing points to increasing demand for tech-market coverage in the UK - led by advertisers as well as subscribers. "The American market is clearly important in this sector because of the development of new technology, but the European market is becoming important in its own right," says Jessica Burley, publishing director of Future Publishing's business and internet group, whose titles include Business 2.0, .net and PCPlus. Despite the downturn of tech stocks, venture capital continues to move into Europe in the quest for that successful business model. And that means booming advertising for what Burley calls "indigenous-facing" magazines as start-ups - and the banks and software firms seeking their business - try to make noise in their local marketplace.Business 2.0 currently claims a US circulation of 270,000. Future Publishing is guaranteeing advertisers 50,000 for the UK edition's first ABC, and is planning Italian, French and German launches later this year. "You'll see us roll out the brand into large countries around the world," says Burley. Britain, she says, is currently "an emerging market" with its own needs. UK consumers may not favour the "fat books" of the US titles but we do apparently demand specific coverage of web businesses where Europe appears to be leading the US, notably in mobile technologies.There are clearly risks in localising titles that earned their reputations in the US, where the new economy is still generally held to be months, if not a year, ahead of Britain. The UK version of Wired, backed by the Guardian, folded after what some said was its premature arrival in a market where not enough of note was happening."One of the reasons people buy American magazines is to see what's happening in America - but the number of these people is quite small," says Richard Lord, editor of Revolution. "To make a publication succeed in the UK, you need to strike a balance between this and mass-market demands." Revolution has recently taken this publishing trend from the other direction: selling its knowledge of the European market to US consumers. Its solution has been to go "micro-niche" - focusing purely on internet marketing. An early lesson Revolution learned in New York was that design templates do not travel: "Americans can't stand sans serif                                                                                                                                                                  body faces, so they had to go, and we had to increase the leading to improve readability."Lord believes Business 2.0 has "made an admirable attempt to localise itself" with its UK edition, and is not too bothered about the competition. "There is a market for us all as long as we realise what we're good at and focus. Red Herring is serving an audience that cares about the financing of companies." Besides, Lord notes, there is no sign of a slowdown in the ad market: "We grew in six months to take weekly what we had taken monthly."Keeping up as a reader, however, offers a broader challenge. "It's simply impossible to read through all this stuff," says Mike Nutley, editor of New Media Age - a mere 76 pages this week. "People value NMA because it's a quick read. Who wants telephone-directory-sized magazines?"&#149; David Rowan is editor of Guardian Unlimited
College students are among the most wired of all groups. On many US campuses, 100% of students (and faculty staff) have net access - if not via their own PCs, then through campus computer labs and libraries. Online penetration in universities far exceeds that of the general US population.Yet websites serving campuses have, until recently, been pretty dull. Sites run by colleges themselves - featuring class descriptions, student directories, etc - have been largely utilitarian, lacking the pizzazz of commercial sites. The websites of campus newspapers, meanwhile, have offered little more than "shovelware" - articles and content copied from the print edition. It's a rare college newspaper that has the resources to be at the leading edge of online publishing.This is all changing. American colleges are getting flashy websites featuring the latest in internet technology, as the dot.com industry figures out ways to "monetise" students by creating local websites to serve them. Three types of site are emerging to serve individual college and university campuses:1) The campus newspaper's portal. While many internet-savvy journalism students would no doubt love to build state-of-the-art online newspapers, a simple lack of resources has prevented this on most campuses. But Campus-Engine.com, a California-based company, is riding to the rescue with a plan to turn campus newspaper websites into local "portal" sites, leveraging the content of local papers and adding slick new features and services.The company, which was founded late last year and already has deals with 71 college newspapers, provides sophisticated web publishing tools and services that the small, typically independently run papers couldn't afford on their own. A CampusEngine-powered newspaper site offers such services as free web email (similar to hotmail), an auction service that students can use to sell textbooks, and community publishing tools to allow student groups to self-publish on the web.All this costs the newspapers nothing up front - just a negotiated share of advertising revenues brought into the campus portal. CampusEngine's strategy is to sell national advertising to an   aggregated audience of students. CEO Jack Crawford says that the campus-paper deals represent a reach of 1.5m students so far.2) The school-sponsored commercial portal. The competition for the campus-newspaper portals will come from school-run portal sites operated by commercial entities on the schools' behalf. Typical of this model is a new company called zUniversity.com, based in Connecticut. zUniversity creates commercial campus portal sites that are affiliated with the schools. In effect, they become the commercial arm of public institutions.Where typical .edu websites are basically intranets serving staff and students, the zUniversity sites can provide a variety of services - entertainment listings, or online ticketing for off-campus events. Schools retain their .edu sites, but users are referred to the zUniversity portal for commercial services.While "z" sites have the school partners as sources of official news and information, they don't have the advantage of a student newspaper, which generates local news and event listings (most US college newspapers are independent of the school administration). zUniversity operates a small "field operation" on each affiliate campus, with an editorial correspondent and interns providing local content for the portal site.zUniversity is also aiming its sites at ex-students. By affiliating with alumni associations as well as the schools themselves it hopes to keep its users coming back for life. And, like CampusEngine, zUniversity aims to make much of its money from selling national advertising across its network of college sites. (zUniversity's CEO was a founder of web advertising titan Doubleclick.)3) Taking .edu sites to the next level. The final category involves taking the existing .edu website, supercharging it with the latest technology, and paying for it with advertising. This approach is represented by companies like Campus Pipeline. The Campus Pipeline platform integrates with a school's databases, providing web features such as online registration for classes, web-based email, and online academic results.The one hitch in this model is that these handy hi-tech features don't come cheap. Currently, schools are either paying for the technology themselves, or allowing advertising on their websites to pay for it - which doesn't always sit well with academic constituencies.For students, all this campus web activity means lots of online choice. Not only are .edu sites improving the services they provide, but commercial entities are offering a tremendous amount of local content and services. Students are going from the digital dregs to a digital cornucopia as .edu joins forces with .com.steve@content-exchange.com
Katie Tarbox, a young American writer, has been making headlines since May, when her autobiographical book, Katie.com, the story of her seduction by an online paedophile, was published in the US. The book is touted by her publishers as: "An honest, eye-opening account of a young woman who was bitterly betrayed by the information age."But another Katie, this time a Londoner, is feeling bitterly betrayed by Penguin, the book's US publishers. Katie Jones, 28, owns the internet address Katie.com, which since May has been inundated with a flood of attention thanks to Tarbox's book. The victim of an unfortunate case of electronic mistaken identity, she is also the proprietor of UKChat.com, one of the most popular independent chat sites in Britain, generating some 40,000 visitors a day.The book describes in graphic detail how Tarbox met a 41-year-old serial sex offender in an internet chat room, and later met up with him in a Texas hotel room, where he molested her. Penguin's publicity machine won Tarbox a review of the "cautionary memoir" in People magazine. The New York Times called it "a testament to the wonders of the modern adolescent". CNN called Tarbox on to discuss the dangers of "cyber-predators". And America's grande dame of morning talk show hosts, Katie Couric of NBC's Today Show, advised parents and teenagers alike to use the book as a guide of what not to do on the internet.In the space of a single day, Jones' personal website had more than 100,000 visitors, and the south London internet entrepreneur started to get emails from hundreds of Tarbox sympathisers, sharing their own experiences of molestation and rape. Jones, who managed chat services for MSN and AOL before leaving to start her own online chat company in   1998, is worried that the stigma of paedophilia and chat-room abuse addressed in the book will seep over from her personal site into her business activities."Lots of people know me as Katie Jones, online community person, and I'm known in this industry as the person who owns and runs UK Chat. Now the domain name is always going to be associated with this book," she says. "It's not mine any more, it's theirs, and they didn't even ask me if they could have it."Single-name domains such as Katie.com or Bob.com are increasingly valuable as good, simple web addresses are becoming more difficult to get hold of. Bob.com was recently valued at more than $1m.Katie.com used to house Jones' personal CV, pictures of her young son, and a link to her professional site, UKChat.com. But with the release of the American book, with its disturbing subject matter, Jones has closed the site indefinitely. "I started getting emails from people wondering if I was &#91;the subject of the book&#93;," she says. "The site was attracting the wrong kind of attention from the wrong kind of people."Jones, through a US lawyer, contacted the book's publishers to inform them of her prior rights on the name Katie.com, but says the only response was a stiff reply insisting that she had no legal leg to stand on.This isn't the first time that two parties have squabbled over a domain name, but Jones' case is unique in one aspect. There are countless numbers of cyber-squatters who have registered domain names of large companies, and tried to extort large fees from the companies in exchange for relinquishing the names. A whole body of law now addresses the rights of companies to extend their trademark to web addresses. But no one has yet tested the right of web address owners to extend their trademark to other offline media.In November 1999, the US congress passed the Anti-Cybersquatting Consumer Protection Act, which gave companies recourse against misuse of their trademarks in internet domain names. It expanded previous trademark law in the US, giving better protection against domain name piracy. The trouble for Katie Jones? For starters, Britain doesn't have the same expanded protection against cyber-squatters, and her use of Katie.com isn't a trademark, but for personal use. She is fighting Penguin on the grounds that her privacy has been invaded, rather than trademark infringement."It's a grey area of the law. There's no precedent for this," she says. "This is a test case. You don't want to be a test case. It's a horrible thing, but this is an issue that needs addressing."Lawyers specialising in internet law say that while Penguin's move may not have been illegal under current law, in today's world, it was certainly clumsy. There's a certain naivety in publishing a book about the internet, with a web address in the title, and publicising the book online (from the websitewww.KatieT.com),and making no attempt to buy or secure the logical domain name. "Why would naming the book KatieT.com devalue it in any way?" Jones asks.Tarbox's editor, Laurie Chittenden, was au fait with the etiquette and practice of online chat rooms. In   1997 as an assistant editor at Simon &amp; Schuster, she hosted monthly, hour-long chat sessions on AOL called "Ask the Editor."In one notable session, she met a young author, Franklin White, and later signed him to a six-figure, two-book deal. Chittenden told Publisher's Weekly that the online world is a good place to spot trends. "To be on AOL and the internet, you're on the cutting edge of the ideas that are being transferred back and forth," she said. "Years ago, you had the Parisian salons where people discussed philosophy and literature, and I see online newsgroups and chat forums as similar to this."Chittenden, Penguin, and Orion, the book's British distributors, did not respond to requests for comment, but it appears the book's name was changed between when the publisher bought rights to the book, and when   it was published. In early publicity, the manuscript was called "Girl.com." The enterprising assistant at Penguin who decided to look up that web address earned their wages, since any sympathetic reader pointing their browser towww.girl.comwould find something more titillating than Katie Jones' baby pictures and CV.Jones' lawyer, Jonathan Taylor with Townleys Solicitors, says she's in a dangerous position going up against the likes of publishing giant Penguin."Penguin retains America's leading First Amendment lawyer, and he's the person who's responded &#91;to our complaint&#93;," Taylor says. "They recognise it's a serious issue, and they're saying 'we've got the money to defend this to the hilt.'" Taylor said that the first communique from Penguin's lawyers indicated that as Jones hadn't trademarked the name "Katie.com," she couldn't expect to   have exclusive use of the name. "I can see this as being a legitimate analysis, but it's hardly a responsible attitude to take," he says. "Yes there's freedom of speech, but not absolute freedom. To effectively print a book with someone's address on it goes too far."Jones and Taylor both feel they're at the mercy of a large multinational publishing concern with unlimited resources. "If somebody wrote a book about dodgy booksellers, and called it Amazon.com, they wouldn't stand for it. They have huge resources and I don't have any," Jones said. "I have every sympathy with this girl; clearly something awful happened to her. But at the same time, that doesn't justify them using my domain name, whether it was her doing or the publishers."Polly Sprenger writes for The Industry Standard Europe, which launches in October
* Channel 4's Big Brother (made by Bazal Productions which is part-owned by the Guardian Media Group) has already become a victim of its own success. The website (www.channel4.com/bigbrother),launched last month, has been dogged by technical problems.First there were rumours of a hacker at large - Intel suspected a massive "denial of service" operation at large - but with 2m page impressions and 1m video streams a day, the likely scenario is that Channel 4's system just can't cope with demand (as of this week they are having to double their bandwidth). One other theory for the chatroom is that Sada, who was evicted last week, has molecularised herself and is causing havoc inside the machine. Either that or something is watching Big Brother.*Trinity Mirror New Media took advantage of the flat-rate net access dispute last week to launch its ic24's After Eight service, offering free surfing for its users between 8pm and midnight. Marketing director Jill Playle heroically called on the industry to stop confusing customers with offers that "are not what they seem", calling it free access while charging a set-up or monthly fee. All well and good, but four hours of free surfing hardly equals a free internet.*Last week's movers and shakers in the new media world include Ashley Highfield, Telewest's interactive chief, who   has been hired to head up the BBC's new media department. Highfield will report directly to director-general Greg Dyke and become a member of his executive committee and global strategy group. Hollinger Telegraph New Media has also appointed Matthew Duffy as business development director to take charge of the new channels in September.*Emap Elan's efforts to thwart the BBC's Eve magazine - which launched last week alongsidewww.allabouteve.co.uk,the community-based sister site - have extended on to the web. On top of the &#163;1m TV advertising campaign to boost Red's sales this month, they are planning to launch a beefed-up website for the title some time in September.*Random House is to start publishing e-books specially designed for the internet. The new imprint AtRandom, launching in January, will cover literary fiction, biography, popular psychology, technology and business. Elizabeth Wurtzel and Donald Katz are amongst the commissioned list.*Inside.com, the glitzy US website for media luvvies which launched in a blaze of hype in the spring, is going to start charging for its features and analysis. Evidently their revenue from advertising and database subscriptions for business use just wasn't covering their substantial editorial costs.< A HREF="mailto:New.media@guardian.co.uk">New.media@guardian.co.uk
Age?44.Who is he?Internet editor of talksport.net. Former print journalist.What's the clever idea?"Introducing audio email through Talksport's website. We're the first radio station in the world to broadcast VoizMail - voice rather than text emailing - live to air. We launched on July 18 and already have 140,000 unique users."What's the thinking behind it?"We're a phone-in radio station. At any one time, hundreds of people are trying to get through, but we have perhaps half a dozen lines, and can only take one caller to air. We do get an enormous amount of email, but people want to hear their own voices on radio, asking presenters, guests and stars specific questions, making comments, as if they were there. Also, it's not just about a greater audience, allowing voice access to those people who couldn't get to us on the telephone. The producer knows the question - it enables us to structure programmes better, pace them better."How does it work?"You need a PC with a sound card, which most PCs have, and a microphone, which we're giving away through the website. You go towww.talksport.net,click on the VoizMail button and that gives a step-by-step graphic prompt on how to do it. Then you simply say your piece, add your email address and   click, it's gone. Very user-friendly. We then access that, play it over a microphone, write out a three or four-word synopsis, enter it on the studio's audio system and it's available for the producer to use. They just key it straight in, push the button, it immediately plays and the guest or whoever answers the question. It's very much an experimental system. We've done it three times now, with Shane Warne on each occasion. The quality has been surprisingly good."Possible shortcomings?"There is no direct interface between our studio sound system and the email at the moment, so we have to put it on a minidisk and carry it to the studio first. It's also not a telephone call. You don't get the same interaction. The penetration of microphone dimension is pretty low at the moment, although we're giving them away through the website."What's next?"We're going to take VoizMail across the whole station. Everybody will be getting a piece of it. We're talking about people coming to accept and use it in the same way as email or the telephone. Also, the thing about radio and the internet is they're perfectly suited to each other and there are so many new things coming along all the time. It won't be long before we're streaming our own video, because we're in the audio production business, on the radio side, and have a number of ideas for expanding our own web presence."
Logging onto the Internet at home is becoming more common with almost a quarter of the UK's population surfing the net from their residence, figures today show.A survey by telecoms watchdog Oftel showed that around 14m people in the UK, or 22% of the population, were logging on to the Internet at home. The survey also showed that around 6m homes in the UK are hooked up to the net.Oftel said the report showed that consumers were continuing to make use of the choice of products available and were interested in new high-speed services such as fast Internet access.However, the survey found only 18% of consumers felt that companies were providing enough information for them to find the best Internet access package.Chris Kenny, Oftel director of regulatory policy, said: "This research into consumer behaviour will help us to ensure that we are implementing our strategy effectively."The survey also found that a third of Internet users now use more than one Internet service provider (ISP).
The right to set up a really rude website aimed at undermining the public image of big businesses and religions is being fought for by civil rights activists in the US.The battle comes in the wake of action by leading multinational companies like Wal-Mart and McDonald's to stem the growth of websites which add "sucks", "kills" or "stinks" to the brand name."This has become a constant issue," Barry Steinhart of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) said in New York yesterday. "The big trademark holders are trying to gobble up all the names."What has angered companies is the proliferation of sites that provide damaging and cheeky information about particular multinationals and churches and use the trade name of the chosen target somewhere in the title of the website.This means that the idle surfer interested in a company or church can view scurrilous information on the internet.The ACLU and the Consumer Project on Technology, which was set up by the Green party presidential candidate Ralph Nader, have come to the aid of sites under attack by the big guns."This is not a cybersquatting issue," Mr Steinhart said, referring to the practice whereby people register websites in well-known names in order to sell them on to the company concerned at an inflated price."This is about a First Amendment right. The trademark laws are designed to protect the public from being confused, but when a name is clearly so derogatory, such as walmart.sucks, the public can well understand it."Some companies have taken pre-emptive strikes. Volvo owns Volvo.sucks.com and Chase Manhattan has Chase.stinks.com.Mr Steinhart said the right to free speech should include the right to set up websites which might offend.While it is mainly big companies that seek to save themselves from embarrassment by buying up potentially rude sites, the Church of Scientology has also been unhappy about the use of its name in derogatory sites.The ACLU is anxious to fight on behalf of the threatened sites so that they can create a new American adage: always giving a sucks an even break.
England may be a nation of shopkeepers but it isn't, and may never be, a nation of e-tailers. People have been surprised by the collapse of such high-profile online shops asBoo.comandClickmango, which crashed last week despite having Joanna Lumley as its figurehead. They should not have been. Half of all new businesses fail within their first four years and the death rate for dot.com companies ought to be even higher. Yet if they had been ordinary small companies they would have withered away unnoticed. Because they are using a new medium to sell their goods they attract attention. Clickmango.com, for instance, was notching up sales of only &#163;2,000 a week. This is corner shop stuff.Lastminute.commanaged to push transaction sales up to &#163;1m in the three months to June, on which it made trading losses of over &#163;11m. It is a good job it still has &#163;117m in the bank from its flotation to see it through.Lastminute is at least doing something original. The problem with other online retailers is that they are merely selling old economy goods in a more expensive way without the brand loyalties their (traditional) competitors enjoy. Building up a brand from scratch can be expensive - and that's before the huge cost of installing a new distribution system. It has been the same sorry story in the US. The American shakeout has left three companies -Amazon.com,eBaythe online auction house andPriceline.com- with 90% of the market value of online retailing.In recent months, e-tailers have had to contend with the downward pressures on prices that the internet generates because of the consumer's ability to move to a cheaper source. In the US, failure in business is regarded as a rite of passage whereas in Britain it still carries a stigma. It is time we learned to be more mature. Judging by the escalating rate of failures, it looks as though we are going to get lots more opportunities.
Hopes of an 11th-hour rescue forclickmango.com, the online health and beauty products retailer, rose yesterday when the company said it would continue trading beyond its planned closure date at the end of the month.After announcing last week that it was ceasing trading, Clickmango said the attitude of its main creditors and the loyalty of its 20 staff allowed it a stay of execution. The company said it had the resources to operate into September, giving it more time to attract for a rescue bid."We're feeling cautiously optimistic that an extra month of operation might give us enough time to conclude negotiations with one of the many blue-chip white knights who have made approaches this week," co-founder Robert Norton said in a written statement.The company said traffic on the site, which was begun in April 2000, had quadrupled over the past week and sales had increased by 20%.With investors taking a more hard-nosed view of internet stocks following the share price mania at the end of last year, Clickmango became the latest victim of the new mood when it said it was winding down its business in order to pay staff and creditors in full.Atlas Venture, which last September provided the bulk of the &#163;3m Clickmango needed to set up and operate for a year, decided to pull the plug at a time when prospects for e-retailers are looking exceedingly grim.Mr Norton said the company had been unable to raise some &#163;300,000 in bridging finance.Clickmango's woes are the latest in a series of blows to confidence in Britain's internet sector, with business-to-consumer firms facing particular uncertainty after the collapse earlier this year of high-spending fashion retailer Boo.com.The company hired actress Joanna Lumley, who plays Patsy Stone in television comedy Absolutely Fabulous, to endorse its site. Mr Norton founded the company with Toby Rowland, son of the late tycoon "Tiny" Rowland.
A power shift is taking place in the traditionally male-dominated sex industry with the arrival of a new breed of entrepreneur: the webmistress.More than 50 per cent of websites in the booming online pornography business are now owned and operated by women - and the number is steadily rising.The new 'scarlet-collar' worker is typically a 25- to 35-year-old former prostitute or lap dancer with young children and a desire to better her income while working from home. She has working class roots and hides her profession behind a veneer of suburban respectability.A psychologist has described the webmistress phenomenon as 'neo-feminism'. 'Women whose lives were once controlled by male pimps, porn film-makers and publishers are moving up the food chain,' said Dr Kimberlianne Podlas.A former New York criminal lawyer and now a leading psychologist at the Bryant Institute in New Jersey, Podlas began using her legal contacts to track down women in cyberporn.'I was very surprised to find just how many women were involved,' she said. 'In terms of intelligence, these webmistresses are not high ranking, but their motivation is fierce. If someone is going to make money out of their bodies and their images, then they want it to be themselves. 'This really is a liberation for women in the sex industry.'Podlas talked to the owners of 71 heterosexual websites. She believes cyberporn may have to be re-evaluated by feminists.'It may, in fact, combat negative imagery and increase women's power,' she said.It is a point of view shared by Lauren, 29. Last year she gave up a nine-to-five clerical job to go into escort work and after two weeks gave it up for cyberporn. Working with Amy, a 19-year-old photographer and web designer, she stars in, operates and owns her website.She told The Observer she was earning &#163;30,000 a year. 'My body is my asset and it is logical to exploit it,' she said. 'I'm selling it just like Dr Podlas sells her brainpower. This way I have control: they look but they don't touch.'Not all webmistresses are motivated by money. When advertising executive Kelly Jacobs wired her West Midlands flat with &#163;15,000 of camcorders, she declared having thousands of strangers view her nude antics around her home every day was fun.Her website, Babe TV, which costs subscribers &#163;8.50 a month, immediately started pulling in &#163;4,000 a month from viewers watching a series of new still images transmitted every 30 seconds.'Babe TV is not pornography,' she said. 'It is tastefully done, and very classy. And I really enjoy it.'According to Podlas the rise of the webmistress has happened in the last two years. 'If the numbers of women continue to increase at this rate we will very soon see men barely represented in this industry,' she adds.It is all a radical change for pornography - once described by porn star Mimi Miyagi as 'so male-dominated it is almost impossible for a woman to have any control'.Whoever is the porn merchant, sex undoubtedly sells and we may be seeing the tip of the iceberg on just how much cybersex can earn. It has an added advantage in the internet marketplace in that people are more keen to shop for it online than to be seen ducking into a sex shop.Danni Ashe was one of the first cyberporn millionairesses. A soft-core star, her Dannivision site was among the world's first to exploit new technology allowing porn to move away from static images to live film clips.Her entrepreneurial spirit means she is perhaps the richest webmistress of all: last year her empire of online adult entertainment earned her &#163;5m.Another American porn star, Annie Sprinkle, who was in the UK recently to promote her new film about the industry, said she believed feminism was now pro-porn. 'We are winning the war that says the answer to bad pornography is no pornography. That's not right and more and more feminists are agreeing with that. The solution is for women to make better porn.'Podlas believes the webmistress is here to stay. 'Pornography has been described as a man's boot on a woman's neck,' she said. 'The shoe may now be on the other foot.'tracy.mcveigh@observer.co.uk
It's enough to drive you dotty. Next month the organisation which controls website names is likely to approve a new set of addresses - so the day is coming when you can click goodbye to .com, .org and many other familiar internet suffixes.In their place will come more specific formulations, such as .shop (for an online shop), .travel (for a travel agency), .sex or .xxx (for a sex-oriented site), .web (for a web-only business), and .store (an online store).The move is similar to changing telephone prefixes and is caused by a similar growth in users, but critics say it will herald a new gold rush, with 'cybersquatters' grabbing the best names and then selling them off.John Cunningham, director of the website hosting company IE Internet, said: 'Domain aggregators have developed software that runs through every word in the dictionary and identifies those that have not been registered as internet domain names. They will apply this to the new suffixes and buy up all the available names very quickly.'The money to be made in domain name registration is phenomenal. A US company called DotTV is raking in millions from around the world through the .tv suffix which is registered to the impoverished Pacific island nation of Tuvalu (in the same way that .uk is owned by Britain). DotTV agreed to pay Tuvalu (population: 10,600) $50 million (&#163;35 million) in royalties over the next decade - about three times its gross domestic product - in return for selling email and web addresses ending in .tv.Koloa Talake, a 60-year-old member of Tuvalu's parliament, said: 'We were very, very, very poor, but now we are getting some money from the marketing of assets like .tv. We are very lucky to strike such a deal .We will be able to build things we would otherwise not be able to build. I know there are some countries here in the South Pacific that are very jealous.'On DotTVs site you can check in seconds if a name has been taken and, if it hasn't, you can register a bid. Lou Kerner, DotTV's managing director, said: 'It's the most recognisable two-letter symbol on the planet. When you marry "dot" with "TV", you become something very meaningful on the internet.'Kerner added: 'Everybody knows the problems with .com - it's cluttered, it has no cachet, and it's difficult or impossible to get the name you want.' More than eight million .com names are registered, compared with one million in .net and .org combined. To create more space, entrepreneurs like DotTV have been convincing countries to sell their suffixes. The former Soviet republic of Moldova has a deal with a Florida company which sells the suffix .md to doctors at $299 a time.
Lord Hollick yesterday outlined his plans to reshape United News &amp; Media around business publishing, market research, exhibitions and the internet, which may result in the sale of the group's remaining television assets.The Labour peer was setting out his stall following the &#163;1.75bn sale of the group's trio of ITV franchises to Granada Media last week.The trimmed-down company will be clinging to the coat-tails of the FTSE 100 and Lord Hollick said it was now incumbent upon him to explain the value of the company to investors and to begin rebuilding through acquisitions.Lord Hollick insisted that he would stay with the company despite the loss of its most high-profile assets."These are businesses that I have been involved in for 20 years - a lot longer than I was involved with TV - and they are businesses we engage in with a passion. They turn me and everyone else here on," he said. "The noise surrounding the TV assets has tended to crowd other parts of the business out."United News' shares were marked 8p higher at 833p.Of the remaining TV assets he said ITN - in which the company has a 20% stake - would likely float next year, giving United News the chance to sell.Its stake in SDN, the digital channels that carry ONdigital's pay-per-view movie service would be sold to ONdigital once legislation allows.The group's 35% stake in Channel 5 is expected to be bought by media group RTL, which owns the rest, although Lord Hollick said there had been no offer made so far. He spoke with some sadness for the first time about the failure of the company to win a place at the table in the consolidation of ITV.United News had its plans to merge with Carlton Communications scuppered by competition authorities."It is with some regret that we didn't succeed in securing a leadership in ITV but either you are number one in that game or you are out," he said."But we gained a very high price for those assets and I think our shareholders are benefiting enormously."He reiterated that the Express newspaper titles and the Daily Star are not for sale and   claimed never to have met the Barclay Brothers, owners of the Scotsman and Sunday Business and often named as would-be buyers.The well-worn argument of leveraging the brands online and using the papers for cross promotion were trotted out. The Daily Star may be ailing but Megastar, the newspaper's online version had 13.5m page impressions last month the company said.The company also disclosed the &#163;19.6m cost of its abandoned merger with Carlton.United News reported a 14% increase in revenues for the first half of the year to &#163;1.1bn and pre-tax profits flat at &#163;138m.
Sean Sloan says this week's Barclays blunder has left him feeling a lot less confident about online banking. Mr Sloan, 32, was one of those who logged on to the bank's net service on Monday morning and suddenly found himself staring at another customer's account details,  writes Rupert Jones ."This someone had a business account and a personal account. I could see all the balances, account numbers and sort codes." He was able to see that the person had made a payment the day before for &#163;13,000. The screen also offered a number of options such as transferring funds or making payments."I realised Barclays must have made a mistake. The first thing I wanted to do was get out of there - if funds did go missing from this account, I didn't want to be blamed for it. So I got out," says Mr Sloan, of Tottenham, north London, a director of a company called Snowchicken who works from home.He ran downstairs and phoned Barclays' helpdesk - it was 8.30am. "I told them I was really concerned - if I can see someone else's details, what's stopping someone seeing my details and transferring funds?" He was told someone would phone him back. But despite ringing again, by mid-afternoon he had still heard nothing. When he mentioned the BBC had been round to film him for that night's news, the bank's head of online banking called back and couldn't apologise enough.He says Barclays should have shut the service down sooner. He adds: "I enjoy online banking - it saves me standing in queues. But this has put doubts in my mind. If it can happen once, what's to stop it happening again?"The bank says: "Our service is safe. We have not had these problems before. We invest a lot in our security systems and are committed to ensuring this does not happen again."
When Iran's leading dissident, Ayatollah Hossein Ali Montazeri, was exiled to the desert by the shah 25 years ago, 30,000 followers made the arduous pilgrimage to visit him. When he was imprisoned, his theology students issued underground bulletins containing his latest religious decrees.Now he is under house arrest in the republic he helped to create, confined since 1997 to his home and garden in the holy city of Qom. And he is using modern methods of breakout of his seclusion.His website offers everything from a portrait of him standing on a scenic hilltop with his cane to his latest declarations on politics and religion.Atwww.montazeri.comyou can also find photographs of the his office after hardline thugs broke in. Smeared on the wall is a slogan describing him as "a heretic of the age".The site is entirely in Farsi, and the photos can be difficult to see on some computers. Even so, the counter shows over 18,000 visits since the ayatollah discovered cyberspace a few months ago."For nearly three decades, rulers have tried to silence him. But it's impossible," one of his long-standing disciples said.The ayatollah's sense of irony is apparent on the net. He has included quotes from famous Iranian leaders who once praised him but are now responsible for his house arrest."I'm proud that such a person exists in the Islamic republic," reads a quote from Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei."Montazeri is a world class Islamic scholar," adds the former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani.Corresponding with the ayatollah - who was once in line to succeed Ayatollah Khomeini, the founder of the Islamic republic - is a simple matter.A follower need only email him to ask his advice on a religious or political issue. One of his sons downloads the questions and groups them according to subject. Then the cleric, who carries the designation of  marja-e taqlid, the highest religious authority in Shi'ite Islam, replies.In conventional terms, Ayatollah Montazeri has been held almost incommunicado since he publicly questioned the religious credentials of Ayatollah Khamenei.Only relatives are allowed to visit him. Guards are posted around the clock. His latest book, more than 1,000 pages long, is so hot that followers say that those who have copies are afraid to hold them for more than 24 hours."Technology has given him the freedom he has been denied for nearly three decades," said one supporter. "We don't think the authorities can pull the plug on his website, because they probably would have done so by now."He has been ostracised for his views, including his opinion that political parties should be allowed and that the supreme leader should be elected in a national ballot rather than chosen by the assembly of experts, a body dominated by conservative clerics.He has also criticised the establishment for distorting the constitution, which he helped to draft after the 1979 revolution, to give more power to the clerics and less power to the people.
The Barclay brothers, owners of the Ritz Hotel and the Scotsman newspaper, have increased their exposure to new economy businesses by investing &#163;10m in a Swedish wireless technology firm.David and Frederick Barclay have bought an 11% stake in the Stockholm-based Linq, which is valued at &euro;135m (&#163;81m) and is planning a stock market flotation in the fourth quarter of this year. Linq develops, sells and implements corporate portals and employs 300 people in eight European countries.The Barclays largely built their fortune through property and hotel investments but have recently taken more of an interest in new technology.In January the publicity-shy, 65-year-old twins took a &#163;3m stake in Jellyworks, the internet investment vehicle which has since been bought out by investment boutique Shore Capital.In May they abandoned plans for an &#163;80m flotation of Trigen Holdings, a biotech firm they own that specialises in researching cures for thrombosis.The brothers base themselves either in a &#163;60m castle on their own private island near Sark or in Monaco. Most of their assets are held through two Channel Island companies, October Corporation and Press Holdings.Their highest profile assets are the Ritz and the Scotsman and Sunday Business newspapers. The latter include a pan-European business-to-business internet portal.Last year the Barclays backed retail entrepreneur Philip Green's break-up of the Sears group. In 1997 they sold their Gotaas-Larsen shipping line for &#163;465m, making a &#163;100m profit.Linq chief executive Michael Mandahl set up a London office in April. The company was founded in 1996 and has doubled both its turnover and the number of employees every year since then. Merrill Lynch forecasts that the worldwide corporate portal market will reach $15 billion by the year 2002.
The banks may have retreated over cash machine charges but they are still well dug in when it comes to the millions of pounds gleaned from accidental overcharging of fees. Step forward, then,www.checkyourbank.com, a sort of "people power" page run by chartered accountants that (funnily enough) checks for signs of bank overcharging. All you have to do is gather your bank statements and paying-in books for the period concerned, work out the start and end date of the charging period, identify overdraft limits, interest rates used and any special tariffs agreed with your bank, register and punch in the details, and let these vigilante accountants work out the figures. The service is free until you need a detailed rundown of any overcharging with which to confront the banks. The cost? £12.50.Speaking of overcharging, you no longer need to remortgage your house for a limp cheese-and-pickle sarnie or a stewed cuppa, thanks to another web vigilante offering a guide to the "treats" served up by motorway service stations. Clearly signposted in motorway blue,www.5minutesaway.comoffers visitors 1,500 alternative stops (soon to rise to 4,000) - such as petrol stations, shops, restaurants, pubs and leisure services - that all lie within five minutes or three miles of major junctions. Just tap in the junction number and service you desire and, hey presto, the turn-off becomes a turn-on.Continuing the spirit of choice and openness iswww.opendiary.com("the first interactive diary community on the internet"). Here voyeurs can poke their noses into any one of the 119,000 or so different online diaries from "63 different countries". If you want to find out what teenage American FrostyPolarBear did yesterday or why the Paranoid Android is dealing with the role of male cleaners in modern-day society, then this website is for you. To separate the wheat from the chat, tap into the Readers' Choice Top 50 for the best diaries. Samuel Pepys eat your heart out.Spotted any good sites? Let us know atthe.editor@guardian.co.uk
Autonomy yesterday underlined its position as one of Britain's fastest growing technology companies by once again beating analyst growth forecasts. Revenues for the three months to    June 30 jumped 51% compared with the previous quarter to $14.6m (&#163;9.7m), while pre-tax profits soared from $440,000 to $5.1m. Margins slipped slightly from 93% to 90%. PepsiCo, Deutsche Bank and Compaq Computers   were among new clients won during that period.Chief executive Mike Lynch (pictured above) warned that Autonomy could not afford to slow. "This market is all about speed of opportunity, and the sort of technological   transformation we are witnessing is only going to happen once."The Nasdaq and Easdaq-listed firm produces software that automatically makes sense of unstructured data. It recently bought Cambridge-based    voice recognition firm SoftSound. Analysts believe further acquisitions are likely after the appointment of Deutsche Bank financier Vatche Kalaidjian as new business development manager.Photograph: Garry Weaser
&#149; Although Yahoo! may be the top name on the internet, luring the most people to its site, latest figures show auction site eBay keeps its visitors hooked far longer. Nielsen-Net Ratings, an agency monitoring global internet traffic for the first time, said more than half the world's web surfers visited Yahoo!, a portal offering a search engine and services such as e-commerce and news, in June.&#149; Integration Betting operation IQ Ludorum will spend the &#163;14.6m proceeds from its August 9 initial public offering on selective acquisitions and research and development in order to expand its integrated call centre internet betting platform globally, according to chief executive Gucharian Singh.
Cable &amp; Wireless yesterday beefed up its services to online retailers in a plan to become one of Europe's biggest providers of data business services. It announced a joint venture with e-commerce group Reality, the logistics, e-commerce and customer management service business of Great Universal Stores.Reality would bring to the agreement its distribution, customer management services and credit verification resources while C&amp;W would provide web hosting and software support.The market for services to online retailers is estimated to be worth $10bn within five years. Mike McTighe, C&amp;W chief executive of global operations, said the venture was expected to be operating later this year. Netherlands-based e-tailer hot-orange.com is trialling the service.Last month, C&amp;W bought   five internet-related businesses in Europe for $100m that will provide services including web hosting, design, network integration and e-commerce. The deal made C&amp;W the third biggest internet services company on the continent.C&amp;W has splashed out more than &#163;650m in almost two   years to transform itself from a traditional telecoms operator deriving most of its revenue from voice traffic, into an organisation centred on data and internet protocol services.The deal is also good news for GUS because the retailer's earnings have suffered in the competitive British market.
The government's willingness to show its support for the e-economy was further in evidence yesterday with a series of measures to help small businesses go online and encourage the growth of web-based companies. But while the measures were welcomed by the dot.com industry the feeling was the chancellor hadn't gone far enough.Among the announcements was the introduction for small firms of 100% tax relief on new technology including computers, software and internet-enabled mobile phones in their   first year of purchase. That means the entire cost of the equipment will be included in a company's tax allowance in year one, reducing its taxable profits immediately and freeing capital to invest elsewhere. Costs are normally written off against tax over a number of years.The 150,000-strong Federation of Small Businesses forecast that one million small firms would be looking at e-commerce and information technology this year, "and this boost announced today will accelerate that move. It will make the vast majority of them take the plunge."There were also changes to make the Enterprise Investment Scheme and Venture Capital Trust initiative - which allow individual investors to target hi-tech businesses - more attractive.A package of cuts to the capital gains tax taper rules was also announced to reflect the shorter investments common in the new economy and encourage so called serial entrepreneurs.A maximum CGT rate of 10% will apply for business assets after just four years instead of ten. All employee holdings, of whatever size, will benefit from the tapered relief, stripping away the previous 5% threshold.The Enterprise Management Scheme which governs option awards for small firms increased the number of people that can receive rewards of up to &#163;100,000 from 10 to 15 people employees.The key change which the dot.com community had been looking for did not appear. Industry watchers were hoping for the removal of national insurance contributions on exercised share options outside the existing approved schemes but the issue was only put out for consultation.Most schemes in dot.com   companies are unapproved because those given the Inland Revenue's blessing either need to be offered to all staff or have a ceiling of &#163;30,000. Approved schemes also need to be held for three years.John Browning, a co-founder of the First Tuesday networking group for the internet community, described the Budget measures as "small steps." He had been hoping for changes to the NI rules on share option schemes."Potentially this is a very big cashflow item that a company has no control over. The Inland Revenue will put a company out of business one of   these days. What they've done is a fudge, which is a shame."Mark Bernstein, co-founder and chief executive of Gameplay.com agreed. "We've just had to put a provision in our accounts for &#163;2.5m to cover the liability and that's a lot of money."There was also anger over the chancellor's decision to press ahead with the clampdown on IR35, a loophole which allows companies to hire individual contractors without paying national insurance - a broad practice in the IT industry.The Federation of Small Businesses said: "We are dismayed that the chancellor did not take the opportunity to climbdown on IR35 - the attack on flexible personal service companies."Conservative technology spokesman Alan Duncan said: "The chancellor's policy is absurd. On the one hand he has introduced the dreaded IR35 e-tax which is already provoking a massive brain drain of IT specialists who are leaving the UK, and then the chancellor has to make good his own folly by introducing incentives to attract new people to fill the skills gap. This is a ridiculous, self-defeating brake on e-commerce in Britain."
As the only top civil servant known to have played Grateful Dead albums inside Number 10 andto have windsurfed to work down the River Thamesduring a train strike,Alex Allanis the exception which proves the rule about Whitehall officials. We suspect that they are all faceless men from the ministry. As the webmaster behind the internet's bestGrateful Dead lyric finderhe shows that they are not.Once a treasury official, then permanent private secretary to John Major and more recently to Tony Blair (the role held by Bernard Woolley in Yes, Prime Minister) he is now Britain's e-envoy - responsible for "making the UK the best place in the world for e-commerce". He was appointed to the post by Tony Blair andreportsdirectly to him.As such he is at the heart of debate over issues such as the recent Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, which gives the government powers to spy on your use of the net. Civil servants carry out policy - rather than decide it - so he is not responsible for the government's aims. But he is charged with making sure that Britain does not fall behind in the electronic rat-race.Among his projects is uk.online, an ambitious web portal for all government services being developed with British Telecom. He is also an enthusiast for e-democracy: a hot topic in the US which is beginning to win notice over here. In arecent speech, he called for governments to use the internet to increase openness.Whether they do, or whether they continue to see it purely as a commercial opportunity is partly up to the e-envoy.
If you've ever had reason to complain to a large company about a problem you've encountered - perhaps taking issue with an inferior product or service, or about the way your case was handled - you'll know how frustrating it can be.A select few firms have excellent customer service and complaints operations, rapidly resolving and compensating customers for the hassle and inconvenience they have experienced. But too many seem hell-bent on refusing to resolve and recompense customers who feel they have been cheated, wronged or poorly treated. And, while many industries, such as the travel trade, do have recognised complaints organisations many consumers understandably feel less than pleased with the way their case has been handled. Take the case of Steve Pardoe (www.pardoes.com) and his ongoing battle against BT Cellnet.Early in 1999, Pardoe was amazed to find his Barclaycard had been debited by Cellnet (now BT Cellnet) for &#163;50. The debit was unauthorised and, as a result, he contacted Cellnet, only to get, what he claimed was, rather unsympathetic handling. After contacting Barclaycard, who were more helpful, he had his account credited with the unauthorised debit. When two further debits of &#163;50 appeared on his statement, Pardoe cancelled his Barclaycard, which he says was less than convenient, as he was about to travel and so needed a credit card.What annoyed Pardoe most was that BT Cellnet was at the time apparently unable to prevent its prepaid cellular customers from using his card number and expiry date to get call credit on their mobiles.Because of Cellnet's poor response to his original complaint, Pardoe - described by one cellular trade magazine as "Mr Angry" - has staged a one-man campaign on the web to publicise the mobile network's loopholes in its security procedures. BT Cellnet has tried to deal with the problem by making sure that any new mobile phone owners have to register their debit or credit card number when they buy a mobile phone. Pardoe remains incensed, as witnessed by an ongoing campaign on his site, much to BT Cellnet's annoyance. BT Cellnet now appears to have realised - too late - that it handled Pardoe's case with less than its usual level of professionalism, and is now reaping the negative publicity rewards.According to Alan Stevens, digital media specialist with the Consumer's Association (www.which.net) and editor of Which? magazine, cases like Pardoe's, and the Dump the Pump campaign (www.boycott-the-pumps.com) against high petrol   prices, show that, thanks to the web, consumers are becoming empowered against large organisations. There are plenty of other instances where consumers have used the internet to complain about services.The "Flaming Ford" site (www.flamingfords.com) for example, started when a Ford owner, who claimed his car burst into flames, complained to the company only to be told that his was the only case they had encountered. When the irate owner posted his grievances on the web he was contacted by other "Flaming Ford" owners and the campaign really took off. A class action against Ford is currently being heavily disputed.The Consumer's Association, has also used the power of the web to stage its own campaign. Alongside itswww.which.netsite, the CA has opened a campaign site atwww.carbusters.com,to highlight the extra costs of buying a car - almost any car - in the UK, comparing the prices that continental motorists pay.Before you turn to the web to air your grievances, make sure you have explored the normal avenues of complaint, and ensured your complaint is valid, advise the Consumer's Association. Alistair Kelman, a barrister who specialises in IT law, warns of the legal consequences of a badly-thought-out web campaign. "Consumer's tales have a habit of becoming embroidered, and the danger is   that customers can end up libelling another person, or more usually, a company, with their campaigning web site."It is easier for companies to show damage to their trading reputation. "This makes it relatively easy for a company to take action against someone posting incorrect or untruthful allegations on their web sites. Users should take care to only report the facts, referring to copies of their correspondence or email on their site, which they can also post." By referring to correspondence or emails with the company in question, and sticking to the facts, and the facts only, you shouldn't go too far wrong.So how easy (and expensive) is it to wage a legitimate campaign against a major company or organisation you feel has wronged you? Provided you have explored all normal avenues of complaint and have got nowhere, or have not received a sensible and satisfactory response, the answer is - very easy, and relatively cheap.The last 12 months has seen the cost of registering and maintaining a web site on an Internet company's servers tumble from a relatively great height. UK2Net (www.uk2.net), which claims to be the largest web hosting company in the UK, currently with 435,000 registered users, charges just &#163;8.98 for a year's basic registration on its servers.In return for this modest fee, you get your own registered web domain, plus email forwarding. On top of this, you'll pay from around &#163;10 a year for hosting (storing) your web pages on UK2net's servers, with the internet firm offering to publicise your site via a variety of search engines for free.You can also upload and maintain your own web pages via your existing internet service provider (ISP), usually for free, although usually with a less than obvious address. Another company, Free Parking, (www. freeparking.co.uk) will register, park and manage your pages for free,   although you'll also have to allow the service's adverts on your pages.Creating and editing your site is also surprisingly easy, as Microsoft's Internet Explorer (www.microsoft.com), the free Internet browser and email package that most internet kits come with, includes a page editing and upload package called Front Page Express.Front Page Express, like Internet Explorer, is free to download and use from the Microsoft site. You can also use it to interact with your internet company's servers. All you pay is the usual cost of accessing the internet, which for most users amounts to a local phone call.
Applications for Wap phones (ie those with internet access) are starting to become more interesting and useful. It is a pity that connecting up is still very flaky unless you go through portals approved by service providers such as Vodafone and Orange, and even then you are hampered by the usual internet glitches.If you want to set up a homespun five-page Wap site on your own phone then trywww.buzzed.co.uk. This is a web, not Wap site, which offers a simple, almost idiot-proof, way of doing it - and it is completely free (apart from the usual call charges). You just type in what you want on an ordinary website and the site will do the necessary to make it appear on your phone. All you have to do then is to find some way of telling the rest of the world it is there.Digitaloctopus has had the neat idea of putting Hugh Johnson's pocket book of wine on to Orange phones from this week: obtainable   through its What's New menu. It enables discreet diners to check out the quality of the wine while the wine waiter isn't looking, or to browse before buying in a supermarket. There is a search facility as well. Digitaloctopus takes its cut by getting a percentage of the cost of the call - usually 5p a minute. Smart application.Another useful service is www.curryhouse.net/wap which tells you where your nearest curry house is after you type in a place name. Best to get it via the wap portalwww.waphq.com, which has bags of other things as well. When you get through, go to the Leisure section and hope that you don't get "connectivity" problems.Search engines are starting to appear on Wap phones such as web-favourite    Google but connectivity was spasmodic on the phone I was using (Nokia/Vodafone). And trying to navigate the main web through the small screen of a phone is like being lost in the jungle with only a magnifying glass.Lots of mainstream web sites are now starting to introduce Wap offspring like www.multimap.com/wap. This is the wap offshoot, of the multimap.com website offering free maps that gets 1.9m unique users every month.   Lastminute.com and Amazon.com also have wap sites - but again it is better (alas) at the moment to access them through an established portal because direct access is tricky.
