"If you're worried that nanotechnology is going to contaminate the Earth and needs to be stopped before it destroys the human species, well ... heh-heh ... too late!" says Kevin Maney inUSA Today."Last week, I stopped by the NanoBusiness 2005 conference just off Wall Street. The overarching theme: Nanotech isn't just a lab experiment anymore. It's spreading fast and in some surprising ways. For that matter, you'll probably slather nanotech all over your face this summer. It's in sunscreens and sun-blocking lotions. It's in quick-drying paint. It might be in your pants."
Here. The comments are ineresting, and there's a fascinating post at Framework Press about themetafictional potentialof this kind of approach.
When EMI executives meet to discuss how their most lucrative release of the year came to be leaked on the internet, the covert subculture of "ripping groups" will be the first suspect on their list.EMI went to extraordinary lengths to prevent rogue reviewers from leaking pre-release copies on to the internet.In Britain, journalists had to meet EMI representatives in person to collect the album - cunningly disguised as the eponymous debut release from the Fir Trees. The company even flew an envoy to Belfast to deliver the album to the NME reviewer.Pre-release security sometimes just seeks to shield a dodgy album from bad reviews. But record labels are increasingly desperate to stop internet leaks. Playback sessions for reviewers in record company buildings are a common tactic, along with CDs encoded with a digital "watermark" that can be traced back to reviewers.US labels sometimes interrupt the music on releases with a recorded copyright message.The industry is also going back to basics, rejecting easily uploadable digital formats; pre-release copies of albums are increasingly distributed on cassettes.  Review copies of the new White Stripes album were sent out on vinyl.But as one reviewer points out, few music hacks are public spirited enough to post their preview copies on the internet. Instead, the source of the leak of X&amp;Y was almost certainly ripping groups.Uploaders placing music on file-sharing, peer-to-peer networks, such as Kazaa and Grokster, have been prosecuted. But the industry now sees ripping groups as the prime movers behind illegal uploading of most music and films.Rather than being commercially motivated, hackers in ripping groups, or warez groups, compete for the prestige of being the first to send out a release.The music may go from a pressing plant or even a recording studio to the groups, who put it on to the internet. Once it reaches the file-sharing networks, the financial damage, in terms of sales for record shops and legal downloads, is done.The British Phonographic Industry is focusing anti-piracy drives on shutting down the supply side at the earliest stage - getting the ripping groups off the net or closing their servers.
If it was not bad enough to be trounced at the top of the singles chart by a ringtone amphibian, Coldplay have now discovered that their meticulously prepared new album, X&amp;Y, was leaked on to the internet a week before its European release.Music fans began freely downloading the 12 tracks from the band's eagerly awaited third album within minutes of its being posted on websites on Monday, despite an unprecedented effort by their record company, EMI, to prevent their new songs being illegally distributed over the net.The illegal file sharing of X&amp;Y emphasises the helplessness of mighty global corporations pitted against the piratical power of the internet. Artists including Madonna, U2 and Eminem have been forced to bring forward album releases or offer free tracks on websites after songs appeared online before reaching the shops.EMI is desperate for Coldplay's new release to match the success of the band's second album, A Rush of Blood to the Head, which sold 11m copies worldwide. X&amp;Y was 18 months in the making and in its remaking - 60 songs were written but not used and the band pushed back a March release date to finetune their work. While the singer, Chris Martin, recently declared he did not care about EMI, and said shareholders were "the greatest evil of this modern world", his failure to meet his label's first deadline was partly blamed for a profits warning in February that wiped more than &#163;300m from EMI's share price. Sales at EMI's music division fell 7.4% in the year to March 31. A source close to the band said there was nothing at this stage they could do to stem the leaks.The British Phonographic Industry praised EMI for its efforts to stop the pre-release piracy of X&amp;Y. Review copies of the CD went under a false name - the Fir Trees - and were personally handed to the media by EMI representatives.Reviewers were compelled to sign a legally binding non-disclosure document. Employees at CD pressing plants were routinely searched, while fan sites claimed the company prevented a student radio station in California playing the album before release.The band tried to persuade impatient fans to wait for the official European release on June 6 by offering them the chance to listen to the album on the official website.The album is released in Japan today, a situation that was always expected to lead to a flurry of illegal offerings on the internet.EMI would not comment on its anti-piracy measures or how it would pursue the "uploaders" responsible for illegally putting it on the net, but the company said it not believe sales would be hit by the leak."We've had an amazing success with stopping the leaking," a spokeswoman said. "It is a testament to the pre-release protection we put in place to have an album of this profile kept secure until a day before its commercial release &#91;in Japan&#93;. No other album has come that close to commercial release before it has become available."A BPI spokesman said the record industry body had run seminars for its members to help combat pre-release piracy. "As soon as something is recorded there is a risk it will find its way on to the internet. The fact the leak is so late in the day underlines how strong EMI's pre-release anti-piracy campaign was." The spokesman said the challenge for the record industry was to focus on "ripping groups", bands of hackers who compete for the cachet of being the first to upload pirated music, films or computer games. The key was intercepting those groups before the music got to the "peer-to-peer" networks where the damage was done in terms of effect on sales."The prevention rather than cure mantra is absolutely key for us, and we are working very closely with our members to keep piracy to a minimum."
Passengers squeezed nose-to-nose on rush-hour London Underground trains will be able to vent their frustration on their friends and family - and possibly irritate other travellers - under plans to install technology enabling the use of mobile phones on the network.Transport for London (TfL) yesterday revealed it was in talks with 70 organisations competing to become involved in a project costing up to &#163;1bn.London's 275 tube stations could have coverage by the summer of 2008 using small masts known as "microcells" hidden in signs or vending machines.TfL said that if it was feasible, the network could subsequently be extended into tunnels to allow passengers to use their phones on moving trains - although some carriages might be designated "silent zones".A London Underground spokesman said: "Passengers have indicated they would welcome mobile phone access, particularly on platforms and in stations. If customers say they also want it on trains, we will facilitate that becoming a reality."Among the companies keen on the idea are T-Mobile, 02 and Orange. Under TfL's proposals, the work would be funded privately. Mobile networks would pay for installation of any necessary equipment and may also be required to pay "rent" for the space they need.Experts say it would cost around &#163;250m to equip stations and a further &#163;750m to extend the network to tunnels.Roger Evans, the Conservative chairman of the London Assembly's transport committee, said: "This would be a very valuable service particularly when there are delays - it would allow people to ring home when they're going to be late."Peter Wakeham, director of the Noise Abatement Society, said: "People are only on the tube for a few minutes at a time. Wouldn't it be better to spend the money on something else?"
Thousands of BT's home internet users are targeted every day by a scam which adds an average of &#163;100 to their phone bills, BT said yesterday.The firm has had more than 80,000 customers complaining that their computers had been linked to premium rate or international numbers without their consent, a total cost to UK consumers of &#163;8m so far. So-called "rogue-dialling" works by a small programme delivered over the net diverting a computer's dial-up number to a premium rate number or expensive overseas number.The first time a user finds out is when they see the number and charges on their bill - for which they are legally liable. The average hit has been &#163;100, but some have had to pay up to &#163;1,000.BT has a free software package which alerts customers when calls to suspicious numbers are made from their line, and up to 2,000 people have been downloading it every day. Since its launch on May 3, the software has alerted an average of 304 BT account holders a day. The BT Privacy Online programme sends a text message or voicemail when a call is made to a suspect destination, such as Tuvalu or Sao Tome, or if the bill rises sharply.BT said that it could not prevent calls to premium numbers, because "99.9% of such numbers are legitimate" and each of the 80,000 cases would have to be investigated individually. Where it has taken action to block numbers, it has run the risk of being sued by legitimate companies.A BT spokesman said that as well as the download, the company offered paid-for call-barring; customers have to enter an identification number before dialling, so rogue diallers are unable to function. "We're doing all we can," he said.
It's accepted as a rule that technology is constantly shrinking. Talk to any recent visitor to Japan, and they're likely to bend your ear with stories about The Tiniest Watch In The World, or a television that hides inside your glasses or even - if you're really lucky - a portable toilet you can fit in your back pocket.It seems everything's shrinking... except my waistline.Confirmation of this fact (the first one, not the second) comes fromTechNewsWorld, which has a story about a new teeny-weeny method of nanotech data storage.Chemists at Glasgow University have engineered a tiny molecule which can store huge amounts of data in very small spaces, meaning the physical size of digital memory cards and hard drives could shrink dramatically in the next few years.The metal oxide-based "nano cluster" has taken pounds-100,000 and three years to develop.The molecule cluster is 10,000 times thinner than a human hair, and marks another step forward in nanotechnology, the science of atoms and molecules that is set to transform medicines, technology and even food in years to come.Science really is quite remarkable sometimes.
In case you missed it,here'san interesting interview with Metal Gear guru Hideo Kojima, published on Boomtown last week. As well as discussing the finer points of MGS4, Kojima voices his concerns about the high standards PS3 developers may be required to meet following the Sony conference at E3. WillthatKillzone demo lead gamers to expect similarly smooth and stunningly detailed visuals from actual games - games that are going to provide more than five minutes of interaction? And if Kojima is worried what should the rest of the industry be thinking?He closes with a rather complex dinner analogy, illustrating how he feels about the three next generation consoles. I'm not sure I entirely understood it, but I sure felt hungry afterwards...ViaGamesindustry.biz.
A couple of weeks ago I posted the first part of this feature but never managed to finish the promised second instalment - E3 sort of got in the way. So here's the entire article, which looks into a few interesting ideas buzzing around the industry at the moment – ideas that promise to take gaming in intriguing new directions. Obviously some of these have roots that go back several years, but they may only be enjoying useful mainstream fruition right now. Have a look and if you feel like it, add your own observations at the end.Augmented realityThe overlay of computer graphics onto a real-world environment is hardly a new idea – run a Google search on the phrase and you'll find hundreds of research projects and practical applications for the technology. But only now are the videogame possibilities being realised. Eye Toy, of course, is the most high profile example and we're also seeing mobile phone games that use the camera function to provide simple AR experiences –SkeeterandAttack of the Killer Virusfor example. It could be that the proposed camera add-on for Sony's PSP will be used in the same way. There are some interesting experimental projects on the go too, includingBattleBoard 3D, an AR chess sim, inspired by the game Chewy and C3PO play in Star Wars, andthismultiplayer train set.Location-based gamingSeveral mobile developers are already offering variations on location-based gaming, either using GPS, or measuring the distance from the cellphone to the nearest mast to track each users' movements. The massively multiplayer titleBot Fighters, for example was launched in 2000 and has been running in territories like Ireland, Sweden andRussiaever since, encouraging users to rush around town centres engaging in Pokemon-style robot battles with passers-by. A more advanced sequel is now available. Interesting alternatives include detective adventureThe Journeyand cyberpunk epicUnder Cover 2. Sony showed a prototype GPS add-on for the PSP at last year's E3 so it could be that the company has location-based gaming in mind.Creative gamingThe well-established PC modding community has shown us that not only do gamers enjoy taking control of content, they also make a bloody good job of it. However, modding remains a minority pursuit and even the most user-friendly editing tools are beyond the ken of a majority of players. Now, we're seeing more developers of mainstream console and PC titles offering basic, out-of-the-box modding features to a wider audience:Trackmaniais an excellent example – especially as the creative element of the game is really its defining feature. Not only do construction modes add longevity and therefore value to the game purchase, they also spawn communities of like-minded players, which leads to the Holy Grail of brand loyalty.No doubt inspired by machinima, we're also seeing games that provide players with narrative customisation tools. EA has received a hugely positive response to themovie-making modein The Sims 2, and of course, Lionhead's The Movies will offer a sandbox film making option. These sorts of experiences have been offered in the past, but now the technology is advanced enough to allow the creation of highly sophisticated animated shorts. 'Creative media applications' are going to become hugely popular with casual users who may not understand the appeal of becoming a level twenty magician, or of reaching the final mission in a gangland shooter, but whodowatch a lot of TV and want to emulate what they observe. Indeed, creative games could prove to be aspirational in a totally unique and incredibly compelling way.On a more modest scale, the touch screen interface of the Nintendo DS has given rise to a new sub-genre of creative toys which offer the user a more interesting way to interact with the game action. Namco'sPac-Pixlets you draw your own Pac-Man character to take on the ghosts, while Elecroplankton invites you to make groovy tunes by rubbing and pointing at the screen. The combination of tactile control and creative content is fresh and interesting, opening up the experience to those uninterested in, or alienated by, the usually abstract relationship between controller and on-screen action. It is finger food for gamers.Communication gamingThere's been a spate of games recently that have encouraged users to communicate with each other through words and pictures in various amusing ways. Nintendo's PictoChat software – a sort of multimedia messaging service for DS owners – is the key example, utilizing the console's touch screen interface to create a near real-time chat system. Similarly, at 3GSM this year, Orange showed offOrangeScribble, an application which lets two or more phone users share a strip of on-screen paper - everyone can drawn and write on the same sheet in real-time, using a stylus or the keypad to guide a cursor, sort of like sending notes round the back of the classroom.Another interesting example isJust Letters, a multiplayer flash game that presents you with a bunch of those magnetic letters that zany people have on their fridge doors. You can move them around to create words, but there are other users trying the same thing, so you're in constant conflict with fellow wordsmiths. Gameplay, such as it is, is entirely user-defined and usually revolves around two competing camps – those who want to form swear words, and those who want to stop them.I'm not sure how these disparate strands could be worked into a mainstream game design, but then I'm not Shigeru Miyamoto.PersonalisationThe advent of digital television has brought about a paradigm shift in viewing habits. Once the whole nation sat in front of the same four channels, now, the availability of thousands of channels plus systems like Tivo and Sky+ makes a unique viewing experience accessible to each consumer. Gaming is going the same way. Microsoft's J Allard made a massive deal of this in his GDCkeynote speech, discussing how he'd like to see online communities of Xbox 360 gamers building their own content for games, and how it may be possible to buy new in-game items online using 'Micro Payments'. Of course there has been a vibrant modding community online for several years, but this has been mostly confined to PC games. Will the next generation consoles open up the possibilities of user-created levels, characters and stories to a wider audience? As mentioned in the Creative Gaming entry, it'll be down to the developers to build editing modes into their games, of course. Meanwhile, we should also see more modification in the realm of MMORPGS – the likes of A Tale in the Desert and Second Life point the way.On a more modest level we should see more abundant customisation options. Driving games Like GT4, Midnight Club 3 Dub Edition and Forza Motorsport offer a massive selection of modding options, while huge online communities have been built to create and trade household objects for The Sims. Fighting games and sports sims are also offering more exhaustive 'create a character' modes. The mantra will become, 'ask not what the game can do for you, but what you can do for the game'…Spontaneous multiplayerXbox 360 and PS3 will herald a new era of 'always on' internet connectivity – and this could well bring about a sort of global amusement arcade, where users are able to walk in and out of each other's games. Imagine you're playing GTA as a single-player experience, but you're connected online via your Xbox360 or whatever. Another player could "jack in" and become the bad guy - in this instance, one of the pursuing cops or a rival gangster. So all of a sudden the player isn't racing away from AI controlled adversaries, but instead from a number of human-controlled opponents. Alternatively, the new player could choose to take your side, sweeping in at the last moment like the Millennium Falcon at the close of Star Wars. The risk, of course, is that the difficulty level could leap or fall dramatically because a human player will always offer a more sophisticated companion or opponent than an AI alternative. An interesting possibility all the same.Ad-hoc networkingSimilarly to the above, the Wi-Fi networking supported by both PSP and DS is going to bring about a radical new environment for multiplayer gaming. Rather like checking the area for Bluetooth signals with your mobile phone, you should soon be able to scan the vicinity for people with the same game as you, then invite them in for some Capture The Flag action. If Game designers are smart, they'll take advantage of the subtle differences inherent in this new kind of social networking. Fragfests need no longer be the anonymous, faceless activities they are on the internet. Participants are no longer hunched over computers or consoles in their homes. They're out and about, in public. Yoshi's Touch and Go, for example, brings up a Pictochat icon and invites you to chat to other DS owners if any wander near-by – you can also challenge your new chum to a quick racing face-off as you only need one copy of the game for the two-player option. The Ad Hoc era deserves its own version of Quake, quite different, quite separate from anything we've seen before.Emotional gamingJapanese dating games have been exploring this area for years, but only since the Sims have social themes broken into mainstream games in the West. Now we're seeing the beginnings of an intriguing new genre with the likes of Sprung and Project Rub courting a wider audience through the use of relationship-based themes and friendly, inclusive interfaces. This combination of sex and simplicity reaches its zenith with forthcoming coin-op,The Act, a dating game that utilises a single control knob, like the ones used to control Pong. Functioning as a kind of interactive romantic comedy the game, which is set to be installed into pubs rather than arcades, is designed specifically to attract female gamers. We'll see..Pervasive gamingHere's another one that's been bubbling under for a while now. The concept is of a game that never leaves you, a game that you play via multiple media sources – the TV, console, internet, mobile phone - a game that contacts you by phone or email, leaving clues in adverts and posters, or in specific geographic locations…A game that knows where you are. There have been two ambitious agenda-setters in this realm - The Nokia Game and EA's Majestic (find out more about themhere) – but pervasive gaming need not be as epic and invasive as these. What we are seeing more of now is the interactivity between mobile platforms and console titles – allowing users to interact with favourite games wherever they are. Several GameCube and GBA titles, for example, let you swap data between the two devices, and a new PSP platformer based around Daxter (the sidekick in the Jak titles) will upload characters to the console title Jak X: Combat Racing.This is a modest start. In the future we'll see more titles that let you play with specific elements of the console or PC gameplay while on the road, either via handheld console or mobile phone. Pro Evolution Soccer – to use a much talked about example - could offer the option of selecting your team and tactics via PSP or mobile, before uploading the data back to the console version. RPGs could let you tinker with character stats and inventories. Alternatively, MMORPGs could text you when something big is going down in your online world. Games you can't escape from? Surely the aim of every publisher out there.Multiple perspective gamingI mentionedCiRCLE studio's futuristic first-person shooter Without Warning in my round-up of interesting E3 games, but just in case you missed it… The game gives you successive control over six characters as they operate within the same timeframe – so in effect, you get to see and interactive with the same events through the eyes of each of the differently-skilled protagonists. This is, of course, a well-used cinematic device but it's been slow to arrive in videogames. I'm not sure how advanced the feature is in Without Warning, but I love the idea of taking part in a shoot-out with one character, then playing as another character who perhaps runs past that shoot-out and gets to watch an exact replay of the action as it unfolded. That made sense, right?I'm not sure what this'll really add in gameplay terms, but it will allow designers to create very dense, multi-layered narratives – bringing the concept of the 'interactive story' that bit closer…
An unverified tip from an un-biased, all-formats development studio says thatFamitsu Weekly(in Japanese), Japan's leading gaming magazine, has released the results of its next generation console opinion poll, with intriguing results. It also gives an insight into what gamers from the Land of the Rising Sun look for in a gaming apparatus. "Console can stand vertically" is in the top four reasons for choosing the Xbox 360.Most Interested Next Generation Console1. Nintendo Revolution - 42.2% 2. Sony PlayStation 3 - 39.8% 3. Microsoft Xbox 360 - 18.0%Why do you like Revolution?- Compact design, typical Nintendo style - Able to download Famicom (NES), SFC (SNES) and Nintendo 64 games - Possible innovative / new designs in Revolution - Confidence in the hardwareWhy do you like PlayStation 3?- Outstanding technical specifications, standout against other next generation consoles - Downward compatibility with PSone and PlayStation 2 - Cell processor and Bluray support are unique to the console - Like the design of the console (but the controller design is crazy)Why do you like Xbox 360?- Developer support is splendid, especial people like Akira Toriyama and Sakaguchi. - Square Enix supports the console - Positive console design, color, technical specs and software lineup - Console can stand verticallyThanks M!
Pictures from "Cory" and "Aaron" for Contagious Media Showdown entryCrying, While EatingIt's responsible for websites aplenty, spoofs galore, and enough memes to make your ears fall off into your coffee.But what actuallyistheContagious Media Showdown?Well, first things first: Contagious Media is effectively an attempt to harness the viral power of the web, utilising what Contagious uberdudeJonah Peretticalls the "Bored at Work Network" (BWN). He's been calledthe posterboy of guerrilla media, but his day job is as a director of the art and technology non-profit organisationEyebeam. Hesaysthat the BWN "has become the largest alternative to the corporate media":Activists, artists, and hackers can reach millions of people through the BWN. Solo and in collaborative groups, I create content for the BWN, including email forwards, net art, joke web sites, phone lines, and weblogs. These viral projects are examples of what I call "Contagious Media" and this site documents four examples that have reached millions of people.Jonah's previous hits include the famousNike sweatshop emailsandthe Rejection Line.The latest step along the way is theContagious Media Showdown, in which a bunch of provocateurs try to register the biggest viral hits that they can over a given period.Entrants get up to 25MB of webspace to build their viral site, which they then have to propagate around the web to get as much traffic and linkage as possible.At the end of a month-long epidemic, there's a prizegiving ceremony at which a series ofprizeswill be handed out: $2,000 for the site with the most overall hits, $1,000 for the site with the most links onTechnorati, $1,000 for the most popular site released under aCreative Commonslicence, and $1,000 for the first site to rank 20,000 or higher inAlexa.Biggest hits at the moment include theForget-Me-Not pantieswhichJack mentioned, videos of peoplecrying while eating, the fantastically awfulRingtone Dancerand the worryingly-blogged aboutBlogebrity.Golookat the site if you're interested in what people have come up with.
There were days when the stereotype of the teenage hacker was truer than it was false. But not any more:breaking computer security, propagating malware and sending spam arebig business. The latest case - an Israeli corporate espionage spyware ring - demonstrates just that.As our friends atThe Registerpoint out:What they are not is spotty-faced hackers with a copy of NetStumbler, sitting the the car park trying to find a rogue access point on the corporate LAN. Here's the list of suspects: "Top executives of Israel's leading companies including Cellcom, Yes, Pelephone, Meir Motors, Tami-4, Ace Hardware, Volvo Israel and Amdocs" - they have either been arrested or have been placed under suspicion in the last few days for corporate espionage.This list also includes several private detective companies run and operated by former IDF officers, reports [the Israeli news agency's]Joel Leyden- summarising: "If your computer starts to work slowly and you hear your hard drive grinding and working like mad but you see nothing happening on your monitor - you may most likely have an Israel, Syrian, Saudi, Japanese, Chinese or US "shark" spying on your hard drive. It could be the FBI, your mother or the store next door."Erk.
Sensatech Systems,Japan, has sold out of Forget-me-not panties, which have built-in GPS. Theblurbsays:These panties will monitor the location of your daughter, wife or girlfriend 24 hours a day, and can even monitor their heart rate and body temperature.Based on pioneering research developed by the US military at DARPA (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency), we have brought this revolutionary technology, previously only available to the military, to you!These "panties" can trace the exact location of your woman and send the information, via satellite, to your cell phone, PDA, and PC simultaneously! Use our patented mapping system,pantyMap®, to find the exact location of your loved one 24 hours a day.Comment:This sounds like a leftover from April 1, but so far, no one seems to think it's a spoof. It also reminds me of writing about Kursty Groves, a student at the Royal College of Art in London, who included GPS in her TechnoBra design. Since the Guardian search engine can't find that five year old Online item, there are brief detailshere.The brassiere contains a global positioning system, a heart rate monitor, and the components of a cell phone. If the wearer is attacked, the bra sends a signal to a GPS satellite, which determines the location of the assault and dispatches a text message to the number of the wearer s choosing--possibly a private security firm or a bodyguard. The wearer has 30 seconds to disarm the bra in case of a false alarm.
This weekend's singles chart proved one thing: Pointless, slimy and irritating sells thousands of records. But enough about Coldplay - the chart was actually topped by ringtone king Crazy Frog. An intensely annoying, half-naked, motorcycle-riding frog who deserves to be sent to the lowest circle of hell is the most popular record of the week.Despite the comedy factor in these shenanigans, it does show one important thing: the power of ringtones.Go into any school and you're likely to hear Crazy Frog - or one of his irritating siblings - ringing out across the playground.Switch on to any of the digital music channels on your TV and you'll see a stream of advertising for ringtones. The other day I even saw Crazy Frog being advertised in the break during Coronation Street - usually the most expensive piece of on-screen real estate that British television has.It all points to one thing: big money.As Hugh Muir writes inthe Guardiantoday:The ringtone was originally the idea of Daniel Malmedahl, a computer salesman from Gothenburg, whose impersonation of a two-stroke motor scooter reduced his friends to tears of laughter. It was posted on a website where it was discovered by another Swede, Erik Wernquist, a 3D graphics designer, who drew a cartoon to match the sound.His blue frog with prominent belly button and 1950s-style crash helmet was picked up by ringtone company Jamster and heavily promoted by the company across all mediums. Jamster has made more than £10m from people downloading Crazy Frog ringtones.That's big cash for what is basically an advertising-concocted phenomenon.But it taps into the fact that many people, and especially youngsters, are now relating to their phones. The mobile is now part of their identity - and it can be used for individualisation or for identifying with a crowd. I see an increasing number of younger people wearing their phones around their necks like pendants (much more normal in Japan), and the figures show that an increasing proportion of kids have phones.Perhaps Crazy Frog is simply proof that the mobile has now become the dominant item of lifestyle technology.
Despite the goggle-eyed amazement of technoheads at the prospect that people get sucked in by phishing attacks, there's little doubt that phishing is a peculiarly successful con-trick.It's cleverer than straight-up spam, and it's got the potential to damage bank balances and security systems alike. Now, it seems, the government may finally be waking up to the fact that phishers live a strangely unendangered life.FromSilicon:The Home Office has published the government's Fraud Bill in which it suggests a new offence of fraud to close loop holes in the current law.Home Office minister Fiona Mactaggart said: "The introduction of a general fraud offence will improve the criminal law in a number of respects. It will simplify the law, making it clearer to juries and the general public as well as making the prosecution process more effective by providing a clear definition of fraud. Our aim is to encompass all forms of fraudulent conduct, with a law that is flexible enough to deal with developing technology, allowing us to bring more offenders to justice."Everybody hates spammers. You hate them, I hate them: now the law might hate them too.
One of the highlights of the Guardian's Editor page is the "digested read", which condenses books to save you the effort of reading them. Today's amusing example is Everything Bad Is Good for You by Steven Johnson,here.
For anyone who doubts the potential box office appeal of the political process, the last fortnight has been highly instructive. The theatrical appearance of George Galloway in front of a senate committee made headlines on both sides of the Atlantic and the BBC launched The Thick Of It, a brilliant, if slightly depressing, TV satire on modern political practice by Armando Iannucci.Iannucci's fantastically well-observed comedy is certainly a Yes, Minister for the Asbo era, complete with curled lips, foul language, swaggering bullies and ministerial incompetents. Audiences warm to it because it confirms our worst prejudices about politicians, their advisers and their relationship with the media.It could be, as Jackie Ashley argued in the Guardian recently, that in reinforcing an idea of a presidential-style administration packed with useless ministers, The Thick Of It may even help push the pendulum back towards more robust cabinet politics.Tony Blair last week attacked the media again for focusing on personality rather than policy and, in his view, blocking better public engagement with issues. His argument and the imminent appointment of Tim Allan, Alastair Campbell's former deputy and   ex-Sky PR man, to a key role in No 10, suggest there is no likelihood of glasnost in the relationship between the media and the government soon.In a quieter corner, however, reforms were being suggested which could be more transformative in the modernising of parliament. Lord Puttnam launched the Hansard Committee's report on how parliament communicates itself. Its key recommendation was to broaden the access of television beyond the one-angle camera fixated on a mostly empty chamber. Puttnam correctly identified the problem of connecting a media-literate audience, used to seeing members through duvet cams and see-through houses, with arguably the least modern parliament in the world.This is devastating news for the men in tights who seem to govern the parliamentary communications infrastructure as though nothing has changed since the days of steam radio. The idea that MPs' reactions may be shown or that a clever director could stage a long tracking shot of empty benches will have them breaking out the smelling salts. Even better would be to break the stranglehold of parliamentary TV, by offering footage to all broadcasters to do as they wish with. Imagine the Endemol treatment with a Geordie voice whispering: "It's day   23 of the parliamentary session and everyone in the Upper House is still asleep ... except the Master of the Rolls who has been on the Woolsack since 2.30pm."At Guardian Unlimited we have our own entertaining annual ritual of writing to the serjeant at arms to point out that a. there is this thing called the internet, b. millions of people apparently use it - many of them youngsters, c. our politics website has hundreds of thousands of readers but unfortunately we do not have a parliamentary pass - could we perhaps have one? He unfailingly writes back on headed notepaper to say "No" - he remains unswayed by the argument that it would be wrong to wrestle a pass from one of our paper colleagues as what this internet thing does is extend rather than replicate daily newspaper coverage. The level of disengagement would be funny if it were not so irritating.More problematic is the unsearchability of Hansard itself which, in an era when you can search passages of book text on Amazon, is unforgiveable. Parliament's highly variable web presence, its pitifully dreadful visitors' access, its quaint customs which are carried further than they should be, its air of mystery, could have once been deemed fitting for the legislature, but surely this cannot now be true. The fact that websites such asfaxyourmp.com, or our own Ask Aristotle search engine, can have a greater effect in connecting citizens with their representative in parliament than anything in the Palace of Westminster should be a source of shame and worry for the institution.MPs have a point when they complain about the patchy coverage of politics - though this charge is often wrongly levelled at the imperfect but well-intentioned BBC, and not nearly enough at the mass market newspapers which perform a poor and often highly damaging job of reporting governmental and policy issues. By modernising its own media presence, parliament could at least have a chance of relaying its own message.If there really is a "different truth" in parliament to the one portrayed by keen satire and trashy tabloids then there really has never been a better time to take it straight to the public. I can't imagine Black Rod blogging anytime soon, more's the pity, but if parliament ignores or tempers Lord Puttnam's suggestions then it can look forward to an extended slide into obsolescence and irrelevance.
It probably never occurred to Coldplay that they might be bested in the UK charts by a mobile phone ringtone on their route to fame and chart success.And yet today the group's new single Speed of Sound sits at No 2 in the charts, eclipsed by the Crazy Frog, the ringtone which has delighted half of the nation while leaving the other half profoundly irritated.It marks a significant event in British musical history - the first ringtone-inspired tune to rise to the top of the charts.It became clear during the week that the Crazy Frog ringtone, immersed within a German disco mix, had been outselling Coldplay's long-awaited release by four to one. Sales have been boosted by heavy television advertising, particularly on music and cable channels.The ringtone was originally the idea of Daniel Malmedahl, a computer salesman from Gothenburg, whose impersonation of a two-stroke motor scooter reduced his friends to tears of laughter. It was posted on a website where it was discovered by another Swede, Erik Wernquist, a 3D graphics designer, who drew a cartoon to match the sound.His blue frog with prominent belly button and 1950s-style crash helmet was picked up by ringtone company Jamster and heavily promoted by the company across all mediums. Jamster has made more than &#163;10m from people downloading Crazy Frog ringtones.Its march into mainstream culture was further assisted by the German dance act Bass Bumpers, who combined Mr Malmedahl's invention with Axel F, the theme from the 1984 film Beverly Hills Cop.Gennaro Castaldo, a spokesman for the HMV retailing chain, said the the fact that Crazy Frog was outselling Coldplay "shouldn't come as that much of a surprise when you consider its huge novelty appeal and the massive amount of exposure it is getting. Kids obviously find it cute and cool, but students and office workers seem to be drawn to its rather kitsch, ironic appeal".Sociologist Peter Webb, from the University of Birmingham, said the frog's success reflected a trend for children to spend more money on mobile phones and computer games than music.He said: "This is the situation the music industry has to contend with in a climate of decreasing sales - especially within the singles market - significant free downloading practices and many demands on time, resources and creative practice of consumers in general."The phenomenon has excited strong emotions. In recent weeks, 400 people have complained to the Advertising Standards Authority about the Crazy Frog commercial, forcing the ringtone company to cover up the animated frog's genitalia.But complaints about the frequency of the ads fall outside the authority's remit.Novelty records have a long history and German firms are already busy promoting a successor. Prepare for Sweety der K&#252;ken or Sweety the Chick.
Anyone who has visited MySpace or Xanga will be aware that many teenagers, typically aged 11-14, are posting information that would be better restricted to their school friends, not shared with the world. When -- or if -- their parents find out, they may well be alarmed, as G Jeffrey MacDonald reports inThe Christian Science Monitor.Internet stalkers have killed at least four minors in the past three years, and law enforcement authorities count about 5,000 reports of attempted sexual predation over the Internet in the past year, according to Parry Aftab, executive director of Wiredsafety.org, an Internet safety organization.Given such statistics, parents need to get over the feeling that they're invading their children's privacy by reading their blogs, Ms Aftabsays. She believes that parents must bring their judgment to bear on the content of what's posted. "When you get hormones pumping, [minors] are operating the heavy machinery of the Internet under impaired judgment."Others fear, however, that certain precautions could amount to swatting a fly with a sledgehammer, and could take a hefty toll on family life. The likelihood of tragedy is far greater whenever a child rides in a car or goes swimming than when he or she posts his or her name, photograph, and other personal information on the Internet, says Laurence Steinberg, an expert in adolescent psychology at Temple University and author of "The 10 Basic Principles of Good Parenting."Comment:This article's major flaw is that it doesn't point out the obvious technical solution. Teen bloggers can, in fact, limit access to their blogs to selected friends on their instant messaging buddy list. That way, their words are only accessible to the five or 10 or 50 people with a legitimate interest, not to potential stalkers.What parents should be doing is steering their teen bloggers towards systems that allow this, including MSN Spaces and Yahoo 360.
InThe New York Times, former Microsoftie Julie Bick writes about what some of her friends and former colleagues have done with their money."While the exact number is not known, it is reasonable to assume that there were approximately 10,000 Microsoft millionaires created by the year 2000," said Richard S. Conway Jr., a Seattle economist whom Microsoft hired to study its impact on Washington State. "The wealth that has come to this area is staggering."Many employees spent their money immediately, in a variety of ways. If the stock price hit a new high, for example, five new sports cars might drive into Microsoft's parking lot in Redmond, Wash., the next day. Big-screen video projection theaters and indoor pools built to resemble the rocky caves of Hawaii appeared in employees' homes. One employee treated 30 family members to a weeklong vacation at a five-star resort. Another endowed a professorship in his name at Oxford University.Comment:the man who sits in the Charles Simonyi Chair in the Public Understanding of Science at the University of Oxford is, of course,Richard Dawkins.
The value of illegal business software has topped &#163;1 billion in Britain for the first time. Figures released by the Business Software Alliance of leading technology firms shows use of illegal software rising alarmingly in just one year. The City of London police says it plans to crack down on the crime.Worldwide, software piracy is worth $33bn - up $4bn on last year's figure; 35 per cent of European software is pirated. In Latin   America, prevalence of illegal software is put at 66 per cent.More than $59bn is spent by the world's businesses on computer software, says the survey.The BSA is pressing the government to act on an election promise to get tough. 'Protecting intellectual property will play a key role in the future prosperity of the UK,' said Labour MP Janet Anderson, who chairs an all-party committee on intellectual property. 'Piracy stifles innovation and creativity and has   a significant impact on employment, economic growth and public spending.'The BSA says the Treasury is losing millions of pounds of tax income thanks to criminal gangs selling software.With compact disks taking huge amounts of information, pirating expensive software has never been easier or more tempting.Many small businesses baulk at paying what seem like inflated fees for the latest accounting or office software.
TechWeb Newsreports that "Unix's traditional dominance in the server market appears threatened by a surge in Windows' sales, says a server market survey Friday. While global server revenue grew to $12.1 billion in the first quarter of 2005, Unix and Windows server revenue ended the quarter in a statistical tie, each generating about $4.2 billion, said IDC's Worldwide Quarterly Server Tracker.""What's striking is that Windows overall is gaining so rapidly," said Jean S. Bozman, vice president for enterprise computing at IDC. "From an IT perspective, there is as much spending on Windows as there is on Unix." In previous studies of the server market, IDC had predicted Windows would overtake Unix in the market, but not until 2008.What about Linux?Bozman noted that the Linux server business is growing more rapidly than either Windows or Unix, but the fact that its starting installed base was so low that she can't project out far enough to see Linux overtaking either Windows or Unix. IDC said that Linux servers logged year-over-year revenue growth of 35.2 percent and a 31.1 percent gain in shipments. It was the 11th consecutive quarter of double digit growth for the open source software."I don't believe Linux can overtake either Windows or Unix," Bozman said. Linux revenues for the quarter totaled $1.2 billion as Linux servers carved out a strong position in data centers.
"The Pentium D processor and supporting chips will target home computer users, particularly those who run more than one program at once or have software that is designed to take advantage of the extra computing horsepower of the chips' dual cores," reportsAP."We're shipping 100,000 this quarter, and we're going to ship millions by the end of the year," said Gerald Holzhammer, vice president of Intel's Digital Home Group. "This is a big deal for us. It's the first time dual core will make a real impact on the marketplace."
"An operation that spammed millions of consumers with graphic sexual descriptions to drive traffic to their Web sites to 'date lonely housewives' has been halted by the court at the request of the Federal Trade Commission. US District Court Judge Amy St Eve has ordered a temporary halt to the spamming and has frozen the assets of the outfit, pending a hearing on the FTC's request for a preliminary and permanent injunction for violations of federal law," says theFTC.(The complaint doesn't mean the defendants are guilty: that can only be decided in court.)Comment:The spamming scumbags behind this sort of operation are not going to get any sympathy, of course, but you have to wonder about the stupidity of Internet users, who paid around $700,000 for access to the phony "lonely housewife" Web sites.
E3 (Electronic Entertainment Expo) is the videogame world's louder, hotter and, OK, slightly geekier version of the Cannes Film Festival. Here are some of the highlights from last week's event in Los Angeles.Playstation 3(Sony)Yeah, you've probably heard about this. The jury's out on the design of the thing, but the tech demos and video teasers were absolutely staggering. Still, it's early days yet - there wasn't a single playable PS3 game on the show floor, and the console may not be launched in Europe until late next year.Xbox 360(Microsoft)Everyone was "superexcited" about the 360 until Sony unveiled its beast - then Microsoft started talking about functionality over performance. Whatever, the company responsible for Windows (crashing) is going to get a cool set-top box into a lot of living rooms - unthinkable a few years ago.Gameboy Micro(Nintendo)The "Big N" revealed relatively few details on its next home console, named Revolution, but it debuted a new handheld - a minuscule version of the Game Boy Advance with a two-inch backlit screen and snap-on face plate. Sure to be a popular stocking-filler this Christmas.Legend of Zelda: Twilight PrincesGameCube (Nintendo)A leading contender for the Game of the Show award - the Sweaty Palm d'Or, if you will. Nintendo seduced Zelda fans with a video which showed the new-look Link transforming into a wolf, and knocked them out with four playable levels. GameCube, dead? Not just yet.Tomb Raider: LegendPC, PS2, Xbox (Eidos)American developers have got their hands on "our" Lara, but they've been treating her well. Ms Croft is fitter and more agile than ever, and the new game has a better control system and tighter gameplay. Looks like a return to form for a series which has been going downhill since about 1997.Peter Jackson's King KongAll major platforms (Ubisoft)Movie tie-ins are often disastrous, but this one is in the hands of the genius behind Rayman and the criminally underrated Beyond Good &amp; Evil. Curiously, you get to battle dinosaurs playing as explorer Jack Driscoll and Mr King Kong himself. Should be a monster hit.Gears of WarXbox 360 (Microsoft)A dark, futuristic shooter from the makers of Unreal Tournament which combines serious weaponry and tactical action with the kind of tense, nerve-racking sequences usually found in survival horrors. Won't be on shelves for at least a year, but it's already touted by some as the Xbox 360's killer app and, yes, "the new Halo".OkamiPS2 (Capcom)Wonderfully stylish game with a unique hand-painted look, from the Japanese producer of Viewtiful Joe. Playing as a sun god that's taken the form of a wolf, your task is to replenish life and bring colour back into an ancient world. Makes a change from car modding, eh?Call of Duty 2Xbox 360, PC (Activision)A bigger and more detailed sequel to the hugely successful strategic shooter based on the second world war. A Saving Private Ryan-esque demo was shown on Xbox 360 (it should be a launch title on the console) and drew big crowds. Your granddad would love it - if it wasn't so goddam loud and intense.OverhypedKillzone 2PS3 (Sony)One of Killzone 2's developers admitted  that the mind-blowing  video shown at the  PlayStation 3 launch  was a "representation"  of the game - not  necessarily real, ingame  footage - but the  world's gaming press  went into hype  overdrive anyway,  curiously forgetting  that the PS2-based  original was pants.
Infoworld's lead article,The battle for the blogosphere, contains some interesting info on MSN Spaces. It says:Introduced in beta form just last December, MSN Spaces now hosts over 10 million blogs, an eye-popping adoption rate that has blown past internal Microsoft expectations. "MSN Spaces is the fastest growing service MSN has ever introduced," said Brooke Richardson, lead product manager at MSN communication services.Compare this with a comment from the founder ofTechnorati, dated May 16, which says: "This weekend Technorati tracked its 10 Millionth Blog".Now, nobody really knows how many blogs there are, even counting the 12 million Korean ones, nobody knows how many are simply spam, and no-one knows how many will be abandoned in anything from 2 hours to 2 weeks.However, I think MSN Spaces must be well on the way to fulfilling my opening prediction, inMicrosoft launch[es] blogging software(December 9, 2004), that "Microsoft could soon be the biggest company in the blogosphere."
Yes, it's one of those spurious PR survey's used to highlight a product - in this case the rather naff 7 Sins - but I thought the findings were worth a blog. 1164 gamers were asked what their biggest gaming "sin" was. Using cheat codes and playing pirate games were the most popular, but feigning illness from work to play a game was up there too...The results were:1. Cheating: Using cheats to progress in games (26.1 per cent)2. Stealing: Playing pirated games (18.68)3. Ignorance: Leaving partner's phone call to continue playing (11 per cent)4. Sabotage: Deliberately hindering or altering someone else's game (6.7 per cent)5. Lying: Feigning illness from work in order to play computer games (4.3 per cent)6. Coveting: Only borrowing games from a friend's library rather than buying your own copy (3.2 per cent)7. Spitefulness: Giving away game endings deliberately. (2.7 per cent)
Channel Tunnel rail link construction at Stratford, east London. Photograph: Dan ChungToday's Guardian carries afantastic articleandpicturesabout the construction of the Channel Tunnel rail link going into King's Cross Station in London.Eight thousand workers from all over the world have toiled for seven years, first to bring the nation's first fast-track rail line up through Kent, then onwards through the sodden clay and shifting silt of the Thames flood plain, and now in tunnels up to 40 metres beneath the pavements of London. The target date is rushing up fast to meet them: from 2007, the trains of Eurostar are meant to be shooting through these subterranean passages like supercharged electric eels passing under sewers and water mains, tube lines and gas pipes, at the end of their journeys from Paris and Brussels.Yet as far as London is concerned, this herculean labour - 15m cubic metres of soil and stone excavated for the open-cut route across the south-east from the Channel Tunnel portal near Folkestone and the twin-bore route under London; hundreds of interlocking construction contracts overarched by big-hitters of international engineering: Arup, Bechtel, Halcrow and Systra - has been almost invisible: obscured by hoardings, or buried even deeper than the tube.Now I'm not sure that the subsequent contention - that nobody in London is aware of the development - is quite true, since King's Cross isn't far from Online Towers, and my journey in to and out of the city takes me past a veritable smorgasbord of construction sites... but it's certainly correct that this is one massive engineering project that has, so far at least, gone fairly smoothly.If you've got five minutes, go and have a read.
One thing clearly obvious from last week was thatE3has given up all pretence of being a trade-only show. Anyone interested in getting in could do have done so fairly easily - a webpage and a bit of patience is all it took. I don't have a issue with this in principle - I would have done the same thing if I was 18 and based in the US - but it does cause real problems. Overcrowded stands and an under-resourced press-room are only the start.Getting hands-on time with the majority of titles, let alone a coffee, was ridiculously difficult this year, and more and more games are now shown behind closed doors. This is fine if you can swing an invite -Sporewas my personal favourite of these - but most attendees miss out. Throw in the lack of any equivalent show in Europe, and Japan and you have a problem. My solution? Smaller regional shows, open to all.In the UK, last year'sGame Stars Livewas scuppered by Sony's absence and a poor venue, but it at least allowed punters to play upcoming games, grab goodies and get excited. GSL's scrapping means UK gamers who want to play upcoming console games legally are restricted to cover discs and smaller events likeEdinburgh. Mainland Europe and Japan fare a little better, but there is still nothing to compare to the behemoth that is E3.E3 may be a victim of its own success, but there is a definite need for it. An annual event for the games industry focuses media and retail attention, but there needs to be more access for the people that really matter - the gamers. So create a similar-sized event in Europe and Japan and let the gamers in. Gaming is mainstream - it's time there was some proper public events that reflected this.
What do people want from their mobiles? According to a new study, younger mobile users want music: commercial-free radio and music downloads.The research, from American consulting firm Network Management Group, will be a boost for the operators who are spending a lot of time and money on their music services. Here'sReuters:The survey... also showed greater interest in a free ad-supported mobile video service than a subscription video service, such as those offered by Verizon Wireless and Sprint.About 40 percent of 1,000 phone users between 13 and 34 years old would be very interested in commercial-free radio over their mobile phone, the survey said. Nearly 35 percent of those surveyed showed an interest in wireless music downloads.You know what? British users can get commercial free radio on their phones if they want (just get a phone with a built-in radio and turn on to the BBC). But it still seems that the nets are a long, long way from providing the kind of easy, intelligent and transferable service that this research points towards.
The ever-useful VoIP provider Skype is now offering users the ability topay using PayPal:PayPal offers a secure online payments environment for users purchasing subscriptions to Skype's pre-paid premium services at the Skype Store at www.skype.com. PayPal acts as an online wallet giving buyers the flexibility to select how they want to pay for their purchase – via credit cards, banking accounts or stored balance. Skype has added PayPal as an additional payment mechanism following an extensive review of the market and a beta trial of PayPal amongst Skype customers.Such a move should certainly open up the possible user base for the service - just another step on the seemingly relentless march of VoIP.
There arequiteafewreports floating around today about the death of the character Morpheus from The Matrix Online. Played by Lawrence Fishburne in the film, Morpheus was a Non-Playable Character in the masssively multiplayer online game (MMOG), but one who was instrumental in various plots' progress.I'm inclined to agree with a comment/.made about the event. They said that it's a monumental shift which has "permanently changed the topology of The Matrix". And what right do the creators have to mess with our fantasies like that?Arguably, and I've had this discussion recently, the function of MMOGs based upon existing fictional franchises (e.g., The Matrix, Star Wars, etc.) is for the participant to enact a role as part of the fabric of the fantasy created by the creators. Some offline titles have also done this remarkably well; GoldenEye on the N64 has always been a classic example of a game based within the environment of the film, but not a carbon copy of it (like many of LucasArts' Star Wars offerings). Still, things get more interesting when the events on screen become part of the back story and new heroes emerge within the activities and real-time social interactions of an online game.There comes an exciting shift when the creators of a live franchise mess with what's happening outside of the traditional media in which it was originally presented. Far be it from the Wachowskis to continue their trilogy as Douglas Adams did (i.e., write five novels instead of three), or Lucas to continue the story of Star Wars into the originally-stated nine parts, but what would happen if they became involved with the development of a perpetuating product like a MMOG as a kind of continuous stream of plot building, changed something essential to the series' plot (i.e., Morpheus dying) and then returned the series with the MMOG-level implementations intact to the silver screen without any explanation in that medium for why the shift had happened? To date, there's been no hope that could happen. In fact, Lucas has kept the choice plot bits for the movie projector rather than allow players to exercise their in-game free will.From theMTV Gamesarticle:George Lucas didn't wait to kill Emperor Palpatine in the video game versions of "Star Wars" — he did it in "Return of the Jedi." But that was 1983. The reclusive but ever-modern "Matrix"-creating Wachowski brothers like to do things a bit differently, a philosophy that now extends beyond their movies to their "Matrix" game, a shared experience that went live in March.Yes, potentially marginalising a huge swathe of an audience is a dangerous move for any self-respecting media mogul, but if someone was to take that leap (the Wachowskis, for example), it could stimulate the mass media drive towards games – if the franchise captures the public spirit enough – that the industry desires. Offering media on various levels, and notably not just as secondary merchandising opportunities, would give consumers the sense of ownership which would keep many of them engaged with a series episode after episode after episode.Man, I'd go ape if the repercussions from some of the decisions I made in game would be witnessed in my local Cineplex. How cool would that be?So I don't mourn the death of Morpheus. If his passing in the MMOG were to have implications for later episodes in the film franchise, I'd say kill Trinity off as well.
Nintendo reported a small increase in annual operating profit yesterday but forecast lower-than-expected growth in the current year as it expects demand for GameCube and Game Boy Advance consoles and games to decline.The Japanese video game maker expects to more than double sales of its DS portable device to 12.4m units in the year to next March, but that will not be enough to offset an expected 33.8% decline in sales of Game Boy Advance and a 28.6% decline in GameCube.Software sales for DS, which was launched late last year, are expected to more than triple to 35m units, helped by new titles such as Nintendogs and Electroplankton, but Game Boy Advance and GameCube software sales are expected to drop. Nintendo, based in Kyoto, said its operating profit in the business year ended March 31 rose 3.6% to 111.52bn yen (&#163;560m). That missed market expectations of &#165;114.5bn.The company said it expects operating profit in the current year to rise to &#165;115bn, compared with market expectations of &#165;122.2bn.Nintendo said last week that it will launch Revolution - its next-generation console - next year. Nintendo dominates the portable game industry, with a roughly 94% market share, but Sony is threatening its grip with the PlayStation Portable, which it launched in Japan in December and in the US in March.Meanwhile, its GameCube console has not sold well compared with the more popular PlayStation 2 made by Sony or the Xbox by Microsoft.
Cable &amp; Wireless plans to go head to head with BT, investing millions in its Bulldog broadband business and providing a fillip to beleaguered telecommunications equipment maker Marconi by choosing its kit.The company, which yesterday announced a 21% increase in its dividend alongside a 36% jump in annual profits to &#163;377m, is doubling Bulldog's coverage with plans to reach more than half the UK population by the autumn of 2006.Loss-making Bulldog, which C&amp;W bought a year ago, installs its own broadband equipment in BT's network of local exchanges.C&amp;W has already invested &#163;71m in Bulldog, installing equipment in 400 exchanges. It will spend the same again this year, rolling out a further 200. By autumn next year, it will be in 800 of BT's more than 5,000 exchanges, giving it coverage of more than 50% of the population.As a result, losses from the firm, which topped &#163;34m in the year to the end of March 2005, are expected to jump to &#163;90m next year. It will not break even until 2008 at the earliest.In effect, C&amp;W is rebuilding the Mercury consumer business it owned in the 1990s.C&amp;W floated Mercury before selling it off to NTL, but the cable company was later forced into bankruptcy protection because it was unable to support its huge debts with existing sales.Chief executive Francesco Caio was undaunted by the weight of history, saying: "Just because the business failed in the past does not mean we cannot get it right this time."The company is planning new services, including TV over broadband, to entice customers. It is also seeking further acquisitions, using the &#163;1.3bn in the bank that it refuses to return to shareholders.The company, which still makes more than two thirds of its &#163;1.6bn revenue from traditional voice telephony, is upgrading its network to reduce costs in the fiercely competitive broadband access market.Yesterday it announced a deal with Marconi, understood to be worth tens of millions of pounds, to use the company's equipment in this network. The deal is crucial to Marconi, which was plunged into turmoil this month when it lost out with BT to foreign rivals Huawei and Ciena.
Having just watched last night's climactic penalty shoot out again, I've realised the true inspiration behind Dudek's eccentric goal line behaviour. Those shuffling sideways movements, the flailing arms... he was clearly influenced, not by Bruce Grobbelaar, but by eighties arcade classic, Donkey Kong. Indeed, handing the football to each of the Milan penalty takers was his way of symbolically lobbing a barrel at them.Readers: have you noticed any other similarities between the gamesmanship of Premiership football players and the repetitive actions of classic coin-op characters?
Ten more games from last week's mega-show thatdon'tbelong to a long-running series andaren'ttying in with some horribly over-hyped summer blockbuster that we'll all go and see and inevitably feel cheap and used afterwards...Devil Kings – PS2It's hardly a new idea – select a muscle-bound warrior then roar into battle against swarms of enemies in mass feudal battle. Perform 'critical moves' (i.e. special moves), level-up your character to gain new weapons and skills, etc, etc. But the visuals look scrumptious and Capcom just knows how to deliver this kind of gameplay and make it feel fresh and exciting. Screens and more infohere.Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - DSSomehow, courtroom drama, a staple of TV programming, has been widely neglected by western game developers. However, in Japan, the Gyakuten Saiban series of GBA law sims has been hugely popular, so with the first DS outing, Capcom has changed the name and opened up this intriguing concept to a global jury. As the titular legal eagle you must examine evidence, interview witnesses (is there a co-operative good player/bad player mode?) and then present your case in a court of law. Ali McBeal meets Onimusha? No, I'm being silly. Your honour, exhibit A:the screenshots.Without Warning – XboxThe first title fromCiRCLE Studio, the development house set up by Core Design founders, Adrian and Jeremy Smith. The ex-overlords of the Tomb Raider franchise are sticking in third-person action adventure territory, but influenced perhaps by world events, 24 and the whole Tom Clancy explosion, this one pits the player against terrorists who have hijacked an American chemical facility. Interestingly, you get to swap control between six characters, and experience the same timeframe through each of their different viewpoints. Sort of like Jackie Brown. But with terrorists and explosive chemicals. Morehere.Spore – PCWill Wright's bravely experimental follow-up to intergalactic phenomenon The Sims is nothing less than a simulation of evolution, allowing you to control the destiny of a lifeform from single cell pond life to advanced civilization. The word 'ambitious' doesn't really do it justice. The decentwebsitehas screens and links to news articles from around the net.The Movies – PC, PS2, Xbox, GCThe latest strategy groundbreaker from Lionhead is a simulation of the Hollywood movie biz in which players control a studio from the innocent days of silent movies to the modern era of blockbuster special effects blow-outs. It looks like there'll be a main story mode, where you deal with actors, writers, agents, etc while building your empire. Then there's a sandbox mode where you make your own movies – a similar feature to the movie mode found in Sims 2. As usual for a Peter Molyneux project, expectations are high. I'm going down to Guildford to see the game next week so I'll let you know how it looks.NintendogsIt's strange really that pet sims have never taken off in the west – in Japan, they're a staple genre, hamster games proving especially popular with the kids. Nintendogs will, however, be huge. Select from 15 popular breeds then train and look after your delightful pup with the touch screen and microphone. Apparently you can even set your DS to bark when another Nintendog owner walks past. So sweet it could conceivably carry some sort of health warning. Gowalkiesto the official Japanese site.Electroplankton - DSWeird art toy in which you create images and sounds by manipulating ten different types of… plankton. Each has a different range of noises and beats and they can be rubbed, prodded or drawn on to elicit a response. I didn't really expect this one to get a western release when I visited thewebsitea few weeks ago, but Nintendo of America has picked it up, and we should even get it over here. Seamen meets Rez? Hurray for art toys! Sort of.Wizard of Funk – PS2Thisonecaught a lot of people by surprise at E3: an RPG designed to employ the EyeToy peripheral. Created by Dutch outfit Playlogic, the game requires players to fight monsters and cast spells using arm gestures rather than joypad button presses. The title sounds like some kind of Eighties kids movie involving a medieval magus transported to modern day Brooklyn to help ghetto kids put on a dance show.Coded Arms – PSPThis cyberpunk FPS revolving around attempts to hack into some global mega-computer may sound like generic shooter fare, but whatimpressed journosat E3 was the excellent wi-fi multiplayer mode – a real showcase for the Ad Hoc networking capabilities of the machine, apparently. Screens look pretty impressive too.Tabula Rasa - PCA new sci-fi themed MMORPG from the mind of Ultima creator Richard Garriott. Apparently it's designed to appeal to the massively multiplayer novice with a new character progression system, walled home area and the ability to change your profession as you go through without losing cash and items. The story appears to involve teleporting round the galaxy seeing off an alien menace known as, The Thrax. Read something that actuallymakes senseat the official website.
WhitewashSo Dave Birch (Second sight, May 19) has come to the conclusion that an iPod is more essential than a mobile phone because he hasn't used all of its features. Again the sound of someone in love with a shiny little white box going off on one. If sitting next to people on a train he doesn't want to listen to really annoys him, I can suggest a sleek white object that isn't a mugger's magnet, doesn't have a short battery life and isn't constrained by digital rights management controls: a bag of cotton wool.Aidan CunninghamLondonSlowly does itYou reprint TomTom's claim that its safety camera database will "encourage motorists to drive more safely" (IT news, May 19). It won't. They will know they can drive freely at dangerous speeds between cameras. We all know this, so why the hypocrisy? I possibly owe my life to speed cameras. It frightens me whenever someone tries to subvert them.Bob WarwickerSheffieldSimply perfectLike Graham Williams (Feedback, May 19), I also have a Nokia 6100 and would recommend it to anyone - even technophobes - as it is lighter, easier to use and has better battery life than the old-fashioned 3210. I have noticed a lot of mainly 40-plus men and women using these 32 and 33 series of Nokia phones: I bet there is a cut-off point when the need for small, smart technology is replaced by "I just want to call and text". I don't agree that Retrofone, for example, has the answer; it just seems to be flogging old, unwanted Sony Ericsson models.Andy WhitehouseMaidstone, KentBT bluesFurther to Gillian McIver's letter (Feedback, May 19), I had a horrendous time moving my broadband with BT. Despite giving about six weeks' notice and being reassured they could switch me instantly, I experienced about five weeks without broadband. Each customer assistant gave me a different story. I moved in with my girlfriend, who had had BT broadband in her flat. BT still told me I'd have to wait several days while they tested the flat to see if it could host broadband. Me telling them it already could made no difference. On the plus side, they gave me that period free once I complained. I thought it would be much simpler.Andrew EmeryLondonThe wrong moveMy broadband provider, BT, took three-and-a-half weeks to move my account last October - the call centre implied that it would take a week. I moved into my girlfriend's house and, because I was two months short of completing the one-year contract, was told it would be cheaper and easier to transfer her account to my name and transfer the broadband to that number. It actually took a week to close my account, a further two weeks to change her account to my name, and then two or three days to set up the broadband.To cap it all, they changed the phone number, too. I was in the middle of an online Open University course, which fell by the wayside due to lack of internet access. A seemingly simple process was made to appear very difficult.Neil PudseyScunthorpeOut of orderI'm afraid Dan Bridge (Feedback, May 19) may have some months to wait for his parts. I ordered three small items from ebuyer on January 2. One item that was delivered, a card reader, was the wrong type. After trying for three weeks to get it to pick up the item, I posted it back by Royal Mail. A week later, a postman called with the replacement. I opened the parcel while the postman waited, only to discover a unit identical to the one I'd sent back. I eventually got some money back in April. The money involved is small but incompetence should not be rewarded.Ian FairbairnMaidenheadBlogBack: what our readers sayAleks Krotoski (Gamesblog, May 19) speculates about whether Nintendo's Revolution will be open for indie games designers and bedroom coders. This would indeed be an exciting option and this kind of window of opportunity for alternative games content is something the entire industry and games culture needs.www.unet.fi/fransblog/I just read the most unbiased comparison of PS3 versus Xbox 360 I have ever seen (Gamesblog, May 18). It lays it all out on the table. And that's the way I like it.knightstyle.blogspot.comI don't think there's a clear winner between Xbox 360 and PS3; both have their strengths, but what's most remarkable is the amazing amount of computing power that will be packed into these new systems, especially considering they sell for only a fewhundred dollars.www.soltys.ca
The ideal Tablet PC would have all the best features of a paper notebook and a notebook PC put together: it would be small, light and long lasting, and it would be easy to start writing on the screen, while also having a keyboard handy as soon as you need it. The first machines runningWindows XP Tablet PC Editiondid not manage that, and last week, even Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates called them "clunky".Microsoft has developed a next generation prototype, code-named Kinesis, but this week Motion Computing released its own advanced Tablet PC, which is already part of the way there.Motion'sLE1600is thin and light, using carbon fibre and magnesium to keep the case strong as well as light. It has the array of microphones that Microsoft suggests for more accurate speech recognition and voice control - and this should also make the meetings you record more intelligible. There are three mics, so you should get a good recording whichever way round you have the PC.Like Motion's previous models, the LE1600 has the ambient light sensor that Microsoft also includes in its Kinesis prototype to control screen brightness. Turning down the screen brightness saves battery power.The LE1600 has the usual lithium-ion battery, but you can also clip a thin, flat lithium polymer battery to the back of the unit. There's also a clip-on USB keyboard that fits securely, turning the machine into a notebook PC with a pivoting screen.Microsoft's Kinesis prototype takes a different approach: it has a clever folding hinge that lets you slide the screen back to reveal the keyboard or down to hide it. The idea is to have a Tablet PC that you carry with the screen showing, so you can start writing without having to open it, but with a keyboard that you can get at when you only have one hand free.The hinge also supports the screen when the keyboard is out so you can write on it without it wobbling all over the place. As Microsoft's Tablet PC architect Bert Keely puts it, "the pen is mightier than the trackpad", so you want to take advantage of it. That also makes it feasible to hold the machine in one hand and type with the other.Weight is another problem, and Microsoft wants Tablet PCs to weigh two pounds or less, and fit in a case that is around three quarters of an inch thick. A magnesium case can shave a quarter of a pound off the weight of a portable, and 2mm from the thickness. Switching to a smaller 1.8inch hard drive saves another 5mm.Screen displays are getting thinner and lighter, even with the dual digitisers that Microsoft also wants to see in Tablet PC2. The idea is to combine the fast, accurate active digitiser that works with a special pen (often based on the Wacom graphics tablet), with passive digitisers commonly seen in PDAs, which will detect anything, including your finger.Windows will work out whether you are pointing at something on screen because you want to scroll down the page or press a button, or you are just resting your hand on the screen as you write. If the pen is near the screen, it will ignore anything else, but if you point with your finger, you get a magnifying circle that you can drag around screen to select even small buttons. You can even right-click by pressing and holding your finger on the screen. Applications such as Microsoft OneNote, which already understand the pen, could let you write with a pen and erase with your finger.Microsoft is keen to get Tablet PC manufacturers to try the direct hinge, so it has patented it and made it available to all of them. Acer is the first to sign up.In all, Kinesis includes 21 features that Microsoft thinks make it an "ideal highly mobile PC". These range from biometric security to a kickstand on the back, so you can use your Tablet as an easel for presentations or a digital photo frame back at your desk. There is also a five-way controller that swivels round when you rotate the screen so the buttons are always the right way round, a warning if you turn the Tablet off without putting the pen away, and a clip-on DVD drive for installing new software.Some of these ideas will make it into the next round of Tablet PCs. However, for major changes to pen support, users will have to wait until Longhorn, the next version of Windows, appears next year.The Longhorn version will learn from the corrections that you make when Windows doesn't recognise what you have written. It will also let you delete words on screen by drawing a single line to cross them out, rather than scribbling over the word. And as well as the existing gestures, there will be eight "flicks" matching the points of the compass, so you can wave the pen south-east for undo and south-west to delete.Treating the pen more like a keyboard helps provide standard Windows features that are awkward on current Tablet PCs. For example, when you start writing a web address in Internet Explorer, you will get a list of URLs you have visited before, as when you type a URL on a keyboard.But making the pen as good as the keyboard isn't enough for Bill Mitchell, Microsoft's vice president for mobile platforms. After Longhorn, he wants to look at how Tablet PCs could learn the special characters and abbreviations that we all use when we write. "The goal is to get as good as your friends are at understanding what you write," he says.He also wants to start using the structure of handwritten documents, rather than just recognising the words. "I think of the way Bill Gates takes notes: the way he writes things on a page has meaning in his mind," he says. "We all do that - or at least, when we wrote on paper, we all had ways to think about how we organised information, and there was a lot more meaning in that than in the linear text input of a keyboard. Free thinking on paper is less constrained, and we want to recapture that."LinksTablet PC HomeTablet PC WikiLE1600 review&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The Xbox 360 games console should be out in November, and this will give Microsoft a fighting chance of competing with Sony's PlayStation 3, which could appear six to 12 months later. Whether it can become the first successful "home hub" is another matter. I don't believe it can do one without the other.The 360 name harks back to the world-changing launch of the IBM S/360 series of mainframes in 1964 - though, of course, the mainframes were far less powerful. The 360 degrees suggested IBM's systems were capable of undertaking a full circle of tasks, both commercial and scientific.In the Xbox, it suggests it isn't just a games console but also a multimedia centre, a communications device, and perhaps a "home hub".The Xbox 360 can play CDs and DVDs, which isn't novel, but it does support HDTV (high-definition television) standards up to 1080i. It also includes Media Center Extender technology as standard. Users with PCs running the Media Center Edition of Windows XP Pro will be able to stream music, TV and video from their PC to their Xbox 360.Users will also be able to connect their Apple iPod, Sony PSP portable games console and other devices to their Xbox 360 to show photos, play music and movies and transfer files, though this may be limited by proprietary digital rights management (DRM) systems.Finally, like the Xbox, the Xbox 360 will support the Xbox Live online service. Users will be able to buy characters and other games features, music and probably movies online. Since the Xbox runs an embedded version of Windows XP, it can be programmed to do pretty much anything a PC can do.In sum, the Xbox 360 has the sort of "home hub" entertainment capabilities that Sony trumpeted for the PlayStation 2 and utterly failed to deliver.But I think it's a mistake to conclude that the PS3 and Nintendo's Revolution can't compete, as theGame Girl Advancewebsite claims, and that gamers are "small potatoes to Microsoft. A means to an end."The Trojan horse strategy only works if the horse gets inside the city walls - or in the Xbox 360's case, inside homes. That will only happen if it sells on its merits as a games machine, and in a world of &pound;50 DVD players and &pound;300 PCs, a console is not the cheap alternative it used to be.Microsoft certainly regards gamers as "a means to an end", but its main end is to sign them up to Xbox Live, both to collect a monthly fee and sell them loads of other stuff. Ultimately, like Sony, it's in it for the money.Whether the Xbox 360 can beat the PS3 remains to be seen. If the PS3 comes out later, it should be more powerful, just as the Xbox is more powerful than the PS2. But power is often less important than other features such as image, price, online services and, especially, the availability of great games. Without those, you can forget the rest.LinksGame Girl Advance&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Illustration: Bill ButcherThursday calls for the obligatory post telling everyone what's in this week'streeware(?+) edition of Online.First up is a look at Portsmouth'sliteral information superhighway- a new techno transport scheme that could set the standard for the rest of the nation. And, further tonewsthat robot doctors will be clumping around British hospitals, we look at theinvasion of robot tour guidesat the London Aquarium.It also seems there is a back door in BT's anti-porn filtering system, CleanFeed - so we askwhy it hasn't been shut, and we also wonder whether the move byfootball clubs into broadbandwill kick off a new high-speed war.Elsewhere Ashley Norris looks at thedivergence in phones, we look atTablet PCsand take a trip to theWynn Hotelin Las Vegas - a techie's paradise.Clickherefor the complete contents.
"The Nokia 770 is a handheld computer intended to give consumers a simple way of hopping on the Internet. Priced at $350, Nokia says it is creating a whole new product category by offering a Web-browsing platform for home use with the versatility to travel to local, wireless hotspots," reports theSan Francisco Chronicle."It's not a PDA or a PC, it's in that midrange where there's definitely a market out there for it," said Nokia spokeswoman Laurie Armstrong. "It's something people can use when they're frequently away from the desktop or in the backyard or a cafe or whatever the case."The half-pound wireless device, measuring 5.6 inches long with a 4.1-inch high-resolution display, can also connect to the Internet using Bluetooth technology. The 770 does not include a cell phone, the field in which Nokia has made its mark, so users must use a separate cell phone to make a Bluetooth connection.Infosync Worldhas a brief into with pictures.Comment:This sounds like our old friend the WebPad, which was briefly famous in a previous century. The idea was heavily overhyped by the anti-PC crowd but it's not clear that real sales ever got out of double figures. Times change, of course, and this Linux-based version is smaller and has a backer with massive market power, so let's not write it off too soon. However, at first glance, it looks pretty feeble compared to Palm'sLifeDrive.
Podium positionForza MotorsportXbox, &pound;39.95Microsoft, 4 starsThe belated but awesome Gran Turismo 4 ensures that PlayStation 2 owners retain bragging rights over Xbox owners. While Forza Motorsport is designed to rectify that situation, it doesn't quite measure up.Mind you, Gran Turismo 4 is surely the finest driving game ever, so the fact that Forza Motorsport gives it a run for its money is some achievement. Forza is also Microsoft's first effort at a GT4 competitor.But it falls down in two areas: car feel and graphics. Part of the problem lies in the Xbox's controller: its long-travel trigger buttons, which govern acceleration and braking, mitigate against seat-of-the-pants feedback. The two games would probably be more evenly matched when played with steering wheel add-ons.But, surprisingly, Forza looks inferior to GT4. It also takes one fundamentally different approach: its makers have striven to achieve realism at the expense of arcade-style gameplay. Thus, the cars in Forza can sustain damage, which affects handling. After a big shunt you can find yourself at the wheel of a machine that is undriveable.Structurally, Forza is identical to GT4, with a menu system that lets you upgrade cars more easily. It also has an optional system showing you the best racing line, handy the first time you drive around a track but otherwise annoying.Where it really scores is online: it accommodates every aspect of Xbox Live, and even lets you buy and sell cars online.If GT4 had not made it into the shops, Forza Motorsport would have earned accolades but, as it is, it will have to be content with second place. But that is a podium position.Steve BoxerMercenary tacticsBoiling PointPC, &pound;34.99Deep Shadows/Atari, 4 starsNo, your eyes do not deceive you. Having nicked its feel and location from Far Cry, Boiling Point begins in almost identical circumstances. The hero (featuring the voice and digital likeness of The Mummy's Arnold Vosloo) searches for his daughter, who has disappeared in mysterious circumstances. However, not everyone in this hell hole wants to kill you on sight, adding a welcome role-playing element to the usual (and impressive) first-person shooter action.On the carefully constructed island, the population must be persuaded, bribed or intimidated into helping you. Mercenaries, mafia, army and locals play their part, leading to a game that can be baffling at first but looks stunning if your system has the grunt to handle it.You also get the full complement of vehicles and weapons, although early on your skills may not be up to handling them all. So far, so good...Alas, the mission and characters create problems, in the form of repeated dialogue, dodgy artificial intelligence and an objective-mapping system that never works quite as well as it should. However, it's still a lush, impressive game that refuses to let go.Is it as good as Far Cry? Not really, but it is a most promising debut.Mike AnderieszWard off the nastiesArea 51Xbox, PlayStation 2, &pound;39.99 Midway, 3 starsWhen a game is called Area 51 and has voice characterisation by David "X-Files" Duchovny, you can guess the subject matter. Yes, this is conspiracy theory-laden science-fiction starring little grey aliens with big eyes. Your job is to clean up the underground facility by blasting everything you find. Luckily, then, the combat is a joy, with a real sense of achievement as you ward off the nasties.The early levels see you joined by a squad, but don't be fooled. They don't last long and soon you will be ploughing a lonely and violent furrow. The action is intense, and the graphics, particularly on PlayStation 2, are impressive. But Xbox owners are unlikely to be swayed if they already have Halo 2 and Doom 3.There is also a feeling of deja vu with elements from similar titles - Metroid and Half Life 2 spring to mind - shamelessly copied. The lack of any real puzzle element also makes for repetitive play.Where Area 51 does impress, though, is sonically - the effects and music are atmospheric - and the twisty plot makes just enough sense to keep you battling. It is a solid title that will appeal to PS2 owners due to the lack of such titles on their console.Our newly redesigned Gamesblog is atblogs.guardian.co.uk/gamesTop 5 games - PC1.Guild Wars2.Championship Manager 53.Imperial Glory4.The Sims 2: University5.World of Warcraft&#183; Source: Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, &copy; 2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd
Last week's Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) Show in Los Angeles offered several exciting glimpses into the future of videogames, not all of which were fuelled by the new consoles on show. Chief among them was Spore, the latest project by Will Wright, who conceived Sim City and The Sims.Spore, a PC game like its predecessors, is the last word in simulation games, putting you in charge of a simulated universe, which you must build from first principles. Initially, you are given a single-cell organism, which you can redesign and feed until it evolves into a more complex organism. Several stages of evolution leave you in charge of a more recognisable, sentient animal. Then you can teach it social skills, establish colonies and civilisations, and colonise other planets. The end result is a game that lets you feel as though you are playing God. Spore will arrive in autumn next year.EA Sports' Fight Night Round 3, a boxing game for Sony's PlayStation 3, gave the best illustration of the abilities of the next generation of consoles. The PS3's High Dynamic Range lighting model endowed the boxers with incredibly life-like skin, including blemishes, and amazing facial animations that appeared to correlate to events in the fight.Microsoft's Gears of War, the best Xbox 360 game on show, and Electronic Art's Black, a first-person shoot-'em-up for Xbox and PlayStation 2, showed how endowing games with physics engines to interact with scenery can provide new types of gameplay.Finally, a delightful effort for the DS handheld called Electroplankton proved Nintendo's contention that technology isn't everything. This music-generation programme, which you control by herding stylised, fish-like objects around the screen, was determinedly low-tech but so unlike any other game on sale that it felt fresh and original. It is set to achieve cult status.Nintendogs, a cute and realistic dog simulator also for the DS, has become one of the biggest-selling games in Japan this year, and proves that even modern handheld gaming platforms can support approximations of artificial life.
TheWomen in Games Conferenceand Channel 4'sIdeasFactory(Scotland) have announced a competition in search of alternative approaches to traditional computer games marketing, to tie in with one of the sessions at this year's conference. The aim is to produce a campaign that will appeal beyond the 15-24 year old male demographic. Winners will get a cash prize, free entrance to the Women in Games conference at University of Abertay this 8-10 August, including travel and accomodation, and their work displayed on the IdeasFactory website. I'm absolutely desperate to see what entrants come up with; the campaigns should be great!Individuals or teams of up to three will have to produce a fully-costed marketing campaign involving designs for magazine advertisements, posters and postcards, merchandising concepts and a detailed strategy involving PR stunts, celebrity endorsements and product placements.Check out the sitehere. Closing deadline for submissions is 4 July and all winners' work will be displayed at the event.
The incredible but controversial download tool BitTorrent has so far been relatively unimpinged by the long arm of the law, but last night American law enforcers shut down a hub, Elite Torrents, which had been making the latest Star Wars movie available.FromBBC News:The Elite Torrents site allowed 133,000 members to download thousands of films and software programs, according to the Homeland Security Department.The Justice Department said fans used it to download Revenge of the Sith 10,000 times before it was released.It was shut after raids by federal agents in 10 cities across the country.As we'vewritten in Online before, BitTorrent is a fantastic tool and should be applauded for democratising the online distribution channel. But now its creator, Bram Cohen, has released new versions of the software which make it much more akin to traditional filesharing networks. Here's whatBetaNewshas to say:Cohen has launched an online search that links to torrent files, which are used to download content via the protocol.Along with the online search comes a new decentralized BitTorrent client that eliminates the need for a "tracker" - Web sites that aggregate torrent files. In essence, this means that while the Feds may have gained some ground by shutting down tracker Web sites, actual file sharing and the ability to search for illicit content will not be brought to a standstill.Whether BitTorrent can withstand the forthcoming onslaught remains to be seen... but let's hope it can: it would be a shame to lose such an incredibly useful technology.
Police have arrested and prosecuted more than 22 British customers of websites selling class A designer drugs online after a trail of electronic evidence from busted websites in the US led police to addresses across the UK.The psychedelics drugs, known euphemistically as "research chemicals", have been sold for several years openly on the internet from websites based in the US. The US drug enforcement administration shut down the sites and arrested the owners last year after two deaths, and several cases of people needing hospital treatment in the US, were linked to the use of chemicals bought online.Customer records and credit-card details extracted from seized computers were passed on to the national crime squad in the UK.Once investigators had verified the intelligence, details were sent out to police forces. In a countrywide action, named Operation Ismene, the police carried out dawn raids in 14 counties, including Avon and Somerset, Greater Manchester, and Leicestershire. Court cases this month saw several people given fines or community service.A variety of synthetic drugs were confiscated in the raids, including 2C-I, a new psychedelic drug growing in popularity on the UK dance scene and described as "the new ecstasy".Frequently "research chemicals" have euphoric and visual effects similar to that caused by mescaline, ecstasy (also known as MDMA) and LSD. The majority do not have street names and are known only by their abbreviated lab names, such as 5-Meo-DMT, 2-CT-2, and AMT. Most are too powerful psychedelically to catch on with users or dealers, and have only been available via the internet.The burgeoning online trade in these chemicals was first revealed in the Guardian last year. The trade has flourished in the past five years as law enforcement has struggled to keep ahead of fast-moving technology. Online outfits have been able to create a worldwide customer base for designer drugs by subverting the infrastructure laid down by legitimate e-commerce such as international couriers and online credit-card systems.At the same time, chemists working "underground" routinely synthesise new drugs to slip through the gaps in international drugs legislation.The trade only came to the broad attention of US law enforcers after a death in Louisiana last year. In March 2004, James Downs, 22, died after an accidental overdose of powdered 2-CT-21 he ordered online. Police investigating his death traced his purchases to a Las Vegas "research chemicals" website (americanchemicalsupply.com), one of several professional operations importing such chemicals from labs in China and India. The websites were shutdown in a US-wide sting in July 2004 known as Operation Web Tryp.Court documents have revealed the extent, sophistication and success of these   e-businesses. Each website had thousands of customers in the US and Europe. The public was able to order a selection of drugs with "one-click" systems of payment via credit card or Paypal. Ordered drugs were delivered next day by Fedex and other carriers.Some sites traded openly while others were more clandestine. All the websites, including those mentioned here, have been closed down now.RacResearch.com, based in New York, ran a slick modern site offering broad selections of up to 20 drugs with free sample packs for first-time customers. Adverts for the site appeared on Google. Another site -www.pondman.nu- appeared to be selling fish and pond supplies but was a sophisticated e-commerce drug operation. Police estimate some sites were making around $20,000 (about &#163;11,000) a week.So-called research chemicals are not officially listed as controlled substances under US drugs laws. However, the website operators were prosecuted under a law that prohibits the possession and supply of chemicals "substantially similar" to controlled drugs. All the operators face likely life sentences. Several have been charged additionally with causing death or serious injury.Last week the operator of pondman.nu - 52-year-old David Linder - was found guilty on 27 charges, including drug conspiracy and money laundering. He was sentenced to a total of 410 years in prison. He was also ordered to pay back $700,000 (&#163;389,000) in profits from the website. The severity of his sentence was related in part to the death of an 18-year-old man in New York who overdosed on the drug alpha-methyltryptamine (AMT) purchased from Linder's site.Deaths caused by research chemicals, however, appear to be isolated tragedies. Like ecstasy, most of the chemicals seem to be physically harmless at low or average doses. The underground websites documenting their use advise extreme caution. Despite glowing reports of "wow" type experiences, the site Erowid.org carries the disclaimer: "It is not reasonable to assume that these chemicals are in any way 'safe' to use recreationally."Because the recommended dosages can vary by as little as a thousandths of a gram, a slight miscalculation can trigger an overdose. When smoked, just 2mg (a dose smaller than a grain of salt) of the potent chemical 5-MeO-DMT can cause a short-lived but powerful "trip". Heavy doses, or overdoses, have been known to trigger undesirable physical and psychological symptoms including profound anxiety, "bad trips", overheating of the body, and even death.Thanks to the psychedelic intensity of these drugs, few of the chemicals have made it as street or club drugs. Their use is generally championed by "psychonauts", drug hobbyists, usually young men, who experiment alone or in small groups, exchanging information online.Many of those arrested in the UK seem to have fallen into this category. Among those arrested have been students, primary-school workers and people running lifestyle drugs outfits. They were not primarily career criminals or drug dealers. Although initially arrested on suspicion of intent to supply, many saw their charges altered to simple possession.The national crime squad would not comment yesterday on whether there would be more arrests.The UK has the strictest laws in the EU on designer drugs. The Misuse Of Drugs Act was amended in 2002 to include a "catch most" clause outlawing every drug, and possible future drug, from the LSD (tryptamine) and ecstasy (phenethylamine) chemical families. The amendment is a virtual cut-and-paste from the books of the respected American biochemist Alexander Shulgin, who obtained a PhD from the University of California, Berkeley. Dr Shulgin, a former research chemist at the Dow Chemical Company, re-discovered the recipe for MDMA in 1976 and published the recipes for more than 170 designer drugs of his own invention.While research chemicals are still available from websites in China, India and Japan, the illicit online drugs trade has gone underground as law enforcers have become more skilled at tracking hi-tech crime. "A drug supply route between the US and the UK has been dismantled," said Jim Gamble, deputy director-general of the national crime squad. "Anyone considering purchasing drugs online should think again, the crime squad and other law enforcement agencies will track you down."
Forget Blu-Ray and HDMI outputs, clearly the most important feature of the PS3 is shown above. The "RBSX "Real BBQ Synthesizer" will allow you to feed the family whilst playing Killzone. Who said gaming was bad for your health?
You don't pick a hotel for the technology, especially in Las Vegas. But in Steve Wynn's latest hotel, the technology is taking service to a new level. Wynn is responsible for luxury Las Vegas theme hotels such as the Bellagio and the Mirage. Recently, he opened the eponymousWynn hotel, a giant golden monolith that looms over the Strip. It is not just the artificial mountain at the entrance, the golf course, or the lake lit from beneath by an array of more than 4,000 computer-controlled lights.This is a hotel that has been designed with IT at the heart of its operations, from the front desk, to the casino floor, to the rooms, and up to the penthouses on the 42nd floor.The hospitality business isn't normally the home of cutting-edge IT. The best you usually get is billing and room reservation systems linked together, using the room TV as a display. Guest services tend to be centralised, with terminals at reception and in restaurants. Whenever you want something, you need to call reception. The Wynn takes a different approach, using a voice and data network to link staff and guests.Each room in the Wynn has a VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) telephone connected to a USB printer, so you can use it as a fax machine. The phones are linked into the hotel's room management system, and services are set up and customised as soon as you check in. (They are also cleared as soon as you check out.) The phones, a customised version of Avaya's standard desktop IP phone, are intended to be your personal portal to the hotel's services.The idea of using a phone as an information kiosk isn't new, and version 1.0 of the applications built on top of the Wynn's infrastructure leave the phone as a very voice-centric portal. The phone's built-in web browser can show information about restaurants and services, but you still have to make a voice call to make a reservation. Guests also have to call an operator to receive any messages that have been left at reception. Future upgrades should make the phone a more interactive kiosk, but for now, the phone is just a simple client for a "push" information system, driven by Citrix's Application Gateway.IT is everywhere in this 21st century hotel. The in-room mini-bars are connected to the IP network, and add purchases to your bill 30 seconds after you've lifted a bottle of bubbly out of the fridge. The flat screen TV offers you streaming music services with soothing photos as a screensaver if you don't fancy the usual TV channels. Even the humble room key has become part of the Wynn's IT architecture.The Wynn's chief information officer, Karen Bozich, calls the red room keys "the passport to the property". Single sign-on and token authentication are normally used to connect users to enterprise applications; here it's a matter of putting your slot machine winnings on the same card as your bar bill. You use the same red piece of plastic to open your door, buy food in the restaurants, and play on the brightly lit slot machines.Of course, with anything this integrated there can be glitches. In the hotel's first week of operation, a problem with the slot machine systems locked guests out of their rooms.While VoIP is an important part of the Wynn's network, the hotel doesn't have a wireless infrastructure, so there's no direct support for mobile data users. Instead of giving the staff Wi-Fi phones, the hotel's communications platform connects calls to desk IP phones and to mobile phones at the same time. That means if hotel staff aren't at their desks, they will still be able to get calls, and interact with the network's voice-controlled unified messaging system.Putting together an integrated voice and data communications infrastructure for a 2,700 room hotel with more than 320,000 square feet of casino and conference space needed the cooperation of several companies. The VoIP system is based on Avaya's Unified Communication Centre, with network hardware from Extreme Networks and Juniper. The room phones-cum-kiosks are controlled by Citrix applications, while staff use more complex "soft consoles" that provide information about the preferences of the guests they're dealing with during a call. This is important when high rollers expect the best service.Like any big casino, the Wynn hotel needs a lot of security. Cameras and network security tools aren't enough in the days of the hi-tech forger, and even the chips on the casino floor are part of the security system. RFID (radio frequency identification) tags in the chips keep tabs on what games are being played, and by whom, as well as quickly showing if the $1,000 chip that has just been bet is a fake.While the Wynn's wired network gives it an edge in the hospitality and security stakes, the city of Las Vegas has just gone wireless. At the recent Interop networking conference, Intel hung WiMax transmitters from the Stratosphere hotel tower to demonstrate WiMax. Instead of taking them down after the conference, it gave the transmitters to a local network operator, leaving the city covered mby a broadband wireless network.WiMax terminals are still too large to carry around, but the Las Vegas network should make it easier for businesses to add high-bandwidth data services, just like the Wynn's.LinksWynn hotel (Flash required)www.wynnlasvegas.com&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
BT's CleanFeed system, which blocks access to a register of websites containing sexual images of children, can also be used to discover the contents of the secret blacklist, according to newresearch.Technically skilled users of BT's internet service can use the system to find out which sites are blocked, says Richard Clayton, formerly internet expert at service provider Demon and currently a doctoral student at Cambridge University's Computer Laboratory. This means they are able to gain access to a secret blacklist provided by the watchdog Internet Watch Foundation (IWF).Clayton says CleanFeed can be used as an "oracle" to provide the addresses of IWF-listed sites - effectively turning it into an index of child pornography.BT introduced CleanFeed last June to praise from prime minister Tony Blair, though critics suggested it meant the UK was joining Saudi Arabia and China in censoring internet access.Using a piece of software he has written, Clayton believes there is an 80% success rate for locating blacklisted material if CleanFeed works exactly as he suggests. BT agrees that it is possible to manipulate the system to discover the IWF list, but says that Clayton has overestimated the effectiveness of his back-door approach."Any system that acts in a particular way towards particular sites always has the risk of reverse engineering," says Mike Galvin, director of internet operations for BT Retail.Not every website surfed through BT's servers is filtered. Instead, CleanFeed deals with requests to IWF-listed material by diverting them through a secondary system, and it is this process that Clayton believes is visible from his scanning. After redirecting the request, CleanFeed then checks to see if the user wants a page, image or website on IWF's list: it returns an error message if they do, but allows the request to proceed otherwise.At its simplest, argues Clayton, those searching for child pornography can deduce whether a site is on the blacklist by seeing whether it is routed through CleanFeed.In a paper he is giving next week at thePrivacy Enhancing Technologies conferencein Croatia, he describes how he wrote software that scanned a large number of internet protocol (IP) addresses by "pinging" them (asking for technical information). This is far quicker than downloading pages, and his software was able to check 98 addresses a second over a slow dial-up connection.Clayton found that IP addresses that showed up on his CleanFeed scan hosted websites with domain names including "lolitaportal" and "cyber-lolita". However, as viewing sexual images of children is illegal in the UK, he has not visited these sites. But he says his software - which he will not release - could scan every IP address in Russia (a popular location for child pornography) in less than 24 hours through a standard, low speed dial-up BT web service that costs just &pound;15.BT's Galvin describes the academic quality of Clayton's work as quite high, but says there are easier ways to discover what is on IWF's secret list, such as searching Google and then finding out which pages cannot be found through BT's internet service. However, Google says it removes illegal material from its index if it becomes aware of it."We've built a system that won't stop the hardened paedophile," admits Galvin, who says that CleanFeed's main aim is to stop accidental access from users following links such as those in spam email.Clayton proposes two ways to strengthen CleanFeed: greatly increasing the volume of addresses dealt with by the system, which would make the blacklisted material harder to find, or simply banning software-based scans.So why doesn't BT send all requests through the CleanFeed caching system in order to make it harder to discover the secret sites? "Cost," believes Clayton. He thinks the two-tier process is efficient, but that it also makes it more vulnerable. "Because of its two levels, you can see if something is happening at the first or the second level," he says.Galvin responds that CleanFeed has done something like this since its introduction, saying that "it has a very large and very misdirecting library". He also says that BT has the power to block all of the scans of CleanFeed's cache, but has not seen activity that would require a ban.The Internet Watch Foundation says the benefits of CleanFeed outweigh its weaknesses: "Individuals who would want to use this system as an 'oracle' to locate illegal child abuse websites and who also have the specialist knowledge to do so, are vastly outnumbered by internet consumers who benefit from protection of exposure to this content online."LinksRichard Clayton's paperwww.cl.cam.ac.uk/~rnc1/Privacy Enhancing Technologies conferencewww.petworkshop.org/2005/If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.
Number one gripe people have with the iPod? That you can't manage it without iTunes and you can't pull songs from it.OK, that's two gripes. But anyway.Thank heaven, then for a plugin called ml_iPod, which allows you to manage your little white slice of heaven using WinAmp - and, crucially, bring songs from your iPod back onto your computer.Wired Newshas more:The plug-in... allows iPod users to bypass iTunes and manage music collections in Winamp instead. The iPod is supposed to work with iTunes only. A new version of the software was released Monday.Justin Frankel, creator of Winamp and the open-source peer-to-peer software Gnutella, initially developed ml_iPod, but programming was taken over by Will Fisher, a computer science student in the U.K.Fisher and other developers programmed a slew of features, including the ability to synch multiple iPods with Winamp, create smart playlists and -- the most useful option -- the ability to copy songs from an iPod onto a hard drive.Very useful for those of us who share our music players among a number of different computers... but how long until somebody tries to close it down?
