CRM for SMEsIn London this week, Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates launched Microsoft CRM software for "customer relationship marketing". It is aimed at small businesses with 25 to 1,000 staff, where CRM has often been seen as too expensive. Microsoft CRM has been available in the US, but the new version 1.2 has been announced in eight languages in 47 territories. It is also the first Microsoft business software to be built in Microsoft.net, and a software development kit is available for download. Microsoft is recruiting UK partners such as Scala, K3 and Documation to build on the software and sell it into horizontal and vertical markets. It is not platform-independent: Microsoft CRM uses Outlook 2003 as a client, and integrates with other Microsoft software including Windows Server 2003 and Exchange Server 2003 or, for smaller companies, Windows Small Business Server 2003 Premium Edition.AOL antispamAOL is testing an authentication protocol designed to stop spam. The Sender Permitted From (SPF) protocol is designed to block forged emails, spam and certain Trojan horses. SPF creates an audit trail of where the email originated. This will show if a message was sent from a recognised address or a false, spoofed, email address. The company hopes this will enable AOL users to recognise spam more easily and it may also pinpoint spammers and virus distributors.http://spf.pobox.comLinux managerHewlett-Packard is developing a version of its OpenView Operations (OVO) system monitoring application to run on Linux. A straightforward port of the Unix system is not possible because of fundamental differences between the two systems and the fact that the Unix version is 10 years old. OVO for Linux is therefore being written anew, and some of the code will be ported back to Unix to refresh the ageing system. The Linux version of OVO will start to appear next year with modules for security management and for the finance industry.www.openview.hp.comSmall talkAgilent Technologies is reducing the size of its mobile phone electronics. The components, called film bulk acoustic resonator duplexers, are about a third of the size of current units and will allow future phones to be much smaller. They also make room for more advanced features and could result in   Bluetooth becoming a standard feature on all phones, for hands-free operation. Agilent is a major supplier of electronic parts for mobile phones and nine of the 10 top manufacturers use them. Samples will be available next month, and phones incorporating the components should be available by June.www.agilent.comLicensed to chatMI5 last week ran an hour-long chatroom session for potential recruits, on graduate job site Prospects.ac.uk, to attract applicants for its 60 graduate positions. Security service staff said they visit some graduate recruitment fairs, but do not advertise in advance for security reasons. Potential IT spooks were told that MI5 prefers techies with "several years work experience", rather than students fresh out of university. And a questioner who asked "is it possible to have a career with the MI5 and still stick to your moral beliefs and values?" was answered: "Yes."www.prospects.ac.ukNo stringsFujitsu Siemens Computers and Vodafone UK are launching a wireless PC package based on contracts similar to those used for mobile phones. Targeting small to medium enterprises, the Connect2air  offering includes a Fujitsu Siemens laptop or Tablet PC with Intel Centrino processor, Wi-Fi capability and a wide area GPRS connection. The laptops, which currently cost from &#163;1,139, will be charged at a one-off price starting at &#163;99 each. The contract will add &#163;89 per month or more for a minimum of 24 months. Connet2air includes telephone and on-site support, and will be available from March 1 at Carphone Warehouse and online through Microwarehouse and Insight.www.carphonewarehouse.comwww.microwarehouse.co.ukwww.insight.comwww.Connect2air.co.ukBiometric visasFrom March, visa applicants from Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Tanzania and Uganda will have to undergo a fingerprint scan, which can be checked against asylum claimants without documents. Visitors from Sri Lanka have faced similar checks since July, and the Home Office says this helped identify seven asylum seekers who destroyed their documents. It says the asylum scheme "sits together" with plans for a compulsory national biometric identity card, but adds that the choice of fingerprints for visas does not affect the technology trials for the identity card, which also includes face and iris scanning.
In the US, almost one in three adults say the cell phone is the invention they most hate but cannot live without, according to the eighth annualLemelson-MIT Invention Index study. Alarm clocks came second, with 25% of the vote, followed by the television (23%) and razors (14%).Well, I don't hate mobile phones, but I have doubts about the mobile phone industry. That's mainly because I have recently been travelling with two of the best phones money can buy (I borrowed them). The results have been discouraging, to say the least.In the US, for example, one phone would not dial some UK phone numbers from its address book, even though it displayed them correctly on its screen. Other numbers it dialled without any   problems. In Malaysia, I couldn't get the second phone to make contact with anything, though it did pick up the local carriers.I did, however, learn three things. The first is that you have to use three different terms: they are called cell phones in the US, mobiles in the UK, and hand phones in parts of Asia.The second is that it's a very good idea to take two phones: you can pass any idle hours trying to call yourself. (You don't have to answer, if you ever get through.)The third is that the mobile phone industry is a mess.If mobiles had been developed 50 years ago, when fewer people travelled, incompatibilities would be understandable. However, everything we have learned since then has shown the value of global mass market standards,   ranging from the humble C90 compact cassette and the AA battery to the internet and beyond. The mobile phone industry's idea that we should be gratefully amazed if we can send, say, a picture message from one network to anyone just beggars belief, especially when the two networks overlap.C an you swap a SIM from one mobile to another? Sometimes, but often not. Can you expect to transfer 1,000 phone numbers reliably from one to another? Maybe you can if you can synchronise both with a PC or the web, but it's not guaranteed. Can you swap headsets, batteries or even chargers between phones? Are you serious?It is, of course, entirely possible that many of the problems I experienced were due to my own errors, and I was often trying to do things I have never done before. But in principle, no one should have to be any sort of expert to make a phone call.I can now carry a notebook PC around and expect it to work almost anywhere in the world, either using a roaming system such as iPass or Gric, or amenable cybercafes, and the PC is a relatively dumb beast.There's no reason why a mobile shouldn't know which country it is in, what time it is locally, and be able to dial any number in its address book without messing about. And at the rip-off prices being charged for overseas calls, I think it is the least we should expect.
Doomed!Your mailbox is probably full of rubbish from the latest Windows worm known as MyDoom, Mimail or Novarg, with subject lines that include Hi, Hello, Status, Error, Undeliverable, Mail transaction failed. The worm itself is a randomly named attachment that is 22,528 bytes long. If you run it, it will mail itself to other users and open TCP ports 3127 to 3198, which may allow hackers access to your PC. From February 1-12, the worm will launch a "denial of service" (DoS) attack on the SCO website. There is no "fix" for this worm: you can only catch it by running an unknown and unsolicited attachment, and that is never a good idea.Anti-virus programs can deal with it, though you may need to update your virus definitions file. ISPs could also filter it out, instead of delivering it to users' mailboxes. If your ISP does not do this, try installingMailwasheror a program such asMailmaint. Mailwasher lets you delete the virus messages on the server, saving some lengthy downloads. MyDoom also distributes itself via the KaZaA file-sharing service. Full details seewww.f-secure.com/v-descs/novarg.shtml.Page updatesSome pages in the Online section don't always seem to be updated each Thursday. For example, at the moment, Ask Jack is still showing last week's page. It's not my browser as I clear my cached pages each day, but could it be my ISP?Mike CurrieJack Schofield replies:Web pages are cached both on your hard drive and by your ISP, and unless the server checks for updated pages, you can be served an old one. In this case, and with some other departments, the latest page always has the same addresswww.guardian.co.uk/online/askjack, so it can easily happen. If you click one of the links down the side of Ask Jack, you will get each page from its real address - the long one with numbers on the end. In any case, a "forced refresh" (Ctrl-F5) should fetch the latest page. If it doesn't, you can bypass all the caches by using a proxy address. Websites such asMegaproxymake this easy.OnSpeedI've heard good and bad things about the OnSpeed internet connection, which claims to give results close to broadband for about &#163;2 a month. How good is it?Tom LeighJS:I reviewedthisbriefly last week. I was very sceptical, but it really does speed up web browsing. However, it does not work with all applications, and it does not provide an "always on" connection, so it is not really a substitute for broadband. You may also have privacy concerns about doing all your web browsing via OnSpeed's server. Nevertheless, if you are frustrated with a slow dial-up connection, it may well be worth a try.Backdated mail?Can you backdate an email? I ask because in a dispute withDabs.com, an email took more than two days to arrive at my inbox, according to its header.Tony GaskinJS:The Received lines in a mail header show which servers have passed it on, and cannot be forged once the mail has been sent. It is possible to insert fake Received lines    to try to hide when and where a message originated, but I would never suspect Dabs.com of trying this. (Seewww.htcia-ne.org/readingheaders.htmfor help reading mail headers.) A two-day mail delay is, unfortunately, not uncommon.Backchat&#183;Michael Slater wanted to view messages in his new Outlook Express 6 email folders by the To: name he emailed. Albert Bird says my reply "does not help, because OE automatically sets the headers in any folders to be the same as the headers in the Inbox. If you change one, the other changes automatically." The best workaround I can suggest is to have columns for both To and From (set by right-clicking on the headers and selecting Columns). You can't set a separate order for each folder, but you can change it on the fly by dragging and dropping the headers. The main problem is Microsoft's user interface design, whereby subfolders in the Sent folder match the Inbox folder, not the Sent folder.&#183;Also last week, I mentionedEventSounds.comas a source of snappy sound files. John Kearney and other readers were unable to download them. Sorry, it worked the last time I used it, which was a while ago, and I checked the site was there last week, but it has gone now. Instead, tryFavewavs.com,Movie Sounds Central,Wavsource.com, or Clay'sSound Emporium.&#183;Terry Hughes says thatwww.stopITnow.com.auhas an application to stop dialler fraud: "It monitors your dial up connection and jumps in when a hi-jack attempt starts. One drawback with the free trial version is that I can only make it work for one dial-up connection, so when I use another, I have to disable it."
The Hutton inquiry made history on Monday. Not with its findings, which were still under wraps, but with its decision to post on the web the press briefing arrangements around yesterday's publication. The contents of these "operational notes" is usually a cosy secret between government press officers and editors. Publication was the final touch to an inquiry that set an example in using the web to open establishment rituals to public scrutiny.If another high profile report is turned into action, there could soon be more. Last week, the Phillis review into spin doctoring called on the government to make better use of the web for "direct, unmediated communications" with the public.First, however, departments   must tidy up their web offerings and make them easier to use. The Phillis review backed a proposal by Andrew Pinder, the e-envoy, to replace government's 2,000-odd web addresses with a "single government e-delivery brand".Of course, the government already has an e-brand, and a portal, both called ukonline. However, the report pointed out thatwww.ukonline.gov.uk"falls a long way short of providing a single site for all government users". Pinder himself describes the service as a travel agent: it will help you get where you want to go, but once you're there, you're on your own. "Neighbourhood statistics", for example, connects to the excellent national statistics website. The adjacent button "local NHS services" takes you to the equally excellent, but entirely separate, NHS portal.The proposed supersite is supposed to be centred around users: official demarcations become visible only when they make sense. But this will happen only if local government can be brought in on the act: the Phillis report is unclear how.Another difficult area is editorial control. The Phillis report enthuses about chat-rooms and email: "We would expect to see them feature frequently across government websites." Again, the reality is tricky, as visitors to the late, unlamented, Citizenspace chatrooms on ukonline discovered. A chatroom with a constituency as wide as the UK government's will need firm moderation, with inevitable charges of censorship.Editorial control will be a hard thing for the government to let go. But letting go is the whole point of   the web as a non-mediated channel. UKonline seems to have learned that lesson from the days when its ticker of government good-news stories earned it the nickname Pravda.com. Any government supersite will have to be even more austere with editorial material, at the expense of presentation.A little detail on the e-envoy's own site,www.e-envoy.gov.uk, shows what can go wrong. The site carries an archive of monthly reports to the prime minister, dating back to January 2000. All bear Andrew Pinder's facsimile signature. But Pinder was not in post until autumn that year. Thereports were originally signed by his predecessor, Alex Allan. Apart from an occasional coy reference to "Alex", Allan's name has disappeared from the site. No doubt it's a design cockup rather than conspiracy, but Stalin would have loved it.
Brain bender"Experience our virtual sperm journey for a stunning introduction to the science of sex and reproduction," says At-Bristol. It sounds tempting, though the Woody Allen version is hard to beat. But it's just a small part of Your Amazing Brain, which has sections on how it works, your memory and your senses, love and sex, quizzes, games, and a news feed. There's even a nice set of optical illusions, guaranteeing entertainment for all ages. The site has been created by At-Bristol with the support of The Wellcome Trust.www.youramazingbrain.orgwww.at-bristol.org.uk/exploreHot TopixNews fiends should take a look at Topix.net, which offers news sorted into a larger number of categories. The front page carries the start of one story from each of the main subject areas; it also offers a range of people from Ann Miller to Vanessa Redgrave, and local US news by post code or city. Dive into a section such as Science/Technology News and you get offered even more topics. In this case, they run from Agriculture to Space via Chemistry and Nanotechnology. Computer topics include FreeBSD, Linux and Microsoft Windows. The site trawls news stories from more than 3,000 sources to create more than 150,000 "topically based, individual news-pages", so there's a good chance you'll find something of interest.www.topix.netSpring aheadTen more countries will join the European Union on March 1, and this year's Spring Day in Europe has been designed to give children the chance to learn more about the enlargement and their new neighbours. It has been organised by European Schoolnet with the support of the European Commission, and will be held on March 23.Following Spring Day will be the Green Week conference and exhibition, which will be held in Brussels from June 1-4. The EC is holding a schools competition to celebrate the 25th anniversary of its Birds Directive. The senders of the best drawings, paintings or photographs in each category win a trip to Brussels, accompanied by a parent or guardian.http://futurum2004.eun.orgwww.greenweek2004.eun.orgFlatteryImitation is the sincerest form of flattery, and Microsoft has followed Yahoo and Google in launching a pop up-blocking toolbar. It offers one-click access to Microsoft offerings such as Hotmail, MSN Messenger, MSN Search, MSNBC.com news and a My MSN Home Page, which users can customise. A drop-down menu includes even more offerings. The MSN Toolbar is initially available in beta test form, in a US-version only. Google can feel doubly flattered, in that Yahoo has now launched its own Yahoo Labs. To be fair, this was called Overture Research before Yahoo bought Overture. One of the YL things you can play with is the Nutch open source search engine, but it is for amusement only. As Tara Calishain pointed out in ResearchBuzz, searching for Google produces a one-word result: "Error :". Incidentally, although I mentioned Google had added support for the Whois: command, this promptly disappeared.http://toolbar.msn.comhttp://labs.yahoo.com/demo/nutchhttp://labs.yahoo.com/demo/nutchSquirrel news"Net squirrel" Patrick Crispen, co-founder of the long-running Internet Tourbus newsletter, has put his PowerPoint presentations online for free download and re-use. The latest is called Behind the Spinning Hourglass: The Deepest, Darkest Secrets of Your PC's Internet Applications (3.39MB). There are two presentations on searching Google, and some guidelines on web design. They are likely to be of most value to US high-school teachers, but are of much wider interest - and the price is right.www.netsquirrel.com/classroomwww.tourbus.comRobot timesThe Circle of Victoriana is not a web-ring I traverse often, or ever, but Mechanical Marvels of the 19th Century is a diverting diversion. It claims to be "the most extensive collection of images and information on Victorian-era robots" on the web, and has sections on Boilerplate, a prototype soldier, Steam Man, Electric Man and so on. The illustrations are wonderful. And there's a link from the site to Steampunk.http://www.bigredhair.com/robotshttp://welcome.to/steampunkNew &amp; notedEmpire Film Awardswww.empireonline.co.uk/awards2004Online Asimovwww.libraries.wvu.edu/exhibits/asimovMore RSS feedswww.2rss.comSix of the best: Social networksFriendsterwww.friendster.comGoogle affiliatedwww.orkut.comSocial websearchhttp://home.eurekster.comFor sharingwww.dudecheckthisout.comBusiness networkingwww.linkedin.comMore alternativeswww.notfriendster.com
The problem with technology these days is that the sniggering has gone out of it.In the good old
    days, there was always something to mock. Some overblown project, some arrogant dream, some
    crapola item of software or hardware or - better yet - a service.Let me refresh your memory. "Push technology" was to revolutionise the nascent web. The Daily Me
    - all the news, information, special offers, company press releases I might ever want injected on to
    my desktop throughout the day. Unfortunately, everyone - especially large companies - discovered
    that push really did come to shove. Not only was way too much junk being pushed; it was being
    pushed into the increasingly clogged arteries of corporate bandwidth. Push seized the headlines,
    got a bad name, got barred and disappeared, proving all the pundits wrong.Then: network computers. For about one year in the late 90s, that's all Oracle chief executive and
    soundbite king Larry Ellison wanted to talk about. Ellison's problem was that no one wanted to give
    up his own little PC fiefdom. The PC might be a virus-ridden, bloatware-filled nightmare, but still, it
    was MY own special nightmare.NCs? Collectively, we thought not. 
    And really, the whole dotcom era was a sniggerfest. Everything about it, from the Boo.com
    inflatable furniture to the gaseous initial public offerings to the silly facial hair arrangements of
    dotcomdom. The goatee: does anything say "my useless arts degree makes me superior to all you
    geek engineers" more succinctly?Readers, be grateful the dotcom zeppelin went down in flames.For most of the 90s, Apple was firmly on the chortlelist. So arrogant, so increasingly irrelevant, so
    weighted down with an annoying cult following! But then priest of cool, Steve Jobs came back, made
    highly relevant and perfectly designed products, depriving us of our right to snigger. Now only the
    arrogance is left, and it isn't the same.Which brings us to today. Where can a brickbat-throwing, cynical tech-watcher go to get her quiet
    evil laughs? The tech world is so earnest (think open source - you really do want to scoff
    sometimes, but it would be like heckling Frodo as he struggles to deprive Sauron of his evil empire).Or it's just a little too cool (think nanotechnology - all that "Honey, I shrunk the nanodevice" stuff
    just makes you want to watch even more science and technology specials on the BBC). Or it's boring
    (when is the last time you laughed at a Microsoft joke? I thought so).Blogging is kind of promising - it has the overblown, arrogant, silly elements needed for a good
    snigger. But there are so many good weblogs, and the technologies are a little too innovative. I'd
    also placed some hope in camera phones, but now they're driving a resurgence in mobile sales.So I guess for our geek-age kicks we'll just have to put our trust in the eventual arrival of
    Longhorn, the long-promised, but still far away, next release of Windows. Yes, it's Microsoft. But
    that's just it, isn't it?
OS users uniteJack Schofield makes a number of assumptions about open source software in his article(Column, January 22)that I believe are dubious at best.First, he implies that OS software is likely to be less productive than commercial software, "either from incompatibilities or poor ease of use or other factors". In my experience, OS software is often more compatible, since it does not rely on proprietary formats, and often has greater ease of use since its design is driven by the people who use it, rather than by marketing departments.Second, he makes the point that if you make changes to the source code, either to remove bugs or add features, then there is no guarantee your changes will be accepted back into the code base. This is true, but if they are not accepted then you are still in a better position than you are with commercial software. There, you have no access to the source code and are virtually guaranteed not to have your changes accepted, or even any way of submitting changes and change requests.He also ignores the fact that you are not the only person making changes - there may be hundreds of other users submitting changes that will improve the program in ways that neither you nor the original developers ever imagined.Third, he states that Perl, Python and Apache "are not what he would call software architectures". Of course not. Architecture is an abstract property of software, ie. something that programs have rather than something they are. All programs have an architecture, including the ones he mentions. The internal architecture of a program is generally invisible to the user, but shows itself in various ways such as usability, functionality, performance and extensibility.If he means that OS programs are incapable of going beyond being clones of commercial programs, then I suggest he looks atZope, a web application framework that is head and shoulders beyond any commercial offering. He could also look atEclipse, an IDE that is also a pluggable framework for building software tools, and, of course, at Linux. If these do not meet his criteria, then I am sure a search through the 75,000 projects hosted on Sourceforge will uncover many that do.Dave KirbyLondonFine whineYou write about a scheme where employees can have a computer for "as little as &#163;5 a week" (Revenue regains the initiative, January 22). Wow. Assuming the computer lasts four years, that means their home computer costs them just over &#163;1,000. Are you seriously suggesting this is going to provide an incentive, when a basic desktop costs about two-thirds of that? Or are you living in cloud cuckoo land where a computer of less than &#163;2,500 is not worth considering, and a bottle of wine under &#163;100 not worth drinking?Jan FrankElection nervesGuardian Online seems remarkably relaxed about "E-voting becoming easier". What software is being used in the "vote here" picture that accompanies the article Rolls Go Online?Is it open source, whose code can be checked by all interested parties in the event of a dispute, or the need for a recount? Or is it closed source/ proprietary software such as that manufactured by Diebold in the US?I'm sure most people would prefer to vote on an open source system   than one owned and sold by a diehard supporter of George W Bush and the Republican party.Alex CoxLiverpoolSimple requestAt the end of last year, my wife decided she needed a mobile phone purely in case of an emergency while in the car. All she wanted was a pay-as-you-go phone with perhaps text facility.Could she find one? No!She went for the simplest phone, which cost around &#163;50 and still came with "hard and soft" keys, voice mail, games, the optional facility for email and internet connection and online games and so on.If we want to go online, we use our PC. If we want music, we use our CD, Mini-Disc or Dat recorder (forget MP3 - we're not pop fans!). If we want photographs, we use our Canon EOS500 (or we may eventually replace that with a digital camera).  There must be a vast market for a mobile phone that is just that. Please let's have one and leave the exhibitionist devices to the anoraks!Incidentally, as a chartered engineer, I do know a bit about electronics.Derek RoughtonNorthumberlandCombined toolsI laughed at your piece about Microsoft's Spot Watches (What's New, January 15) that "tune in to FM radio frequencies to receive snippets of information such as the weather, share prices and sports news".Where will it end? You wear your Spot Watch, carry your mobile phone, stash your PDA and MP3 player - perhaps have a laptop in your briefcase or bag? It will only end when we consumers freeze out these preposterous gadgets and demand complete combination. This is 2004!Graham JonesDublin
Of all the weird-looking phones Nokia unveiled last year, none is quite as off the wall as the tear-shaped 7600, which reaches the UK this month through Carphone Warehouse. Carphone Warehouse even claims it will deliver 3G surfing speeds on your laptop.Although it is a 3G phone that uses the 3 network (3 originally rejected the handset as it doesn't sport its signature video-calling feature), users won't be able to download or stream 3's premium video clips. They will, however, be able to see ITV news bulletins and send and receive POP3 email. Users can also take advantage of 3's competitively priced voice calls. Making calls could prove tricky, though, as the main keys are placed around the screen, which makes dialling and texting a slow and painful process.On the plus side, the 7600 has a quality 65k colour screen, a reasonable video/stills camera, MP3/AAC players (but just 29MB of storage) and Bluetooth. Buyers pay from nothing to &#163;229.99 for the handset, depending on the tariff.
This month, our panel of experts includes David Foster, chief executive of consultancy Burns e-Commerce Solutions; Andrew Saunders, head of applications at Mitel Networks; Martin Roberts, vice president of marketing and business development for Nice Systems and Mehran Nikoo, senior consultant at Dunstan Thomas Consulting.&#183;Reports about the new EU directive on electronic invoices that came into force on January 1 have been confusing. Some say it is now illegal to send invoices by email, while others say they have to be accepted. What is going on?DF:You're right, the reporting has been chaotic. In fact, these are very sensible regulations. Many small businesses are thinking about sending their invoices by email (or fax, or EDI - all of which are covered by the regulations).Nothing fundamental has changed regarding sending electronic invoices within the UK. This is still allowed, provided you have notified HM Customs and Excise that you intend to do so.If you receive an electronic invoice and need to present it for VAT reclaim, for example, there is no fundamental change provided it meets the normal characteristics of an invoice, which are explained in an introduction to the regulations ateuinvoicing.com.&#183;I've heard that there's a lot of money to be saved using VoIP. In plain English, what is it and how does it work?AS:VoIP (voice over IP) is technology that allows voice communication to share the same lines and equipment as data and computer communication. The basic cost saving comes from not needing separate networks, systems and lines for both voice and data.Call charges across oce locations are reduced, as voice travels for free over the computer network.Cost savings are coupled with improved customer care and call-handling eciency. When moving desks or oces, the computer and IP phone need to be plugged into another line. Without VoIP, engineers would be required to change the switching.VoIP also makes it easier to support flexible working solutions such as identifying incoming callers and presenting their account details on the computer of the person answering the call.&#183;I manage a call centre for an insurance company. I'm under pressure to look at out-sourcing my operation abroad to reduce costs, but I'm worried about letting customer service drop.MR:Customer satisfaction is a primary driver for differen-tiation in the insurance sector. For organisations that out-source, it is imperative to have quality metrics in place to capture interactions between customers and agents. Only then, can you answer questions such as: "Are my staff doing what they are trained to do? Do they have the necessary skills? Do customers like our approach?"As you will have a dual call centre operation, it's crucial to have the same performance measurement system across both centres.There are a number of solutions on the market that can help answer these questions, but it is important to look at a total solution that capture conversations, emails, screen events and customer feedback.&#183;I've heard that SOA is the next big thing in IT, but it's all confusing. What does it mean and what are the benefits? Is SOA aimed more at larger organisations? What could it offer a small business?MN:Service Orientated Architecture (SOA) is about interconnecting companies and applications using software. The introduction of XML and Web Services means that services provided by applications from within different organisations can talk to each other.Over the last few years, giant software vendors have been in conflict because they wanted to impose their proprietary solution on all users. Web Services is not the only and/or best way to implement SOA, but it is the best solution now available.SOA can help organisations, regardless of their size. Large companies can benefit from SOA as it allows them to interact with a large number of partners, customers, suppliers and government institutions.Small companies can also benefit because it allows them to use services provided by other companies.A company may not be big enough to have a dedicated financial team, for example, but it can delegate that task to an accounting firm and use SOA to integrate its computer systems.
&#183;You wait for the idea of your life. I know so many people who, before starting a business, wait for the idea that will revolutionise the world. They never do it. We all have business ideas and the difference between an entrepreneur and a "normal" person is that the entrepreneurs execute it.&#183;You do not look for the empty space surrounding you. Opportunities are everywhere. Did you ever think "this service can be really improved", or "this product is really bad"? This is empty space and an opportunity to create a business. Of course, it is even better if you find not just an improvement to a product or a service but a real innovation that addresses a clearly identified need.&#183;You believe that all companies have great products and perfect services. Do you think that most things you buy are perfect? How many do you think are really bad? There are so many people and companies that do not care much about quality and still continue selling until a competitor appears.&#183;You do not share your idea with anybody. So, you've got your simple idea? Probably not. Every time I created companies, I had about five different ideas. Most people protect their business ideas as if they were protecting the most valuable thing they have. I do exactly the opposite, as sharing your ideas   can help you better define and test them. Many people will criticise them and enrich them. If everyone tells you the plan is stupid, then what they say may well be true!&#183;You give up on your idea because someone has already done it. Look at low-cost airlines. Ten years ago, who would have thought that out-of-the-box airlines would appear and take the market share that Ryanair, easyJet or Virgin have? Just measure how innovative you can be, how much faster than your competitors can you go and how much better your product can be.&#183;You do not execute your idea. Your idea is worth nothing if you do not execute it immediately, faster and better than competition. You should be more scared by not executing fast enough than having the idea right. This is just because from the idea in your mind to the company you will have created, and from the very first products and services you deliver to the mature ones, your idea will have changed tens of times with the feedback you got from your clients.&#183;You listen to people who tell you that you will fail. Congratulations. You have finally chosen an opportunity and started gathering a team to make it happen. Even though the team is only you, this is just awesome, as you have started doing it rather than thinking about it. Now you will find tens of people, some of them you consider friends, who tell you that you will fail for hundreds of different reasons. Do not listen to them. Listen to your clients, and be obsessed by quality. Your friends just envy you.Lo&#239;c Le Meur's weblog is atu-blog.com/loic/
If you own a small business, you may have found that setting up a website to trade online has proved an excellent way of widening your customer base and increasing sales. In that situation, it's tempting to rest on your laurels - but don't. There's a very good chance that you're breaking the law.There is now a plethora of laws governing online traders. According to Simon Halberstam, head of e-commerce law at law firm Sprecher Grier Halberstam LLP, the majority of businesses trading online are breaking at least one of them. And the authorities are starting to clamp down on offenders. So which laws should you be aware of?The key law affecting online businesses trading - the one you're most likely to be breaking - is the 1998 Data Protection Act (DPA). As with the 1984 act, customers have the right to see any data you hold on them. Under the new act, you must also tell them how you intend to use their data. They must also consent to this before you take their details.This means that you cannot state on your website that you may send any personal information to other firms unless the customer opts out; the customer has to specifically opt in. "If you don't do that in a properly drafted privacy policy, and if you use their data for purposes you haven't told them about, you expose yourself to being prosecuted under the DPA," says Halberstam.Rather than attempting to draft a privacy policy yourself, it's safer to have one drafted by a lawyer specialising in the field.Another law you may be breaking states that businesses cannot send personal information outside the European Economic Area unless it is to an approved country that has agreed to abide by EU data protection standards. If you send data to be processed in a non-approved country such as India, you have to have a written contract with the overseas data processor to make sure it doesn't do anything that you've said you wouldn't do.The penalty for breaking the DPA is up to &#163;5000, or an unlimited fine for a serious offence. "The Data Protection oce is much stricter than it used to be. They're much more likely to detect a website that doesn't comply," says Halberstam, who also points out that the Information Commissioner, Richard Thomas, whose job is to oversee the act, has set up a new enforcement team.The E-commerce Regulations (2002) further tighten the DPA. These require you, among other things, to provide the full name of your business, your address and your contact details, including an email address, on your website. Your website must also display a clear indication of prices and details of any associated taxes and delivery costs.Nearly half of businesses trading online are also breaking the Consumer Protection (Distance Selling) Regulations (2000), according to Halberstam. These regulations provide Europe-wide protection for consumers of direct internet selling, and they also apply to telephone and catalogue sales.The regulations specify that you must give consumers full information about the goods or services offered, delivery arrangements and payment, the supplier's details and their right to cancel before they buy.The regulations give customers a seven-day cooling-off period within which they can cancel the contract without liability - and if you haven't specified that on your website, then the cooling-off period is up to three months. They also state that any refunds must be sent off within 30 days of the return of the goods.The Enterprise Act (2002), which came into force last year, gives the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) more powers than previously to deal with businesses breaking trading laws such as the distance selling regulations. Under the act, the OFT will be able to impose "stop now" orders on businesses breaking trading laws.These days, the OFT doesn't just respond to complaints from consumers, but actively looks for companies breaking the law. "We do an internet sweep in conjunction with other enforcement bodies across the world and other trading standards organisations in the UK," says an OFT spokeswoman.If the OFT finds a company breaking the law, it will approach it and ask it to put the problem right. If it doesn't comply, the OFT can obtain a court injunction to stop it breaching the regulations.Finally, your website may well be among the estimated 90% breaking the 1995 Disability Discrimination Act (DDA). Section 21 of the DDA states that a service provider has a duty to take reasonable steps to make its services accessible to disabled people."It means that your website must be constructed in such a way as to make it usable by people who don't have full vision or full hearing," says Halberstam.Many visually impaired people use a screen reader (which reads on-screen text out loud) or a Braille embosser (which transcribes text to Braille) to read a site. If the screen reader or Braille embosser cannot access a website, which usually happens when the site has a high number of graphics, then that site is discriminating against disabled users.Last year, the Royal National Institute of the Blind took legal action on behalf of two individuals claiming discrimination against organisations with inaccessible websites. Both cases were settled out of court. The Disability Rights Commission launched a formal investigation into website accessibility last year and is expected to announce its findings in March or April. Those breaking the act could face heavy financial penalties.If you're worried that you're breaking any, or all, of the above laws, don't panic. There have been few prosecutions so far, and there is still time to put things right before the authorities catch up with you. The websites listed above are a good place to find more detailed information, but if you really want to put your mind at rest, consult a specialist solicitor.Useful weblinks&#183;The Information Commissioner's Officeinformationcommissioner.gov.uk&#183;Office of Fair Tradingoft.gov.uk&#183;Help on designing accessible websitesawarecenter.org/guidelines&#183;Tool to check your site's accessibilitybobby.watchfire.com/bobby&#183;Full text of the acts of parliamenthmso.gov.uk
In the last issue of Business Solutions, we looked at business planning and where to get the initial capital. Often the answer is from your own bank account. But there are other options.Finding second-round financing is an important matter. There are many reasons for further funding and "we'll go bust otherwise" is, of course, among them. But that won't get you very far with a funding body.Scott White, chief executive of Azea Networks, has recently been through second-round funding since the first round took the business only to the "proof of concept" stage. There is a limit to the amount the venture capital community will offer in a single bite, he says."They might give you enough financing for a prototype in the first instance, then the second round might enable you to take the prototype to the market and the third to start breaking even," he says. All of this is reasonable. They don't know you yet, so why should they hand the lot over in one lump?The criteria can vary a little, but what they're mostly after is a solid business plan backed by a good management team. Robin Marshall, UK managing director for the venture capital company 3i, confirms obvious considerations: the company seeking funds must appear to have a future. But the way this is checked is interesting."We'd spend time with the client so we can understand why they've succeeded so far," he says. "We need to be convinced that a growth opportunity is there." That's from a VC that focuses on high growth; others will differ.Colin Davenport, managing director of the Davenham Group, a finance company, bases funding offers on assets. "The business plan has to make sense and the proprietors have to be satisfied they're still earning enough, but I'm interested in whether they can make the payments rather than looking for an exit point or return on investment."This raises the issue of who to talk to about raising extra capital. A financier like Davenham is different in character to most venture capitalists, who will be looking for an exit point and the return you're likely to bring them on their investment.This is where a business plan remains one of your fundamental assets. "Even if people don't think they need money, we advise them to do a business plan: that's what will tell them whether they really need money or not," says Marilyn Huckerby, director of the Surrey Enterprise Hub.This can be tricky since most people are experts in their business rather than in writing plans, but it's essential. Khilan Dodhia is investment director at Barclays Ventures. "Planned growth is something we're very interested in," he says. The flip-side, overtrading, is something Barclays looks for carefully.Another matter to consider when mapping out who to approach is the amount of money you are looking to secure. John Bradshaw, financial director of commercial-imaging company Teraview, recently secured &#163;6m from a consortium led by Amadeus Capital Partners. He confirms that VCs are the only organisations likely to help. "Business Angels are good for tens and hundreds of thousands, but not for the sort of money we were looking for, which isn't atypical for our sector," he says.Finding a financier can be a trial. Bradshaw looked to contacts among board members and the institutions that provided the initial funding. Enterprise hubs and similar business-oriented organisations can help, but finding one to match your business is difficult. "It can be disruptive. The business goes on underneath it, but you need to be available to take time away from your work for presentations and meetings," Bradshaw says.A presentation will typically last an hour and this may result simply in a "no" from the VC involved. But Teraview's &#163;6m suggests it is worth doing if you get it right. And hey, when did we say this was going to be easy?Should you take the plunge?Reasons for extra funding are many and will differ from company to company. Roger Jeynes, director of technology investor and advisory company Interregnum, points to good and bad examples.&#183;Positive: to fund expansion and growth, to accelerate rate of growth, to fund acquisitions of other businesses&#183;Negative: to make up for inaccurate estimates and forecasts, to make up for lower sales or lower margins, to respond to competitive pressures, to cover dips in market conditions, to cover delays in new product introduction, to provide an exit route for existing shareholders.&#183;Jeynes adds that there are more bad reasons than good, and points to his company's almost cruel catchphrase: "Revenue from real customers is the cheapest form of investment capital."
You know your business is doing well when you realise that you and your staff just can't cope with the work load. But the obvious solution - take on more people - is one that many small businesses find daunting. What if you choose the wrong person? What if business takes a downturn? What if your staff sue you?Richard Reed, marketing director and co-founder of Innocent Drinks, a company selling pure fruit drinks, says it's a mistake to focus on what can go wrong. "I often hear people talk about the negatives: you can't trust people to come in, they'll ruin it, sue you, use employment law against you. But 97% of people, if you treat them well, will respond in kind." The company, founded by Reed and two friends in 1998, now employs 35 staff and has an annual turnover of &#163;10 million.The key to taking on staff, says employment specialist Richard Smith, head of service development at Croner Consulting, is to decide beforehand exactly what it is you're looking for. "Small businesses really need to think carefully about why they're recruiting somebody and what they want them to do. They're often haphazard in their recruitment processes, which is probably due to lack of experience."Begin by asking a few questions, says Smith. "Why do we want to recruit somebody? What's the purpose of their job? What are their main duties going to be? And how will that fit in with other people in the organisation?" Think, too, about whether there is enough work for a full-timer or whether you would you be better off hiring a part-timer, with the option to extend the hours later.The next step is to determine the qualifications and experience appropriate for the job. "The big risk is that you over-specify what you're looking for," says Smith. "The other risk is that you decide what you're looking for once you've met people at interview. That's when the tendency arises for people to recruit people they like rather than people who will do a good job."Before you advertise, decide on a salary. If you're not sure what's appropriate, take advice from job centres and other local businesses. Remember that the cost involved in recruiting and training a new person usually adds an extra 25 to 50% to the salary you pay them in the first year.Options for finding people include job centres, websites, agencies and advertising. For many small businesses, agencies will be too expensive, usually charging a fee of 18 to 25% of the recruit's first year's salary. Writing a newspaper ad requires some care, says Smith. "Part of the trick in good advertising is to get sufficient people applying but equally to exclude no-hopers. So it's telling people: 'If you haven't got this skill, if you haven't got this qualification, don't waste your time writing to me because you're just not going to be able to do the job'."Innocent Drinks took an unusual approach. Although it has used job advertisements and agencies where appropriate, it recruited most of its staff through more informal routes. "We've put adverts on the sides of our bottles saying we're looking for people, and we put emails out to our friends and family. The majority of people who have joined have come in through that route."This method has made it easier to find people who are comfortable with the company's ethos, says Reed. "The personality and the attitude of the person is the most important issue to us, and you get that from having a chat with someone. Anyone that came and worked here probably wouldn't be getting work in a tobacco company."Once you've received the applications, weed out anyone who doesn't have the right qualifications. If you have 15 or 20 applicants, don't be tempted to interview everyone. If you interview more than seven or eight people, it becomes difficult to distinguish between them, says Smith.At interview stage, be careful not to ask anything that could breach the discrimination legislation, and make sure you don't offer people terms of   employment - such as "You'll never have to work Saturdays" - that you can't keep.The most common mistake interviewers make, says psychologist Donna Dawson, is to rely too much on gut feeling. "They're like me, they went to a similar school, they've got a similar background, they're quite attractive, they seem quite bright. You can be fooled by all of this," she says.Reed says he and his two co-founders all meet any potential employees, so the decision isn't left to one person. And despite the importance of finding staff they get on with, this is not the only factor. "If it's a very specific project, you can give people an example of the problems they're going to have to crack, and give them a week to go off and think about it, and come back and suggest how they'd go about it. That gives people an opportunity to show what they're capable of."For most employers, the interview will be the main selection tool. But you could also consider using an assessment test (if you require someone with a particular typing speed, for example, or if you need your employee to have excellent written English).You should always ask for a reference from a previous employer, says Smith. "The reference you obtain should ideally be more than 'tell me a little bit about this person'. Send the previous employer a questionnaire with simple questions such as: why did the person leave? What did they do for you? Would you re-employ them? Was their time-keeping/attendance/performance satisfactory?" If you can, follow the written reference up with a telephone call.Once you have made your decision, make sure you put an offer of employment in writing, and that when the person has accepted the job and is due to start, you provide a contract of employment. Both these documents need to be completely accurate and to reflect the terms on which you want to hire that person. Create some flexibility by using broad job titles rather than very specific ones.If all this makes you nervous, think about taking on temporary staff. Michael Parker, who founded online sweet shop A Quarter Of in 2002, has had to cope with surges in business after articles about the website appeared in the national press.Temporary staff, he says, are ideal because of the flexibility they provide. "It's just a case of, on a Friday or a Monday, saying &#91;to the agency&#93; that I need extra people this week and getting people in quickly. It can be that one week we might need 10 people, and the next week we might need three."An added benefit has been that he was able to take one of the temps on permanently to deal with fulfilment of orders. "She had proven herself over two or three months. It's nice that once you train people up, you can keep them on as long as possible."Once you have recruited the right person for the job, there is still work to be done. Think about what you need to do to get them working quickly and effectively - don't leave them to flounder.And remember, says Reed, that taking on staff could be the best thing your company ever does. "Getting great people is going to give you the opportunity to do a hundred things better than you could yourself."Guide to hiring staffGolden rules of conducting an interview&#183;Ask everyone the same questions&#183;Use open-ended questions, not ones requiring yes or no answers&#183;Ask questions related to the job you're recruiting for. For example, "Can you give me examples of when you've managed projects in the past and what sorts of skills do you think it requires?"&#183;Avoid questions on family circumstances&#183;Think about whether you will be able to work closely with the person you're interviewing, but don't let the fact that you get on with them be the over-riding factorRecommended books and websites&#183;Easy Step by Step Guide to Recruiting the Right Staff by Chris Dukes, published by Rowmark&#183;The Complete Idiot's Guide to Recruiting the Right Staff by Arthur Pell, published by Alpha Books&#183;businessbureau-uk.co.uk/growing_business/recruitment/index.htm&#183;smallbusiness.co.uk&#183;skillup.co.ukEqual opportunitiesThe law says that firms recruiting staff must not discriminate on grounds of race, sex, religion or sexual orientation. This applies to all businesses, regardless of size.Firms with more than 15 employees must not discriminate on grounds of disability. This will be extended to all firms from October 2004.Note that the legislation on maternity leave changed in 2003. Any employee who is pregnant and takes maternity leave is entitled to 26 weeks with statutory maternity pay. If she has more than a year's service, that leave can be extended for another 26 weeks' unpaid leave.
No Going Back has a lot to answer for, having captured the nation's imagination at a time when people are re-examining their quality of life and considering new work options overseas. But just how easy is it to set up a new business activity abroad?When Peter Dow jacked in his hectic London life as a marketing director to run a hotel on the outskirts of St Tropez, he soon found that a slower pace of life doesn't necessarily mean less stress.Dow swapped a successful career - that included director-level positions at The Tote, Allied Breweries and Hover Speed - to run a 10-bedroom hotel near St Tropez. "I'd got to 45 and hadn't got to where I wanted to be," he says.The new business, once up and running, would be a financial springboard from which to launch other ventures - a clothing franchise and a company advising fellow Brits on buying property in the south of France. Dow, who sold his home in London to finance his dream and supplemented with a 60% mortgage on the new property, was under pressure to get the business up and running.Yet he was staggered by the number of hoops he had to jump through to start a legitimate new business in France. French red tape is legendary, but Dow couldn't believe it when he was asked to produce a business plan running to almost 600 pages."The banks wanted details of shares, company accounts for my wife's business in England, and so on," he says. "It wasn't even that we felt they needed all this information to make an informed decision; they were going through the motions."When Dow had painstakingly produced his business plan, four of the six banks he approached then said they hadn't time to look at it. Dow assumed this was because they were inundated with proposals, but found that one bank had just three other dossiers under consideration; vetting them properly would apparently take three weeks.Local employment legislation has had an even greater impact on the new business. France, like many countries on the Continent, has a reputation for rigid employment law and associated high social charges, but nothing could have prepared Dow for just how costly this would be.Dow, who bought the hotel as a personal investment, to then rent to the company (to avoid corporation tax if he ever sells the property), had established the business as a "micro enterprise" - a category that carries certain tax advantages but which has an upper ceiling on the amount you can make in a year (of around 30,000 euros).Starting conservatively, he wanted to employ staff (two) on a seasonal basis only. But even this has proved prohibitively expensive."When they leave, they are entitled to a 13th month of salary, and on top of that, they get 2.5 days' holiday for every day worked, plus a displacement allowance of 10% of everything they've earned during the period," he says."We had one guy who was earning around 1,600 euros a month, but we had to pay him 4,400 euros for his last month with us. Also, you're only allowed to run two seasonal contracts successively - if you try to add any more, the employee is considered permanent and you'd have to pay them a year's salary if you wanted to let them go."Dow's employees typically take home on average just 50% of what he pays them. The rest is consumed by various social charges.This explains why many very small companies in France feel they can't afford to employ people. "The highest European employers' social charges are in Spain, Belgium and France," confirms Stuart Dey, business development director at London-based chartered accountants firm AGN Shipleys.The firm advises businesses on setting up in other countries and conducts regular surveys on taxes and other costs (seewww.agnshipleys.com)."Here they amount to 31%, 35% and 44% of the gross salary, respectively," he says. "The UK compares well at 11.3%."The self-employed face a similarly hard time on the continent. Whereas employees of a company can expect to pay 23% of their gross salary in social charges alone (compared with just 3.9% in the UK and 3.4% in Ireland), a sole trader in France can expect to lose a staggering 50% of everything they earn in social charges and income tax. This is assuming they declare everything (many don't).While Chirac has recently pledged new support for small and start-up businesses -recognising their potential as one of the biggest growth markets and something therefore to be cultivated rather than penalised - France is currently perceived to be among the least supportive environments for new businesses.Victor Dauppe, senior tax partner at UK-based chartered accountants firm MacIntyre Hudson, notes that it is the legal system of a country which dictates its tax structure, and its need for bureaucracy, which is why Anglo-Saxon countries such as the UK, US and Australia tend to be more accommodating to new businesses than countries with a Roman heritage."There's very little to choose between countries like Holland, Germany, France as environments for starting up a new business," he notes. "It's a cultural thing. In the UK, the implementation of a new business is relatively easy. Continental Europe tends to be more rigid. For example, in the UK it's easy to change the ownership of assets in a day; on the Continent it's much more complex because there you have concepts like forced heirship."If geography is of little consequence - because quality of life is the goal rather than a particular market for goods or services - entrepreneurs could do worse than consider Eastern Europe as their base.Randeesh Sandhu and Adrian Mediratta picked the Czech Republic as the setting for the continental branch of their new business. Their company, Urban Exposure, established in 2002 (initially in the UK), is a private investment firm, focusing primarily on the residential property sector.Its founders believed that the enlargement of the EU due in May 2004 would create substantial investment opportunities in Eastern Europe, and found that the Czech Republic offered comparatively high levels of help, advice and support for entrepreneurs. (Excessive red tape ruled out countries like Croatia, despite its commercial opportunities).The tax environment in the Czech Republic was favourable too. Due to the double tax treaty, it is possible to save on capital gains tax, which is typically 31% compared with 40% in the UK, Mediratta says. Meanwhile, the cost of employing staff was roughly one-third of that in the UK.Local labour costs are an important consideration for any new business expecting to expand their head count. Ironically (given France's reputation for high social charges for employers), it was the high cost of employing people in the UK that led IT software company Jobpartners to expand into France after establishing its business over here.Founder Patrice Barbette's reasons for starting the business in the UK were that, compared with any other EU country, it was much easier to import IT talent from India and China (visas to bring in professional skills that are in short supply are granted fairly readily). Yet he soon established a second office in his native France to take advantage of the cheaper operational costs there."For a software developer with five years' experience, you're looking at 30,000-35,000 euros to hire someone in Paris, compared with up to &#163;50,000 in London. This can soon make up for any differences in taxes and social charges," he says.Then there's the cost of oce premises. "Square footage in London is much more expensive than Paris," he explains.So, while fellow entrepreneurs in France envy him for having established his business in a country where corporation tax is just 11-12% (compared with 40-50% in France), Barbette says that this doesn't tell the whole story. "You can't look at tax levels and social charges in isolation," he says. "You have to look at the bottom line.""At the end of the day, you shouldn't pick your location due to the ease of doing business there," concludes Dauppe of MacIntyre Hudson."There isn't much to choose between most countries. You'd be better advised to focus on the market opportunity, and on where your strengths will be best exploited."So, rather than being scared off by tales of foreign tax horrors and red tape when planning a new business venture abroad, use these to help plan a more effective attack on your new territory (making sure you don't ignore well-worn advice such as "get a good accountant" and "make a budget and schedule and then triple it").And, if location really is no object (perhaps because you are an aspiring artist, writer, hotelier or builder who just wants a change of scenery), simply go where your heart takes you, comforted by the knowledge that the grass almost certainly isn't greener anywhere else.How the UK matches upContinental Europe may promise a more appealing lifestyle than the UK, but can it match the UK for preferential business terms? The DTI thinks not. It claims that the UK is one of the cheapest and fastest places to set up business.&#183;According to Companies House report Benchmarking the Administration of Business Start-Ups: a Report for the European Commission, published in January 2002, it can take as little as a day and cost nothing to set up as a sole trader in the UK. This compares with an EU average of 12 days and 264 euros. Only Ireland can match the UK.&#183;The same report notes that it takes one week and costs &#163;20 to set up as a limited company with Companies House (or &#163;80 to do it the same day), compared with an average of 25 days and 883 euros (over &#163;500) across much of Europe.&#183;A 2002 study of business regimes in 60 countries published by the Economist Intelligence Unit, which examined infrastructure, market potential, regulation, labour market and tax policies, put Britain in fourth place for most favourable conditions.&#183;According to an OECD review of EU countries, the UK has almost the lowest administration cost and fewer regulations for entrepreneurs compared with any other EU country, while tax burdens on small businesses here are the lowest in Europe. (Regulation, Productivity and Growth: OECD Evidence, published January, 2003)&#183;The World Bank's Doing Business in 2004 report, published in October 2003, names the UK among 10 of 130 countries (others included Australia, Denmark and the US) with the least regulation.&#183;A study by The Economist (June, 2002 Apax Economist Intelligence Unit Entrepreneurship) ranks the UK top (with Switzerland coming second and the US coming third) in the 1997-2001 Entrepreneurial Framework Index of 60 countries that are "low on red tape, friendly to private enterprise, have an equitable tax regime, an open and well-developed financing system, flexible labour market and a modern, network infrastructure".
Government facility UKOnline, including UK Online for Business, is likely to be built upon and improved during the course of 2004, and possibly renamed. E-envoy Andrew Pinder, speaking at the launch of the government's home computing initiative, confirmed that plans were in place to make the site more of a destination in its own right. Patricia Hewitt, secretary of state for trade and industry and e-minister, confirmed that towards the end of February she would be making announcements that would make the service more comprehensive and useful for small business in a practical sense.The Royal Mail hasstarted allowing small businesses to print their own stamps - for a fee. The system is called SmartStamp and allows customers to create stamps on their personal computers. After buying the software, the customer needs only to pay &#163;4.99 per month to use the service, and the letters can be posted in the normal way. Alison White, the Royal Mail's head of small business and consumer, denied that the Royal Mail had basically re-invented franking. "The thing is, with franking you have to buy a large machine and it costs a lot more - this is done on your computer." She estimated that people posting 10 or more items per day would find that the service saves them time.So, how was yourChristmas? If you're in retail, the chances are it was relatively poor, whereas online "e-tailers" had an excellent time of it according to e-commerce software supplier Actinic. The company, which claims to supply 10 per cent of e-tailers' online catalog software, has completed its third annual survey among its customers and they saw an average 30 per cent increase in business compared with the same period last year. The most substantial increase was enjoyed by e-Pastimes (e-pastimes.co.uk), which grew 400 per cent compared with last year.ForgetMeNot Softwarehas extended its organiser offerings with what it describes as the first online and offline appointment alert service. It has multilingual support and will send alerts direct to mobile phones in SMS form, so you should never have an excuse to miss a meeting. It costs &#163;10.99 per month to subscribe and the company points out that dentists have an average weekly cost of &#163;200 per week in missed appointments. In fact, it's rarely the dentists who miss the appointments and do the financial damage, but the point remains valid for other fields.Information overload ishitting the small business sector with a vengeance, according to communications specialist Mitel. The company has commissioned a survey in conjunction with the University of Manchester. The conclusion was that 26% of employees in small-to-medium enterprises (SMEs) considered the sheer number of communication channels - voicemail, email, text, mobile phone - was actually too much to manage into a coherent whole. A total of 46% of employees also spent too much time fending off cold calls from sales reps (some of them presumably spending the other 54% making the same calls to someone else).Meanwhile, another surveypoints to another difficulty for the smaller business - in spite of numerous reports coming to similar conclusions in the past. Dell's latest survey among companies with 51-500 employees suggests that 43% of them have no contingency plan in case of unplanned downtime. The   same survey said that one in three small businesses with a disaster plan had actually used it, so the idea that it's a wasted effort starts to lose its force.Psst ... want to cut yourphone bill by up to 95%? This is the claim being made by Novell Imports with the @phone. Operation is simple: plug it into your USB port (hubs with more USB sockets are easily available for people who already have a camera, printer, scanner, second printer, hand-held computer, MP3 player and goodness knows what other gubbins attached), run the installation software and start making calls. There's no extra cost when you're phoning from abroad as long as you're attached to the internet. Savings include rates of 2.2p a minute when calling the US compared with 24p a minute from a BT line. The basic phone starts at &#163;39.99.Toshiba is going to offera "wireless doctor" service free of charge for a couple of days as this has been designated "wireless week". Readers wanting to call 0870 444 8938 will be offered free advice on setting up a wireless network. Information will be offered on benefits, costs, flexible working and work/life balance. More information can be found on the company's website for the event atcomputers.toshiba.co.uk/wirelessdoctor.
Keeping track of machinery and equipment remotely is getting a lot easier and cheaper. You don't even need to be able to plug everything in. Technologies such as GSM phones and Bluetooth connections that started out as devices for the mass market are making an impact in industry.With prices dropping, almost any company can afford to track where assets are and what they're doing, replacing manual checks and the checks there was never time for. Making the most of that kind of real-time information can change the way a business works significantly.Harlequins Rugby Club has a new information system - developed by Brulines and Box Telematics - which monitors everything from whether the beer behind the bar is at the right temperature to whether the cigarette machine needs refilling.In one afternoon, the pub sells more beer than the average pub in four months, but there will be few customers until the next match day so keeping the beer in good condition is tricky. The developers chose Orange's GSM network for sending data because it's easier to set up the system quickly and move equipment around.Water companies are also planning to use GSM modems to send information back from pumps at mountain reservoirs. Because the modems switch on and send data only once a week, the battery will last a few years.Not only is remote monitoring cheap enough for smaller companies, but they don't need to be a mobile expert. Orange's M2M Connect telemetry platform simplifies things by providing an application program   interface that checks and communicates with the modem.It doesn't cost a lot to add GPS to a GSM module - around &#163;50 per unit rather than &#163;35 - and that means you can find out where something is as well as how it is performing. This is ideal for mobile assets. Train builder Bombardier Transportation is planning to include combined GPS GSM modules in carriages to make it easier to keep track of which carriage is where when it needs servicing.Norwich Union is using GPS and GSM to track where cars go and how fast they're driven in its pilot Pay As You Drive project, again using the Orange network. Instead of an average premium based on their home post code, drivers can pay an individual premium based on how they drive and where they go.GSM isn't the solution in every case, or, at least, not all of it. If the equipment you want to monitor is close enough, you can use Bluetooth, If you have a number of devices to monitor, they can share one GSM connection using Bluetooth without setting up a wireless network. Using Wi-Fi means every device has to have a network stack and an IP address. TDK's Bluetooth modules look just like a serial connection so they are simple to set up for equipment that already has a diagnostic output.Instead of an ambulance crew relaying information about a patient and then transferring the records from equipment such as defibrillators, the information from all the equipment in the ambulance can be sent straight to the doctors as a fax or SMS, so staff are up to speed when the patient arrives.Bluetooth is also useful for   industrial locations where it is not safe to use a mobile phone, such as monitoring the pressure valves on gas pipes. Normally, engineers have to check the valves by hand: adding a Bluetooth module to the valve monitor is safe and it also means the engineer knows if there is a problem before he opens the door.More prosaically, Bluetooth lets you cut the cost of remote monitoring because you only need one connection for all the equipment in one location and you can bundle the information up and make a single data call to send it back for analysis. Many games arcades share an ADSL line via Bluetooth among all the machines in the arcade: it is easy to upgrade them, track which games are the most profitable and move less popular machines next to them to encourage people waiting in the queue for big sellers to try them.While it is now cost effective to monitor equipment, it is what you do with the information that is going to make a difference to your business.Adding remote GSM monitoring to air conditioning units lets Mitsubishi find out how much heat the units have to deal with and how they perform over time. They could sell the information to service companies to help them with maintenance before the customers notice there's a problem, or offer customers advice on reducing electricity costs by pointing out where the units are having to deal with an unexpected amount of heat.Remote monitoring can solve an immediate problem but really taking advantage of it means thinking simultaneously in real time and in the long term.
Microsoft chairman Bill Gates found time in a busy diary this week to oil the wheels in the relationship with his most important non-US customer - the British public sector. While in London for a high-profile appearance with Chancellor Gordon Brown, Gates also met two men responsible for making software decisions that could be worth billions to his company: Sir Peter Gershon, head of the Office of Government Commerce and Richard Granger, director general of NHS IT.Government is the biggest customer in most countries where Microsoft does business. The UK, however, has a special role. First, it spends a lot on government IT: twice as much as Germany, Europe's next biggest spender, according to research firm Gartner. Second, the UK is a de facto ally in Microsoft's campaign against open source systems.Unlike countries that have adopted an ideological preference for open source, UK government decisions are supposed to be based on value for money. Gershon, head of the Treasury's Office of Government Commerce, says this policy puts pressure on Microsoft - and other suppliers such as Oracle - to cut prices.Not good enough, say open source enthusiasts, who claim that Microsoft has deep enough pockets to ensure that key decisions go its way. "Every time we have a client where we deploy a Linux desktop, Microsoft comes in with all guns blazing and makes them an offer they can't refuse," says Eddie Bleasdale, of consultancy Netproject, which promotes open source architecture.Recent procurements have called attention to Microsoft's role in two public sector markets. The first is the &#163;5bn round of contracts to computerise the NHS in England. Microsoft pulled out all the stops to win the business, even sending executives to shadow Granger on business trips to the US. However, the deal didn't go all Microsoft's way. While three out of   five NHS regions picked contractors supplying systems from iSoft, Microsoft's main health partner in the UK, the other two picked a US-developed system called IDX, which runs on Hewlett-Packard's Nonstop fault-tolerant architecture.How much of the NHS's &#163;5bn goes into Bill Gates' pocket is highly uncertain. Granger chose the day Gates came to town to announce a deal with Oracle, Microsoft's arch rival. The agreement allows the NHS to standardise its patient record databases on Oracle technology. The pricing is secret, but claimed to represent a saving of "up to &#163;100m". It specifically mentions iSoft and IDX products migrating to Oracle's infrastructure.The NHS said the deal is "the first of a series" being negotiated with suppliers. Granger will use the Oracle agreement - and small scale pilots of Sun's open-source based systems - to put pressure on Microsoft to come up with some hefty discounts.Local government is the second sector in the spotlight. One area in which the UK's 470-odd local authorities have almost complete autonomy is in their choice of IT. With most councils upgrading and joining up systems in the quest for e-government, this market will be worth &#163;2.4bn this year.Over the past few months, the London borough of Newham has achieved an internationally high profile by testing an open source architecture developed by Netproject. It engaged consultants Cap Gemini Ernst &amp; Young (paid for by Microsoft) to evaluate the system. In December, it decided to stick with Microsoft after being offered new terms. Richard Steel, the council's head of ICT, said: "While the growing open source software movement continues to move towards developing a credible alternative upon which to base strategic ICT development, council officers consider that to attempt a major migration at this time would pose an unacceptable level of risk to services."Steel said last week that he hopes to get a new deal with Microsoft "wrapped up by the end of March". He said that he is talking with the OGC about making the terms available to other councils.Bleasdale cries foul. "I think we were just being used as a Patsy, to beat Microsoft over the head." He claims that although the result is good for the taxpayer in the short term, authorities accepting the terms will find themselves locked in to Microsoft technology.Microsoft argues that while open source is "free" in the short term, over the lifetime of a system it will cost more in integration and training. "Open source is viewed as free, but we have this vacuum of understanding of the total value of ownership," says Maggie Wilderotter, Microsoft's senior vice president, business strategy.Microsoft is busy doing deals with other parts of the public sector. In December, it signed an agreement with the British Educational Communications and Technology Agency (Becta) to cut at least 20% from the cost of software for schools. Charles Clarke, the education secretary, said the deal will "help schools to get more out of ICT".In central government, the OGC is putting pressure on Microsoft to sign new discounts when a two-year-old memorandum expires this year. Open source is one of the levers. In December, Gershon signed an agreement making Sun Microsystem's desktop technology available at cut prices. Last week, he met public agencies interested in piloting the Sun technology.Both Gershon and Granger say they want to avoid dependence on one supplier. But Bleasdale says that this is what is happening. "The UK is getting locked in, and doing it willingly."
Where there's muck there's brass - or so the saying goes. But when it comes to old computer equipment, almost 90% is simply dumped into landfill sites.But IT's throwaway culture is about to come under close examination as the government begins to draft legislation in response to the EU's Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (Weee) for introduction by August and full enforcement a year later.But how will it affect UK business? With the consultation period nearly over, the big idea appears to be the creation of a central clearing house to coordinate and enforce recycling targets on what it calls "producers" - broadly IT vendors and importers. The Department for Trade and Industry suggests this may either be run by the industry (as in Holland), or by government (as in Germany). Extra funds will be given to local authorities to improve recycling facilities.Leading vendors have been closely involved in the year-long consultation process on Weee, and some white goods' manufacturers are making steps to develop closer links to the recycling industry. Twelve electronics firms including Alba, Hoover Candy, Philips and Whirlpool have   announced a plan to set up a not-for-profit company called the Recycling Electrical Producers Industry Consortium (Repic) to negotiate the best prices for recycling for its members.Details have yet to be ironed out, but the department's preferred approach is that producers will be obliged to organise pick up of old equipment on a like-for-like basis, and usually when fulfilling a new order. The clearing house would calculate and monitor the amount each producer needs to recycle based on its market share.This use of market share remains hotly debated, however, because it is hard to measure and varies over time.In the US, Dell has been something of a trailblazer, running a recycling programme last summer. Consumers brought old PCs to pick-up points for about &#163;25 per system. Dell collected and disposed of 2m pounds in weight of kit during the programme, and teamed with a charity to ensure some kit could be recycled for use in inner city projects.But the scheme was criticised by some environmental groups, who claimed that Dell collected so much kit it still reverted to dumping much of it in landfill sites. Pat Nathan, Dell's sustainable business director, says criticism was unfounded, but that Dell is unlikely to repeat the programmes in the UK and Europe because it is waiting to see how the directive is implemented. "We would prefer to be responsible for just recycling Dell kit, but Europe is opting for a like-for-like policy."Awareness of the directive's possible impact is limited. Barry Holland, managing director of consultancy firm Weee Audit, says that most producers are unaware of the legislation: "No one thinks it's going to affect   them, but it will directly affect 120,000 producer firms. We are in a grey area, particularly because many firms buy IT from leasing companies, which will not be obliged to recycle."Nigel Lomas, commercial director at IT reseller Trams, says buyers are starting to show concern. "We haven't heard anything from big vendors, so perhaps they are waiting for more pressure from buyers and resellers before they take action. More details about recycling are appearing on tender documents from buyers."Lomas believes most firms will try to have the costs of recycling taken into account when buying equipment, but they also understand that a small cost is expected.Kirsty McIntyre, HP's Weee project manager, says vendors "are waiting to see what is drafted in terms of how the central clearing house will function and how vendor targets are set". Cost was not really an issue.Others are concerned about the management of a clearing house. Andy Mullen, spokesman for LG Electronics, says the electronics industry favours a clearing system run by government. "To ensure confidentiality, it seems right that such a system is run by government. Because so many industries are affected, it would be unwieldy for us to create it."He is also concerned about visibility of recycling cost. "We are not in a position to take on all the cost, so it remains to be seen how visible we are able to make the recycling cost and even whether it will be VAT rated at the retailer."Few doubt that recycling of IT equipment is now essential, and that ultimately the cost will be passed on to buyers. The draft of the legislation is crucial to deciding who is most responsible for getting it done.
Has the computer changed the way you write?I used to write in discrete "drafts", which were a retyping of the entire work. Now I work in this very amorphous way within Word, where I'm constantly revising and never really know which draft I'm in. I keep one simple rule that I only move in one direction - I write the book straight through from beginning to end. By following time's arrow I keep myself sane.Is Fortress Of Solitude the result of endless hours at the computer?I work on a laptop specifically so I can work in cafes and pretend I'm part of the human world. I have one of those "tangerine flying saucer" iBooks but I'm about to upgrade to a G4.Do you Wi-Fi?I can't risk it. Part of the point of writing in cafes is so that it is impossible to get online. The net has way too many distractions when I need to work.Data loss?I once lost the first 10 pages of a short story. It was so traumatic that I've been an obsessive backer-up since. It cost me about a week of misery because I couldn't believe I'd lost the data. Then I sat down in one determined session and rewrote the 10 pages. I got about 95% of the original back from memory. I now back everything up on Zip disks, though.Website?I have a dedicated fansite atwww.sinc.sunysb.edu/Stu/dmyers, which does a pretty good job of tracking my movements. It has inspired me to be very lazy about creating my own site. As I'm not responsible directly for the content, then it can be in error and   I don't really care. If it were my own site I'd have to be obsessive about it.Blogging?I've never been a diarist. I tend to be a bit of a perfectionist and want things to come out finished and authoritative. But I've written for a couple of websites such as Salon.You read blogs though?There are a few good ones that I glance at when I surf. I try not to become too regular an addict of any one subculture. Ray Davis in California has a lovely eccentric site atwww.bellonatimes.com. I like it partly because it's not updated daily so it's not just the unending rantings of someone who can't shut up ... he adds to it more selectively.So you think some blogs give you too much information?I think that's a problem with the web in general. Unselectivity is the achilles heel but it just   means you have to become an editor.Is the net the world's biggest library or the world's biggest sex shop?I see it as almost like a Jorge Luis Borges story ... the endless library of Babel! I like the way the net has this funny tendency to devolve into very traditional epistolary form and it brings up these issues of etiquette. For all its revolutionary potential, I love that homely face it sometimes shows when it turns into an 18th-century epistolary novel.Spam?I outsmarted the spammers by changing my email address to something really long and strange and I never use that address to sign up for anything. My old email is deluged but I'm feeling smug about this new, clean one.Jonathan Lethem's bookmarkswww.amazon.comFor the book commentarieswww.salon.comBecause I spend so much time writing on my computer, I am always looking for ways to curtail my screen timeVisit:www.faber.co.uk
Mobile phone tracking has become one of the hottest new mobile applications. Several services now allow users to track the location of mobile phones, with many making concerned parents their key market.Many of the service's new customers will undoubtedly have been persuaded to sign up because of the Soham murder trial. A vital piece of prosecution evidence was provided by mobile phone records that pinpointed the location of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman outside the home of murderer Ian Huntley.But despite such high-profile successes, there are question marks over the accuracy and security of the data provided to users. The location information comes from the mobile operators and, specifically, relies on which base station a phone is using to connect to its network.For a switched-on mobile phone, whose owner has given permission, the networks will provide location data with up-to-the-minute accuracy - for a price. You will be able to see the precise location of the base station they are using, and a circle of accuracy within which the network believes the phone to be located. If   the person being tracked uses the Vodafone network, you can even retrieve the last base station used by a switched-off phone, and the time of disconnection.The problem is that base stations are sited to provide the best coverage, not to track the location of users. The circle of accuracy can have a diameter of a few hundred yards in a city centre, but several miles elsewhere. Vodafone and O2 use base stations with a maximum range of 35km (22 miles), and Orange and T-Mobile stations (the network used by Virgin Mobile) have a 17km range.However, the geography of an area can cause strange readings. Richard Cox, a forensic expert in the field of mobile phone location, says he has seen a phone in Weston-super-Mare connect to a base station in Penarth, just south of Cardiff, despite much closer stations in north Somerset. "Anywhere with two coasts, or a valley, could do this," he says.Online found this effect when testing such a service using an Orange mobile phone. In the readings provided, the phone was within the circle of accuracy - but it was sometimes a rather large circle.A test from Saltash, a sizeable town in Cornwall, showed the phone   connecting through a base station in St Budeaux in west Plymouth, almost twice as far away as an Orange base on the Saltash side of the Tamar Bridge. However, there is a clear line of sight from the test location to that part of Plymouth. The resulting accuracy circle was 4.6 miles in diameter, which includes not only Saltash, but also half of Plymouth and the Cornish town of Torpoint.The size of the accuracy circle is generated by the signal strength, which allows an estimate of the user's distance from the base station. But it is not that accurate, and as a result   one cannot say where the tracked phone is in circle. Despite the accuracy circle's radius of 2.3 miles, the phone in Saltash was just 1.1 miles from the Plymouth station. A separate test in north Somerset, with a phone 1.3 miles from the base station, also produced a 2.3 mile radius circle.The service tested was Mapaphone by Mapbyte, although all use the same data from the phone networks. Mapaphone only works on Windows PCs running Internet Explorer with Java Virtual Machine, and costs &#163;10 a year for each mobile tracked, a &#163;2.95 monthly subscription fee (which also   provides access to mapping and information services) and 20p each time a location is requested.Its rival ChildLocate charges &#163;9.99 a month, but this includes up to eight mobiles and up to 10 location requests. Further requests cost 30p each."Cell ID tracking isn't very accurate," says Emma Hardcastle, managing director of Mapbyte. She says the service is aimed mainly at companies wanting to see when their vehicles will arrive, rather than parents. For the latter, she says that satellite-based global positioning system (GPS) products are more suitable, as they are accurate to within a few yards.And the data available from base station services is nothing like as good as that available to police and other government investigators.Mobile phones will eventually include GPS technology. But even releasing middling-quality location data raises privacy questions.Mapbyte requires parents wanting to track their children, and employers tracking staff, to sign a form. In the case of children, the parent is then emailed a Pin, which they must enter into the child's phone, to prevent strangers activating the service.Mapbyte sends tracked mobiles reminder text messages, 24 hours after tracking starts then every month, stating who is tracking the phone and explaining how to opt out. ChildLocate sends such reminders every fortnight.Privacy campaigner Spy.org.uk has questioned the security of these services, pointing out that several do not use encryption (although Mapbyte and ChildLocate do). The group also raises questions about the service providers' staff, suggestingthey should go through criminal record checks.Finally, there's the question of whether parents should track their children. Terri Dowty, policy director of Action on Rights for Children, says: "I think this is a very destructive idea - a really cynical exploitation of parents' fears. We all have to face letting our children go and trusting them. You can't keep them on a lead forever."Mapaphone by MapbyteMapminder.co.ukChildLocateChildLocate.co.ukPrivacy campaignerSpy.org.uk
When the big US retailers Barnes and Noble stopped selling ebooks via its website last year, traditionalist critics were quick to announce "the death of the ebook".It's not hard to see why. Last year was undoubtedly a bad year for the ebook idea, with Gemstar-TV Guide International Inc, probably the leading player in ebook publishing, also withdrawing from the business. But while you can understand critics taking revenge on IT companies and techno-pundits who spent the last decade prematurely prophesying "the death of the book", overall, things are more complicated.In late December, Adobe Digital Media Store went back into ebook retail, opening a site selling books (everything from novels to magazine articles) in its PDF format. Around the same time, the Open eBook Forum (OeBF), electronic publishing's trade and standards body, announced that ebook sales in the US had risen by 32% in the first nine months of 2003. The OeBF estimated overall sales for the year at around $10m.Nick Rogaty, executive director of the OeBF, admits that the number of ebooks sold is still a tiny fraction of the overall book business. But the figures show that electronic publishing is slowly growing into a viable business. The exit of Barnes and Noble and Gemstar was, he suggests, "because their parent companies are under pressure to achieve profitability. So they moved to stick with their bread-and-butter business".Amazon remains committed to selling ebooks, says Greg Hart, director of media products atAmazon.co.uk. "It's a very small piece of our business. But with each passing year, more people are familiar with Adobe and Adobe Reader, more people interested in ebooks." Non-fiction ebooks sell better than fiction, says Hart, with business and self-improvement titles doing well. "When we first launched, our overall book sales tended to skew more male and tech-focused. Ebooks are still skewed that way."Nick Rogaty suggests that compatible file formats and a good ebook reading device, something as desirable as one of Apple's iPods, would help e-publishing break out of the geeky male ghetto. Improvements in digital rights management (DRM) are also needed.Unlike music, the book business's core demographic is older and female and not drawn to piracy. But the fear of "Napsterisation" has led to rather stringent DRM measures in e- publishing. Rogaty suggests things are beginning to settle down, with companies recognising that the right to use ebooks in certain ways is important to consumers."Another thing we need is a really good retail experience," he adds. "What Apple has done with the iPod, the iTunes software and the iTunes store is amazingly good. We need an equivalent in the ebook industry."Ditching the obsessive focus on the idea of the ebook might also help e-publishing grow. When people talk about an ebook, they're usually thinking about a digital version of a novel or a biography. The problem is, these types of reading experience work best in print (at the moment).However, there are other types of reading and other types of "books" that are better suited to electronic formats and are very successful. As Toby Mundy, managing director/publisher at Atlantic Books (publishers of Guardian books, among others), points out, we have already seen massive upheaval as a result of new technology. "Looking round my room," he says, "I can see all sorts of books... but what I can't see, and I would have seen a decade ago, is any reference books. I now use reputable brands like Britannica online."So where else might we see change in the book business? Thanks to the spread of MP3 players, digital audio books are beginning to sell. According to Jonathan Korzen, spokesman forAudible.com, the leading player in the field, they offer obvious advantages. You don't have to struggle with loads of tapes. The audio version of even a long novel can be downloaded pretty quickly. You can store several at once on the average MP3 player.More to the point, digital audio books can be cheaper than tape/CD versions. When Audible launched (in 1997), it sold sci-fi and mystery novels to geeky early adopters, says Korzen,   but now the titles on offer (around 18,000) are more mainstream. "Our sales for the third quarter of 2003 (the most recent quarter announced) were $4.8m." Korzen admits this is still a small fragment of the overall audio book market. "But we are the fastest-growing company in the audio book market."The company now sells its own MP3 player, the Otis, but its software will also work with iPods and other players. In line with founder Donald Katz's idea that the net lets you sell a wider range of spoken word products, Audible.com now sells audio editions of the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times, available to be downloaded in the morning.The company has also commissioned original audio content from the likes of comedian Robin Williams. "We are not competitors to the traditional audio book publishers, we're their partners," says Korzen. "We introduce more people to the spoken word and audio books   than we 'cannibalise' sales from traditional audio book publishers."Academic publishers are also embracing the possibilities offered by new technology. The Oxford University Press now offers around 3,000 titles on print on demand. In other words, books (essentially trade paperback versions) are printed up as and when someone orders them.According to Sophie Goldsworthy, OUP's editorial director, academic, in academic publishing, sales fall off for most titles after the first two years. Print on demand means "we're able to make all our books available long term and ensure our backlist has a much longer life". Goldsworthy says other academic publishers, such as Routledge and Cambridge University Press, are also using "pod".Academic journals have now migrated online - the net offers advantages in terms of cost and storage for university libraries and gets time-sensitive research out quickly. Goldsworthy   suggests that academic monographs in general may also work better online. Hence a new OUP initiative, Oxford Scholarship Online. Launched in November, this makes around 700 OUP titles (in philosophy, economics, political science and religion) available in a fully searchable online database. Available as a free trial for the past two months, the service has been well received, and is about to move to a subscription model.Goldsworthy says the service could help university libraries save money and shelf space, and might even make students more likely to check out academic monographs. "If these titles are easily available on the library system, so you can log on, browse and search across them, it's more likely to stimulate general discussion of these books. Ultimately, what we want to do is add about 200 titles every year."Goldsworthy says OUP sees the service as complementary to its print books. "Our hope is that it will stimulate people to go back to the books."There are links here with Amazon's new Search Inside the Book service. Available on the US site, this lets people search the contents of around 100,000 titles. Because people can track references through texts and discover new titles, Amazon sees this as a tool for selling more books. But enthusiasts have suggested it is also about the "enhanced book" idea, because you can use the service to search through (and get more from) the books you already have.And with other operations (Project Gutenberg, The Million Books Project, run by Brewster Kahle of the Internet Archive and O'Reilly's Safari) putting together online databases of books, it seems likely that in the short term, the idea of using the net to enhance traditional books may get more attention than ebooks.That said, the latter may thrive, thanks in part to public libraries, who need to cut costs and storage space and boost accessibility. Ebooks may help with this, says the OeBF's Rogaty, pointing out that several American libraries now lend out ebooks via the net, to users who type in their library card number.Early response has been good, although some librarians argue they should be able to buy one ebook and lend it out to multiple users, which would be commercially disastrous for publishers used to selling libraries several print copies of popular titles.Early trials suggest that revision notes work particularly well in ebook form. They read well on PDAs and kids can't write on or lose the electronic version, which automatically "returns" to the library after the loan period has elapsed.It is still early days, but Rogaty says public libraries, and ultimately schools, could be the interim home for the ebook. The OeBF is organising a conference in March to discuss the idea. Electronic publishers may not get the vast profits they anticipated last decade, but they might stay alive and help out libraries in the process."In the age of Google, libraries are trying to find their space as 24-hour providers of information to communities," says Rogaty. "Providing ebooks in a service that is open 24 hours a day, that's accessible from home, could be a tremendous improvement on what we have now. The libraries of the future could be based around ebooks."Adobe Digital Media Storehttp://digitalmediastore.adobe.comThe Open eBook Forumwww.oebf.orgAudiblewww.audible.comOxford Scholarship Onlinewww.oxfordscholarship.com
Last month marked the start of the coarse phishing season and it shows no sign of ending. The term applies to the practice of duping consumers into disclosing personal financial information online, usually by directing them to fake websites. More than 100m emails have been sent out globally in the past two months, purportedly from the likes of Visa, Halifax, Lloyds/TSB and Citibank. Although a dozen countries were targeted, UK institutions and customers were high on the list, with immediate results."For a lot of people, online banking is a new thing," explains Jason Clarke, of the Halifax, which has been hit twice since December. "They're not sophisticated when dealing with IT security the way they are with cash. Banks have invested a lot in the look and feel of their websites and communications - so if it doesn't look right, then it probably isn't."Indeed, some of the attacks are laughably crude. The Citibank email contained dozens of grammatical errors, and a recent scam on the Bank of England failed to realise it had no consumer accounts. Others, however, are more convincing. Last week, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp (FDIC), which insures US bank accounts, warned Americans of an email citing 9/11 anti-terror legislation as the reason for harvesting account information from an equally convincing spoof website. The site was shut down within days. However, in the words of an FDIC spokesman: "Someone did their homework."Phishing attacks have been around since the mid-90s and seemed to be getting easier to spot. However, many blame Microsoft for the size and effectiveness of the current wave, thanks to a loophole in Internet Explorer discovered by an 18-year-old graphic designer. Posted on the Bugtraq website on December 9, the hole allows spammers to refine a technique known as "address obfuscation" to create false hyperlinks that are nearly impossible to tell from the real thing.Obfuscation has been around for some time, and was designed to make email addresses harder for spam-bots to harvest, though camouflaged hyperlinks were still relatively easy to spot. Thanks to the Explorer loophole, anyone knowing the right Javascript code can turn the telltalewww.bigname.com%01@2xx.2xx./login.login.htminto the far more convincingwww.bigname.com. Microsoft acknowledged the problem quickly but has been silent on when a fix could be expected.In the meantime, the loophole has been exploited with estimates of between 5% and 20% of recipients clicking on the re-engineered links - dwarfing spam's typical success rate of one in a million. The banks, however, backed by the National High Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU), dispute this figure."Although the Explorer bug has not helped," said a spokesperson for APacs, "neither is it wholly responsible for the increasing number of scams. The bug has exposed something that had been happening for some time - it has just allowed it to become more sophisticated".In fairness to Microsoft, recent history suggests that when it comes to security, there is no such thing as a   quick fix. Last summer's W32/Blaster bug rode in on the back of a security update to Windows, emphasising that the speed at which patches are hacked, reverse-engineered and then exploited invites new danger every time Microsoft confirms the contents of one. Hardly surprising, then, that it refuses to say whether this problem will be fixed on February 10, when the next Explorer update is due, preferring to attack the forums that publicised it in the first place."Microsoft is concerned that these new reports of vulnerabilities in Internet Explorer were not disclosed responsibly, potentially putting computer users at risk," said a spokesman, adding that the fix would only be released "when warranted - that is, as well engineered and thoroughly tested as possible".Authorities are privately talking of surviving rather than reversing the current trend. UK banks and the NHTCU have closed down around 15 sites since September, but with at least two new ones appearing daily, no one is predicting whether a security patch would make a difference.One (desirable) side effect might be that Britain's 11m online banking customers finally realise that clicking on unsolicited hyperlinks can be even more dangerous than email attachments."Internet banking on its own is very safe and secure, as long as you stick by the golden rules," says Clarke. "Don't divulge passwords or logon IDs to anyone, always communicate with your bank by typing in the normal URL, not clicking on a link, and keep all your essential applications fully patched and up to date."
A self-replicating computer worm which hijacks email systems and installs a back door for hackers to access was spreading around the globe yesterday, hampering internet communications.The program, dubbed "MyDoom" by network security experts, was spotted on Monday in a file sent from Russia. By early yesterday afternoon at least 1.5m copies had been intercepted. Email systems were in danger of crashing as they became overloaded. MyDoom only infects computers using Microsoft Windows but it exploits the file-sharing software Kazaa, which enables users to exchange music.The file installs a program which allows a hacker to gain remote access to a computer and, some experts suspect, a program which could record the owner's keystrokes, enabling passwords or credit card details to be extracted.Like other email worms, MyDoom requires a user to open the attachment before it can infect a machine. Sometimes the email is labelled "Test" or "Status".Internet security experts said the email worm's purpose seemed to be launching a denial of service attack against a software company called SCO (Santa Cruz Operation in the USA) which is involved in a dispute over ownership of an operating system - a rival to Microsoft Windows.
Central Commandreports this morning that MyDoom is "quickly gaining momentum" and causing serious email congestion around the world. "This new aggressive internet worm is spreading globally with 1 out of every 9 emails being infected," the company says.Steven Sundermeier, Vice President of Products and Services at Central Command, adds: "The extremely aggressive nature of this new worm, which is less than 24 hours old, has demonstrated that the global email infrastructure is still very vulnerable to such attacks."The company also notes that MyDoom has the capability to do a lot of stuff - including the ability to turn MyDoom infected machines into proxies to launch other kinds of attacks. "The collaboration of spamming techniques with virus coding is prompting a new era of virus writing," it adds.
Amnesty International has called for the release of 54 people imprisoned in China for expressing opinions on the internet.In a report released today, the human rights organisation says it has documented cases of 54 people jailed for using the internet, but said the figure was likely to be "a fraction" of the real number.It adds: "There has been a dramatic rise in the number of people detained or sentenced for internet-related offences. China is said to have the most extensive censorship of the internet of any country in the world."The report says prisoners include people who signed online petitions for reform, published non-official news about the Sars virus, communicated with dissident groups overseas, or called for a review of the 1989 crackdown in Tiananmen Square. Detainees also include followers of the banned Falun Gong movement, it says.The Chinese foreign ministry could not immediately be reached for comment. In the past, it has denounced Amnesty's claims as biased and baseless.As internet use surges in China, so do government efforts to control it, Amnesty says. Officials try to control all online communication by blocking access to sites that discuss sensitive issues.Amnesty said the 54 detainees - all "prisoners of conscience" - had received sentences of between two years and 12 years.
A new computer worm called MyDoom is spreading across the internet via spam emails and is threatening to become one of the most destructive computer infections ever, the anti-virus and anti-spam specialist Sophos warned today.The worm - which has a number of aliases, including Novarg and Shimgapi - first appeared on Monday afternoon and targets computers running Microsoft Windows with any email program.It opens a backdoor onto infected computers to allow hackers to gain access.According to the anti-virus company mi2g, the MyDoom worm became the 21st worst infection ever within the first 24 hours of its existence. It spread quickly enough for most of the major anti-virus companies to rate it a "high" outbreak."MyDoom is unlike many other mass-mailing worms we have seen in the  past, because it does not try to seduce users into opening the attachment by offering sexy pictures of celebrities or private messages," said Graham Cluley, a senior technology consultant for Sophos."MyDoom can pose as a technical-sounding message, claiming that the  email body has been put in an attached file. Of course, if you launch  that file you are potentially putting your data and computer straight  into the hands of hackers," he said."Mailboxes at large corporations are infected and reporting multiple infections throughout their entire organizations," David Perry, the global education director at anti-virus experts Trend Micro Inc, told Reuters.MyDoom arrives as an email attachment with an .exe, .scr, .zip or .pif extension. The most common attachment type appears to be .zip, experts said, a .zip file being a widely-used, compressed file format used to send and store large files.Emails may arrive with "test" or "status" in the subject line, and may contain text, which reads: "The message cannot be represented in 7-bit ASCII and has been sent as a binary attachment."The computer security firm Central Command confirmed 3,800 infections within 45 minutes of initial discovery."This has all the characteristics of being the next big one," said Steven Sundermeier, the company's vice-president of products and services.Users who receive the worm and simply ignore or delete it will be able to avoid any damage.
There's a new virus doing the rounds, and W32/Mydoom - as it's known - is spreading rapidly, according to the virus watchers. David Perry of Trend Micro tellsReuters: "Mailboxes at large corporations are infected and reporting multiple infections throughout their entire organisations."The worm is programmed to unleash a large denial of service attack against US software firmSco. The company has infuriated Linux advocates by launching a multi-billion pound lawsuit against IBM, and the broader Linux community, claiming IBM illegally donated Sco's code to the Linux system.The worm hides in an techy-looking email that claims the message body is in an attachment. Open that attachment and... well, you know the rest. But plenty of people appear to be launching the attachments.Messagelabssaid in a statement this morning that they had intercepted 1.2 million copies of the virus since yesterday lunchtime, when they spotted the first infected email coming out of Russia. They add: "Mydoom is a mass-mailing worm that attempts to spread via email and by copying itself to any available shared directories used by Kazaa."The worm harvests addresses from infected machines and targets files with the following extensions: .wab, .adb, .tbb, .dbx, .asp, .php, .sht, .htm, .txt. Mydoom also tries to randomly generate or guess likely email addresses to send itself to. In addition, initial analysis suggests that Mydoom opens a connection on TCP port 3127, an indication of a remote access component."
Microsoft today restated its commitment to reaching an amicable resolution in a long-running antitrust dispute after the European commission reportedly reached a negative preliminary decision against the software giant.The company, which is feeling the heat as the five-year case moves towards a climax over the next few months, has played down the commission's reported ruling.Press reports indicated that European antitrust regulators were moving ahead with plans to require Microsoft to separate its digital media-playing software from its ubiquitous Windows operating system.Forcing Microsoft to "unbundle" its Windows Media Player software would be the toughest sanction against the company in its antitrust disputes in the US and in the EU. It would create a major  headache for Microsoft, meaning that it would have to release different versions of Windows in the US and Europe.However, Microsoft officials in Brussels insisted that the preliminary decision was always going to be negative."It did not come as too much of a shock," said a Microsoft official. "We fully expected the initial decision to be negative, but there is still a lot to play for - there are discussions going on all the time."European authorities have taken a tougher line than their counterparts in the US, accusing Microsoft of using its quasi-monopoly in operating systems to ride roughshod over competitors providing alternatives for several applications, including media playing and server software which powers networks of computers.By including the Windows Media Player with the operating system, which is carried by 95% of the world's personal computers, Microsoft enjoys a huge advantage over its rivals.Competitors such as RealNetworks must rely on users downloading its software separately, or on manufacturers incorporating the software in new computers.RealNetworks, which has testified in Microsoft's European hearings, recently sued the company for civil antitrust violations.The EU case is heading towards a conclusion, and the commission has said that it hopes to wrap up the case before this summer, before a new commission president is named in June. Microsoft and commission officials have been holding settlement talks since November after a three-day hearing on the case.If the commission judges Microsoft to be in violation of antitrust laws, the software company could be subject to fines, as well as being forced to remove software used to play back music and video from Windows.Microsoft insists that the media-player software is an essential piece of Windows. It has said that it would challenge any decision that impinged upon its ability to add new features to Windows, including the media-player software.The software giant is likely to challenge any negative ruling from the commission at the EU's court of first instance in Luxembourg.
"At the LinuxWorld trade show here this week, advocates said the next big challenge for the loose-knit 'free software' movement is to create a reliable way to run desktop computers and perform mainstream office tasks," reportsReuters."'It works 98 percent of the time. But it's the 2 percent of the time it doesn't that kills you,' Jeremy White, a leading developer of Linux applications, told an audience of network administrators."
"Justin Frankel, the controversial software engineer who created the Winamp media player, has resigned from America Online," reportsCNet, now Winamp 5 is out.
"Consider the utopian ideal presented by the iPod and all its disciples: your own badass self, hilariously uncomfortable 'ear bud' headphones jammed into your head, with 5,000 of your favorite songs dumped into a cigarette-pack-size computer set on 'shuffle' so you can veer erratically from King Tubby to King's X to King Missile's 'Detachable Penis' as you pick up the dry cleaning. Radio has failed you. Portable CD players limited you. But now you're an all-powerful DJ, with the single most dangerous item in your home -- your CD collection -- in the palm of your hand." Rob Harvilla has a pop at the portable music phenomenon atNew Times.
The Canadian teenager who launched the Mikerowesoft Web site has settled. Microsoft will pay his expenses, provide an expenses-paid visit to Microsoft Research, pay for him to get Microsoft Certification training in his choice of subject(s), give him a subscription to MSDN, the Microsoft Developer Network, and give him an Xbox and his choice of games, reports theSeattle Times.He's now running a site athttp://www.mikeroweforums.com/, where he says he isn't planning to launch anything called SunMikeRoweSystems.com
The Microsoft chairman, Bill Gates, is to be awarded an honorary knighthood today as part of a push led by Gordon Brown to promote a "can do" enterprise culture in Britain.The chancellor, in search of higher British productivity, has enlisted the royal family: Buckingham Palace will host "entrepreneur of the year" awards as part of an enterprise week.Mr Brown is concerned that British culture frowns on business innovation and has been leading a push to remove the remaining trade barriers between Europe and the US.He is holding a conference in London for executives, bankers, EU finance ministers and economists at which the speakers will include Mr Gates, Arun Sarin, the chief executive of Vodafone, and Lord Browne, the chief executive of BP.The US federal reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, and the US treasury secretary, John Snow, will join in by video link. Much of the discussion will be on an unattributable basis.The US emphasis will be reflected in a fresh call by Mr Brown on the EU to lift trading barriers against the US, which he maintains will create &#163;100bn in extra trade and a million new jobs. He will reveal that science and engineering will benefit from this summer's spending review and that he has EU support for a drive to reduce red tape.
Richard Dawkins has a surprisingly techypiecein today's comment and analysis pages, on the appeal of the first Mac, launched in 1984. "With a feeling of joyous release, I donated the IBM-compatible to some good cause and never looked back," he writes.
IT IS the curse of today's computer user, but the days of unsolicited spam email clogging up inboxes may now be numbered. Microsoft chief Bill Gates has vowed to make spam emails obsolete.Speaking at the World Economic Forum (WEF) in the Swiss mountain resort of Davos, Gates admitted that spamming, which usually offers computer users pornography, cheap medication or fraudulent get-rich schemes, was innovative.But he confirmed that   Microsoft is investigating three different solutions to rid inboxes from the clutter of unsolicited bulk emails. Although he did not give any details, Gates's pledge - that he would rid the world of spam within two years - will be welcomed by computer users.Filters that are used to sift real mail from spam do not currently enjoy a great success rate because those sending spam - known as spammers - use random words in subject headers and replace text with pictures to go unde tected.One way of stopping spam is to force the sender to solve a puzzle, or make the computer sending the email do a simple computation. This would be easy for a machine sending a few emails, but expensive and difficult when dealing with lots of spam.The ultimate solution would be to make senders of email pay a fee if their mail was rejected as spam. It would work like an the electronic equivalent of a stamp and would not deter genuine emailers who would be confi dent their mail would be accepted.Common techniques used by spammers include forged sender names, false subject lines fake server names, inaccurate and obscured transmission paths.About 70 per cent comes from virus-infected machines which install miniature mail and web servers on home PCs belonging to innocent third parties. Research has showed that an estimated 40 per cent of all emails sent worldwide are junk.
Online, even the backlashes move more quickly. On Tuesday, Howard Dean was front-runner for the Democratic nomination. Wednesday, we were waking up to harrowing images of him making a complete fool of himself after he came a poor third in Iowa. By Thursday, the first dance remixes of Dean's maniacal concession speech - and the infamous, strangled "yeeeaahh" he rounded it up with - were popping up online. By Saturday, however, the backlash against the backlash had started, with Dean supporters and sympathisers attempting to turn the laughter in favour of their man.Dave Winerurges:"Here's a social software smart mob concept. People should vote for Howard Deanbecausehe made such a fool of himself on national television. Here's your chance to blow up the media monopoly."Meanwhile theVillage Voicebrands Dean an "Internet Rock Star" and tells us aboutDeangoesnuts.com, which is turning into quite the place to find the remixes of his greatest hit.
Fears were growing last night for the safety of two missing girls who may have gone to meet someone they contacted on an internet chat site.Police said they were concerned about Denise Robotham, 12, and Sinead Ormand, 13, after they left their north London homes for a 'teenage adventure' on Friday afternoon and failed to return home.Scotland Yard said the girls had been in contact with a number of people online, and police were last night investigating email addresses found on Sinead's computer. They have already identified three 14-year-old boys in Norfolk. The girls had invited themselves to Norfolk but the boys said they had asked them not to come. The boys denied that Denise and Sinead had been to their homes.Police said that the pair left their school, Hornsey School for Girls, in north London on Friday after attending the first two lessons of the morning. They believe they went to Sinead's house in north London, to collect belongings and money. Denise was also spotted by a neighbour returning to her home and leaving shortly afterwards.Denise is described as black, 5ft 7in tall with long hair tied back in braids, with bleached tips. She was wearing her school uniform when she left school, but police believe that she took spare clothes with her and may be wearing a red jacket. Sinead is described as white, the   same height as Denise, with shoulder-length blonde hair. She was also last seen wearing her school uniform.She may be wearing a three-quarter- length cream jacket.The girls are thought to have around &#163;100 between them, a tent and spare clothes. They did not take their mobile phones.The investigation already involves three police forces led by the Metropolitan Police. British Transport Police are examining CCTV footage of mainline train stations across London, while Norfolk Police are conducting local inquiries.Detective Inspector Paul Davidson from Tottenham CID said: 'There is no evidence at this stage to suggest they have fallen into danger. However, due to their age, lack of recent sightings and the impending cold weather we are very keen to trace them as soon as possible.'Our initial inquiries have confirmed they were in contact with people over the Internet. However we do not know whether they went to meet one of these people. We are speaking to their friends to see if they can shed any further light on the girls intentions.'John Carr, internet adviser to the children's charity NCH, said: 'We can only hope and pray that they return safely. But whatever the outcome this demonstrates the dangers of meeting people from internet chatrooms. These girls had no idea that the person they were talking to was 14 or 40.'
"AOL is conducting a trial of a new e-mail protocol called Sender Permitted From, or SPF, across its entire user base of 33 million subscribers. The company hopes that SPF will eliminate e-mail forgeries by enabling organizations to specify which servers are allowed to send mail on behalf of their Internet domain, according to AOL spokesman Nicholas Graham."SPF stops e-mail address spoofing by modifying the Domain Name System (DNS) to declare which servers can send mail from a particular Internet domain. AOL is using SPF to publish the IP (Internet Protocol) addresses of the servers it uses to send outgoing e-mail," reports theIDG News Service."The long term benefit of SPF is that, when the technology is widely deployed, e-mail providers will be able to associate reputations with Internet domains rather than with IP addresses, which are harder to track, according to Eric Raymond, president of the Open Source Initiative, who gave a presentation on SPF during January's Spam Conference 2004 at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge."
"Shoppers at online retailer Amazon.com Inc can now spend money on something new -- US presidential candidates. A new feature that debuted Friday collects campaign contributions of up to $200 for US presidential candidates," reportsReuters."The Seattle, Washington-based retailer, which claims 37 million active accounts, said on its Web site that it is 'trying to take the friction out of grassroots contributions to presidential candidates'."
Reuters says:"Old-fashioned red tape is delaying the eagerly awaited European launch of Apple Computers' Internet music store iTunes, a company official said on Saturday. A maze of licensing contracts, music release dates that differ by country and incompatible billing systems have combined to sidetrack the service, which many recording executives still hope will make its European debut in the first half of 2004."We will be here this year. I'm not going to announce the date at this time, but we are working very hard," Eddy Cue, vice president of applications and Internet services for Apple, said at the annual MidemNet music conference on the French Riviera.
The relentless progress of videogames technology may have given us lavish, big-budget titles to play, but in the process the industry has all but destroyed a creature that was once one of its most creative and innovative assets: the bedroom coder."It's extremely difficult to get into games these days if you want to be a one-man-band, unless you want to do mobile games," says Archer Mclean. He is studio head of Awesome Developments, and spent most of his degree years programming on his Atari 800, on which he coded his first hit Dropzone in 1984."Now there's a huge infrastructure of publishers controlling developers, lots of financial strings being pulled, the marketing machines, the magazines and the charts, and that's usually much more complex than the whole development cycle," he says.However, the games industry is now seeking to fill the bedroom coder gap by throwing its weight behind the growing number of computer games courses on offer at universities all around the country. Degrees range from the new "BA in Video Games Production" and the rather grandly titled "Master of Computer Arts" at the University of Abertay, to the University of Bradford's BSc in "Interactive Systems and Video Games Design".Now you don't have to worry about using up your revision time drawing games characters or learning the intricacies of C++, because it's all part of the course.   	  Seamus Blackley, the Vice President of the Capital Entertainment group, is supportive of the potential such courses have to breed a new generation of developers who will have gained the necessary qualifications and experience during their studies to be a valuable asset to the industry."I think that games courses are absolutely critical," says Blackley. "They provide a terrific amount of validation for us as an industry in general, which I think is very important. It enables a process to begin where people can start to get experience of the industry, appreciate the challenges and gain contacts."Some games developers are becoming more proactive in their approach to computer games courses and even helping start them up in their local areas. "We kept having these generic portfolios coming across and none of them were up to scratch," explains James Brace, Art Director at Climax in Portsmouth. "So we thought 'let's go to a university and set up a course', so we've helped set up a 12-16 week module course at Portsmouth University that will allow coders and artists to work together on projects."The studio has already capitalised on the benefits of Portsmouth's games-related degrees, as it recruited three animators straight off the Computer Animation BA/BSc course to work on their upcoming big-budget title, Sudeki.Another section of the industry that is pushing games-related courses is the International Game Developers' Association (IGDA), which is focusing on building bridges with the academic community and enhancing relations between developers and academics. As well as holding its own academic summits every year, the IGDA even offers its own curriculum framework guide that helps universities set up games-related courses in a way that would most benefit the needs of the students and the industry.With 2003 marking an especially rocky year for the British development scene, with many smaller studios closing down, the industry is looking for new ways to help bolster itself. This nurturing of new talent from a grass roots level may be one way to achieve this, fostering not only the game developers of the future, but also a greater academic understanding of videogaming in general.  Rhianna PratchettCharts - full price softwareOfficial UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA compiled by Chart-Track1) Need for Speed Underground (PS2, Xbox, GC) Electronic Arts - 39.992) Grand Theft Auto III: Double Pack (XB, PS2) Take 2 - 39.993) The Simpsons: Hit &amp; Run (PS2, Xbox, GC) VU Games - 37.994) FIFA 2004 (PS2, Xbox, PC, PL) Electronic Arts - 34.995) LOTR: Return of the King (PS2, Xbox, GC, GBA) Electronic Arts - 34.996) Norton Internet Security 2004 (PC) Symantec - 29.997) The Sims: Bustin' Out (Ps2, Xbox, GC, GBA) Electronic Arts - 37.998) Medal of Honor: Rising Sun (PS2, Xbox, GC) Electronic Arts - 37.999) Tony Hawk's Underground (PS2, Xbox, GC, GBA) Activision - 39.9910) Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2004 (PS2, Xbox, PC, GBA) Electronic Arts - 29.99
"US software giant Microsoft said on Friday it would bring cash and software to a computer training programme it has set up with the United Nations Development Programme, as part of a $1 billion company investment to bring computers to developing countries,"Reutersreports from Davos."Microsoft would donate cash and the latest versions of its software, but the centres were free to expand with other software, including open source software such as Linux, Gates said. 'They'll be adding software from other providers. There's no exclusivity,' he said. 'Our role is to bring software that is quite popular, and happens to be ours.'"Comment: Reuters notes that "the announcement follows a pilot project in Afghanistan where the two organisations set up centres at 16 locations, aiming to train 12,000 users this year." Ben Hammersley took part and reported it for Onlinehere.
Booble, the "adult search engine" hasn't been removed from the Web at the time of writing, but it isn't really a search engine, either. The launch press releaseheresays "each of its 6,000 + listings have been edited and classified by hand," so it doesn't claim to have searched the Web. I'm not even sure it searches its own database: all it does is retrieve what look like advertisements for paid-for porn sites. So it's really a marketing story: Booble.com has been hugely successful in getting attention for a string of boring porn advertisements just by using a design based on Google.It was probably very easy to do, too, if you already had all the information in your Guide to Online Erotica atSirRodney.com.
Microsoft's quarterly sales passed $10 billion for the first time, with revenues up by 19% to $10.2 billion. Operating profits were also comfortably ahead of Wall Steet projections, but were more than halved to a final $1.6 billion after deducting $2.2 billion in charges mainly resulting from changes to its employee stock-option plan. For details seeThe Mercury News,USA Today, etc.Update:Microsoftsaid: "The revenue growth was driven primarily by licensing of the recently launched Office 2003, increased licensing of Windows operating systems through OEMs and Server and Tools products, and 19% growth in MSN revenue." Client revenue was $3.06 billion, with XP Pro stable at 55% of the Windows market. Total Server and Tools revenue grew 21% to $2.13 billion, with "an estimated 19% increase in Windows-based server shipments driving 17% growth in new Windows Server license sales."Cash and short-term investments totaled $52.78 billion as of December 31, 2003. Cash flow from operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2004 was $4.57 billion, compared to $2.77 billion in the comparable quarter of the prior year.
Nick Denton'sjust unveiled the latest weblog project out of hisGawkerstable. Coming only a couple of months after he unveiled his Fleshbot porn blog, you could argueWonkettetakes the pro-blog conceptrightinto the gutter, devoted as it is to the seedy world of US politics. It's being written by Ana Marie Cox who, Nick reminds us, "used to write Suck, the nastiest thing to come out of Wired Digital." I seem to recall that, even at the time, it was also easily thebestthing coming out of Wired Digital. If her new blog is even halfway as compelling, we'll all be in for a treat.
"Google quietly released a new online social networking service Thursday in a bold move by the Mountain View search-engine company into one of the hottest areas on the Internet. Called Orkut, the service allows users to link up with friends of their friends and aims to ''increase the overall satisfaction of social life.'' It is much like the hot Sunnyvale online dating service Friendster -- but possibly with more features," reportsThe Mercury News.
Over at thenews weblogJane Perrone's on the case of Booble, the porn search engine that took a little inspiration for its name - and logo - from Google. It appears Google has made sure the site was removed pronto for infringing its trademark. But, ironically, the site's logo lives on inside Google'scache.
Eastman Kodak, the company that invented popular photography, yesterday announced plans to cut up to 15,000 jobs as it struggles to remain relevant in the digital age.The job losses represent around one-fifth of the company's global workforce. Although the business has been investing in digital technology for some years, it has admitted to being caught by surprise by the "breathtaking" speed with which the new generation of cameras has taken hold.Filmless digital cameras are already outselling traditional models in the US.The company refused to give details of where the axe might fall, other than that the job losses will hit traditional lines of business including film manufacturing.Kodak employs around 2,700 workers in Britain, including 1,500 at a photographic paper plant in Harrow, north London, 600 at the head office in Hemel Hempstead and 450 at a film manufacturing plant in Ammesley, near Nottingham.Kodak's chief executive, Daniel Carp, said the restructuring was necessary to free up cash that could be invested in digital. "Obviously, when you have to lay off as many people as we have, that's gut-wrenching," he said. "But we know we are doing it for the better good of the whole company."The job losses, which will take place over the next three years, are aimed at saving up to $1bn a year by 2007.The cuts are the latest in a series of convulsions at one of the oldest consumer brand names in the world.Mr Carp, who has been with Kodak for his entire career, has shaken up management to surround himself with outsiders who have digital expertise. Last week, the company announced that it had decided to stop selling reloadable film cameras in the US and Europe by the end of 2004, a move that would have unthinkable just a short while ago.It had already cut 22,000 jobs over the past five years, re ducing its workforce from 86,000 in 1998 to 64,000 at the end of last year.The company announced a roadmap for survival in September. The aim is to shift with the market and develop a business around digital imaging and photography. In the same announcement, the firm cut its dividend by 70% to pay for $3bn in investments and acquisitions.Not all of Kodak's shareholders were immediately behind the belated plans to embrace digital. Some investors would rather Kodak simply manage its decline and eke out as much profit from its traditional lines of business as possible.The announcement of the new strategy prompted a 20% fall in Kodak's share price, although the restiveness appears to have eased. In early trading on Wall Street yesterday the shares were 12% higher, gaining $3.19 to reach $30.65, levels not seen for seven months.Kodak already appears to be making some progress. The company is the second biggest maker of digital cameras in the US, its most important market, with a 17.5% share. It is behind Sony, but ahead of Canon, Olympus and Nikon.The company reported fourth-quarter earnings of $19m, down from $113m a year ago. The profits were hit by a number of one-off items, including restructuring costs.How long Mr Carp and Kodak have to prove that the strategy is right is uncertain. On the sidelines, a potentially interesting development awaits. Carl Icahn, the infamous corporate raider of the 1980s, received clearance at the end of last year to buy up to $500m worth of Kodak shares. He said in November that he was "taking a wait and see" attitude to the company.
Legal action against music fans who use illegal internet download sites outside the United States is "inevitable" this year, a record industry trade body warned yesterday.The International Federation of the Phonographic Industry said it would target illegitimate websites and consumers who repeatedly used them, following similar moves in the US last year.Allen Dixon, the general counsel of the IFPI, said the Recording Industry Association of America had proved that suing users of illegal services is a successful deterrent against online music piracy.The RIAA caused controversy last year when it launched 341 lawsuits against consumers, including 12 year-old schoolgirl Brianna LaHara, but the tactic appeared to pay off, with the number of people using the Kazaa file-swapping site falling by 50%."As a last resort, litigation does get the message across... It is probably inevitable outside of the US as we move into 2004," he said.Mr Dixon said the IFPI would not take action against people who use the sites occasionally but would focus on those who post music files on the networks."We are not talking about people who are downloading two files over their computer. All the people that were sued in the US are people that have opened their computer and are offering to millions of their closest friends substantial numbers of music files for distribution," he said.The IFPI's comments followed a warning last week from the UK trade body, the British Phonographic Industry, that legal action is "increasingly likely" in this country.The IFPI delivered the warning to web pirates as it published a report on the online music market that claimed the industry's internet strategy is "turning the corner".It said the number of illegal files on file-swapping networks such as Grokster and Kazaa had decreased from 1bn last April to 900m this month, a fall of 20%. Much of the slump in global music sales, including a 10.9% fall in the first half of last year, has been blamed on file-swapping sites."We believe that the music industry's industry strategy is now turning the corner and that in 2004 there will be, for the first time, a substantial migration of consumers from unauthorised free services to legitimate alternatives," said Jay Berman, the chief executive of the IFPI.The IFPI said the number of customers for legal download services in Europe reached more than 500,000 last year, and that number should increase substantially in 2004 as Apple's i-Tunes, Napster and Rhapsody move across the Atlantic after successful launches in the US. It added that nearly 500,000 tracks are now available on legitimate services.This could be a crucial year for the global record industry, with increased broadband penetration increasing the potential customer base for the music downloading market.As well as taking a tough legal line against consumers, the IFPI is supporting and promoting legitimate services so that broadband newcomers do not turn to services like Kazaa and Grokster.The need to market Napster, Rhapsody and the Coca-Cola venture effectively was underlined by a survey commissioned for the report, which pointed to a lack of awareness among European consumers of legitimate sites.The survey, conducted in UK, Germany, France and Denmark, found that less than one in four people was aware of legal alternatives such as Napster and Rhapsody. But 66% of people interviewed in the survey knew that unauthorised file-swapping was illegal, with 54% supporting legal action against the worst infringers.About 50 new online music services are expected to launch in Europe this year, taking the total to more than 80.
A new front has opened up in the battle for the White House - on the internet's leading search engine.The practice of "Google bombing" is gaining momentum as political webloggers realise they can manipulate the results of Google, the top-ranked search site, to make a satirical point.The first victim was President George Bush, who found last year that his official White House website biography came top of Google's results whenever someone typed in the phrase "miserable failure". Now a battle between Mr Bush's opponents and supporters has catapulted the White House profile of Jimmy Carter, and the home page of writer and filmmaker Michael Moore, to second and third spot in the "miserable failure" stakes.The online tussle has raised fears that the usefulness of the search engine may be harmed by internet users attempting to distort its results.The webloggers' weapon lies in the innovative way Google compiles its results. The engine scours the web and uses algorithms to calculate the importance of a page. This technique revolutionised internet searches. But it also means that, if enough sites link to President Bush's official biography page with the clickable text reading "miserable failure", Google will assume that page is the most important "miserable failure" page, and put it top of the listings. Google's greatest strength could now also be its greatest weakness.Yesterday, the programmer behind the Bush Google bomb told the New York Times he had been surprised at how easy the exercise had been. "The reason it worked is that there were enough like-minded people who thought it was funny and spread it around," said George Johnston, 46, who runs a weblog calledOld Fashioned Patriot.&#183;Google dismisses the distortion of its results as a passing internet fad. But some experts say this new "cybergraffiti" trend is harming users.
