Working from home can mean becoming your own IT manager, particularly for those without support from an employer or other organisation. Don't worry, as it is not as complicated as it sounds. The main thing is to have alternatives when things go wrong. And they will.Make problems less likelyThis should be obvious, but install antivirus software, or use an antivirus service. Never open unexpected attachments, and be very wary with software from file-sharing systems. If you have a broadband connection, install a firewall to protect your computer being taken over by hackers.If you don't already have antivirus and firewall software, try free packages such as Grisoft's antivirus software (www.grisoft.com/us/us_dwnl_free.php) or Sygate's Personal Firewall (smb.sygate.com/buy/download_buy.htm). Make sure you update the software regularly as prompted.For more detailed advice on protection, read Jack Schofield's "Ask Jack" columns, which can be searched atwww.guardian.co.uk/online. More generally, it is worth cutting the amount of software on your computer if you can, and checking for updates of all your software through the company's websites, or for Microsoft-running PCs, through Windows Update on the Start menu.The computer doesn't workIf it is still active, try to close the software that has caused the crash. Some utility software such as Norton's handle this automatically, but on a Microsoft-running PC, pressing the control, alt and delete keys together allows you to close applications individually - look for the application that has "not responding" next to it, try to close it and give it a minute to respond.If the crash looks irretrievable, reset the machine using control, alt and delete again, or the computer's reset or on/off button. Never just unplug it as this can physically damage the hard disk.If resetting doesn't work - or if you have a power cut, or your computer is stolen - you need a plan B. If you have a laptop or palmtop, make this your backup computer. This means copying key files across on a regular basis.Or have a backup location, such as a nearby internet cafe, library or other public-sector web access centre, or a friend with a computer and a connection. You will need to keep those key files on a floppy, which means ensuring that your backup location accepts such disks (many do not), or use a secure online file-store.You need to know how to access your email through the web. Your internet service provider's website might offer such a facility, althoughwww.mail2web.commay do this better. This is also the solution to a huge email that looks set to take half an hour to download; you can decide in advance whether to delete it.With your backup in place, there is less urgency in getting your computer repaired or replaced. If your computer is more than three years old, consider buying a new one; many organisations routinely replace PCs every three to four years. It may seem expensive, but weigh up how much time you will waste otherwise.If this happens, you will want to have your important data already off your computer. There are firms that can rescue data from most broken or damaged computers, at a price. To avoid this, buy a CD writer if you don't have one - they can cost as little as £50 - and back up all new and changed files to CD regularly. You should also back up useful software downloaded from the internet; this will be a lot quicker than downloading it again. Store these backup CDs separately from your computer, just in case of fire or other disaster.The phone line doesn't workIf you can't hear a ring tone, bear in mind that the old "turn it off and on" technique sometimes works here, too. Unplug the connection at the phone socket, wait a few seconds, plug in a handset and see if you have a dial tone. You may have too many devices plugged into the line. If that doesn't work, it's time to phone the telephone company.You will probably do this on the backup phone line you already own - your mobile. It makes sense to leave the mobile number on your land line's voicemail service, as when a land line stops working, the exchange often treats it as if it were engaged.Mobiles can also be used to collect email and surf the web, although usually at speeds that make a dial-up modem look positively nippy. It might be worth upgrading to a mobile with a built-in modem, particularly if you can get new handsets cheaply or for free through a contract. Get your portable computer and mobile to cooperate before disaster strikes - it can be an involved process.The computer doesn't work with the phone lineIf it's not the computer or the phone line, check your external modem has power; if so, it will have a light on. Then, both for internal and external modems, try restarting the computer and the modem.If it's not the modem, it could be the internet service provider. You can see if it is working by dialling its number through a handset, and seeing if it answers with the beeps and squawks you normally hear through your computer.If you don't get this, wait a few minutes and try again. If symptoms persist, the alternative is to keep a pay-as-you-go account with another ISP, or at least an access CD for one. Waitrose is a decent option as a backup, because it provides a freephone helpline.If you set up a spare account, you will need to use it every so often to keep it live; once every 90 days is typical. You can then use this ISP to retrieve your email online, as explained previously.A final tipIf you know someone who works in PC support, ask (nicely) if he or she is willing to help if you have problems, and also to give your machine a once-over every so often. Offer to pay for their time, and at least buy them a drink or two.
The web and business banking could have been made for each other: the internet lets you do a lot of your banking when and where it suits you. We don't always want to check our accounts or pay bills at times and places the bank finds convenient.That's particularly relevant for the small business, and especially for the one-person business. We're generally working at precisely the times when bank branches are open. But we still need to pay bills, move money around, do some cheque reconciliations. And frequently it makes sense to do that housekeeping in the evening (maybe even the dead of night) or at weekends.Online banking is the answer. Sadly, it's not the complete answer. It depends on the question (is yours the kind of business that suits online banking?) and it depends on the bank: services and costs vary considerably.Convenience is the obvious plus to any web-based account. Standing in a queue at the branch is not a sensible use of anyone's time. Internet banking allows you 24/7 access from any computer with a connection to the web.Speed is also a feature of most online accounts. You can transfer funds between accounts in a matter of seconds. So you could shift spare cash almost instantly from a current account into a high-earning deposit account. Or you could move money back again to avoid overdrawing or to minimise the overdraft.In fact you probably won't get 24/7 availability, as some banks do shut down for a couple of the wee small hours for maintenance and system checks, and most will close their services altogether for two or three days a year (generally around Christmas).You can live with that. More irritating is the sluggishness at which these cyberspace-speed services actually work. Transfers are only immediate for certain accounts, provided they're all at the same bank. Paying bills or moving money to an account at a different bank can take three to five days - just like the old-style counter service, really.Even with automated electronic transfers from one online account to another, you might expect a lag, perhaps an overnight delay. The banks say that the system simply doesn't allow such fast movements. There's also the suspicion that superfast transfers would mean the banks couldn't make any interest for themselves on your money while it's waiting to be moved.You'll also find that some of the services you might want simply aren't provided. Overseas transfers aren't normally on offer, for instance. That kind of facility is available if you sign up for the PC banking services offered by some of the big-name banks, the likes of Royal Bank of Scotland's Royline and HSBC's Hexagon. These provide you with software and a direct access dial-up number to manage your accounts without going via the internet. PC banking can be faster, and because security is better (in theory) you'll get more extensive services. You'll pay more for these, of course, and in practice you won't be able to access your accounts from any computer.Incidentally, security on web-based accounts probably isn't a major issue these days. Barclays had a highly embarrassing moment a while ago when a software upgrade somehow opened customer account details to all and sundry, but security breaches (at least those we get to hear about) are now rare. In general you'll need a username and a Pin code or some other ID to get at your accounts, and you may also be surprised with an occasional check for your birthdate or a memorable question. The downside is that this security can make access seem a bit slow, but that price must be worth paying.Personal service is also less of an issue. Local branches no longer have the degree of autonomy associated with past times, so the "relationship manager" assigned to business customers who still turn up in person may be little better than the open-all-hours email question-answering service available to online customers.So how do the web bank accounts differ? The most obvious features are the levels of interest paid, the deals on offer, and the charges levied. Normally these would apply to any business account - in most cases the internet banking is an option on a standard small-business account - though some of these accounts do require transactions to be branch-free. Deposits are made at ATMs or by post, cheque payments might be restricted, electronic payments and money transfers are encouraged.This might mean that coins cannot be deposited and petty cash floats aren't available. Retailers who need coins for their business probably won't get much joy out of online banking.The so-called "free banking" offerings also vary widely. Some are restricted to start-up businesses. Many place limits on the amount of activity: Bank of Scotland, which has one of the better deals, allows you to write 100 cheques per month before charges kick in.Balance that against the minimum amount of cash that has to be in the account to qualify for free banking: it's £5,000 at Bank of Scotland, but at RBS the free banking applies for accounts opened until May 2005, with standard charges and a £5 per month minimum thereafter.Flat-fee banking from Alliance &amp; Leicester and NatWest involves a standing charge (£10 in both cases) with the same kind of limits on the number of account transactions per month.Unless your business is complicated, it should become pretty clear which accounts will be good for you - you'll need to know the mix of cheques in and out, the number of standing orders and money transfers you can set up, and the minimum balance you can maintain.But don't bother: there's a shortcut available in the shape of the BBA/MoneyFacts calculator atmoneyfacts.co.uk/mfbaf. This lists all the "introductory offer" deals and allows you detailed comparisons between any two accounts.What online services offer&#183;Access to all your business accounts (including deposit, loan and credit card accounts) from one screen&#183;Check balances&#183;View current and previous statements&#183;Transfer money between your accounts at the bank&#183;Pay bills&#183;Transfer money to any person or organisation with a UK bank account&#183;Set up standing orders - then check, amend or cancel SOs and direct debits&#183;Download statements in a form that can be read by one of the popular spreadsheet or bookkeeping packages, usually one or more of Excel, Quicken, QuickBooks and Microsoft Money&#183;Order paper statements, replacement cards, pre-addressed envelopes, chequebooks and paying in slips&#183;Stop a chequeCase 1: Quick responseBanxia Software, developer of decision support and meeting tools, is run by Matthew Jones. He was an early user of the HOBS service from Bank of Scotland, a pioneering PC banking service that was killed off when BoS moved to an internet-based service. "We didn't have much choice, apart from changing banks," says Jones. "Internet banking does of course allow us more flexibility over where we check accounts from, but it isn't as good as HOBS: there are no foreign currency facilities or special account types."We access it daily to watch for bank transfers arriving from customers. This is faster than waiting for the bank to post details to us."Jones is also impressed with the bank's responsiveness. "Last autumn I told them about a problem and they fixed it here in July. Only nine months to sort out a major flaw: not bad for a bank!"Security is proving a mild irritant. BoS (and Lloyds) have introduced a second level security system which calls for entering specific characters from a supplementary password: "It all adds hassle to what was an easy system to use."Case 2: Free for everDemographix is a market research tool for building bespoke online surveys. The company is run by Derek Cohen, who shopped around before settling on Abbey National Business: "HSBC was recommended but the application process was tiresome. The Abbey National set-up was quick and easy, and they didn't force me to go for any of the business advice sessions that HSBC wanted."Cohen's level of business means he falls within the parameters for Abbey National's "free for ever" service. "We go online every day to check recent transactions, progress of US cheques and the like. We don't download statements for importing into a bookkeeping package, though."Downsides? "They need to extend telephone support to 24/7, as many people work outside usual office hours." That criticism can be levelled at most online accounts though.Case 3: Instant resultsJohn Sandell runs Diafade, a writing and web design consultancy in Hertfordshire. A long-term Lloyds TSB customer, he found the internet service a useful addition for monitoring the account, "especially as I'm now 15 miles from my original branch".These days he logs on to his account around once a week ("I probably ought to do that more often") to check the balance and pay bills. Online banking compensates for the loss of personal contact: "These days, of course, I can't talk to the bank. I have to speak to a call centre. Before internet banking I knew many of the branch staff on first-name terms, and it was possible to talk to a specific individual who knew my business."He finds the online service particularly useful for transferring money between his current and savings account - "it's instantaneous" - and he's generally happy with it. "It works, and on a Mac too! The interface can seem a bit tedious, but I guess that's the price you pay for security."Case 4: Year round accessibilityJeremy Freeman is Bamps.com, a consultancy offering web design and e-marketing services, and he also helps his wife, Ravit Freeman, with her personalised greeting cards service Cardsenders. Both accounts are fairly active - an average of five to 10 transactions a day - and for the two businesses they operate two separate online bank accounts. "HSBC offers a specific service to franchises, and Barclays I've been with for six years. In practice there's not much difference between them: they offer similar services, both easy to use."Freeman sees a major plus in accessibility 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. He also saves on banking charges by doing things himself. But he would like some sensible extras, such as a cashflow forecaster to anticipate the future situation when unpaid cheques and incoming receipts have been cleared. "The system could be more flexible in terms of helping you to run your business, not just simply providing the basics of banking."
Banks are in business to make money, and basically they do that in two ways: by charging you for services and by using the money you have placed with them.The balance between these two seems to be shifting. Not so long ago, banks charged for just about everything: their charging systems were arcane and intricate, and a casual observer might think they were designed to confuse customers.Amazingly, some of this attitude persists. Take a look at the tariffs for the bigger banks: they often run to several pages, frequently with a range of prices for apparently similar services delivered in slightly different ways. Businesses tend to use more banking services than the individual, so there are more charges that the bank can apply. And for some businesses there may less incentive to check the details; forensic analysis can take some time, and most of us need to get back to earning money.But competition has produced a much better banking environment for the smaller business. Nearly all the banks have good starter deals and/or all-inclusive fixed monthly fees. Stick to the limits on the number of cheques you can issue or the number of deposits you can make, and the cost of your banking should be predictable and checkable.Those deals mean that the banks are looking more to the alternative way of making money, using the funds you have deposited with them to make short-term investments, normally on the currency markets.This is particularly profitable if the bank doesn't have to give you something in return: interest, for instance. There's a lot more attention on rates of interest for consumer accounts, but business current accounts don't normally earn much interest at all (and some are still completely interest-free).You can't stop the bank using your money to make money for itself. But you can make your money work as hard as possible. Here are the top three tips:&#183;Minimise charges by reducing the number of transactions (use one paying-in slip for as any cheques as possible), staying clear of branches - deposits at an ATM are usually cheaper. Avoid cheques in favour of automated payments, such as standing orders and BACS transfers.&#183;Avoid unauthorised overdrafts. In particular, make sure payments to you have cleared before you start writing cheques. You can set up BACS transfers for a particular date in the future, too.&#183;Move surplus funds to a high-interest deposit account as soon as possible. You may be able to automate this, so that balances over a certain level are automatically transferred.
Online banking: do you, don't you, and why? The chances are most people with an internet connection will indeed be doing something in terms of banking using the wires. It's a me-too product. If you think your bank doesn't allow its customers to bank electronically then you need to change your bank or find a bank manager within the group who won't fib to you like that. Elsewhere in this issue Dennis Jarrett compares the offerings of the various banks once they are online, but the essential fact is that they are all there in cyberspace.Except they are often to be seen in different forms. Take Barclays: yes it is an online bank like all the rest, but it is also a bank that offers the ClearlyBusiness start-up software and accounting package (which is basically Quickbooks with a few extra branding bits chucked at it). Others, such as Abbey National, perceive that their customers want free banking and less of the bells and whistles, thanks. No doubt they are both right for their particular catchment areas.It is instructive, though, to look at who is using internet banking and who isn't - and who, above all, is using it for static statements and other services that simply duplicate what is already happening on paper. Barclays gave us the following information about its customers:&#183;Just under half of owner-managers under 25 use the internet for business purposes, with greater usage in businesses under a year old (58%). There is a higher usage among businesses with sales totalling over £50k where 70% use it.&#183;Owners of new businesses that have come from management jobs are more likely to be computer literate as they will probably have been trained in the workplace and therefore don't have to take time out to learn how to use them.More than 71% of over-50-year-old owner-managers own and use a computer in their business.&#183;Consultancies and businesses with low levels of cash tend to find internet banking useful as they can manage the majority of their finances online. However, businesses such as local shops which are cash intensive, really enjoy the benefits of internet banking, because they can manage their funds outside of shop hours without having to close up to visit the branch. New services such as our business cash advantage now enable customers with cash to deposit money in the night safe outside of bank hours so they can now deposit and bank even when the branch is closed.&#183;There are businesses in a range of sectors who are late adopters, perhaps due to cashflow issues preventing them from investing in new IT equipment for their business (ie a traditional small manufacturing business).There are more than a few businesses in this position, too, suggests research from the British Bankers Association. If only 15% of small businesses - that is 440,000 of you - bank online, why are the rest holding back?Some of the answers may lie not in what the banks do but in what they don't offer. Tim Burfoot, head of financial services at financial consultancy Detica, says it is amazing how quickly net banking has become a boring commodity subject."Most applications offer little more than yet another alternative means of checking static account information and making routine payments," he says."Moreover, few banks appear to understand or manage the relationship between internet banking use and contact centre volumes so it is very difficult to tell how much contact centre traffic (and cost) is actually driven by internet banking usage."He points to a number of discrepancies in the banks' offerings: "Customer sophistication with financial products varies widely, yet, when it comes to using internet banking applications to drive product sales, systems deliver a 'one size fits all' that risks bamboozling the inexperienced customer or talking down to the more financially sophisticated." The logic seems pretty inescapable; how many businesses consider they share nothing in common with each other but are forced to use the same banking options?There are also other inhibitors, which numerous people (all of whom have vested interests naturally) believe could be overcome. In a recent Mori survey it was established that:&#183;6 million more people would bank electronically if it were not for security worries;&#183;28% of respondents saw security as the biggest barrier to e-banking. The survey was commissioned by - wait for it - a security company, RSA Security, and the figures relate to consumer banking rather than businesses, but the figures are still telling. Barclays, which claims credit for launching internet banking in the UK in 1998, has made a number of forecasts as to how some of the current attitudes will change. It suggests:&#183;Customer numbers banking online will double by 2006;&#183;By 2008, 40% of transactions will happen online, compared to the current 20%;&#183;Customers will continue to use the internet in addition to, rather than instead of, standard banking - this is in contrast to predictions being made at the time of the dotcom boom, when we were all going to do everything including making the tea online;&#183;Although the online banking community remains male dominated the balance is now only 60/40, and this will continue to right itself;&#183;46% of customers initiate payments online, and this figure will grow;&#183;62% of UK adults, whether at home or at work, have access to the internet.The difficulty will remain differentiating a service: once a customer is online, then typing and clicking the mouse is a brand-neutral activity. Many of the banks claim victory for their small business and software initiatives; currently Barclays looks the most serious with its ClearlyBusiness initiative. Others are using sticks rather than carrots; at least one of the big four is reducing the interest it pays on current accounts for business if the customer doesn't log on enough for the company's liking in a given month.Whether this is sustainable remains to be seen; certainly the banks are keen to push their customers towards the new medium and, given the effect it has on their overheads, you can see why. The benefits to customers are clear, too: out-of-hours service is invaluable from an industry that honestly thinks it took a revolutionary step forward when it extended opening until 4.30pm when everyone is still at work.It is worth stepping back and doing a little reality check. Sure, only 15% of small businesses actually bank online, but only 19% of the population overall does so (source: Mori), so expecting massive take-up is unrealistic.On the other hand, if online banking has everything to do with efficiency and having an internet connection in the first place, you can be forgiven for wondering why business should be behind rather than ahead of the consumer market on this occasion - it's the businesses who'll be spending money paying their employees to stand in a queue at a counter, not the consumers, who obviously do it in their own time.Internet banking has been with us now for around five years in its current form (prior to that, most online banking happened through direct links to the banks). It's arguable that a 15% penetration is a good result from a standing start, and that a lot of companies will be noticing the benefits of handling their money in this way. It still leaves 85% in the queue or hanging on the telephone, which costs money.It will be interesting to revisit the figures a year from now and see the effect that broadband's increasing ubiquity has on the market.Banking is big business&#183;Research from the University of Birmingham suggests businesses are being let down by the banks: in spite of banks being the most likely place to get financing, they're not trying to simplify or cheapen the borrowing process. Also, whereas in Europe the regional banks are structured in favour of small business, banks in the UK are much more aligned with big business customers and their needs.&#183;Finance guide Business Moneyfacts has surveyed the big four business banks and found changes in small business accounts have had little effect on the services on offer and that smaller banks still offer better deals. The big four have disputed the conclusions and findings.&#183;Research company Hitwise found that online banking grew 65% last year, including both business and personal banking in its information.&#183;Nevertheless, figures from the British Bankers Association suggest that although online banking is growing in the business community, only 15% of small companies in the UK use the internet for their finances.Drawbacks of the systemOf course, we mere users of the banking services are terribly naive, but there are a couple of services that, if they can work in e-banking, you'd think could be done in cyberspace or vice versa. Take cheque clearance. You walk into a shop or even log on to a suitable website, you hand over your Switch or Delta card (or the details) and they can have the money in their account in seconds. Someone who owes you money sends you a cheque and it takes five days - five days! - to clear. If they or you pay by BACS it takes three days.We asked a Barclays spokesman why this was. "We alone cannot change the clearing system, which is why we have found an alternative for customers, through instant banking," he says. "It is not possible for any bank to change unilaterally the clearing cycle, and this would be a major project for the whole industry. We are willing to participate in any discussions about the clearing cycle and its future."Cheques, he explains, still need to go through money-laundering checks and other regulated procedures, which are prescribed by law; indeed there are a lot of procedures that have to happen for a transaction to be recognised legally, he explains. "We still have to present a cheque for payment to the bank on which the cheque is drawn," he says. "This occurs on day two and determines the length of the clearing cycle." Even then, Barclays for one will stump up £1,000 for a customer while a cheque is going through the process, but that applies to personal rather than business customers for the moment.So much for cheques, but what about electronic transfers, surely they should happen instantly by now?"The potential market for same-day low-value payments is limited," he says. "It is currently difficult to make the business case for banks to invest heavily in systems to enable this."
In brief&#183;Hewlett-Packard haslaunched its Top Config service, a computer building scheme aimed mostly at the small business community. Instead of building a load of machines and telling you what you can buy from the range, this will involve going to an HP reseller (or "dealer" to cut out the jargon) and explaining exactly what you need from your systems; HP will then build a specified system to order. Andy Vickers, who heads up the scheme for HP, confirmed that in spite of the tailored nature of the scheme, the company will have access to all of the economies of scale it has on its broader range, so prices won't shoot up if you're having something tailored.&#183;Samsung has joinedthe army of manufacturers offering new Centrino-based notebook computers. Dell, Toshiba and others were the first off the blocks. Centrino is essentially a chipset from Intel that focuses on mobility issues (battery life and display quality) rather than the traditional go-as-fast-as-you-can-and-ignore-the-rest approach of the faster chips. The end result should be better life from a notebook. The new Samsungs include the top-of-the-range Q20, which includes wireless technology as standard. Storage of up to 60Gb and Ram up to 512Mb should please all but the most power hungry customers. Prices start at £1,399.&#183;You think your printerconsumables are costing too much but don't want to risk buying an "unbranded" substitute toner cartridge? It's a tall order, but Tally Systems is aiming to help with the problem. The long-established printer manufacturer aims to make alternative consumables available for just about every printer on the market, but it wants to do more than that: it wants to offer customers on-site support no matter who made their printers, and claims its customers will enjoy a 35% reduction in the ongoing costs of owning printers.&#183;Microsoft is to clarifyits pricing by introducing standard editions of Navision and Great Plains, the financial systems it acquired and turned into Microsoft Business Systems. Of interest primarily to the larger end of the small-to-medium business market, the systems are aimed at companies with between 25-99 employees and turnover of less than £25m per annum. The new versions of the systems will effectively be cut down to accommodate companies that don't need all of the flexibility and functions of the full-blown editions.&#183;3Com has become one ofthe first companies to bring the new wireless networking standard, 802.11g, to the small business market with the introduction of the 3Com OfficeConnect Wireless 11g solution. Previewed at the Comdex America show this year, it offers everything a wireless network will do by default, but should also cover a greater distance while offering increased security over current standards. The speed is five times that of existing 802.11b systems. Kit should be shipping in the US by the time this issue sees print and will come to the UK shortly afterwards; US prices include $135 for the access point so we're not talking about anything expensive here.&#183;People needing fast accessto backed-up files on the move will welcome news that Amacom has released an 80Gb version of its Flip2Disk. This is a pocket-sized (slightly smaller than a VHS tape but larger than a cigarette packet) shockproof unit that fits on to any computer with a USB port and configures itself as another hard drive. USB 2.0 users will find data transfer is much faster. The company's software, FlipBack, is also standard with the unit and will take a complete snapshot of your hard disk and put it onto your Flip2Disk unit. It costs £351 plus VAT.&#183;June was the worstmonth to date for recorded virus attacks. So says Via.Networks, both in terms of the density of infected emails and the number of new viruses being written. The figures suggest that whereas in May one mail in 420 was infected by a virus, during June that figure went up to one in 120. There were 24 new viruses in May compared to 35 in June. Bugbear-V was the most widely spread virus, and the information underlines the importance of not only installing antivirus software but of keeping it up to date.&#183;Epson has launchedthe EMP-SI, a projector it believes offers value to the typically cash-strapped small business community. The estimated retail price will be £999 including VAT (estimated because like all suppliers, Epson may not dictate pricing to its sales channel) which is significantly less than previous models have managed. It offers SVGA resolution and a 1200 ANSI Lumens brightness. It has a slot for its remote control and is very much designed for portability. It should be on the market from early August.
Reporting broken streetlights in the royal borough of Kingston upon Thames will soon become a little easier. The council, south-west of London, is to install street kiosks from which people can access itswebsiteand speak directly to a virtual call centre.The first kiosk is due to go into service this month. It is a standard Cityspace vandal-proof kiosk with a microphone and loudspeaker as well as a touchscreen. During the initial phase, the public will be able to speak to the council call centre, and report problems such as broken streetlights, graffiti and abandoned vehicles.Kingston is also pioneering interactive e-government through its website. Apart from usual services such as bill-paying, the site allows residents to call up the planning history of any address in the borough. This summer, families with bored children can book spaces online on the council's BusyBees play scheme.It is all done over a single electronic network, thanks to the council's adoption of voice over internet protocol (Voip, pronounced voyp) telephones. Kingston claims to be the first council in the country to run all its phones - 1,400 of them - on a data network. Voip will also allow staff to work from home and cut the phone bill: all calls on the network are free.Computers and telephones - even digital telephones - do not easily share networks. Natural two-way voice conversation is possibly only when connection is nearly instantaneous. To ensure this, a conventional voice network allocates a slice of bandwidth for each call and keeps   the circuit switched on as long as the call lasts, even if only a small part of the bandwidth is actually being used.Computers are much less demanding about their conversation space, especially about delays. Instead of maintaining a single switched circuit, a data network chops a message into small packets of digital bits which are slotted into bandwidth as it becomes available and reassembled at the other end. This is more economical but introduces delays. While it is possible to handle a voice call the same way, the results, as anyone who tried "free" telephony over the internet will know, are poor.The solution, as used by Voip networks such as Kingston's, is a smart circuit that recognises packets containing voice data and grants them priority. As a result, says Gerry Sevenoaks, the head of strategic services, there is no loss of quality.The council paid for the network with the &#163;500,000 it would otherwise have spent replacing an ageing switchboard. The council hopes to save huge sums in call charges, and the new technology also plays a part in the council's e-government plans.Multimedia street kiosks are only one channel for e-government. Another idea is to put telephone help points on to the council's CCTV masts so that people can call in if they need help: it is all on the same network.Today, people usually contact their council by phone from home. Sevenoaks expects this to continue for the foreseeable future. The standard way to handle phone services is to set up a call centre, where agents equipped with a "customer relationship management" (CRM) system can handle inquiries on any subject. Kingston isn't taking this route, instead creating what Sevenoaks calls "virtual mini call centres" for groups of council functions such as environmental services. Staff with Voip phones will be able to take calls from wherever they are, including at home. "For the public, it doesn't matter how we're organised, as long as we do our job," says Sevenoaks.Other public bodies, driven by the need to lay on e-services while cutting running costs, are also looking at Voip. Education Bradford, the public-private partnership running Bradford's schools, is handling voice calls across its 1GB-network from Mitel.Apart from allowing more flexible working, the network also handles 1,000 calls a week from schools to the ICT help desk.Surprisingly, given Voip's potential for cutting phone bills, BT says it is embracing the technology. BT's marketing manager (government), Kanagendra, says that the future lies in converged networks. "It reduces costs, which at one level is bad for us. But there's no point in denying it's going to happen - we want to have a part of it."There is a potential downside. When an organisation puts voice and data on a single network, it is putting its eggs in one basket - very few corporate data networks are as reliable as a dedicated telephone network.
It has been a busy few months for the business intelligence marketplace. Microsoft is making its presence felt, and Reporting Server will soon join an already crowded marketplace. Recent weeks have seen a wave of consolidation, as companies improve their software by buying in missing features: Business Objects bought Crystal Decisions, quickly followed by Hyperion's purchase of Brio.So what is business intelligence? Graham Walter of Cognos calls it "getting meaningful information from databases". Over the past decade or so, companies have invested considerable sums in database technologies. They have also built IT infrastructures around the customer relationship management systems and enterprise resource planning tools that fill their servers with data. With terabytes of operational information to hand, businesses need to find ways of unlocking its value. This is where business intelligence software comes in; usually as a mix of analytic tools and report generators.Business Objects' business intelligence tools build performance management dashboards. These help management teams see the information they need, when they need it. Dashboards can be built around various measurements and performance indicators, and give companies the tools they need to match performance to strategy, as well as alerting users to important events. A visual scorecard of goals and results, linked to historical performance, shows where a company is today, and where it is likely to be in three months.So far, business intelligence (which    Hyperion calls "business performance management") sounds very like existing management and enterprise information systems. Yes, they both take information from company databases and display them on users' PCs. However, today's business intelligence systems can take advantage of the whole of a company's information infrastructure, and deliver target information. Instead of information being kept in privileged silos, it is available to the whole organisation, not just individuals and departments. Rob Stevens, SAS's director of technology strategy, points out that business intelligence is not just about usability and access to data, it's also about ensuring the validity and reliability of the information that users see. To get the most out of any business intelligence system, compa nies need to manage information throughout its lifecycle - from creation to final archiving.With the IT industry pressed to deliver return on investment, does business intelligence come up with the goods? Certainly it's had a significant effect at the brewers Greene King, where the first few reports from their Cognos systems more than paid for the project - with one report revealing the opportunity to increase profits by &#163;250,000. The AA is using Business Objects to look at customer service performance, and expects a 300% return on its investment in three years.For a technology that offers businesses so much, business intelligence is surprisingly little used. Some estimates suggest that as few as 10-15% of businesses actually use busi ness intelligence systems. One reason for this low penetration is complexity: until comparatively recently it was difficult to construct an effective system. As well as ad hoc query and reporting tools, business intelligence systems needed portals, analytic engines, data-warehouses and data-mining tools. Then all the tools needed to be assembled into a coherent whole, along with data from multiple sources.One option is to buy a complete business intelligence infrastructure like Actuate's. The Siebel customer relationship management toolset also uses Actuate, which makes it easier for Siebel users to roll out a full business intelligence system. Oracle is building a business intelligence infrastructure into its tools. The Oracle database contains the   tools you need to load and create large data stores, and add-ons help with building data warehouses. A single query language handles relational and multi-dimensional querying, while additional analytics and reporting features can be added directly to the database. However, despite all this investment in an infrastructure, you're not locked into an Oracle-only solution.While the recent announcement of Microsoft's SQL Server Reporting Services may make it seem to be a new player in business intelligence, it has been offering analysis tools for some time, turning the familiar Excel spreadsheet into a business intelligence front end. Using this you can work with most data sources, designing reports using familiar development tools in Visual Studio. The server renders information into a large selection of output formats -from HTML and Word, to XML web services and email. This will also be the first Microsoft tool to generate documents in Adobe's PDF format. However, perhaps the most interesting feature is its XML-based Report Definition Language, which Microsoft has promised will be offered to standards bodies.In an economy that demands more for less, businesses need to be able to make quick, effective decisions. Business intelligence systems help deliver the information that is needed, in appropriate and easy-to-understand formats. Like most IT solutions, business intelligence is not something you can consider in isolation. Ultimately, the value you get from a business intelligence system will depend upon how managers and staff actually use the information.
Cheap callsFrom tomorrow, customers of BT's Business Plan package will pay a maximum of 10p for calls of up to an hour to the US. A 20p maximum will apply to similar calls to 22 other countries, including Australia, Germany and Ireland. Research commissioned by BT from consultancy Deloitte &amp; Touche says this move makes the UK's dominant telecoms provider cheaper than most of its competitors for an average business, with only WorldCom costing less.Denial of attacksThe Home Office plans to revise the Computer Misuse Act, which was drafted in the late 1980s. The department says the act covers the majority of attacks on information systems, but amendments may be needed to deal with new threats such as denial of service attacks. These are a by-product of the internet's popularisation, as they tend to rely on using viruses to take over numerous online computers, which then flood a web-server with requests. This effectively puts the website offline.New frameUnisys has confirmed its position as one of the few remaining manufacturers of mainframes with the release of the ClearPath Plus Libra 185. The Libra features support for both Microsoft.Net and Sun's Java 2 Enterprise Edition (J2EE) as part of its Enterprise Application Environment software development toolkit. This will allow customers to define business processes and automatically generate applications in Cobol, .Net and J2EE. Unisys claims a five-fold increase in data throughput over its previous mainframes and has made provision for metered performance provisioning.www.unisys.comMicrosoft brandedMicrosoft is the world's second-most valuable brand, worth $65bn (&#163;40bn), beaten only by Coca-Cola. IBM took third place, with a valuation of $52bn, in figures estimated by the agency Interbrand for Business Week magazine. But brands don't buy love. In a US Harris Poll last week Sony came top of its survey of America's favourite brand for the fourth year running, with Microsoft fifth. Dell   took third in the survey of 879 Americans.http://www.brandchannel.com/images/home/bgb_2003.pdfWindows attacksSecurity experts think Windows computers could soon be the victim of a worm attack like the Code Red incident, perhaps this weekend. The Chinese X Focus security group has circulated source code that exploits a buffer overflow flaw in the Windows implementation of RPC (remote procedure call). A researcher has improved it to work with more versions of Windows. Microsoft published a bulletin about it, plus fixes, on July 16, but most users have not installed it. According to a Cert advisory, "blocking access to TCP &amp; UDP ports 135, 139, and 445... will limit your exposure to attacks". Cert has also published a note about security flaws in a Windows DirectX library file, quartz.dll, used to play Midi music files. A patch is available from MS03-030.asp.www.microsoft.com/technetwww.cert.org/advisories/CA-2003-16.htmlwww.cert.org/advisories/CA-2003-18.htmlOracle flawsOracle has released patches for two high-risk vulnerabilities in its E-Business Suite to prevent malicious code being used to view application configuration data. A buffer overflow problem in the software gateway allowing browser access to Oracle reports and log files could allow attackers to install their code. Flaws in Java Server Pages (JSPs) in E-Business Suite's Application Self-Service Framework Test Suite could render configuration information visible. The patches are available through Oracle's Metalink service.http://otn.oracle.com/deploy/security/alerts.htmBI buysThe business intelligence (BI) market is contracting, with two recent acquisitions. Business Objects is making an $820m (&#163;500m) bid for Crystal Decisions to make the merged company more competitive with other BI specialists. Both companies specialise in decision support, statistical analysis and data mining. One of Crystal's customers is Hyperion, which has purchased Brio Software for $142m (&#163;87m). According to market researcher Datamonitor, the European market for BI software could be worth &#163;3.5bn in 2005.www.businessobjects.comwww.hyperion.com/news_events/eda.cfmSelf serviceThe SIM Group, an independent software testing service provider, claims that tests carried out over the past year show that 97% of web applications have serious security flaws. The disclosure stems from the company's investigations of web services available on 300 sites. SIM's fears are supported by a report from Gartner, which states that 70% of hacking attacks are made at the application level.http://www.simgroup.com/Consultancy/websec2.html
Is the internet a threat to the music industry?You only have to look at the front of Music Week to realise the music industry is in crisis. People aren't buying records because it is so easy to copy them. They download all their tracks and listen to them for nothing.What if people could pay for music online using services such as Apple's iTunes?You can already buy albums from Amazon. But if people want to buy tracks online I don't see a problem. It's just the piracy - it's massive in Europe. That's why record sales are down 50%.Why were so many fans outraged when Tubular Bells was released recently with digital copyright protection?If people are used to buying one copy and then making 50 copies on their PC, they are going to be a bit fed up, aren't they? They can still copy it with analogue. It just won't copy digitally. It has only caused a couple of comments on the fan websites because someone can't copy it and pirate it.Computer games?I love 3D graphics, but I hate the kill 'em, shoot 'em computer games that are out there. So about 10 years ago, I decided to design my own. My big project is Tube World. It is a 3D game with music where players can hang glide through various landscapes. When it is finished, they will be able to talk and send messages to other avatars (virtual gamers) who are playing the    game at the same time. There is a demo version on mywebsite.Broadband?I don't have it. I don't really feel the need for it because I don't download big things. BT seems to be so inefficient -I'm still arguing with them about phone bills from last year when they suddenly decided I owed &#163;3,000.Mac or PC?I use a Mac G4 for my music because Pro Tools (a digital audio software package) has always been Macintosh-based. But for the internet and graphics, I use the PC. I just flick between the two on my plasma display.Favourite gadgets?My model helicopters. I'm finishing off a jet model that will be able to do loop the loops and rolls. It's great - it sounds exactly   like a Phantom Jet Fighter! I fly them around the grounds until the neighbours complain, then I have to go to a flying field near Northolt aerodrome.Favourite websites?I'm a born-again biker. I've just bought a 600cc Yamaha Fazer and have joined theFazer owners club online. The siteswww.runryder.comandwww.modelhelicopters.co.ukare great for getting tips from other model helicopter enthusiasts and buying the kit. For my studio speakers, I go towww.harrisgrant.com.&#183;Tubular Bells 2003 is out now on CD. Warner Music Vision is releasing a version in surround sound on DVD-Audio on September 15.
If you work in IT or the net business, then you probably spend your days (and nights) reading web pages, scanning spreadsheets or even hacking away at the code face. In this case, your first impulse on going on holiday may be to give your eyes a rest and stare at anything apart from the pages of a book. Then again, holidays offer a great opportunity to actually read those titles you've spent the past few months discussing on various blogs.You could start with two titles that have been exhaustively blogged this year but perhaps not read that much. Howard Rheingold's Smart Mobs (Perseus Publishing) and Cory Doctorow's Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom (Tor Books). Rheingold's quest to discover the way mobile communications technologies will change the way people come together for work, play and political mayhem is packed with interesting material. But though his antennae are as good as ever, his prose can flag a little.Doctorow's debut sci-fi novel, which imagines a future in which immortal humans value communal credit ("whuffie") more than cash and in which Disneyland hosts a battle between tradition and technological change, is a breezier read. You can of course download it free fromwww.craphound.com/downbut unless you want to sit on the beach struggling with a sheaf of A4 pages, it might be better to buy the bound book.In the past, authors who are computer-literate, but nurture ambitions to write fiction rather than code, have tended, like Doctorow, to gravitate to sci-fi. By contrast, Ellen Ullman, who spent two decades working as a programmer, has tried to move into mainstream literary fiction with The Bug (Nan A Talese), the story of Ethan Levin, a programmer working in the early 80s driven mad by an elusive bug he never quite manages to squash. Ullman constructs a drama out of encounters with compilers and debuggers, and mixes chunks of code and present-day reflections on the dotcom era into the main narrative, which builds into a meditation on the way   programmers and programming culture has affected society as a whole.Online readers may feel this makes The Bug sound like a bit of a busman's holiday in prose, but it is as good as Close to the Machine, her previous collection of non-fiction essays about computer culture, which is saying something.There are other mainstream novels beginning to investigate computer culture with sensitivity and skill. Another American fiction worth digging out is Mark Costello's Big If (Harvest), a ramblingly funny novel about presidential bodyguards. However, the book's title comes from an online multi-player game developed by one of the main characters, and some of the most interesting sections focus on game design and writing code. Covering some of the same territory, DB Weiss's debut novel, Lucky Wander Boy (Plume), tracks a videogamer's obsessive search for an obscure Japanese game he remembers from his youth. As he hunts, he ponders the socio-cultural meaning of various retro games (some real, some imagined) and cracks a few jokes, too.These days, William Gibson's novels are sold as literary fiction rather than sci-fi. His latest novel, Pattern Recognition (Viking), in which an American trend watcher tracks down the author of a mysterious film released in fragments on the net, is that rare item - an intelligent page-turner - and is perfect for the beach. Gibson probably doesn't want to be a standard bearer for anything these days, but with its logo-allergic heroine and its general anti-corporate mood, it is a good example of a new strand in sci-fi - no-logo futurism. Cory Doctorow's novel is part of this, as is Max Barry's Jennifer Government (Abacus), a comic satire on hyper capitalism and globalisation, in which a lowly ad man rebels when asked to shoot some teenagers to build up street cred for some new trainers.Working a similar satirical seam, Jim Munroe's Everyone in Silico (Four Walls Eight Windows) depicts a future in which the rich download into immortality and the poor are    stuck in rebellious real-world bodies. You can buy the book direct from the author atwww.nomediakings.org. If straight sci-fi is your choice, you could do a lot worse than Richard Morgan's Altered Carbon (Gollancz), which tackles some of the standard concerns of old-style cyberpunk (identity downloads, hardboiled cynicism) with a hyperviolent pulpy energy. Morgan's follow-up, Broken Angels (Gollancz), is now out in hardback and offers more of the same.If you'd prefer non-fiction, a whole slew of books have just appeared, offering the inside dope on some of the big net names of recent times. James Ledbetter's Starving to Death on $200 Million a Year (Public Affairs US) documents the rise and fall of the Industry Standard magazine and is, in truth, yet another dot bomb book, though better written than most. Hence you may prefer Joseph   Menn's All the Rave (Crown Business), which details the internal family machinations that caused Napster as many problems as music business lawyers. Also worth a look is Masters of Doom (Piatkus), David Kushner's investigation of the adolescent egos in charge at Id Software, the company responsible for Doom and Quake.However, the best of the bunch is Wired: A Romance (Random House), Gary Wolf's account of Wired Magazine's role in sparking the dotcom bubble (and its ironic failure to fully participate in it). A contributing editor at the magazine, Wolf has spoken to all the main players and unearths some interesting details about the early libertarian past of Louis Rossetto, Wired's founder. Wolf writes well, studding his compelling narrative with perceptive asides. Even if you hated the magazine, you'll probably enjoy this.If you fancy something more serious, you could try Martin Campbell-Kelly's From Airline Reservations to Sonic the Hedgehog (MIT Press), a suitably stretching and hype-free history of the software industry.Deep geek history is also available in Night Work (MIT Press), TF Peterson's history of student hacks and pranks at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a history that covers more real-world stunts than computer tricks and stretches back nearly a century.Computer culture's pre-history is picked over in Tom Standage's The Mechanical Turk (Penguin), an entertaining account of the "automatic" chess player whose apparent skill bamboozled people across Europe in the late 18th century. Also now in paperback, Gaby Wood's Living Dolls (Faber and Faber) covers some of the same territory as Standage. A series of essays on man's attempts to create robots and automatons, Wood's book finds room for Jacques Vaucanson's 18th-century robot duck, Thomas Edison's attempts to create a mechanical child and much more.More recent history forms the subject of Marina Benjamin's Rocket Dreams (Chatto and Windus), a look at the fantasies and desires that powered the American space programme. When space exploration was scaled back, Benjamin suggests, those desires found expression in other ways, notably in the drive to find some sort of new frontier online.Of course, the history of the internet is well documented. The same can't yet be said of the mobile phone, which is only just beginning to register as a possible subject with academics and journalists. Jon Agar has got in early with Constant Touch (Icon Books), his brief but entertaining history of the global rise of the mobile phone.If you'd prefer to look forward while on holiday, Bruce Sterling's Tomorrow Now (Random House) is good value. This purports to be corporate/pop futurism - a look at what might happen over the next 50 years. But, really, it is just the sci-fi author Sterling doing what he does best - riffing away scattershot about bleeding-edge developments (genetic modifications, blobjects and the new world disorder) but it is always perceptive and entertaining.Finally, it is hard to classify Mark Rowlands' The Philosopher at the End of the Universe (Ebury Press), an attempt to splice together critical analysis of films and the currently trendy (with publishers at least) pop philosophy genre. The result looks at how The Matrix, Blade Runner and The Terminator explore the concerns and arguments of philosophy. This perhaps makes it sound a little forbidding, but Rowlands has a light touch. He can be a little glib at times and the first chapter, about Kenneth Branagh's Frankenstein, is a dud. But, overall, this manages to be diverting without destroying too many brain cells, which is probably what you want from a holiday read.
Very few businesses are run entirely from the office. Whether it is sales calls and meetings, installation, support or deliveries, there will always be times when key people and equipment are out on the road. Keeping track of them may seem like a convenience but it can be a money saver, too - providing you don't have to spend a lot on equipment and infrastructure to do it.Installing GPS (global positioning satellite) receivers in vehicles is pricey - from &#163;500 to &#163;1,000, plus monthly service charges - and does not tell you what's happening to the driver when a van is in a car park all day. There are cheaper radio-based solutions, but you don't need to buy any new equipment if you use one of the new services that tracks people down via their mobile phone.The principle behind it is this: your mobile phone knows where it is. It has to know so that it can communicate with the network. Reporting your location back to other people (passive location) or giving you information about nearby services (active location) isn't particularly hard. All four UK mobile networks are now offering location services and APIs (applications programming interfaces) for working with them, but it has taken years to get to this point.Some of the delays date back to a 1994 decision by the US federal communications commission to make mobile phone operators supply the location of callers to emergency services to within 50 metres by the end of 2005. This is the Extended 911 (E911) service. Rather than seeing location services as a commercial opportunity, the networks argued about who would foot the bill. Despite the delays, E911 helped drive development of middleware systems that have made it much simpler for mobile operators and developers to work with location information.Phase one of the equivalent European regulation, E112, came into force last week and it is far less prescriptive. It doesn't force network operators to develop location services or specify the precision, but if they have the information, they have to make it available to emergency services. John Clark, of location specialist TCS, suspects that the EU was keen to avoid the arguments that mired developments in the US. But he also points out that operators in the UK and Europe are far more interested in the commercial opportunities for selling location information.Mobile phones are far cheaper than GPS, and are not limited to a vehicle. If you want a dedicated unit   for each vehicle, clip-on solar-powered GSM modules cost around &#163;70 from companies such as Actineon, and prices should halve by next year. There are still running costs. Receiving a location costs around 5-6p, although some services charge as much as 30p per inquiry. Still, the price drops if you buy in bulk, and providers are moving towards fixed monthly fees. For example, Vodafone already offers a fixed minimum fee of &#163;500 for up to 50,000 requests.However, mobile phones are not as accurate. GPS can pinpoint you to within five or 10 metres by triangulating signals from satellites, whereas your phone just reports the ID of the cell it is in. The location gateway supplies the latitude and longitude and size of the cell, so you get a position and an idea of how precise that position is. Information about signal strength and direction narrow it   down, and in GSM 1800 networks - Orange and T-Mobile - the cells cover smaller areas. But in the end, you get a location covering at best 100-500m in a town centre, rising to 1km in suburbs, 5km out of town, and up to 10km or 20km in the rural areas.You can use data from mapping systems to tie the location to the nearest known road, and if your system lets users request directions, customer details or other useful information, you can use their request to narrow down their location even further. In practice, this is good enough for most business applications, such as estimating a delivery time or finding out which service engineer is closest to a customer. Anne Jones, from Vodafone, suggests the margin of error may even be a good thing, helping us get used to location services without creating a backlash of fears about Big Brother bosses spying on the workforce.Tracking a delivery van lets you schedule trips efficiently or give customers accurate delivery times without interrupting drivers to ask where they are. Location information also lets you check if a driver is dawdling, speeding or running personal errands, which can cause friction. Privacy isn't a question of whether you have something to hide, much as your boss might like to know that you're actually at a job interview when you phone in sick. There are concerns about stalking, discrimination and sheer invasion of privacy, and if workers feel the system is spying on them, you're likely to see productivity fall rather than rise.The mobile operators are working on a code of conduct to protect privacy. With consumer services such as Carphone Warehouse's mapAmobile, you get a notification that someone is looking for you and you can decide   whether or not to reveal your location. That's not convenient for a fleet-tracking system where the driver is busy driving, and most systems allow you to collect signed permissions to get location information for employees during set working hours.The networks don't store or manage any permissions for who can access your location. This is handled by the applications that access the location information. The location is usually supplied as an XML web service, and if you want to build location information into an existing line of business application, you can combine it with a mapping service such as MapInfo or Microsoft's MapPoint. Unlike older, proprietary geographical information systems, these offer mapping and routing information in standard formats, again as XML web services, so you don't need to be a mapping expert to work with them.Instead of dealing with multiple mobile networks yourself, you can work with an aggregator such as Mobile Commerce to get location information from all of them through a single API. Alternatively, you can buy in a fleet tracking application that includes location tracking. For smaller companies, there are services such as Easyreach, FollowUs and Fonetrack, which users can access via a password-protected web page.Fonetrack is also available via a Wap phone or Java on mobile devices, as a voice call, and as a web service. The low initial cost of mapAmobile (&#163;24.99 to track one mobile number for a year plus 30p per inquiry) is attracting enough interest from smaller companies to prompt Carphone Warehouse to develop a commercial service as well.Combining GPS and GSM gives the best of both worlds. So-called assisted GPS phones (AGPS) will start up more quickly and use far less power than traditional GPS units because the network can tell them where to find the GPS satellites. 3 hopes to introduce AGPS phones within six months and other mobile services should have them next year.It is also possible to get more precise locations for GSM phones by triangulating the signal from the phone more precisely, but the operators are reluctant to spend the money until they see a demand - and a profit.Useful linksEasyreachwww.easyreach.co.ukFonetrackwww.justfone.com/corpFollowUswww.followus.co.ukMapAmobilewww.mapamobile.comMobile Commercewww.mobilecommerce.co.ukMapInfowww.mapinfo.co.ukMapPointwww.microsoft.com/mappoint/netOrdnance Surveywww.ordsvy.gov.uk/business/site.cfm
Investigations into the accounting practices of AOL Time Warner have been widened to include the use of bulk subscription sales at America Online.The securities and exchange commission, the US financial regulator, has asked the company to hand over documents related to the bulk programme, which accounted for almost a fifth of the internet service provider's subscriber growth in 2001 and 2002.Under the little-publicised programme, partner companies including retailers Sears Roebuck, and JC Penny acquired thousands of subscriptions for as little as $1 each per month, and offered them at discounts to their staff. Other marketing partners included United Airlines.The bulk programme allowed AOL to add 830,000 subscribers during the years in question. It is unclear how many of the accounts offered to workers were even activated. Most of the programmes have been discontinued.An email from AOL's legal department was cited in yesterday's Wall Street Journal. It asked employees to "preserve hard copy and electronic documents, email and computer contents pertaining to bulk subscription arrangements, as well as any documents and other materials relating to the company's practices, policies and procedures for counting customers."Spokespeople for AOL and the SEC declined to comment.The issue of accounting for subscribers was highlighted at the end of last week when the company disclosed that its total had fallen to 25.4m in the US, from a peak of 26.7m.Don Logan, the executive who oversees all subscription businesses in the group, said one of the reasons for the unexpectedly large fall was the "cleaning up of files".America Online continues to blight its parent company, which has otherwise largely been returning to growth.The internet division has been under investigation by the SEC and the US justice department for more than a year and has undergone sweeping management changes.
Killing parasitesWhen I connect to the web, I get a Dutch page called 24WEB for a home page. I cannot get rid of this despite selecting something else or a blank page in Internet Explorer.Stuart MilliganMy homepage has been set for a site called Internet Opimtizer and I cannot re-set it to my default home page.Paul Charter123.com has taken over my home page, and if I try to remove it, it returns.David BackrackJack Schofield replies:Home-page hijacking is now a significant problem with Internet Explorer for Windows, and queries like this come in almost every day. However, there are several programs that can remove most parasites, including hijackers. I suggest trying Spybot Search &amp; Destroy, Lavasoft's Ad-aware, and HijackThis. You can find links to all three plus a discussion of the problem atwww.spywareinfo.com/articles/hijacked.If you know the name of your hijacker, go to Andrew Clover'sDoxdesk. This has a detection script and a list of the most common parasites, with removal instructions. For example, seewww.doxdesk.com/parasite/InternetOptimizer.htmlTheSpywareGuideandParasiteWaresites also have lots of useful information, and SpywareGuide offers an online scan atwww.spywareguide.com/txt_onlinescan.html.As well as removing existing parasites, you should try to stop them from being installed. Spybot S&amp;D has a "bad download blocker" for Internet Explorer, plus an immunize feature. For extra protection, I recommendJavacool Software's SpywareBlaster. This can block more than 500 known parasites and also lets you take a "system snapshot", so you can see if anything has changed. (It can also block Macromedia Flash, which is useful, though technically Flash is not a parasite.)All these programs can be run, say, once a week, depending on your surfing habits. For those who need real-time checking, Javacool offersSpywareGuard. This also blocks home-page hijackers.All the programs mentioned above are available free, though donations are solicited. There are also some commercial programs, such as PestPatrol and Aluria's Spyware Eliminator. PestPatrol also offers a free scan atwww.pestscan.com, though this does not include pest removal. However, on my system, Pestscan fingers things I want to keep, such as ReGet and DAP (Downloader Accelerator Plus).Finally, use Windows Update to make sure you are up to date with Microsoft's security patches. The last cumulative fix for IE was published on June 4www.microsoft.com. Note: you need this patch even if you never use Internet Explorer.No LottoAccording to a spam email, I have won $5.5m in the Humana Lotto Promotion, Amstersdam. I imagine this is a variation on the 419 Nigerian scam but haven't been able to confirm this.Martin HughesJS:This is another very common con trick, sometimes known as the "Dutch Lottery" scam. Try to claim the prize and you will be asked for about $1,500    to $3,000 in advance "to cover transfer charges, insurance of vital documents like prize claims certificate, receipt of transfer of your funds to your account via courier service handling and opening of account charges". You will not get the prize money and you will not get your fee back. Seewww.stopecg.org/lottery.htmandwww.crimes-of-persuasion.com/Nigerian/lotteries.htm.Stopping spamTo cut down the amount of spam I receive, I set up mail rules in Outlook Express, but it looks as though they are having no effect at all.Peter WhiteJS:Writing good rules is hard work, and not really necessary. It is simpler to run a free spam blocker such asMailwasher. Subscribe to the blacklists under Tools|Options and Mailwasher will be able to delete most spam on the server before you download it. An alternative or second line of defence is to use a Bayesian (statistical) spam filter. I recommend the Installer EXE version ofRobin Keir's K9, which can filter spam for most standard (POP3) mail programs. More advanced users can also set it up to check mail on the server. It has no obvious connection with Dr Who.Backchat&#183;Several readers suggested Wacom tablets as ergonomic mouse-substitutes. Judith Christie reports: "I bought a Trust Wireless Design and Work Tablet 200 for a colleague with RSI. The pen performs all the functions of a mouse by pressing the nib on to the tablet and by using the configurable buttons on the side. A small cordless mouse is also included in this package."
Fujifilm has unveiled a trio of digital cameras that includes its response to recently launched high-end models from Nikon and Canon.Aimed at the "prosumer" market (enthusiasts and semi-professional photographers), the FinePix S7000 Zoom is being billed as the next step on from the company's acclaimed high-end model, the S602 Zoom.Its headline facility is a six-mega-pixel output - higher than most of its rivals. The camera also sports a 6x optical zoom, VGA movie capture at up to 30 frames a second and comes with a USB 2.0 socket for fast transfer of images to a PC. It goes on sale in October.Due in September is the S5000 Zoom. Its key facility is an ultra powerful 10x optical zoom. Image resolution is 3.1 mega pixels and it stores pictures on an XD card.Completing the range is A205S, a budget model with image resolution of two mega pixels and a 3x optical zoom.Prices for the cameras will be announced nearer their launch dates.www.fujifilm.co.uk
Customers are becoming happier with their internet banks largely as a result of the improved speed and usability of online banking websites, said a survey today.Virtual Survey's online banking survey which polled over 5,000 customers on non-bank UK websites between April and June showed that 65% of customers rated their online bank as excellent or very good in the second quarter of this year compared with 58% the same time last year. This was up from 49% the year before.Ratings were given on a points system with 5 being excellent and 1 being poor. The average score for all banks came out as 3.8, though Smile and First Direct came top for customer satisfaction with overall scores of 4.4.Alliance &amp; Leicester and Woolwich were bottom of the table with scores of 3.3, although Virtual Survey said that they had shown signs of improved performance.The group said that the range of products and services offered online had also improved. In particular, it said, customers rated online money transfer, direct debit and standing order functions more highly than during the same period last year.Changes to the Banking Code to be implemented in August state that should a customer want to switch providers, the transferring bank must now pass on all direct debits and standing order information to the new one within three days. This will decrease from the current five days required.How banks ratedVirtual Surveys' Online Banking Survey (V-OBS) League Table for Q2/2003Bank Mean ScoreAll Online Banks 3.8Smile 4.4First Direct 4.4Co-operative 3.9RBS 3.9Nationwide 3.9HSBC Bank 3.8Cahoot 3.8Egg 3.8IF 3.8Halifax 3.7Barclays 3.7Lloyds TSB 3.6NatWest 3.5Abbey National 3.4Bank of Scotland 3.3Woolwich 3.3Alliance &amp; Leicester 3.3
"STMicroelectronics and Texas Instruments said they had formed an alliance to spur development of a wider range of wireless features and to guard against any one industry player dominating the new generation of phones," reportsReuters. "The companies said they would be joined in the alliance by Nokia, manufacturer of more than one-third of the mobile phones sold worldwide, and ARM, a designer of core processor chips used in most wireless phones."The four initial members of what is being called the Mobile Industry Processor Interface, or MIPI, Alliance said they would recruit other phone, hardware and software vendors to help define the technology building blocks of new phone features."
"Sony Corp said on Tuesday its new hand-held PlayStation console would be equipped with a wireless network system which allows users within a close area to play games together and download game characters," reportsReuters. The PSP should be out around the end of next year.
1.PC maintenanceIf you are having problems with your computer, you canask our in-house computer expert, Jack Schofield. These tips for improving the performance of your computer could also help:Upgrading without tears2.Email etiquetteFind out how to make the most efficient use of your email and avoid pointless messages:Re: your pointless email3.SpamThe software that can streamline your inbox:Cut down on your spam4.Wi-FiHow to set up a wifi connection:Spin a Wi-Fi web in your home5.BroadbandThe difficulties of hooking up a broadband connection in your home:Bandwidth restriction6.VirusesAvoid falling prey to viruses, worms and other attacks on your computer:Q&amp;A: viruses and worms7.PhonesHow to reduce your mobile and landline phone bills:Call yourself a phone bill Scrooge8.LaptopsHow to select a portable computer:How to buy a takeaway9.Online auctionsHow to bid for a bargain:Working the web: auctions10.Getting computer advice onlineJack Schofield explains how to find the answer to your computer woes on the internet:Technical support
"A hacker group released code designed to exploit a widespread Windows flaw, paving the way for a major worm attack as soon as this weekend," reportsCNet. "While many security researchers believe the publication of such information can encourage security personnel in businesses to patch holes faster, the release of exploit code has typically preceded the largest worm attacks of the past few years. Maiffret and other security researchers worried that next week's Defcon hacker conference in Las Vegas will act as a catalyst and spur a malicious hacker to create and release such a worm."Note: Microsoft published a security bulletin, Buffer Overrun In RPC Interface Could Allow Code Execution (823980), and patches on July 16, 2003,here.
It's just "infringing", says Security Focus columnistMark Rasch, who is "a former head of the Justice Department's computer crime unit". However, you can still go to jail for infringement, "even if you just downloaded a single song, so long as the 'value' of the copies made of the work over a six month period exceeds $1,000. So, if you assume that the individual "song" has a value of $2 (one-tenth the cost of the $20 CD), a mere 500 downloads are enough to make you liable. And these downloads don't necessarily have to come from your machine. If another person downloads the song from you, you may be responsible for the downloads that person permits." [This column has also been republished byThe Register.]
Microsoft Internet Explorer (IE) now has a record market share of 95.4%, according to the most recent report by Web analytics firm OneStat.com. IE 6.0 has 66.3% of the market, with 14.5% for IE 5.5 and 12.7% for IE 5.0. "Mozilla is in fourth place with 1.6% of the market, but the total market share for browsers based on Mozilla technology is about 4.1%. The alternative browsers -- Opera Software's Opera and Apple's Safari -- barely register on the chart, with 0.6 and 0.25% of the market, respectively" reportsWinInfo. The OneStat press release ishere.
"It appears as though Apple has removed all of the 'Switch' commercials from its Web site," saysMacMinute, amid claims that the campaign was a failure.Update: sorry, I missed out the link when I posted this.
HP boss Caly Fiorina has kept pretty quiet since the $19 billion Compaq takeover, but she has recently given a couple of interviews, including this one atCNet.
Robert Cringelyhas figured out the future of the music file-sharing business, maybe.
"Travelers at the world's busiest airport are waiting less at security checkpoints thanks to the tinkering of a 15-year-old Boy Scout. Josh Pfluger and his scouting pals went into his Rockford garage and hammered out a shoe-scanning device now in daily use at O'Hare International Airport," reportsAP.
There was a time when kitchen gadgets meant odd-shaped corkscrews and fancy cocktail shakers. Not any more though, for after taking over your study and harbouring designs on your living room, the PC is hoping to cook up a technological feast in your kitchen.Not that the concept is about rustling up PowerPoint presentations while you add parmesan shavings to your salad. Rather, manufacturers have got their eyes on the space in your kitchen currently occupied by your TV, hi-fi and even the message board on your fridge.In the future, your new kitchen-friendly computer will connect to your home network, offer access to your library of MP3 music tracks and videos, as well as giving you the chance to peruse an online newspaper, check your e-mail or find out who in the family is doing what via a virtual calendar. All while you tuck into your corn flakes.And the kitchen PC will obviously be a world away from the buff-coloured box in your study, both in terms of design and usability.Integrating PC technology into devices is the strategy favoured by Korean brand LG Electronics. Three years ago it debuted its infamous internet fridge, a huge American style cool-box that featured an integrated entertainment-style computer. For £8000, owners could check their e-mail, surf the web and watch TV all on the LCD screen on the front of the fridge.Reputedly snapped up by Premiership footballers and rock stars, the fridge is apparently still selling well and can now be picked up for less than £6000. For such a high-tech device it uses a rather ancient operating system (Windows 98) and has a processor running at just 133Mhz - less than almost all PDAs.LG is still very proud of the product. "It is a good example of how our company's strengths in different areas could be used to create one innovative product," says Andrew Mullen, LG's new product development manager. "And we are constantly looking at ways of developing products in this area."Mr Mullen promises that in the future the fridge will be able to connect to a security camera so owners can see who is knocking at their door. There are also third party developers working on applications for the fridge. "So, for example, the fridge might be able to create a virtual shipping list which it then automatically e-mails to an online shipping store," he adds.LG is also working on variations of the fridge, though it could be some time before they come to market. Mr Mullen does believe, though, that within a decade, internet access and entertainment facilities will be a staple on all fridges bar really cheap models. "Once you've got people paying £150-£200 over the price of a standard fridge for these features it becomes a mass-market product. They get all the functionality and save space in the kitchen which would otherwise be occupied by a TV or hi-fi."In October, the fridge will have some fairly serious competition as US manufacturer Beyond brings its Icebox to the UK. In spite of its name the Icebox has no food cooling facilities. Rather it is PC specifically designed to be installed in a kitchen. Its owners then view TV programmes, DVDs, or surf the net on its drop-down 12-inch LCD screen."This is a product that is targeted at women, not techies," explains Graham Drage, the business development director for Beyond Europe. "It is a kitchen appliance, not a consumer electronics product, and that's why we have made it so easy to use."Having lived with the Icebox for a week I can see what he means. Its features can be activated in number of ways - through its remote control, via the unit's touch screen using a stylus or best of all from a wireless keyboard which, if you spill your coffee on it, can be cleaned just by running it under the tap.It is easy to set up too. The Icebox connects to the net either as part of a network via its Ethernet socket or through the phone line using a dial-up connection. We hooked it up to Netgear's Wireless Ethernet Bridge and got online wirelessly.It has a few weaknesses. It won't stream audio and video - bad news for an internet radio buff like me. Also its version of Internet Explorer only allows for three pages to be seen - tricky if the site you are visiting foists pop-ups on you. There's very little storage too so you can't, for example, keep MP3 files on its hard disk. Yet these are relatively minor quibbles.It certainly isn't the finished article and at £2300 it is way too expensive for average punters. But it clearly shows how kitchen entertainment systems might evolve."I am convinced systems like this are the future," adds Mr Drage. "The fridge is not always in the right place for people to view the screen, so I think standalone products are much more convenient. I would imagine that within a few years, 50% of homes with have a product like this in their kitchen."While checking e-mail in the kitchen sounds very useful, you can't help but wonder where it will all end. I suggested to Andrew Mullen that LG, which has washing machines, microwaves and air-conditioning systems that can be controlled via the net, was probably working on an internet toaster."Well, how about a toaster that printed the weather map on your toast?" he replied. I am not entirely sure if he was serious, but I can just imagine the prospect of light winds having to deal with the impact of incoming Marmite.
Plenty of us had a misspent youth pouring our pocket money into the ever-open slots of arcade machines.Some however, never grew out of it, like 34-year-old Steve Wiebe from Redmond in Washington state. He has just become the new champion of the Nintendo arcade favourite, Donkey Kong.The record was beaten "solitarily", reports CNN, with the only proof of his score being the video camera that Steve had set up in his garage to record his games."We always smile when we hear about these kinds of things," said Nintendo spokeswoman Perrin Kaplan."Donkey Kong means 'stubborn monkey' (in one rough translation from Japanese), and the fact that Steve was able to achieve this many points against a stubborn monkey says something."By amassing more than 900,000 points on the classic arcade game, Steve has beaten last year's record, which was the first score to top that of the famous arcade aficionado Billy Mitchell. Up until then, Billy's record score had stood unbeaten for 20 years.But what is it that keeps people playing games like Pac-Man and Donkey Kong, decades after they were originally released?"I think it's about pure nostalgia on some levels," says Jonathan Dyton, an avid games collector from Milton Keynes whose collection of games and memorabilia formed part of last year's Game On exhibition at London's Barbican."It's the same as playing your favourite records from a certain era and I suppose it's an attempt to hang onto one's youth. Plus, most old games are pretty cheap now and it's appealing to play all those games you once couldn't afford."But with some modern titles such as Max Payne coming under fire for being more about style than substance, will the games of today still be as dear to gamers' hearts as Pac-Man 20 years from now?Jon is fairly optimistic about the longevity of current titles: "I think some will last. Doom is still played 10 years later, as much as any early 80's arcade classic, partly because it's simpler than the games that followed and was arguably more popular with a mainstream audience."If games don't have the same appeal it'll be due to the gameplay - for a game to endure it has to either totally connect with the player in the way so many of the classic arcade games did, or have a captivating and easy to set-up multi-player mode. Halo is one, Counter-Strike is another. Their gameplay will simply endure in my opinion and for some it will never be improved upon."So make sure you keep your copies of Half Life, Halo and Unreal Tournament, just in case your children need reminding what great gameplay was like.CompetitionIf you like a flutter as much as you like your rock music then you'll want to win yourself one of five copies of Mindscape's Hard Rock Casino. In this new title for the PC you'll be able to play classic games of Black Jack and Roulette, as well as testing your knowledge about the world of rock music.You can win one by emailing us atOnline.Competitions@guardian.co.ukwith your name, address and the answer to this question:Name the "rockumentary" starring Christopher Guest and Michael McKean that followed the lives of a fictional rock band?CHARTS  Official UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA compiled by Chart-Track1	 Eyetoy: Play (PS2) Sony - £39.992)	 Tomb Raider: the Angel of Darkness (PS2, PC) Adios Interactive - £34.993)  Enter the Matrix (PS2, GC, XB, PC) Atari - £39.994)	  Formula One 2003 (PS2) Sony -£34.995)	  SOCOM: US Navy Seals (PS2) Sony - £49.996)	  HULK (PS2, Xbox, GC, PC) VU Games - £39.997)   The Sims: Superstar (PC) Electronic Arts - £17.998)   Harry Potter: Chamber of Secrets (PS2, PL, PC, GBA) Electronic Arts - £24.999)   Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.9910)   The Sims (PC, PS2, Xbox, GC) Electronic Arts - £32.99
You have heard about the pay gap. Then came the skills gap. But what about the training gap? The old phrase "to those that have goes more" is never more true than in the world of training. In short, those people who are already the best qualified enjoy greater access to training than those who are least skilled."The distribution of training is highly unequal," says Steve Williams, head of Unison's Open College. He cites the example of qualified nurses, who "are far more likely to get released for training with pay" than their less qualified colleagues.But it is not just in the health service. The problem goes wider. An analysis of the 1998 workplace relations survey showed that organisations with lots of low skilled staff were least likely to provide training. In the case of plant and machine operatives, only 20% of workplaces provided training. In contrast, where the workforce consisted mainly of professionals, around three quarters of employers had provided them with training in the previous year.Something needs to be done, says Mr Williams. Now perhaps it has. Into the void has stepped the NHS, the country's largest employer, with a project which has the potential to transform the careers of up to 500,000 staff. The programme uses e-learning to allow anyone in the health service to study for the European Computer Driving Licence qualification.George Davies, programme manager for the NHS's Information Agency, says the aim of the project, reputed to be the biggest of its type in the world, is to benefit up to half of NHS staff who are not computer literate, thought to be around three quarters of the total. Covering topics such as the internet and email, it fits in with the "NHS's image of the 'skills escalator' - that you can join at 16 and become chief executive," he says.One member of staff to benefit is Clare David, who works at Guy's Hospital in London. After 15 years working in catering for the NHS, she recently got her first office job. Ms David says that she couldn't have done it without the ECDL course."Before, I knew nothing about computers. It gave me the confidence so that when I saw this job I decided to apply for it. A year ago I wouldn't have thought I would be sitting here doing what I am doing now."Ms David says that three of her former colleagues also decided to do the course. "We all want to work with the skills we now have," she says.However, the NHS's programme is only part of the explosion in e-learning, which is threatening to change the face of workplace training. Encouraged by its cost saving potential, organisations as diverse as the bank RBS, British Airways, and the London Borough of Tower Hamlets have taken to it, using a mixture of the internet and CD ROM to train staff in everything from management skills to basic numeracy.Up to 40% of all training "can be migrated to e-learning," says Spencer Cohen, head of sales and marketing at Futuremedia, a company providing e-learning advice. So is e-learning the answer?At first sight it appears not. All the evidence suggests that access to e-learning depends on access to computers. For this reason manual workers are likely to lose out, as are call centre staff, and customer-facing staff whose jobs keep them away from computers during the working day. "Providing the office worker with e-learning is much simpler because they sit in front of a computer," says Mr Cohen. Those without computers, who are learning IT skills, are also likely to lose out by not being able to practice them.As in the case of disability charity, Leonard Cheshire, white-collar workers are usually the first to benefit. Similarly, Tower Hamlets won't enrol anyone on the ECDL course unless they have used a computer before. The Borough has yet to roll out the full ECDL programme to staff in its relatively "less computer literate" social services department. In the health service, "domestics, porters and ancillary staff, who don't have access to computers as part of their job are going to find it more difficult," suggests Mr Williams."Those with the least skills are the last people to put their hands up saying 'I need some training'," says Brian Sutton, an executive director of the University for Industry - the recently devised quango that provides learning services through the government agency Learndirect. Part of its remit is to provide e-learning in basic skills such as literacy and numeracy. Figures supplied by Mr Sutton suggest there is a strong demand for e-learning from this section of the workforce. More than a quarter (27%) of the organisation's learners have no qualifications at all, while 57% have nothing higher than a GCSE.E-learning is the ideal way of training people in basic skills, says Michael Newton, marketing director at Kognita, a supplier of learning technology. Where people haven't done well at school "it builds confidence by allowing people to do their own training at their own pace."E-learning is also an effective way of delivering statutory training, such as health and safety and food hygiene.Martyn Sloman, an adviser at the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development points to Glasgow City Council Housing Services department (since taken over by Glasgow Housing Association) as an example of where manual workers - in this case caretakers - successfully used e-learning to gain new skills. "Five years ago that would have been just the sort of job people would have said would not require computer skills."However, trainers say that implementing e-learning successfully is more than just making computers available to as many staff as possible. "The material needs to be very relevant to the needs of the organisation," says Mr Sloman.And it depends on giving users support. "You don't plonk a user down in front of a computer and leave them alone," says Mr Cohen. "The user needs to be fully supported, and given time and space to learn," agrees Mr Sloman.This can include open access to learning suites, email, telephone and tutorial support - even showing people how to switch on a computer. Getting your employer to pay for it can also improve participation rates.However, even when e-learning is widely available, Mr Sloman says evaluating its effectiveness is often rudimentary.Most organisations measure usage and time spent online, he says. Other than that it's how well staff can apply it back in the workplace.Royal Bank of Scotland originally evaluated it in financial terms. "We need to go back find out how it is embedded into staff's day-to-day work," admits Dave Buglass, the bank's head of e-learning.Organisations should not see e-learning as a panacea, says Mr Sloman. "There are some who are going to learn through e-learning. For others you may have to use the classroom, or accept that they will learn more gradually."Most organisations use a "blended" approach, involving traditional teaching methods. "It entirely depends on the learning system of the individual," says Mr Newton.The experts are divided as to whether making e-learning available to everyone and then seeing who volunteers is the best way of widening access to training. "The NHS is entirely right to offer it to everyone," says Mr Sloman.However, Gary Joyce - area partner in Drake International in Swansea - says the NHS's approach would not be appropriate for his clients, who come mainly from blue-collar industries. "Giving the ECDL to people putting parts into boxes, how is that going to fit in with strategic needs?" he asks."It will spread, but it will take time," says Mr Sloman. However, at the moment he admits that the growth of e-learning is uneven. "E-learning is taking off in the 'knowledge industries' - large multinationals, big accountancy firms, which are geographically diverse, and whose staff already have good IT skills," he says.In contrast, small, single site businesses, where staff are less IT literate - "the garden centre in Dorset" - are far less likely to use it. Until that changes, e-learning is unlikely to have any real effect on Britain's yawning training gap.
You think it'smovingbut it's not.Here arelots moreexamples of "rotational illusion" but you may need to lie down afterwards.....
"Ok, here's the idea: starting with a whole bunch (specifically 1,000) randomly generated groups of words (our "poems"), we are going to subject them to a form of natural selection, killing off the "bad" ones and breeding the "good" ones with each other. If enough generations go by, and if the gene pool is rich enough, we should eventually start to see interesting poems emerge," says the site(here). The idea is being discussed atSlashdot(which is where I got the link).
InfoSync Worldhas a description of the PEG-UX50 announced by Sony in Japan. It is "a 'landscape clamshell', with a 480 x 320 pixel screen that runs width-wise rather than vertically, as on nearly every other Palm OS handheld to date. It does, however, use the same 'Twist and Rotate' flip design as Sony's previous portrait-oriented handhelds. That leaves room for a new, larger keyboard as well. The entire devices measures 103 x 87 x 18 mm when closed, and weighs in at 175 grams.
"This handheld creates a new utility in the PDA market by integrating organization and navigation into a single device and bringing the benefits of GPS location technology to new and existing PDA users," Gary Kelley, Garmin director of marketing, said in a statement.The iQue uses Palm OS 5, a 200MHz ARM-based processor and 32MB of memory. The device also comes with voice-guidance commands, a built-in digital audio player, a voice recorder, a Secure Digital expansion slot and a lithium-ion rechargeable battery. The color display has a resolution of 320 pixels by 480 pixels.Read the rest of the story atCNet
Ebay is becoming 'a way of life', according to the chief executive of the online auctioneer, which today announced  a doubling of profits in the past quarter.Profits at the company, one of the few to emerge from the wreckage of the dotcom crash with a profitable business, leapt 102% to £68m in the second quarter of the year while revenues jumped 91% to £316m.Ebay, which allows users to buy and sell all manner of goods in the online equivalent of a car boot sale, also said it would pay £6.2m to settle allegations that its PayPal online payment service violated US law by providing services to online gambling sites.The company said it called a halt to the practice after buying PayPal, which allows users to pay each other via a secure credit card transaction, for £1bn last year.But the continued growth still was not enough to placate Wall Street investors, who continue to fret that they are in danger of creating a second internet bubble by heavily backing the handful of successful dotcoms.Ebay's shares fell sharply after the results were announced because investors were concerned they did not beat expectations by as much as in recent quarters.Fellow internet giant Yahoo! suffered a similar phenomenon earlier this month when it too reported a doubling in profits.But  the Ebay chief executive, Meg Whitman, said it was inevitable revenues would become more seasonal to match the retail business at large as Ebay became more mature."Ebay is a way of life for an ever growing number of people," she said, adding that she had seen the company grow to the point where it now had a community of users that rivalled the population of the world's 15th biggest nation.The company raised its 2003 revenue outlook by about £15m to £1.29bn and also announced a two-for-one stock split that would raise more cash.In an effort to reduce lingering worries about online fraudsters targeting Ebay users, it also announced the introduction of a $500 payment protection plan for PayPal users.The service is expected to be extended to its UK and global sites in time for the busy Christmas period, along with a new feature that will automatically charge buyers' credit cards once a transaction is complete, speeding up the process and reducing the number of abandoned purchases.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857
Australia's decision to ban "spam" emails will be welcomed by internet users all over the world. This is not because it will cure the problem - because it will not. The move only affects spam originating in Australia, a tiny proportion of the world total. A recent estimate suggests 90% of spam received in Europe and the US comes from only 150 spammers, 30% of whom live in one area of Florida. This is important, since it marks a recognition of the fact that spam, the curse of the information age, will only be prevented by global action. The European Union is planning to ban it unless the recipient has "opted in"; legislation is rumbling through the US congress to implement other measures - including a national do-not-spam registry - to end the curse.The danger is that the worst offenders, if and when deprived of a base in the US, might simply migrate to offshore havens. This should not stop governments from closing the loopholes. If spamming were illegal and entailed large fines or imprisonment, that alone would be a deterrent for many small-time operators. Those that move offshore should be pursued relentlessly - as money launderers are. Spammers usually offer something for sale, from Viagra to toner cartridges, and leave financial trails that the increasingly savvy cyber-police can pick up. For adults, the avalanche of spam is merely a serious irritant offsetting the productivity enhancing features of email. For children, however, receiving the spam that is routinely dispatched every day, it is a serious danger from which they must be protected. A recent Symantec survey showed that 47% of internet users between the ages of seven and 18 had received emails with links to X-rated sites and 38% of them did not tell their parents. This is a problem that can be tackled; but only if there is a globally coordinated response, rather than the piecemeal approach adopted so far. The internet is a global village. It needs its own police force.
To glimpse the future of human communication, you have to walk about two minutes west of Carol's seafood stall on the Brighton beachfront - whelks and mussels, &#163;1 a pot - and then stop when you get to the souvenir shop selling racy postcards and debatably amusing bumper-stickers explaining why sex is like pizza. At around this point, you will have entered a wireless internet cloud - which means that, with a correctly equipped laptop computer, you can sit on the beach and access the web, or your email, or conduct meetings by videoconference with your colleagues abroad, if you wish, all without being physically connected to a telephone line.Wireless internet, or WiFi, is already installed in countless offices, and in some American courtrooms, where lawyers use it to access important trial documents, and in branches of Starbucks on both sides of the Atlantic, where you have to pay to log on; British Telecom has announced plans to turn 1,000 pubs around the country into wireless "hotspots". But the experiment at Brighton - a philanthropic venture, free to the public - has created Britain's first wireless-enabled beach, and suddenly the possibilities seem endless. Not just the possibilities for bad journalistic jokes involving the word "surf", which have already been plentiful - but also the potential, if the scheme is widely emulated in public spaces throughout Britain, to transform the way we work, and perhaps far more besides.There was only one way, we decided, to test properly this revolutionary possibility, unpleasant work though it would inevitably be: to edit, research, write and produce an edition of G2 from the beach. So, yesterday morning, four editors, four writers, a sub-editor, two photographers and an IT specialist from the Guardian decamped to Brighton, along with a number of better-dressed people connected to the fashion desk.This article, therefore, is at least partly an article about writing this article, and about how the rest of the section today was produced. The polite word for this is meta-journalism, but there are certainly plenty of far less polite words for it.Brighton's "Pier to Pier" network - it's a computing pun, sadly, not an accurate description of the network's reach, which turned out to be rather smaller - was set up by a public-spirited 30-year-old Brightonian new-media specialist called Alex Studd. Physically, it's mainly just a stumpy aerial inside the Rip Tide gym, on the seafront beneath the Grand Hotel. But thanks to the Airport cards inside our Apple laptops, it is also a portal to cyberspace."It was something me and my friends had been asking for years," Studd says. "Why can't we go and work on Brighton beach?" If you ring the main switchboard of Moving Edge, the company for which Studd works, it goes straight through to his and his colleagues' mobiles, so if they happen to be working on the beach, you'd never know, if it weren't for the sound of the seagulls.It is a sparkling day in Brighton, the sea a vivid blue, the sun bright. But this last point, it turns out, isn't a good thing: our computers, we soon realise, aren't designed for intense sunlight, and it's impossible to see much at all without a shade. Security is also a worry, since WiFi is notoriously susceptible to hacking, and a skilled beach hacker could theoretically interfere with our work. (In the end, the major risk to our equipment turns out to come from aggressive drunks, who threaten less devious forms of interference.)Then there's the patchiness of the wireless cloud itself, which means several of us are destined to spend much of the day experimentally walking around the beach, holding our computers at strange angles to try to get reception, and reflecting that this feels more like trying to get a picture out of an old television set than life at the cutting edge of communications technology.An early editorial conference having been held in the van en route, most of the discussion from this point onwards consists of the question, "Are you on?", to which the most common responses are, "No", or, alternatively, "Yes... oh... no."A few feet away, Dr Geraldine Fitzpatrick, an expert in the social effects of technology at Sussex University in Brighton, is sitting on a striped deckchair and explaining what the spread of wireless could mean. "You can imagine a tourist in a city might go to a tourist information office and say they were really interested in architecture," she says. "They could get a wireless device to walk around the city and it would ping them with announcements saying look up here, and here's some information about this building... it could really offer tailored experiences of spaces." Not long ago, Fitzpatrick's Interact lab at Sussex wired up a local wood, and set a class of schoolchildren loose in it with handheld, WiFi-enabled personal digital assistants, so they could hunt for plants and wildlife by exchanging pictures and sound recordings of what they found."It changes the boundaries between the physical and the digital," Fitzpatrick says. And if that sometimes seems oppressive - "If you're at the beach, just reading, do you really want to be sitting beside someone having a videoconference, shouting down the line?" - it also promises to combat one of the biggest fears surrounding new technologies: that they will transform us into a nation of antisocial losers closeted alone in front of our monitors. A cafe full of connected users is a social experience of a sort; meanwhile, a website called Trepia (www.trepia.com) has already begun to harness some of the wilder possibilities. It can find out who else is using a wireless device in your vicinity and, if they agree, allows you to exchange personal profiles of the kind you might post on an internet dating site. If your personalities match, you won't have far to go to make a non-digital connection.Or at least that's what will happen if the wireless network actually works, which, right now, it doesn't seem to be doing, on my laptop at least. I'm still trying to get a signal, and I'm eager to do so, because I'm waiting for an email from Ron Chrisley, another Brighton academic and cyber-philosopher. Chrisley is an aficionado of a marginally illicit subculture that has developed around WiFi, which involves driving or walking around with a laptop until you stumble on an open network, usually one operated by an office or out of somebody's home. If they've chosen not to password-protect it - or just forgotten to do so - there's nothing to stop you from borrowing their connection. I'd hoped to persuade Chrisley to come to the beach, but he was going to Birmingham for work, and so, this being the era of mobile connectivity, he has promised to find a hotspot there, whether authorised or not, and send me his thoughts.By now it's 11.30am, and time to meet (on the beach, naturally) Olivia Meiring, a South African by birth who works in advertising and runs the Brighton weblog Yummy Wakame (www.yummywakame.com). Blogging - the keeping of online journals, consisting usually of belligerent political opinion or, as in Meiring's case, mainly of links to curiosities discovered on the web - is the perfect kind of spare-time activity for a wireless public space such as this. Sadly, Meiring doesn't have a laptop, and unlike several of my colleagues on the beach, I still don't have a signal. So when I suggest that Meiring actually does some blogging on the beach, she has to rely on a much slower connection through my mobile phone and laptop. Still, she can speculate."I hate the fact that I have to sit in an office, to have people asking me for help when I'm actually having my lunch, all because I just want to access the internet," she says. "I wouldn't want to pay for &#91;wireless&#93; access - I wouldn't want to commit to always going to the same pub or the same cafe. You might as well be in the office. But it would be so nice to go and sit on the lawn, or sit on the beach... "It takes Carol, at the whelk stall, to bring me back to reality. "What do you want to do that for?" she asks, when I explain our project. Because we wanted to test the new wireless network up by the Rip Tide gym, I reply. "That," she points out sagely, "is where the winos hang around. You want to watch those computers. They'll grow legs."Is it something to do with the angle of the sun? The configuration of the seagulls? I'm not sure, but something has clicked, and I finally get a connection to the wireless network, and with it, a couple of emails from Ron Chrisley. Since he's not on the beach to be photographed, Chrisley, who is director of the centre for cognitive science at Sussex, has obligingly collared a passing stranger and demanded that they take a snap of him using his digital camera, and he has emailed it to me.The picture, which takes a very long time to load, shows him sitting on the ground under the shade of some trees. He looks pleased, justifiably. This is beginning to feel like a genuinely innovative way to work: an interview conducted, and a photograph obtained, between an interviewer and interviewee both sitting outdoors in two different cities with no wires connecting them to anything. I email a copy of the photograph to the sub-editor, who's sitting in the camper van with a laptop running Quark Xpress, preparing the page layouts. So far, so futuristic, but we are brought back to earth with a bump soon after - almost a literal one, actually, when a couple of intoxicated onlookers threaten to inflict damage on our hardware.By the time this happens, though, I'm not actually on the beach any more: another problem with wireless working in public spaces, it seems, is that it's frequently far too noisy to actually do anything. Those of us with articles to write abandon the shore; a colleague has opted for a corner under the stairs in the lobby of the Grand Hotel, and I'm hunched on a sofa in the bar of the Hilton hotel. This offers an ideal opportunity to hunt for wireless networks, and the Hilton, it turns out, has one, but unfortunately they have remembered to protect it with a password. A mobile phone, once again, is providing my connection to the internet.Chrisley, in one of his emails, explains the difference that WiFi has made in his life. "1. Change of scenery," he writes. "This can go a long way to removing the drudgery of work. 2. Get some sun. How many times have you looked out of your office window and wished you could be enjoying the sunshine instead? With WiFi, you don't have to choose between work and UV rays."3. Show off. Conspicuous consumption must be part of the attraction. 'See, I am so wired and my working arrangements are so flexible that I can work at the same time as getting some sun and be where the action is.' The fact is probably that there are as many people who see the WiFi warrior with his or her laptop and think, 'geek'. Or, 'nerd'. The truly cool have jobs that are already where the action is." Apparently - who'd have thought it - all the other people on the beach today may have thought we looked stupid."4. Workaholics," Chrisley continues. "Many public WiFiers are salespeople or other professionals on the move who just can't bring themselves to stop working during lunch. So they choose to lunch at a place that also has a connection so they can keep browsing/emailing/whatever while they are shoving that club sandwich down their throats. 5. Finally," he concludes, revealing that he has embraced this technology to a degree I fear I will only ever be able to dream about, "as of my recent move back down to Brighton, I actually don't have internet access at home."Back on the beach, the fashion shoot has been finished, most of the copy has been filed, the photographs have been transmitted back to London, albeit at an achingly slow pace, and some of the page layout has been done from the camper van. It's not clear that it would be sensible, just yet anyway, to try to produce every edition of G2 from Brighton beach. But it didn't rain; some of us were connected for some of the time, at any rate; and Pier to Pier is only in its beta-testing phase - it will improve, and our hardware may well have been responsible for some of the connection problems. Then there's the unpleasant mixture of chip batter and flecks of ketchup that has found its way on to the formerly pristine casing of my laptop. But you can't afford to be too fussy. This is the future we're talking about here.www.piertopier.net
Weblogs, also known as blogs, are essentially online diaries that can be created and maintained without the need for any web design experience.The vast majority of blogs are background static to all but the friends and family of their creators, but it is becoming increasingly possible to find blogs that give unique insights into the working life of the authors.Many "bloggers" write openly about their work, sometimes with approval from their employer. Microsoft is a case in point. About 150 staff author blogs which discuss work-related issues that the company approves of. RealNetworks and Macromedia, internet software firms, also have small teams of blogging staffers. Some firms ask staff to use blogs as a form of soft marketing and "knowledge management" to help customers keep up to date with the thoughts and activities of key members of staff, as well as share developments internally. For example, Jupiter Research and Gartner host weblogs from their analysts on their company websitesReading their blogs, it is clear that Microsoft bloggers are careful not to reveal confidential information and appear well aware that many of the readers are competitors and journalists eager for insider details. Robert Scoble, a new Microsoft staffer andlong-time blogger, is typical. In a recent posting on his blog, he said: "So far Microsoft has allowed weblogging to go on because none of us have done anything wrong yet.   Just wait and see what would happen if I started speaking for the 'anthill' (Microsoft) though. Or, if I leaked a Longhorn (the next version of Windows) schedule of build here. Whoa. Then you would see the anthill write some rules really quickly."UK blogging is so new there are no usage figures available, but an estimated 500 to 1,000 bloggers write regularly about their work. Tom Coates, a London-based freelance web designer, has beenbloggingfor four years and says that none of his employers has ever asked him to stop writing about work or to observe a specific policy. "I think bloggers know that it is about integrity. You know you must not mention anything that is confidential. One blogger I know sums it up by saying 'you shouldn't write   anything your grandmother would not like to read'. Bloggers also know that future employers are likely to read what they do."But Coates admits that some have angered their employers, citing one that revealed details of company redundancies and another that was sacked for publishing offensive comments about colleagues.Consequently, the rise of "workblogs" is causing concern among the blogging community. There is no legal precedent specific to blogs, but authors of websites that criticise corporations are no strangers to legal action. In France, a court recently ruled that Lucent Technologies was liable for a site created by one of its employees in work time. In a controversial decision, the court found that the site   constituted "brand forgery" of the roads authority firm Escota.Ray Ozzie, the founder and chief executive officer of the collaborative software firm Groove Networks, encourages his staff to use weblogs. He has published his firm's policy onhis blogfor open discussion."We wanted to provide a mixture of encouragement and guidance," says Groove vice-president Jeff Seul, who drew up the guidelines. "Our policy originated because a number of employees started blogs and one of them expressed concerns and asked us to develop some guidelines."But David Naylor, technology law specialist at Morrison &amp; Foerster, in London, says that employees' use of such technologies can be a substan tial risk to employers: "There is plenty of scope for sites to contain content which gives rise to legal liability, and employers may find it difficult to distance themselves from this risk. The more they authorise or appear to the outside world to authorise such sites, the greater the risk will be."Naylor summarises typical risks as defamation and intellectual property infringement. But he agrees that guidelines can help: "It's about striking a balance and clarifying the dos and don'ts in a policy document."To minimise the risk, he recommends that employers set out clear policies that establish their rights and the rights of their employees, as well as obligations in connection with technology use.Matthew Harris, an IT specialist at law firm Norton Rose, strongly advises companies against encouraging staff blogs: "Some companies do promote employee blogs, presumably as a marketing tool. But a company should think long and hard before going down this route. There is a real and significant risk that it will be held responsible and liable for the content of the employee's blog."In the light of such warnings, it is likely that many firms will prefer to turn a blind eye to blogs in what is seen as a "don't ask, don't tell" approach. This may reduce liability, but blogging enthusiasts believe it will also hold them back from gaining the marketing, ideas sharing and social benefits that blogs offer."I don't think I would work for a company that didn't allow staff to write about work in their blogs," says Tom Coates.
In Charleston, W.Va., college student Amy Boggs said she quickly deleted more than 1,400 music files on her computer after the AP told her she was the target of another subpoena. Boggs said she sometimes downloaded dozens of songs on any given day, including ones by Fleetwood Mac, Blondie, Incubus and Busta Rhymes. Since Boggs used her roommates' Internet account, the roommates' name and address was being turned over to music industry lawyers."This scares me so bad I never want to download anything again," said Boggs, who turned 22 on Thursday. "I never thought this would happen. There are millions of people out there doing this."See theAPreport for the full story.
"Sony tops the list in the annual Harris Poll of 'best brands' for the fourth consecutive year. Kraft moves up from fourth to second place this year while Dell slips down from second to third place. General Motors jumps from tenth to fourth place and Microsoft moves up to the fifth slot." The results arehere.
During the dotcom boom, the face of UK net shopping was Martha Lane Fox of Lastminute.com. Her youth, supposed riches and ability to spout business jargon and techno-hype in a suitably refined British way meant she was rarely off the front pages. Now, however, online shopping in the UK has a new face: topless model turned presenter Melinda Messenger, thanks to the Interactive Media in Retail Group (IMRG), which has declared today Internet Shopping Day in a bid to alert more people to the benefits of buying online.Messenger was the ideal choice to front the day, explains James Roper, chief executive of theIMRG, because, as a busy woman combining work with motherhood, she represents the consumer group with most to gain from shopping online. 24x7 Day, he continues, aims to take advantage of today's date (July 24) to remind people that you can shop online 24/7, round the clock, all day, every day. Recent goverment statistics suggest that around half of people online in the UK have bought something on the net - the IMRG hopes to persuade the rest to make the leap.Big brands (BT, Boots, Marks &amp; Spencer, MFI, Littlewoods, Barclays, Virgin Megastores) and online operations (the electricals retailer Dabs.com, and the online groceries outfit Ocado) are sponsoring24x7 Day, which also aims to allay the security worries of those who haven't shopped online. Roper points out that thanks to the measures taken by net business, using your credit card to buy online is now much safer than using it in the real world.The whole idea of 24x7 Day, which   feels almost worthy and ever so slightly naff (certainly a long way from the millenial craziness of the dotcom era), shows how much net shopping has changed. The media may have stayed away since the crash, but the sector has grown steadily. The IMRG reckons UK online retail sales are on track to be worth at least &#163;14bn for this year, up from &#163;7.6bn last year. "That figure will continue to double for the next three years, minimum," says Roper, who expects online transactions to account for 40% of all retail in the UK.Over the past two years, online shopping has become part of the mainstream consumer landscape, says Robin Terrell, the managing director of Amazon.co.uk. "Three years ago, we were still mainly selling to a male-dominated tech-savvy customer base. That influenced our product range. But today we're more mass market, more mainstream, more high street."Rebecca Jennings, senior analyst atForrester Research in the UKsays the company's report on online shopping in Europe, due next month, confirms this trend. IT sales (both software and hardware) were always strong, because of the kind of people who were online to start with. "But now IT is fourth or fifth on the list of what people say they buy on the net, because the online profile is getting more mainstream," says Jennings. Books and CDs still top that list, followed closely by travel. "In terms of value, the biggest sector is what we call 'replenishment', which covers food, drink, health and beauty. You don't get quite as many people doing it but those that do spend a lot and they spend regularly."Roper predicts that the electricals sector as a whole will be the next   growth area online, as people look for convenience and value when buying bigger appliances such as washing machines. He points out that Dabs.com is already taking more than &#163;10m of internet orders a month. Jennings suggests that when it comes to electricals, people will probably test the water by buying smaller items such as toasters and kettles before graduating to bigger purchases. In general, people usually need to be online for 12-18 months before they try online shopping. Then they start with something simple such as books. If that's successful, they move on to other things.Given that, Amazon.co.uk's decision to discount Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix by 50% before publication looks like a clever way of bringing new shoppers to the site. People queried the strategy, says Terrell, "but if we can go out there with the biggest consumer release of all time and offer it at 50% off, clearly you're making yourself much more   relevant to consumers". Overall, the company took 420,000 pre-orders for the book. It doesn't have a definite figure for the number of new shoppers Pottermania brought to the site. "But we know we saw a ton of new people come online," says Terrell.During the dotcom era, companies tried to reach new consumers with huge, wasteful brand-building advertising campaigns. Now companies recognise the need to be smarter and more focused. Plenty of other ideas that were part of the conventional dotcom wisdom have been questioned and discarded over the past two years. The idea that there is a low barrier to entry online and that two guys in a garage can shake things up needs rethinking, says Tim Steiner, of Ocado.com, which sells Waitrose groceries online to homes inside the M25 and parts of Hertfordshire. "But to provide a successful platform that gives customers ease of use is actually quite difficult and expensive. You need to be a large player."People often tried to bring in new ideas and innovations just because the net made them possible, Steiner continues. They didn't think about whether they actually improved customer service. Steiner knows what he is talking about.Ocadois using new ideas to gain entry to a competitive sector dominated by two big players - Tesco, which is out in front, and Sainsbury's, which is trying to catch up. They both run their online operations out of their existing store base, putting orders together in the same shops real-world customers use. In contrast, Ocado operates a purpose-built central warehouse.Steiner says the advantages are obvious. Supermarkets are laid out to maximise not efficiency but impulse purchases, to seduce roving punters. Ocado's central warehouse is laid out more efficiently, which also allows it to keep closer tabs on stock levels than Tesco's or Sainsbury's can in their stores. A typical Ocado customer faces   an average 2% of their order being "substitute products" because things they ordered online turn out to be unavailable. Customers with the big two can face an average of up to 15% of substitutions.Nevertheless, some have suggested that Ocado's business model belongs to the age of dotcom hype. One of the biggest dotcom flame-outs was an American company called Webvan, which pursued a similar course. Steiner says Webvan was wasteful, badly run and hampered by another dotcom myth - the land grab/first mover advantage idea. This meant that before they'd managed to make their first warehouse work, the market pressured them to open lots more. In contrast, Steiner is pacing Ocado's growth. The company is doing well and could have doubled the area it serves by the end of the year, but will only do so if it can maintain quality of service.Another myth from the dotcom era was the idea that established brands and high-street operations needed to launch spin-off brands online to avoid "cannibalising" their real-world revenues. Now, online shoppers look for brands they know and trust from the high street, says Jennings. For that reason, Ocado may suffer, she suggests, because of the confusion over its branding. The company is backed by John Lewis and delivers Waitrose groceries but it's called Ocado.Worries about cannibalisation have gone, says Jennings. Smarter companies now see the net as just one way among many of reaching customers. "It should be part of a company's 'channel mix'," says Jennings. "Having an online presence creates up to seven times as many sales as it closes.   It influences those purchases. So the net presence has a significant influence on overall company sales."A similar trend can be seen in car sales. "The net now provides us with our biggest volume of quality sales leads," says Richard Downs, customer marketing manager atBMW in the UK. "People use different media and different channels at different points in the buying cycle." Downs won't say how many leads the BMW site generates but, according to Jennings, General Motors in the US claims 80% of its sales are influenced by the web.Even companies that exist primarily online are looking for ways to work with real-world channels. Terrell says that in the US, the company has partnered with the bookseller Borders and the electronics retailer Circuit City to enable in-store pick-up and return. They are looking at bringing these ideas to other territories.Companies that make the net one part of their "channel mix" are only following customers, who are increasingly happy moving between the net and the real world to save money and time. During the dotcom era, people talked about how the net would empower shoppers. People who struggled with badly designed sites probably found this idea hard to swallow.But, according to Roper, this is one dotcom idea that still holds good. Consumers are now more in control."The entrepreneurs have blown up and gone away. As for the mainstream players, this market has fallen at their feet but they're still just dabbling with it. It really now seems to be driven by consumers," says Roper.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Sony's quarterly profits fell by 98% though that was compared with a quarter that got a huge boost from the success of Spider-Man. However, "profits in the video game sector, which had been Sony's star division with hefty profits until recently, slid 31.6% to 1.8 billion yen ($15 million) from 2.6 billion yen, while sales edged down 18.2% to 125.2 billion yen ($1 billion) from 153 billion yen. Worldwide shipments of the PlayStation 2 game machine dropped sharply to 2.65 million units in the quarter from 4.59 million for the same period last year. Software shipments also fell," reportsAP.The decline in games division profits also reflected increased spending on the development of the PlayStation 3.
"Handset maker Sendo has settled its patent infringement lawsuit against Orange with an agreement to contribute to the cellular carrier's legal costs. The UK cell phone manufacturer has withdrawn the lawsuit, but the terms of the settlement remain confidential, according to Sendo." SeeCNet.
BitTorrent is a very efficient way of sharing files among groups of friends but sites with BitTorrent links have come under legal attack, reportsCNet.
Australia is attempting to outlaw what its minister for communications  calls "the mosquitoes of the internet" - spam.Under new laws to be introduced into the country's parliament later this year, email users will be able to "opt in" to receive unsolicited commercial emails: so that Australians should not receive junk mail unless they specifically ask for it. The Australian communications authority (ACA) will be able to fine spammers who break the rules.The bill also bans the distribution and use of email harvesting and list-generating software, which are the main tools spammers use to create extensive lists of email addresses to bombard with messages.All commercial messages will have to include full details of the sender's name and physical address, as well as an unsubscribe option allowing recipients to stop any further messages.Richard Alston, Australia's minister for communications, information technology and the arts, said the Australian government is "committed to taking a strong stand against spam"."Spam is a menace to home and business email users and is a major scourge of productivity. Spam emails are the mosquitoes of the internet - numerous, annoying and often carrying nasty viruses," he said.Not everyone in Australia is convinced that the legislation will work. The Australian Direct Marketing Association (ADMA) opposes the idea of an opt-in regime, claiming it may affect what it calls "legitimate email marketing" by its members. It also argues that the legal measures simply do not work against spam, which disregards geographic borders.The head of the ADMA, Rob Edwards, said earlier this year: "Many spammers operate outside Australia and beyond any laws we could create. The only solution that applies is a technology solution because the law will only apply to those who adhere to it."The ACA has said the ADMA and other stakeholders will be consulted on the new laws.The counterargument is that nations pioneering opt-in systems could create a snowball effect, forcing other countries to follow suit and eventually stamping out the global spam problem.As Josh Rowe, Australia's representative at the Asia-Pacific Coalition Against Unsolicited Commercial Email forum, told the Sydney Morning Herald:  "The more countries that put in this kind of opt-in legislation, where people have to give permission to receive email, the more it pushes out countries who don't have that legislation and it kind of puts them into the third world of the internet."While Mr Alston admits that there is "no silver bullet" against spam, the government hopes that the laws will put Australia at the forefront of international anti-spam efforts.The EU will soon be joining Australia in bringing in an "opt-in" system. The EU directive, which comes into force at the end of October, will allow consumers to seek damages from spammers. Several EU members, including Austria, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Greece, and Italy have already put the directive's anti-spam measures in place.However, America appears to be heading in the opposite direction. The US Congress is considering a raft of bills proposing a national "opt-out" system: in other words, Americans will continue to suffer from a plague of commercial messages unless they specifically ask not to. Anti-spam campaigners view these plans as utterly counterproductive, as they effectively legalise spammers' activity.The anti-spam group theSpamhaus Projecthas condemned Congress for threatening to unleash  "the spamming power of 23 million American small businesses on to an internet which already can not cope with the billions of unsolicited bulk mailings sent by just 200 current businesses". Spamhaus estimates that 90% of all spam received by European email users comes from the US.
In an air-conditioned room underneath Oxford Street, a black box is clicking away. Streams of numbers pour down its screen: IP addresses, times and dates. A few words fleetingly pass by: Hulk, 50 Cent, Finding Nemo...These are the offices of NetPD, one of the leaders of a flourishing new arm of the copyright industry: "media defence". Here, and at other companies such as the Wiltshire-based WebSheriff.com, internet research technicians - cyber sleuths if you like - are gathering information on the activities and identities of internet song-swappers: their IP addresses, the search terms they use and the files they are downloading. All major peer-to-peer networks are scanned continually. "Phone directories" of data are generated, collated and filtered. These are then passed to the major record labels.Until recently, the worst penalty you could expect was a cease-and-desist email, or a threatening instant message from a Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) spook.In a change of tactics in its war on file sharing, however, the RIAA has announced plans to sue individuals who distribute illegal files across P2P networks. The goal is to create a climate of fear among users. The lawsuits will use evidence gathered by media defence cybercops.Prosecutions have already begun. A group of IT students in the US was sued for $29.7bn, later reduced to $57,900. File sharers have also been arrested in Milan and Germany. But no individual in the UK has been sued or prosecuted. Yet."I think it's going to come," says Phil White, chief operating officer of NetPD, "but no one wants to be the first one to do it." Record companies will not want to be seen to target customers, he argues. They will leave it to the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), the RIAA's UK counterpart, to make the first move.The BPI has made no specific threats against users. This is unusual, since it rarely falls out of step with the RIAA. Differences in US copyright law may be a factor. The industry says it is awaiting UK implementation of the EU copyright direc tive due this summer. The targeting of individuals, however, has not been ruled out."If we're faced with an individual who, for example, uploads a million files, and begins to enrich himself," says Peter Jamieson, BPI's executive director, "I would regard him as a perfectly legitimate target."Other targets are more pressing. All UK universities and the top 100 corporations, for instance, have received BPI circulars pointing out that allowing employees and students to use P2P networks and infringe copyright could result in prosecution. At the same time, the bulk of the industry's anti-piracy resources are being poured into combating counterfeit piracy, which accounts for one in three CDs sold in the UK."We've got enough on our plate," says Iain Grant, the ex-Hong Kong police superintendent who heads up the BPI's anti-piracy enforcement division. "We're not looking at consumers. If you take an analogy with drugs, the consumer is a secondary target and somebody who needs help and education."This education may be late in coming. The number of file sharers in this country is growing. According to the BPI, UK peer-to-peer activity at its peak accounts for nearly 27% of worldwide P2P traffic. More than 1.2m users are exchanging around 287m files every weekend.The media defender's main tool for stemming this vast copyright leak has been "interdiction" - the direct targeting of file-sharing computers with custom software such as download blockers or, more commonly, spoof files.Thousands of spoof files have been seeded across the networks by specialist media defending outfits, such as the French Retspan.info (Napster spelt backwards). The files appear to be a current single from Radiohead but, in reality, contain silence, white noise or, as with Madonna's last single, a 30-second clip of the artist lambasting the pirates with salty language.Ostensibly, spoofing is meant to annoy or frustrate users, so they will give up. But spoof files can have a secret purpose. Technical limitations   dog cybercops when they attempt to scan modern "serverless" networks such as KaZaA. They can monitor the searches users make, but not the files they download. Spoof files are their way in. Some media defenders use spoofs as a lure to catch the internet addresses of anyone attempting to download them.Labels have invested big money into spoofing. Unfortunately, as NetPD's White, has discovered, it is not working. Even 10,000 spoof files are barely a drop in KaAaA's 750m-file ocean. "The record companies think it is effective," he says. "We can give them reports that make it look effective. But it's not."The toothlessness of interdiction is powering a greater need for prosecutions and setting examples. Most of our net police think prosecution of UK file sharers is imminent, although not all agree with the tactic.John Giacobbi, of WebSheriff, be lieves there are cheaper and more effective methods, such as going for the user's ISP. He believes that picking on individuals is just the record industry's belated attempt to recover lost ground. "There are millions of users. Even if they prosecuted two or three to make an example, it's using a hammer to crack a nut."The bulk of RIAA prosecutions are expected next month. Some figures, however, suggest that the climate of fear may be working. Since June 25, when the RIAA made its first threats, traffic for applications such as KaZaA has fallen by about 15%, according to Nielsen//NetRatings.This pleases the media defenders. "We don't want to be seen as 'The Fun Police'," says White. "A lot of our work is prevention rather than 'getting people'."When the lawsuits do come, they will be aimed at uploaders, whose   vast MP3 caches form the backbone of the P2P system, rather than downloaders (or "leechers" in file-sharing slang), who do not share files and make up the bulk of the P2P community. As the number of uploaders decreases, the system is damaged, users drift away to legitimate services and illegal file-sharing dies. That's the dream, anyway.Meanwhile, the black box under the street keeps ticking. More search terms appear: Matrix Reloaded, Black Eyed Peas, R.Kelly. The data is automatically processed into cease-and-desist emails, 60m of which have been sent to individuals and ISPs."We have received information," they read, "that an individual has utilized the above referenced IP address at the noted date and time to offer downloads of copyrighted material, including such files(s) as:...."You have been warned.
Philips hopes to bring miniature key chain USB storage devices to the mass market with a range of models that feature integrated cameras and MP3 players. Due in stores this week, the chains are made from magnesium, weigh around 35g and are slightly larger than a pack of chewing gum. The USB connection plugs into any PC and can transfer and store data, images, music and files. The two photo key chains, the 64MB KEY007 (pictured below) and KEY008 (128MB) can also take images via a VGA standard camera. They will cost &#163;79 and &#163;89 respectively. There are four MP3-  playing key chains, ranging from &#163;79 to &#163;119.Philips is also launching a hard disk personal MP3 player - the &#163;350 HDD100 . Made from magnesium, it is slightly larger than the latest Apple iPods and has 15GB of storage. Unlike its Apple rival, it can also record directly from CDs.Philips is also offering a &#163;200 hi-fi system that can stream music direct from a PC. The MCM570 has a USB connector and USB PC link and MusicMatch software to connect the two devices.www.philips.co.uk
Pokemon Ruby &amp; SapphireGame Boy Advance/SP, &#163;34.99 Nintendo, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Worried about how to fill those long days of the summer holiday? The release of the new Pokemon games should help. Both Ruby and Sapphire are the first Pokemon games designed for the GBA.The benefits of the improved technology are not immediately obvious, with the basic graphics only marginally improved. But the Pokemon games have always been addictive, and Ruby and Sapphire are no different. There are 200 new Pokemon, and your aim is to collect all the critters you can. This is done by winning battles, exploring the vast environment and trading with people who own different versions of the game.There are unique Pokemon on both Ruby and Sapphire, so access to both games is necessary to complete a set. The core gameplay - collect Pokemon, train them and choose how to use them in combat - is still surprisingly engrossing. The childish exterior and playground image do much to mask the depth of the games. This time around, there are pageants and new side-quests, and a committed player could be gripped for months.The move to the GBA has brought benefits. Players can indulge in two-on-two battles, and the audio and visuals have been polished up, but they are still underwhelming. And the dual-release marketing strategy, which encourages purchase of both games, is wearing thin. There are also signs that the craze has died down. But when it comes to entertainment, the Pokemon games are hard to beat.Greg HowsonFormula One 2003PlayStation 2, &#163;39.99 Sony, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Sony has signed a PlayStation-exclusive deal with Formula One Administration Ltd, which makes Formula One 2003 the official game of the series. Players who want a game that reflects this year's rule changes, and who care about having the correct driver names and likenesses etc, will therefore find that it does the job. In other respects, it is not a huge departure from last year's version.F1 games face two conflicting challenges: being authentic and being playable. Formula One 2003 compromises by offering arcade and simulation modes, but generally errs on the side of playability. It's fun. But if you want to go the distance, you can.The graphics offer small but worthwhile improvements, though there are some minor pop-ups as small bits of scenery appear out of nowhere. However, the weather effects, car reflections and highlights are well done, and you do get a real sense of speed. The in-cockpit view is now impressively similar to what you see on TV. Well, apart from the twitchy steering and the strong tendency to bounce off barriers on both sides of the track. Maybe that's just me.Sony claims that "new AI routines to incorporate driver personalities mean that computer-controlled drivers can act and react just as they would in real life". They certainly seem aggressive to the point of lunacy, but again, maybe that's just me.You can set up custom races, and race against a friend in arcade or simulation mode for a race weekend. But the 11 different modes don't offer the option of online play, so Network Adaptor owners are out of luck.Formula One 2003 faces stiff competition from Electronic Arts's F1 Career Challenge, which also runs on the PS2, Xbox, GameCube and PC. But the Sony version offers more than enough to keep casual gamers happy.Jack SchofieldIndycar SeriesPlayStation 2, &#163;34.99 Codemasters, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;With so many racing games around, you could take one look at Indycar's ropey graphics and think "why bother". Certainly, this is no looker and probably only racing purists will get the most out of it, but for them, it is one of the finest.The US model for high speed thrills differs significantly from Formula 1. Races are on giant oval tracks, where the key is not learning every turn, but perfecting your line through the bends and shaving fractions off your time per lap. And, because all the cars are identical, you usually find yourself in the middle of the field for up to 200 laps. So how do you make progress? In one of three ways.The first is fine-tuning your car, with everything adjustable. The second is using the track efficiently, following the correct line to get maximum grip and knowing when to slipstream. Finally, there are high-speed crashes, where judging your line through the carnage is usually a better idea than flooring the pedal.Play Indycar Series on "Easy" and you have an expensive game of dodgems. Crank up the difficulty, however, or delve under the bonnet, and a game of rare subtlety and longevity emerges.Mike Anderiesz
The catchI suspect I am being targeted by an internet scam, but it's one I haven't heard about. I advertised a dinghy online for &#163;900, and got an offer from the US. He has a client who owes him &#163;3,500, so this client will send me a cashier's cheque for &#163;3,500. I should bank it, then send him the balance of &#163;2,600. It is just too dodgy to be true, but I'm wondering where the fraud is.Nick OrchardJack Schofield replies:Since you are an upstanding citizen, your bank happily accepts an impressive-looking cashier's cheque from a US bank. However, one or two weeks later, the bank discovers the cheque is a forgery, and asks for its money back. By this time, you have sent the "overpayment" to the scammer. So, you lose &#163;2,600. The scam is common on eBay with expensive items such as cars, boats and works of art. Seewww.settlementnegotiation.org/fraud/eBay.htmlfor details.The US Treasury has issued a warning about counterfeit cashier's cheques bearing the name of Frost National Bank, using a copy of the bank's three horses logo and a facsimile signature of Rebecca Huckabee. Auctionbytes has a useful Online Fraud Resource Center atwww.auctionbytes.com/cab/pages/fraud.Key swapAfter re-installing Windows XP Home Edition, some of the keyboard keys were transposed or changed, depriving me of the use of some original symbols. The @ key   has changed with the key!Miriam FriedlanderJS:The /@ keyswap is usually a sign you have the American keyboard mapping installed with a UK keyboard. Try pressing Left-shift and Alt and see if they switch back. If not, go to Start|Settings|Control Panel and double-click the Keyboard icon. Make sure you have English (United Kingdom) selected rather than English (United States). If you need to get brutal to make it stick, go to the Control Panel icon for Date, Time, Language, and Regional Options and click on Regional and Language settings. Click the Languages tab, and then the Details button.Click on the Add button and select English (United Kingdom) from the Input language drop-down menu. Select United Kingdom from the Keyboard layout drop-down menu, and click OK. Select English (United States) and click Remove. (If you get a warning message that says this is currently in use, click OK.) Finally, restart your PC and the UK keyboard mapping should be correctly installed.Staged deleteLast week you said that "a tilde at the start of the filename means it is a temporary file". So can most files with a name beginning with a tilde be deleted? Years ago I deleted a number of files with names like that, only to find that Windows 95 did not work!Therese ButlerJS:The naming convention in Windows is that temporary files begin with a tilde (~) and have the extension TMP. It should be safe to delete any such files, after restarting your PC. If you want to delete files that don't end in TMP, or that you suspect might be needed, it is safer to do the deletion in stages. Create a new folder called To Be Deleted and move all the unwanted files to that. Use your computer normally for a week or two, and if nothing unexpected happens, you can delete the folder. If you run Windows Me or XP, you could also use the System Restore function to take a snapshot of   your set up so that you can go back to it. In fact, it is a good idea to do this before making any major changes.Backchat&#183;Rex Last asked about making back-up CDs unreadable. Elanor Nicholls took the idea one step further. "Millions of CDs are sent to overstretched landfill sites. CDs are not bio-degradable but are a valuable source of reusable material. At Business in the Community, we recycle our old discs through a scheme provided for its customers by Beacon Press. Old discs and cases are collected and reprocessed into car reflector lights, alarm boxes, new cases and insulation materials. Those with a creative inclination could also visitwww.make-stuff.com/recycling/cd.html."&#183;Frank Healy wanted to know how to lock an Internet Explorer browser window. Barrie Smith says: "I useCrazy Browser, which uses tabs rather than opening new windows. Just configure the settings so that the new tab is not the active one and you stay on the open tab." Joe Goodden uses another tabbed browser,FlashPeak SlimBrowser, which works the way Frank wants if you go to Tools|Options and check Auto New Window. Crazy Browser and FlashPeak SlimBrowser are based on Internet Explorer. Other readers suggested changing to an alternative tabbed browser such as Opera or Mozilla.&#183;The saga about making files copied from CD into read/write files continues. Alan Stanton says he now usesAttribute Changer, a free program written and supported by Romain Petges.&#183;For blogging software, Roger Cornwell says: "We run a small internet design business and have successfully installed theGreymatter packagefor several clients."
Mobile timesMiracle callingSony Ericsson's T610 is a sleek successor to the much-acclaimed T68 series now showing signs of age. It adds an embedded camera and Java (and mophun) games to the abundance of features of the T68 (triband, Bluetooth, Wap, email access, calendar etc) while still weighing under 95g. The screen is a good size and, despite resolution not being as good as veteran camera phones such as the Nokia 7650, it is easy to use and a miracle of miniaturisation.Drawbacks include a screen that seems to go into a coma under summer sunlight, making it almost impossible to read and, less forgivably from a hi-tech firm like Ericsson, rather patchy audio reception. Access to the internet through GPRS is still slow and patchy, but not many mobile manufacturers have cracked that problem, either. For a vest-pocket phone, the keypads are easy to use. Although the company faces fierce competition, the T610 has enough features to give most a run for their money. The T610 will cost &#163;250 on pay-as-you-go or less for a contract deal.TV phoneNEC has developed a mobile phone that can receive digital terrestrial TV signals - although it is only a prototype and designed to work solely in Japan. The phone could potentially be compatible with some of the interactive/ data services offered by digital TV providers, such as different angle event viewing and video on demand. The handset is a dead ringer of the NEC e606 currently sold in the UK via the 3 network, with the exception that it has a large TV aerial on its right-hand side.www.nec.co.ukPocketHubScottish company PocketWatch Systems has released the latest version (2.0) of its innovative PocketHub software, which enables users to access and control their PCs remotely using mobile phones. Using PocketHub it is   possible to browse PC files including Word, Excel, PDF and JPeg images, to access contacts via Outlook and compose and send emails with attachments. Applications don't have to be open for PocketHub to function - the computer just needs to be on and connected to the net. Compatible with any Wap phone (version 1 was limited to acouple of handsets), PocketHub is available for &#163;49.95 until the end of July, after which the price rises to &#163;94.95.www.pocketwatchsystems.comPDAsPalm's new linePalm's long-awaited makeover of its Tungsten T PDA reaches the stores this week. The &#163;259 Tungsten T2 shares the same form as its predecessor but has several enhancements. Palm has upgraded the colour screen to bring it into line with its other recent PDAs. It has also doubled the storage to 29.5MB and fitted the latest version of the Palm operating system - OS 5.2.1. Like the original version of the Tungsten T, the T2 boasts MP3 and video playback, Versamail email software, a web browser and integrated Bluetooth for a wireless connection to a mobile phone.www.palm.com/ukSonySony is set to break new ground with its latest Cli&#233; Palm OS-based PDA, which is due in the UK in early autumn. Unlike previous Sony PDAs, the PEG-UX50 sports a landscape clamshell design (the screen is horizontal like old Psion organisers). The screen can twist and rotate in any direction. Facilities include a larger keyboard than on previous Sony PDAs, integrated Bluetooth and Wi-Fi, and entertainment software including MP3 and video players. The Cli&#233; runs the latest version of Palm's operating system (OS 5.1.2) and features a new processor that enhances video playback and battery life. Analysts have highlighted its rather meagre 32MB of memory and its 0.3 megapixel camera (Sony's previous Cli&#233; featured a two megapixel snapper) as potential weak spots.www.sony.co.ukWebLook betterWho needs a book about Google? All you have to do is type in your query and press return. Think again. It is such a sophisticated search engine that spending a few hours learning new tricks will be amply rewarded. The Google Pocket Guide ($9.95, O'Reilly) and its big brother, Google Hacks ($17.50, O'Reilly), provide a cornucopia of tips and suggestions that will greatly improve your search. Start with the pocket book, which contains a host of hints from how you can alter the characters on the long URL at the top to fine-tuning your search to restricting your hunt to a single site. And there are   fascinating tips about getting the most from newsgroups, telephone directories and using defined dates.Wi-FiWireless wavesDue on sale in September is an innovative gadget from Linksys that transfers digital content like MP3 and JPeg files from a PC to a TV/hi-fi system over an 802.11b wireless network. The Wireless B Media Adapter WMA11b, which connects to the audio video equipment via S-video or AV connectors, requires no internet connection for it to function. The unit, which comes with its   own remote control, also allows users to create MP3 playlists via their TV screen. It is expected to retail for around &#163;230.www.linksys.comWi-Fi finderFinding Wi-Fi hotspots can be a tricky business. You certainly don't want to boot your up PC/PDA and search each time you need to get online as this eats up valuable battery life. A US company, Kensington, has come to the rescue with a credit card-sized Wi-Fi detector that lets you know if you are in range of an 802.11b or 802.11g wireless network. Retailing for around $25, the Wi-Fi Finder 33063 tells users if a connection is available and how strong the signal is after the press of one button.www.kensington.comStat of the week:Game boys and girlsA survey carried out in US colleges shows that more male students play videogames, but more women play computer and online games. Explanations included violence in videogames and more sophisticated character selection in online games
It is ironic that in a world where every minor technological achievement is hailed as a revolution, only a small number of specialist online news sites commented on the ratification last month of the 802.3af IEEE standard.The classification 802.3af may not sound very promising, but it is the first international standard for delivering electrical power and, as such, is set to change the world.Here's just one example: laptops only last a few hours on battery power. This means that anyone travelling with one has to carry a power cord and, if they are travelling abroad, a range of adapters for each country. To keep the laptop running, owners are always seeking power supplies to plug into before connecting to a computer network to send and receive data.With this new standard, however, you will not need a power lead or adapter, nor will you even need to find a power supply. Instead, you just connect to the computer network - called an Ethernet - and the rest is done by power sent down the same lines as the data.There isn't much power. For safety reasons, it has been restricted to   48 volts, 13 watts and 400 milliamps - enough to give you a pin-prick shock but nothing else. However, it is enough to run the latest laptops and most other electrical devices, including personal digital assistants, web cameras, wireless access points, phones, shavers and guitars.This may not seem like a huge leap forward. After all, there is normally a power socket somewhere nearby or you can use an extension lead. However, there are several clear advantages to this "power over Ethernet" technology.It makes connecting devices much faster, easier and simpler: one lead and you're done. And it makes the installation of new equipment easier and cheaper. The standard was originally devised as a way of powering internet phones that use computer networks instead of phone lines for sending voice signals (at vastly lower prices).Installing this and other new equipment usually means an electrician will be brought in to install an extra power supply, adding to the cost and time it takes to get it all up and running. There's no need for this with the new standard.However, the most revolutionary   aspect of this technology is the fact that the power comes via the data cables. This means that you can tell from anywhere on the computer network what devices are where and whether they are using power. And you can turn that power off individually - not at the flick of a switch but at the click of button.Much fuss has been made about the home of the future: hubby at work would set the bath to run so it is ready and hot when he gets back home. While this is perhaps far-fetched, this new technology makes it technically feasible. Did you leave the lights on? You can check online. If you did, you can turn them off. In offices, it brings to an end cleaners unplugging faxes for their vacuum cleaner and technical staff having to turn off the power to half a   room to fix a minor problem.The implications for new buildings and lighting and security systems are enormous. There are already systems that give complete control of security or lighting from one office but they tend to be expensive. With this technology, not only is everything cheaper and built to common international standards, but the control point can be anywhere on the network - and so potentially anywhere in the world.Schools, universities, hotels, shops and offices are already installing ubiquitous computer networks to make maximum use of the internet and computer revolution. For a little extra, they can also use this network to power everything connected to it.Perhaps surprisingly, the cost of producing devices that support   power over Ethernet is negligible. Amir Lehr, vice-president of business development at PowerDsine, an Israeli firm at the forefront of this technology, estimates that it costs just 24p. Manufacturers are therefore charging exactly the same price for devices with the new technology as for those without - something that will inevitably lead to its inclusion becoming standard.The real cost comes with the power units that have to be added to the network, usually in the form of normal network switches with an added power component. They are currently 50% more expensive, although Lehr says this will soon fall to 20%.Peter Doggart, the UK product manager at market leader 3Com, confirms this. He says the power-enabled switches are between 20 and 40% more expensive, although the real-life example he gives is 56% more - $2,500 compared with $1,600 without power.However, with electricians' fees so high, this extra expense is already warranted, he claims, especially as the technology is destined to become an industry norm in the next few years.And it seems companies agree. "I thought it would be a struggle to sell these products," confesses Doggart. "But they are flying off the shelves. We are now selling almost as many with power as we are those without."It's not hard to see why. Power over Ethernet is just one of those rare bits of technology that has only advantages. There is no downside. All those connected with it are almost evangelical in their enthusiasm."Anything you use on your desk, anything in the office can be powered with this," says Doggart. One man in the US uses his company's computer network to shave at his desk. Guitar manufacturer Gibson has included it in its new digital products. New applications are limited only by imagination.If it can be run on batteries, it can now be run from and communicate with a data network. The world just got smarter.
This year ought to be a big year for PC manufacturers. The last big set of corporate PC hardware upgrades were in 2000, and going by the usual three-year cycle, the next big spending spree should be this year. But with companies looking to get the most out of their desktop PCs for as long as possible, figures from analysts suggest that it may not be the bumper year manufacturers have been hoping for.There is certainly a move to extend PC lifespans beyond the generally accepted three years. For one thing, IT directors are becoming converts to the adage "if it ain't broke, don't fix it". However, most companies still refresh their PCs every three years. There are good financial reasons for doing so: PC hardware costs are fully written down after three years, and that also happens to be the usual length of an extended warranty and the operating system. Meta Group figures say extending PC life spans to four years can save companies between &euro;50 and &euro;100 per machine, but that may not be a lot when you compare it with the additional costs you might incur in the final year.Fujitsu Siemens has recently responded to customer demand by introducing a four-year warranty, and an associated Refresh4You programme, which switches customers from a three-year refresh cycle to four at their next update. However, sales director Ian Snadden remains cautious as support costs rise significantly in the fourth year. He points out that PC components generally have short production runs, and spares can be hard to come by.Dell is still a believer in the three-year cycle, even though it sees some companies extending PC life by moving high-end workstations down to desktop roles after a couple of years. Rick Thwaites from Dell notes that there are hidden costs to extending PC life: support costs, productivity costs and power costs. Operating systems such as Windows 98 and Windows NT 4.0 are no longer officially supported, or are close to the end of their support cycle. Another problem is the short lifespan of peripherals.The main business driver for refresh is productivity: a failed or slow PC costs money.But machines that don't have much power by today's standards can quite happily give users access to large complex applications, by using either   web front-ends or terminal applications such as Citrix's Metaframe. Locking down the PC configuration will also reduce load, by tailoring configurations to the PCs capabilities. Wyse's Alcatraz has been designed to allow businesses to control older PCs, and allows central control of any 32-bit Windows system. Management templates with more than 300 options make PCs behave predictably. The same template will also control more than one version of Windows, keeping management costs low.Sun is a firm believer in the thin client model, and has deployed its Sun Ray thin clients across the organisation. Mru Patel, Sun's UK and Ireland head of desktop, sees this as an important technology for delivering virtual office space. In a company   where 35% of the employees won't be on site at any one time, hot desks and thin clients mean he can deliver services with only one system administrator for every 500 users, and can have his hardware managed by the office facilities team. As Sun Rays are thin clients, any repair is just a matter of replacing the hardware with a spare from the stores cupboard.How do companies with large numbers of users deal with the upgrade cycle? Credit specialist Capital One finds that a three-year cycle works well for its desktop PCs, and it replaces busy servers more frequently. However, its UK IT director, Eamon Walsh, points out that they do occasionally refresh power user systems much sooner, too. Capital One's last refresh included switching to TFT monitors, which has saved   over &#163;200,000 to date due to reduced heat and air-conditioning costs.Proactive systems management might be one way to extend PC life. Monitoring tools can show signs of imminent failure, allowing you to change components before a PC becomes unusable. The Distributed Management Task Force's Desktop Management Interface is a standard for managing and tracking the components in a PC, letting you monitor desktop hardware using familiar systems management tools. There are other alternatives, and Linux companies such as RedHat are showing that they can extend the lives of desktop PCs with guaranteed support that uses the open source community to develop drivers and modify software.One question facing IT directors is "buy or lease"? This can be a difficult choice, as it leaves a company locked into a fixed charge for the lifespan of the lease. Recent figures from Siemens Financial Services show that only 20% of UK companies lease their IT equipment, despite the fact that leasing does help companies manage the high initial costs of new IT projects. There are some tax advantages to purchasing equipment outright, and small businesses can still take advantage of the 100% tax write-off for new IT equipment, helping them invest in new technology.There's no easy answer to the question: "When should I buy new PCs?" You can keep using PCs longer than three years, but there are hidden costs. Until real-time monitoring technologies become widespread, it is hard to proactively manage desktop PC hardware, so any failures could mean loss of productivity.
