"NEC Corp. has begun marketing the SX-8, its latest entry in the supercomputer sweepstakes. The vector supercomputer features peak processing performance of 65 teraflops, which according to NEC tops rival IBM Corp.'s latest entry," reportsEE Times."It will start shipping machines in December, first to theUK Meteorological Officeand then to the High-Performance Computing Center Stuttgart in Germany. NEC has already received about 100 orders for the SX-8, according to Kondo. The UK system will have 15 nodes while the German system will have 64."
Google, the California-based internet search engine, was embroiled in a spat with its local newspaper yesterday as traders on Wall Street pumped its shares higher ahead of its first quarterly figures as a public company.Google dismissed as "inaccurate" a report in the San Francisco Chronicle that said the dotcom company expected to more than double its number of advertisers over the next four years.The newspaper, which   claimed to have seen internal company documents, said Google expects to have more than 650,000 advertisers in 2008 compared with 280,000 this year.Google hit back, saying: "We believe the information printed detailing Google's projected advertiser-customer growth is inaccurate."But traders and analysts are seizing on any potential news about Google's growth prospects because the company has made it plain it will not issue trading guidance to the market.This attitude has created intense speculation around Google. Since it floated in New York at $85 (&#163;47) a share in August, the stock has rocketed by about 70%, with traders expecting very good earnings news. Google was due to publish its first quarterly trading figures since its IPO after the close of dealing on Wall Street last night.Analysts said they expect the business to report third-quarter earnings of 54 cents a share on sales of $452m.They have already pencilled in fourth-quarter profits of 63   cents a share with sales increased to $520m.The technology sector is certainly booming on the other side of the Atlantic. Shares in eBay gained more than 6% yesterday after the online marketplace reported a 77% increase in third-quarter profits on Wednesday.Ebay made $182.3m in the third quarter compared with $103m in the previous year as sales rose to $805.9m - about $20m more than expected - from $530.9m.
Vent your spleenThe big news in the world of weblogs remains the race for the White House. Neutrals can watch the spin machine in operation by logging in tofactcheck, a resource for bloggers looking to prove their mettle in political debate.Some remain amazed that the New York Times' decision to endorse John Kerry counted as newsworthy, while the Guardian's Operation Clark County - in which readers have been encouraged to adopt an undecided voter from a marginal voting district in Ohio - has raised the hackles of bloggers around the globe.Arch AustralianTim Blairclaims he had the idea first, but I have been assured this is not the case. Whatever happens in the slugging match between Bush and Kerry, you can follow the final stages of the presidential campaign withthe Guardian's Newsblog.To be silent is to lieIt was manna for webloggers when novelistWilliam Gibson- the godfather of cyberpunk - took up blogging alongside his normal beat of predicting the future through his dirty, near-future science fiction. But just over a year ago, Gibson ditched his online musings and said it was "time to get back to my day job".Now he has returned, jotting down his thoughts on the web once more. But, we have to ask, why now? For the same reason, it seems, that has the rest of the world talking: "Because the United States has, as Jack Womack ... puts it, a president who makes Richard Nixon look like Abraham Lincoln. And because, as the Spanish philosopher Unamuno said, 'At times, to be silent is to lie.'"Juggling troubleThe Tory MPBoris Johnson, who surely holds the record for number of jobs successfully juggled at one time (politician, journalist, editor, novelist and TV star), is another writer who recently joined the ranks of bloggers - just in time to get embroiled in his own mini-scandal.    After a Spectator editorial that inflamed emotions in Liverpool, an aide merely posted the briefest of responses: "Boris is very sorry as he certainly didn't mean to offend anybody." We thought blogging meant never having to say you're sorry.Boriswatch, meanwhile, has been keeping tabs on the affair from a fan's perspective.Pressure's onSeveral bloggers and news outlets have kept up the pressure over the FBI's seizure ofIndymedia's web servers in London, which we recounted last week. The servers have been returned, but the situation is still shrouded in mystery.EnterRichard Allan, the Liberal Democrat MP for Sheffield Hallam, who has tabled a question asking who approved the seizure. Expect Allan, who has been at the vanguard of parliamentary blogging, to get a response.Don't miss itIf getting an MP to blog his questions seems dangerously like bringing democracy to the people, it is probably reflective of the fact that Britain's blogging scene has always been a little parochial compared with the sprawling technopolis of North America. In general, though, it has also been a darn sight friendlier.Tracking the recent growth in British sites isBritBlog, a directory of writers that organises members by geography and subject matter. After six months, it has almost 500 members in some surprising places around the globe.UKBloggers, meanwhile, is a forum for British bloggers - and the updatedUK weblogslist helps useless surfers like me keep track of sites they would otherwise miss.Rich tapestryLondon-based bloggers might also be interested inUrban Tapestries: a "project exploring social and cultural uses of the convergence of place and mobile technologies through transdisciplinary research".If that's made your brain burst, don't worry - it lets you share content depending on your location. Great fodder for bloggers, and they have even made a browser, as well as geolocated RSS feeds.
Crash: Twin SanityPS2, Xbox&#163;39.99, Traveller's Tales/Vivendi Universal&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Vivendi Universal has returned this franchise to British developer Traveller's Tales and produced a platform game that is almost ground-breaking.Cannily, one of the writers behind cult cartoon series Ren &amp; Stimpy was drafted in, and the result is one of those rare games that although aimed at youngsters, will also appeal to adults. Crash's basic premise has always been so ridiculous that one felt the games should have been more surreal - and that thought has clearly occurred to Traveller's Tales.Thus, you start off battling nemesis Neo-Cortex, before teaming up with him, reluctantly at first. The tension breeds amusing gameplay. At one point they scrap, forming a blurry fur-ball which you must manipulate like a giant marble. Crash might have   to use Neo-Cortex as a hammer or whirl him around to reel lifts up and down. Such gameplay brings to mind both Tom &amp; Jerry and Nintendo's indestructible Wario.Eventually they unite against the tribespeople also inhabiting their Pacific island. Sadly, Crash: Twin Sanity lacks any form of multiplay, but its gameplay, which might involve belly-flopping on to giant worms and following them from hole to hole, is varied, amusing and becomes agreeably tricky without ever being fiddly.Occasionally, the camera (which can be manipulated manually) works against you, but not so much that it spoils your enjoyment.Colin McRae Rally 2005Xbox, PS2, PC&#163;39.99, Codemasters&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Some sportsmen are more famous in videogames than their original sport, and Colin McRae games are a good example. Although only a year since the last one, CM5 boasts noticeable improvements - a rejuvenated Career mode for one.Thanks to McRae being sidelined from World Rally events, you can select any of 30 cars and compete in a bewildering array of unofficial championships covering more than 300 stages. There is also a significantly improved damage model and some great gimmicky weather and handling effects. All this makes for stunning action replays.But 2005 betrays further signs of unnecessary tweaking. Take cutting corners: you can completely cut some without penalty but in other places, steering three feet off the line incurs a time delay that blows your chances of winning a stage. This is reality-sapping stuff and makes you wonder why the   go-anywhere-but-incur-damage model from earlier games has been abandoned.Perhaps, understandably given the cost of celebrity endorsements, Codemasters is trying to wring a few more bucks out of McRae while he still has an association with the sport that made him famous.Nevertheless, if you don't own a recent rally game, this is clearly the one to go for.Shark TalePS2, Xbox, GameCube&#163;39.99, Activision&#42;&#42;&#42;Games for kids aren't what they used to be. Today's 20- and 30-somethings had to make do with shoddy platform games and low production values when children. Nowadays, lucky nippers get to play with games that not only look like the film or cartoon they represent, but are also good fun.Shark Tale, the videogame of the latest DreamWorks movie, is a case in point. This is polished entertainment that will appeal to children and most parents. Oldies who have played any of the games that Shark Tale apes will see the influences.When controlling cocky fish Oscar, the action involves race, dance and adventure elements as you flee the amphibian Mafioso. And while these sections are straightforward, the well-produced graphics and sound help drive you on to the next section.The musical parts are well done. Much like the Dance Dance Revolution games, players have to press buttons in time to the tunes. There are also stealth sections, exciting race sequences and the obligatory collectathon. It sounds easy and, for the most part, it is, but there is enough here to challenge the under 10s.Shark Tale is definitely for the kids, although its imaginative pilfering of established gaming genres means older players will have fun.
Hackers from Muslim countries are increasingly targeting western corporations as politically inspired cyber attacks spread around the globe, an internet security company claimed yesterday.The phenomenon of "Islamic hacking", as the company, mi2g, calls it, is allegedly causing more damage as groups coordinate attempts to paralyse websites and disrupt businesses.The claim, dismissed by some industry insiders as "alarmist", comes at a time when Muslim groups in Britain complain that their organisations' computer systems have been targeted by rightwing opponents.The Muslim Council of Britain has endured deluges of hate emails, most recently after Ken Bigley was kidnapped."The emails purport to come from a friendly source, but they contain thousands of hate messages," said Jamil Sherif of the council.Political hacking among internet groups is common, especially over issues such as the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the rivalry between India and Pakistan in Kashmir.The Muslim Association of Britain admitted its website was hacked into twice this year, once shortly after the visit to the UK of the controversial Sheikh Qaradawi. Adnan Faour, a website designer for the MAB, said Muslim organisations had been targeted but he added: "I don't see it being an organised event - it's more one-offs," he said.DK Matai, the executive chairman of mi2g, said his company had noticed more cooperation between hacking groups in Morocco, Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait."They call for American troops to get out of Iraq, Israelis out of Palestine and Russians out of Chechnya," he said."We have seen a lot of attacks on multinational corporations in the G7 countries. Some of them are well known consumer brandnames and high street banks."Other network monitoring companies were sceptical. Message Labs, the email security company which filters messages on the internet, said the only traffic it had noticed increasing recently was unsolicited emails advertising Rolex watches for $99 (&#163;54).
It might be the happiest day of their lives but for many guests it is an onerous obligation: a morning in church, an afternoon of mother-in-law jokes and an evening dodging giant aunts and pervy uncles on the dance floor.Now a reluctant wedding guest has decided to auction on eBay an unwanted invitation to share a friend's matrimonial bliss.Offering people the chance to attend the reception, featuring a sit-down meal in a four-star restaurant and an "evening piss up" with a free bus back to your bed-and-breakfast, the anonymous seller promises "a good &#163;150 worth of entertainment if you time it right".Despite warning users that the bride's dad may perform karaoke, her best mate "works in a chippy in Colchester" and her aunt wears DKNY tracksuits and quaffs Pineapple Bacardi Breezers, the invitation has attracted a flurry of bids.By last night, bids had risen from &#163;200 to &#163;10m for the invitation, which features "pink feather trimming" and apparently plays Ricky Martin's Livin' La Vida Loca when you open it. eBay warned that the invitation was attracting hoax bidding and advised the Scottish-based seller to take steps to avoid this by using the site's pre-approved bidder system.The seller said the groom was a "mate" he used to know well until he began dating the girl he is now going to marry. The seller fell out with the couple after insulting his friend's bride-to-be and claimed he had not spoken to them for two years until they "stupidly" invited him to share their special day. "No one will know you're not me except the groom," he promised.The seller later said he had been contacted by three other people wanting to get out of attending the same wedding and could now offer five tickets to the event, the equivalent of "&#163;400 worth of free booze, good food".The cruel joke could be an expensive one for the seller: eBay could demand that he pay the 1.75% commission the company takes from sellers on the site - even if he does not receive the money from hoax bidders.But if the seller is worried that interest in the invitation is out of control - or if he suffers pangs of conscience - it appears he has given himself a way out. He claimed his friend's bride-to-be was so horrible "they might not get married, so I reserve the right to cancel the bidding".
Boardroom silenceBusinesses are putting themselves at risk through a lack of understanding between the boardroom and the IT department, claims research from BMC Software. The company reports that 50% of the UK's IT directors feel their business and IT strategies are misaligned, with most blaming poor communications channels. More worrying is the fact that the impact of IT failures on business processes are rarely evaluated, leading 38% of respondents to say that no cost penalties are incurred. The Communications Chasm report says that strategic updates are often delivered in formal documents rather than through discussion, leading to misunderstandings of requirements.www.bmc.comMaterial gainsSAP is upgrading its Business One software to satisfy the needs of small to medium-sized manufacturers. The application currently targets service-oriented companies that require integrated accounts, human resources, logistics and limited customer relationship management (CRM) features. The new release adds material requirement planning in the form of a wizard to guide the user through the procurement and production processes. Other improvements and additions are aimed at old and new customers with the inclusion of scheduling features for meetings and sales or service tasks. There is also closer integration with Microsoft Outlook for email and improved CRM capabilities.http://masl.to/?V26632099Power playsIBM is putting its Power processors to work by using them in its latest storage arrays as well as its servers. The chips are used by two enterprise class storage systems that are being released alongside two high-end servers. The TotalStorage DS8000 and DS6000 arrays hold up to 192 and 67 terabytes of storage respectively. IBM claims the Power processors boost performance six-fold, compared with previous models. IBM is also launching two eServer systems running either Unix or Linux. The larger model 595 can house up to   64 Power5 processors, while the eServer 590 holds up to 32. The systems will be available next month.www.ibm.comRolling alongMicrosoft is speeding up development of its delayed SQL Server 2005 database by offering an interim version. The Community Technical Preview edition is a rolling beta designed to allow future users to familiarise themselves with advanced database features as they are added. The current Version 2 beta was released in July and this interim release will bridge the gap to Version 3, promised in the first quarter of next year. Microsoft hopes this will reduce the beta test period for Version 3, which is expected to become the Release Candidate for final testing towards the middle of next year.www.microsoft.com/sql/2005/Little BrotherOnline service provider NetSuite is providing customer tracking modules for its NetSuite 10 commerce suite. Upsell Manager offers advanced CRM features to the small/medium-sized business market to allow data analysis to find up-sell and cross-sell opportunities. The service uses a software agent to examine a customer's purchase record and discover further sales opportunities. The company is also providing NetCommerce Analytics, a module to record website visitors' movements to give an insight into interests and the effectiveness of the site. The company says that SMEs need the same category of tools as larger competitors but cost is an obstacle. NetSuite believes that offering these tools as an online service is a cost-effective way to overcome this.www.netsuite.comChip raceAMD is claiming the "PC performance crown" following this week's launch of the Athlon 64 FX-55 processor, which it describes as the ultimate for enthusiasts and hard-core gamers. The Athlon 64 4000+, announced at the same time, is aimed at business users and consumers. Meanwhile, Intel has cancelled the development of a 4GHz version of the current Pentium 4 and is looking at other ways of increasing performance, such as using dual-core processors, rather than winding up the clock speed.Retro virusThe Bacros virus is unusual in that it replicates itself by using floppy disks and CD-Roms, as viruses used to do in the 1980s and 90s. It is also unusual because it's destructive - a rarity nowadays: most just try to silently take over users' machines. Bacros overwrites Gif files with an image that says Kuole Jehova ("Die Jehovah" in Finnish), and on Christmas Day, it will try to delete all the files on the infected PC's hard drive.www.f-secure.com/v-descs
If using a mobile phone to pay for parking becomes mainstream, Vienna is likely to be seen as a trailblazer. The Austrian capital has just completed its first year of allowing residents to pay for any of its 126,000 short-term parking spaces by mobile phone, under what it calls its M-Parking system.The scheme, now used by 48,000 of the city's 650,000 registered drivers, is one of the largest in western Europe, and is being used as something of a test case for the viability of payment by mobile phone.To use the service, drivers must subscribe online or by phone to have their details entered into the database running the service. Subsequently, when they choose a parking space, they send a text message indicating the number of minutes they want to park. The system returns a confirmation to their phone and, if they wish, also alerts them 10 minutes before their time is up. This allows them a top-up (up to a maximum of 90 minutes) if they want to stay longer.Users can either arrange for debit payments to be taken from their bank account, or create a pre-pay account, in the same manner as Transport for London's Oyster card. Parking costs 55p per half hour.The system, agreed after seven years of consultation by the city, has been implemented under a contract with IT services firm Siemens Business Services at a cost of &euro;15m (&#163;10.3m) over 10 years. Siemens provides the IT infrastructure, which includes two databases. Austria's leading mobile operator, Mobilkom Austria, has an agreement with Siemens to handle the telecoms infrastructure and the payment system.Vienna is perhaps untypical of cities considering such technology in that it has no parking meters. Until last year, parking was managed solely by use of paper vouchers available in kiosks and shops.For users, mobile payments have obvious benefits: no need to have cash handy; the opportunity to receive a warning message when time is running out; and the ability to pay and top up from any location. For the city, the system simplifies revenue collection, and encourages more people to pay rather than park illegally.But it is not all plain sailing. Critics claim M-Parking is too expensive and unpopular. They also point out that after one year, the system is not breaking even because the 10% target of 65,000 users has not been met, despite attracting 20,000 registrations in its first week of operation.Dr Klaus Baringer, senator of the City of Vienna and representative of the M-Parking project, dismisses these attacks. "We are saving &euro;35m (&#163;24m) by not installing parking meters," he says.Baringer predicts that the break-even target of 65,000 users will be met within six months, and that within five years, 50% of drivers will be using the system. "All Vienna drivers have mobile phones and there have been no ticket errors since   launch. The only problem is some people are resistant to change," he says.The city collects about &euro;40m (&#163;27.5m) in parking fees each year, but the average revenue from each parking space is in decline year on year. Baringer feels this is due to payment avoidance rather than people deciding to park less. Data from the first year of the M-Parking project does not reveal any significant improvement in revenue generation, though the city expects to save money in the long run, due to the reduced need for administration of the paper ticketing system.There is also a practical difficulty: parking attendants have no visible sign that a driver has paid for a ticket. When half of the 120,000 parking spaces are paid for through mobiles, the city's 200 attendants face having to check the status of thousands of cars each day using wireless PDAs linked to the M-Parking databases. Baringer says this will make little difference in practice as attendants can check payment status very quickly.Johan Karlsson, consultant and co-author of Arthur D Little's recent M-Payment report, says that Vienna has succeeded in implementing a system that is easy to use - something lacking in some mobile payment systems.But he says that in Europe, there are only a handful of such projects, partly because of the difficulty of setting up consortia to manage similar systems in accordance with the EU's E-money Directive. Europe's largest mobile payment system is in Croatia, where 130,000 drivers are registered.But European cities may need to look more carefully at these technologies because Asia appears to be taking a lead. Little's researchers asked 100 experts how popular mobile payment was likely to be in their cities, and Asian contributors were far more optimistic than their counterparts in Europe."Perhaps mobile operators need to offer some other advantages to users to increase take-up in Europe," says Karlsson.
As technology becomes more and more important to even the smallest business, one key issue is often left on the sidelines: disaster recovery. How will your business survive a fire in its main data centre, or the theft of its servers? It is not just catastrophic failures that can require data recovery - a software patch or a new application could fail, corrupting data or shutting down critical services.Too many businesses forget about disaster recovery, even when their survival is at stake. A recent survey from Veritas, a storage software company, shows that 97% of organisations in Britain would not be able to carry on as normal after a data centre fire. Nearly 40% had no idea how long it would take to get back to normal operations.While a fire might be a nightmare scenario, it is not the only way a business can lose some or all of its information services. Even the simplest outage can cost significant sums, with customers lost due to slow responses as staff struggle with paper-based back-up systems.With IT at the heart of many business processes, data loss can really affect how a company survives a disaster. Operational and financial data are the lifeblood of business, but research shows that 43% of businesses without a business continuity plan will never re-open after a major outage, while 80% will fail within 13 months.The numbers are frightening, but planning is more a matter of common sense than of expensive technical solutions. It is important to make sure regular back-ups are taken, and that these are held in a secure, off-site location. Companies specialise in offering these services, but it is often just as easy for small businesses to hold back-up media inside a fireproof safe at the home of an IT manager or director.It is important to remember that back-ups should not just be data: they must also include the configuration information used to customise and deploy applications. There is little point in being able to recover business information if the workflow it is part of has been lost.Whatever the solution you put in place - an off-site office or just taking your back-ups home every night - you need to make sure it works. This means testing your disaster recovery procedures. If you are rebuilding servers after a burst water pipe in the server room, you do not want to find out the back-up scripts have been failing every night for two years. You must make sure you can  recover data from back-ups by regularly attempting to restore data, and by monitoring the back-up process.Disaster recovery is high on the industry agenda, and many products and tools have been released to help organisations cope with ever-increasing information needs. Tape-based solutions are always popular, with companies such as Certance, a spin-off from Seagate, launching a range of LTO-3 drives that can store up to 800GB on one cartridge. Tape is a cheap and effective means of storing large amounts of data, but its serial nature can result in slow restorations.Iomega is hoping for a revival in its fortunes with its Rev controller-less hard disks, and has recently announced an autoloader that can handle 10 35GB disks. While Iomega's Rev disks don't hold as much data as a single FireWire (IEEE 1394) drive, they are considerably smaller and cheaper, as they don't have a controller. Also, tape autoloaders often require one slot to be left free for a cleaning cartridge. As Iomega's solution doesn't need regular cleaning, all 10 slots are free, so you can use them to hold drives used for daily and weekly back-ups, regularly taking disks off site.FireWire disks make disk-to-disk back-up simple, and hard drive manufacturers such as Maxtor and Seagate have seized the marketing opportunity, selling FireWire drives with single-button back-up solutions that include back-up software. Maxtor's OneTouch drives are bundled with Dantz Retrospect to help manage back-ups and restoring.Retrospect, a simple Windows tool, makes it easy to select the files and directories that need to be backed up. A system administrator just needs to bring in a FireWire drive, plug it into a PC or server, press a button to run the back-up process, then unplug the drive and take it to a secure off-site location.  With up to 300GB in a book-sized drive, small businesses can take regular back-ups for a relatively small outlay - typically less than &#163;300 for the complete package of FireWire disk and software.A new arrival on the small business scene is a simple network-attached storage server from Linksys that uses USB 2.0 and FireWire connections to link your commodity drives to a network. This turns standard removable drives into a network resource, allowing data to be stored centrally and quickly duplicated for off-site storage. And some manufacturers are going further, bringing out NAS solutions with hot-swappable drives in Raid arrays. These allow you to unplug data and take it home, without affecting the business.While it is getting easier to back up or duplicate large amounts of data, recovering systems is getting harder. Not only do you have to rebuild servers after a major outage, you need to make sure they are patched, and that your data has been recovered securely. Hardware virtualisation, using tools such as VMware or Microsoft's Virtual Server 2005 mean that any commodity hardware can be used to host virtual machines that run your business services.As well as backing up data, you can back up complete machine images, which can quickly be restored and reloaded on to new hardware: all you need is a copy of the base operating system and a suitable box. Unlike conventional whole-machine backups, virtual machine images don't need to be run on identical hardware.Simple back-up solutions can mean a quick return to business even if you have lost your entire premises. With data recovery taking days on average, the quicker you get back online the better. Large enterprises can also recover, if they are willing to invest the sums needed. Multiple replicated data centres and offsite disaster recovery sites should mean that services can be restored quickly, if not instantaneously.However, the key lesson is that no matter how well written the procedures, or how well engineered the solution, it must be tested regularly to make sure it works.
Perhaps the longest surviving legacy of your original design is its "appliance" nature. Has this simplicity of design been key to the Mac's popularity?Yes, but unfortunately, the Mac is now a mess. A third party manual (Pogue's The Missing Manual) is nearly 1,000 pages, and far from complete. Apple now does development by accretion, and there is only a little difference between using a Mac and a Windows machine.How do you rate today's Mac user interface?My original vision is outdated and irrelevant. The principles of putting people first, and designing from the  interface to the software and hardware, are as vital today as they were then.And the iMac G5? Was the original iMac a step on the correct path?The unfoldable portable-shaped box on a stalk? It is a practical and space-saving design. But the interface needs fixing. One only cares about getting something done. Apple has forgotten this key concept. The beautiful packaging is ho-hum and insignificant in the long run.It seems the culmination of your work would be a computer invisible to the user; operating systems would disappear and applications would take on functionality as required.Or a computer interface that, while not invisible, would not require conscious attention. &#91;Bill Atkinson's&#93; Hypercard did not have the properties to make its use unconscious. It was wonderful in many ways, however, and  it would have been wise to keep it working on Apple's newer systems.Has there been progress in computing over the past 20 years, or has it been a pointless chase of increasing power and complexity?There has been immense progress, primarily in the richness of applications. But all this power is lost on many people, and impedes the utility of it for the rest, because of the unnecessary complexity of using computers.The quest for CPU power has been largely defeated by bloated software in applications and operating systems. Some programs I wrote in Basic on an Apple II ran faster than when written in a modern language on a G4 Dual-processor Mac with hardware 1,000 times faster.The Macintosh changed the public's perception of computers. Are you proud of this?I am only a  footnote, but proud of the footnote I have become. My subsequent work - on eliciting principles and developing the theory of interface design, so that many people will be able to do what I did - is probably also footnote-worthy. In looking back at this turn-of-the-century period, the rise of a worldwide network will be seen as the most significant part of the computer revolution.Gadgets?My favourite is a Garrett Wade knife sharpener made out of a block of tungsten carbide. On the net, I search for sites when I need specific information. When my son wanted to know what camera to buy, I read camera review sites; to find a bush for our garden, I looked up gardening sites. I treasure the wide scope of the web.
Apple announced outstanding financial results last week, thanks mainly to a 500% increase in the sales of iPod music players compared with the same quarter last year. However, last week also saw the launch of the Microsoft-led Plays For Sure logo programme, which highlights the compatibility of rival players, and rival music download services.The question that has already achieved cliche status is whether Apple will be able to maintain its overwhelming share of the protected digital music market when it expands beyond the minority of well-off and "cool" people into the mass market. Having sold most of the first 10m portable devices, will it be able to sell most of the next 300m?Lots of companies are trying to stop it. This includes every Japanese consumer electronics company, and almost every American one except Hewlett-Packard (which has an agreement to sell HP-branded iPods) and Motorola (which plans to launch phones compatible with songs from Apple's iTunes Music Store).Apple is making corporate enemies by refusing to license FairPlay, its bought-in digital rights management system. FairPlay is intended to stop rival music services from offering protected downloads that can be moved straight to an iPod, and makes it impossible for hardware manufacturers to make digital players that work with iTMS.This is not very important at the moment. While iTMS is far more successful than any of its rivals, "legal downloads" are still a tiny fraction of the music market. Also, it is perfectly normal to use an iPod or other MP3 player without downloading overpriced protected music from anybody's store. You can rip your own CDs, for example.But in the long run, it could be bad news for consumers, even if most of them have not yet realised it. For decades, they have worked on the basis that if you bought music, whether on vinyl, tape or CD, you could play it on any suitable player, regardless of brand. Expect a backlash when they find Apple has locked them into a proprietary system.It is, however, good news for Microsoft. Microsoft's music system is even more proprietary than Apple's. The difference is that Microsoft is licensing its system as widely as possible, which gives consumers a choice of legal music download services and digital players. This approach is similar to the CD system, patented by Sony and Philips, but widely licensed.When Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates spoke at the launch of Plays For Sure in Los Angeles last week, he showed a range of players including Creative Labs, Dell, iRiver and Samsung models. The Plays For Sure website also highlights the fact that consumers have a choice of download services, such as Napster, MusicNow, MusicMatch and Wal-Mart, not just MSN Music.Apple still has time to license its system, and make companies such as Virgin friends rather than foes. If it doesn't, it is probably just a matter of time before Microsoft's system has enough support to become the de facto standard, just like Windows.LinksJack Schofield's columnMicrosoft announces Plays For Surewww.microsoft.com/billgates/speeches/2004/10-12DigitalEntertainment.aspPlays For Surewww.playsforsure.com
Behind the maskThere is a psychological difference between online and offline poker (An ace up your sleeve, October 14). A very useful psychological tool in poker is to "read" a player through their body language and verbalisations. When playing online poker, a gambler is denied this advantage.Online poker permits players to create a false identity. As a player you could portray yourself as a young female novice when, in fact, you are a recognised pro. On a psychological level, the key to such a "hustle" is by projecting a character and hiding your identity.For instance, if you are playing with novices, it may be profitable to portray an experienced professional in order to intimidate players into submission.Dr Mark GriffithsProfessor of gambling studiesNottingham Trent UniversityThreat to freedomThe problem with the unprecedented seizure of Indymedia's servers (The heavy hand of the law, October 14) is that no one is allowed to know what content has been removed. It is unclear whether David Blunkett personally sanctioned this seizure. To remove thousands of articles on the basis that one might be illegal is a blow to freedom of speech.In times of war, they must not be allowed to shoot the messenger. That would be like dropping a hydrogen bomb on Tehran to kill a particular Muslim cleric and then refusing to tell anyone why you did it.Tony GoslingBristolWall of silenceThe FBI acting on UK soil seemingly to suppress freedom of speech, and without interference from the British courts or Home Office, is a very scary proposition. Surely there must be a way to get a statement from the Home Office, or go to court? Everything written about this Indymedia situation leaves so many unanswered questions as to border on the bizarre.Paul TingenScotlandTotally barkingThe EU should become the model for cyberstate citizenship, protecting the rights of citizens and non-citizens. If the terrier barks of Indymedia are under attack, then woe to the lapdogs and kittens of the cyberworld.Jam BrownIs it fact or is it PR?I do not think that simply repeating what Steve Ballmer has to say is news (Jack Schofield, October 14). Ballmer says how important security is at Microsoft. As someone who has been building their own PCs for almost 15 years, I find Microsoft's assertions on security tiresome. All the evidence points to the Trustworthy Computing initiative being nothing more than PR - but effective PR - as the mainstream media report it as fact.Steven DickDigital doubtsDerek Roughton seems to be under a misapprehension concerning the Pace DVD machine (Feedback, October 14). I have had one for several years, and the only limitation on the number of programmes it will record is the space available on the hard disk. The system does not have the equivalent of Videoplus or Programme Delivery Control - there is, however, a useful on-screen guide which makes programming easy, though it is slow to load.I think the digital system needs more development before analogue is   switched off, as well as programmes that would make the extra channels worth having.Howard PurseyNew MaldenDigital recordingsI have read Derek Roughton's email several times but it still doesn't make any sense to me. I bought a Pace DTVA for digital terrestrial TV in May 2002 and have used it happily every since to record "various channels during my absence", as he says. I can set the unit for up to 12 separate recordings, each for any channel at any time.I now have a Humax PVR-8000T hard drive recorder and it does just the same, only without having to have a separate VCR connected and with the added bonus of being able to pause live TV. No subscription is required in either case.Dave KirkBristolMature skillsYou don't have to be as youthful as Alan Burkitt-Gray and Michael Cross to know about computers (Feedback, October 14). We are in our mid-60s and started our careers in 1959 and 1961 respectively, programming large, clunky, low-powered objects in machine code.John &amp; Frances DaviesEdinburghLicence to log-onOnline readers may be interested inreportsthat all computers in Germany with access to the internet will have to be licenced on the same basis as TV sets, with effect from April.   Imagine the implications of this development. Will travellers have to register and pay a fee if they bring a laptop with a modem card into Germany?Alan FreeBrussels
Continuing thekitschtheme from a couple of months ago,Kotakuhas featured the now-out-of-stock Mario Bros. dioramas.Just the fact that they exist should make any gamer who grew up on theNintendo Entertainment Systemproud (and covetous).Is this chic or geek?ViaGizmodo
Interesting article on theBeebabout the growing number of game dev start-ups. As the big boys tighten their stranglehold the smaller companies are looking to online and mobile. Interesting quote from Ignition Entertainment. "We are all gamers," says marketing director Greg Baverstock. "That's kind of unique because in most game companies these days, the senior managers don't play games."
This interesting press release came through yesterday regarding BT's 21st Century Network."When you need to develop new technology you could invest in serious laboratory research work, involve Britain's greatest academic minds, or go down to your local and think about it there. It worked for Morse, who was able to solve the most complicated case over a pint or two, and on this occasion it worked for BT too when its researchers realised that optical fibres could run through a plastic-tubing system like the one that carries beer through pubs."BT's 21st century network (21CN) transformation programme took another significant step with this beer-related realisation. The delivery of optical-fibre cables, which can carry content such as video and fast data services, to individual homes and businesses is an important part of the 21 CN initiative."However, optical fibre works best when it has fewest joints. BT put some of its best minds on the challenge of running it to thousands of individual homes, with as few joints as possible. The solution was the adoption of a technique used in public houses to join beer pipes. It means the fibres can be taken directly to where they need to be without the need to splice them together."Now, I'm not sure it should take a genius to work out that running fibre optic cables through plastic pipes might be a good idea. But then I don't work for a telecoms firm.What made me really think, though, was whether this marked a watershed in the acceptance of new technologies: until now I had always thought big companies like BT frowned upon beer-to-beer networking.Arf.
For web search companies, accessing the contents of someone's computer has long been the holy grail. For users, the appalling quality of desktop search has been baffling: if you can search billions of pages across the internet in a second, why do the in-built search functions on your computer seem unable to find what you are looking for? That is a question the giants of web search have all been racing to answer.Last week, Google suggested it had the solution with the beta test release of its Desktop Search tool, a downloadable widget that takes the normal Google search spread and adds extra functionality to examine the files inside your computer.Installing and using the Desktop Search is simple: you can visit thesiteand, if you agree with the terms and conditions and have 1GB of free space, you can download the software in seconds. Installing is easy, and an initial scan of your computer is done swiftly. Updates to the database are made when your computer is not being used, so it should not impinge upon your everyday work.Google Desktop Search works brilliantly if you are a devotee of Microsoft products - scanning Outlook emails, Office documents and all the pages you have viewed through Internet Explorer, as well as conversations on AOL Instant Messenger. Forgotten the site that last week had a story about the world's longest sausage? Now you can find it again with ease. Which friend messaged you with the address of a hotel in Cardigan Bay? The information is just seconds away.One of the most impressive things   about Desktop Search is the way it slides seamlessly into place alongside your regular web searches, simply by adding another tab into the ream of Google search options.But the beta version is only compatible with Windows XP and 2000, and the only browser officially supported is Internet Explorer. Careful users should not stretch the program to undiscovered territory in case of bugs or security defects.Another major problem is privacy. Sceptics will be concerned that the software seems able to index password-protected files as well as those inside your personal user area - particularly scary if you are sharing the computer with friends or family. When pressed, Google is quick to remind people that Desktop Search is not intended for public machines."This is not a bug, rather a feature," says Marissa Mayer, Google's director of consumer web products. "Google Desktop Search is not intended to be used on computers that are shared."That could be a turn-off for many users, however, and some may be put off by the privacy policy which says technical information will be transmitted from your PC to Google.Still, despite its flaws, Google's alacrity means it already has a hand on the search crown - and competitors are hoping to carve out their niche before they suffer too heavily.A host of search products such as X1, Blinkx and Copernic are in the market - but smaller rivals cannot compete. It is only when the likes of AOL - due to launch a Desktop Search imminently as an addition to its Browser Beta - joins the fray that the battle will really heat up."There are some very smart niche    operators, and those that have the best ideas will either create their own market or be picked up by the bigger search companies," says Tony Macklin, director of product for Ask Jeeves. "I guess search is entering   a new era. Now you have to provide additional tools to help users."Yahoo, Google's biggest direct rival, has worked hard recently on personalising searches, and there are strong rumours it is developing a desktop   search product that will hook into a range of Yahoo services, including email, calendars and picture hosting.Similarly, Ask Jeeves has unveiled a "near future" timetable for its own desktop rummaging application.Microsoft, for its part, is scrabbling to prevent the desktop search moving on to browsers permanently. The upcoming Windows Future Storage technology - aimed at making organising and searching data on a PC easier - is being delayed until after the release of the new Longhorn platform in 2006. However, MSN is said to be slating new desktop search functions for release by the end of the year."Customers want search capabilities that help them access information no matter where it resides," said a spokeswoman. On the other side of the home computing divide, Apple's next system release - codenamed Tiger - is planning to include an attempt at incorporating desktop searchability.Google's early move will give it a leg up in the battle to dominate search, but observers feel it is more important as part of the company's attempt to position itself as an all-round tool."Google is focusing on placing a desktop application on your computer that makes your browser seem smarter," says John Battelle, co-founder of Wired magazine. "Google isn't competing with Microsoft on the browser front - that would be madness. It's competing with Microsoft on its own terms and its own turf: by integrating the desktop into the web-browsing experience."The battle for desktop search is far from won, but Google's eyes are already moving on to the next conflict.
On a rolaMotorola is to release no fewer than six mobile phones before Christmas. Top of the range is the V547, aimed at business users. It features quad-band facilities, Bluetooth, a speakerphone and VGA camera. Pitched as a fashion phone, the V620 sports a stylish black and silver finish, a VGA camera, Bluetooth and a 256K colour screen. Other phones include the E550, a T-Mobile exclusive entry-level handset, the V550 mid-range model for Vodafone, the V545 available via Orange and the low-end V535. All four are clamshell phones that boast Bluetooth, a VGA camera and video and capture playback. www.motorola.co.uk Voice to text On a rolaMotorola is to release no fewer than six mobile phones before Christmas. Top of the range is the V547, aimed at business users. It features quad-band facilities, Bluetooth, a speakerphone and VGA camera. Pitched as a fashion phone, the V620 sports a stylish black and silver finish, a VGA camera, Bluetooth and a 256K colour screen. Other phones include the E550, a T-Mobile exclusive entry-level handset, the V550 mid-range model for Vodafone, the V545 available via Orange and the low-end V535. All four are clamshell phones that boast Bluetooth, a VGA camera and video and capture playback.www.motorola.co.ukVoice to textSpinVox is aiming to take the hassle out of retrieving voice messages by offering mobile phone users a system that converts voicemails into text. These can then be sent to mobile phones either as text messages or emails. If the user needs to hear it, the original voice message can still be retrieved. The system is compatible with all UK networks and any phone, mobile or landline, that has a voicemail system. The service, which has just been launched via the company's website, can be trialled free for a week, after which it costs 18-25p per message. The SpinVox will be available from high street stores next month.www.spinvox.comDigital camerasCinestealerPentax has overhauled its digital camera range with six new models arriving before spring. Arguably the most innovative is the MX4, right,a digital camcorder/ camera hybrid that features a retro-style pistol grip reminiscent of a 60s compact cine camera. The MX4 takes four megapixel still images, features a 10x optical zoom and records video in the MPeg4 format at 640 x 480 pixels at a rate of 30fps. The footage is then stored on an SD card. The MX4 goes on sale later this month for 379.99. Another innovative model is the Optio X, a five megapixel, 3x optical zoom camera that is split in two with a large LCD monitor on one side and a revolving lens on the other. It is on sale now for 349.99.www.pentax.co.ukQuasimodo's golden centerGiven its heritage in both audiovisual and PC worlds, Toshiba is neatly placed to deliver killer convergence products. Its first real stab is the Qosmio E10, which I am sure its detractors will dub Quasimodo on account of its bulk. It is a notebook PC with a 15in screen that features an analogue TV tuner and a host of facilities. As it uses the Microsoft Windows XP Media Center operating system, most of these facilities can be easily controlled by the PC's remote. To access the TV or DVD player, you don't have to fire up Windows at all. The screen is superb, with Toshiba claiming it is the brightest LCD on the market. It delivers a good picture from the sides and is even watchable in direct sunlight. It is a shame, though, that it isn't widescreen. There are plans to tackle this on a later model. Its size and limited battery life means the E10 probably won't do a great deal of travelling. But as a desktop replacement, the Qosmio E10 has a great deal going for it. www.toshiba.co.uk Ashley NorrisMusicRobbie's cardLast year, pop star Robbie Williams came in for criticism from the music industry for saying that music piracy was "great". This week he proved he is a technology trailblazer, as record company EMI and Carphone Warehouse teamed up to sell his new Greatest Hits album on pre-loaded memory cards. The stamp-sized cards will slot straight into compatible phones and are being hailed as "the next chapter" in music retailing. EMI claims they have CD quality sound as well as video capability, although piracy could prove an issue: a spokeswoman said that downloading the track on to a PC for burning to CD would be illegal.Home entertainmentLumina launchElonex is to launch its latest LCD TV/PC combi, the Lumina, in the UK next month. The 2,229 Lumina is a fully functioning Microsoft Windows XP Media Center PC housed inside a 32in widescreen LCD monitor. It boasts all the standard Media Center features including an analogue (five terrestrial channels) TV tuner with an on-screen electronic programme guide, a hard disk-based video recorder, audio jukebox and DVD/CD player. It is operated via a remote control and a wireless keyboard and mouse. The Lumina is also among the first products to feature the latest addition to the Media Center portfolio - the option of conducting an instant messaging conversation while watching TV.www.elonex.comSit up and begSony is hoping to disprove once and for all the adage that you can't teach an old dog new tricks by releasing an updated version of its robot hound Aibo, along with new applications that are compatible with existing ERS-7 dogs and the latest ERS-7M2, which costs around 1,400. The new software, Mind 2, features wireless audio streaming facilities that enable the dog to play through its speakers any song on a PC's hard drive. It also enables the dog to recognise the cover of a CD and start playing tracks from it. Other features include the ability to read out a person's appointments on their PC's calendar, the option of accessing internet radio stations and making video recordings that can be streamed to a PC. Both the ERS-7M2 and Mind 2 go on sale next month.www.sony.co.ukPocket PCsDell deliversDell has unveiled a trio of new Microsoft PDA handhelds and its first LCD TV. The Axim X50, X50v and 416MHz X50, all due next month, run Microsoft Windows Mobile 2003 Second Edition. The top model, the Axim X50V, includes a 624MHz Intel PXA270 processor, 3.7in screen, 128MB of memory and both Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. Dell's debut TV is a 26in widescreen LCD model called the W2600. The set, which is finished in satin chrome and sports piano black speakers, is on sale now for 1,207.82.www.dell.co.uk&#183;Contributions from Ashley Norris and Bobbie JohnsoniBattle stationsIf Apple's iPod is to keep ahead of the competition, it will need a much more intensive makeover than the largely cosmetic tweaks the company made to the fourth generation iPod that appeared in the summer.The iPod, and its sibling, the mini, is being attacked on all sides by smaller, better-featured and cheaper players. Later this year, French manufacturer Archos will release the Gmini XS200, a tiny hard disk-based player around the same size as the iPod mini. The key difference is that the XS200 boasts a 20GB hard disk - the same as the full-sized iPod.Other new rivals for the iPod are the Gigabeat F Series players from Toshiba, which are due in the UK early next year. Its flagship F Series model might be larger than the iPod, but it sports a 60GB jukebox and features a 2.2in colour LCD screen for displaying album artwork and JPeg photo images. iRiver already has a colour screen player in the UK, while Taiwanese company BenQ will roll one out next year on an iPod minisized model. Other companies are taking a pop at the iPod mini, with Creative's Micro, which has 5GB of storage - 1GB more than the mini - in a smaller casing.Finally, there's Sony. Despite press criticism for its limited compatibility with MP3 files, its NW-HD1 is a marvel of miniaturisation that boasts far superior battery life to the iPod and delivers superb performance. Worryingly for Apple, the NW-HD1 is only the first shot across its bows by a company not keen to surrender the personal audio market to anyone.However, Apple still has a huge advantage in its iTunes Music Store and software. "The competition is fast closing the gap with their portable player hardware, but Apple maintains a lead because of its iTunes software, which is the hidden jewel in Apple's product line," argues Ian Fogg, an analyst at Jupiter Research.Even here, though, Apple may have difficulties, for rival download service Napster is on the verge of bringing the third version if its software to the UK. For around 15 a month, subscribers will be able to transfer any track from the company's collection of 750,000 to a personal player. For anyone eager to explore new music, it is a superb deal. So what can we expect to see in January at Apple's Expo in San Francisco? The internet is rampant with rumours that the next iPod will feature a 60GB hard disk and sport a colour screen. For my money, it will also show a small, no-frills 20GB player to take on the Archos and the Sony.Ashley Norris
You wait months for a GPRS-enabled over-the-air multiplayer gaming system with sophisticated community elements and automated matching services, and then two come along at once! Welcome to the next stage in the evolution of mobile gamingThis week, two mobile game publishers soft launched their own 'online' multiplayer gaming systems, each allowing phone owners to locate and play simple games against other phone users via their GPRS connections.British developerMacrospacehas a collection of two-player parlour games including 4 in a row, Battleships and Reversi. They're currently available to Java phone users on the O2 network, but should roll out to other networks before Christmas. The titles allow you to go online, find an opponent and play against them in real-time. As Macrospace's Head of Marketing and Communications, John Ozimek, explains, "The idea is to build a whole community around these and other games, where you only need to use a single login, and all titles work in a similar way."At the moment, a broad range of Nokia phones is supported, but later, owners of other models should be able to join in - as long as the manufacturers play ball. "Unfortunately (and this is a whole story in itself) many phones have known issues that prevent networked multiplayer games running on them - this effects every game, not just these Macrospace ones," complains Ozimek.This is the weary voice of experience. Macrospace actually released a GPRS-enabled battle strategy title, Cannons Tournament, last year, and you get the feeling that making the network element of the game work took up 99% of the development time. Whatever, Macrospace has learned from the experience. Cannons offered basic multiplayer services, but the current system is more sophisticated, supporting buddy lists, a skill-based scoring system (giving you more points for beating better opponents) and an improved pairing system that matches you up with players of similar skill levels. "Apart from the technical advancements, a lot of work has been put into making the user experience as simple as possible - from things like creating a new user account to actually playing the games and communicating with other users." continues Ozimek. "If you look at the user profile of web gamers, there are many more women playing than console or more 'dedicated' game formats. It's our ambition to create games that have as wide an appeal as possible."Meanwhile, French publisherIn-Fusiohas just released Smiley Tactics, a rather eccentric over-the-air battle game for two players. This one uses the company's proprietary Ex-En platform (supported by handsets such as the Sagem MyG-5 and Panasonic GD87) and is currently exclusive to the Orange network. I'm not sure I get the gameplay concept here, but according to In-Fusio's press release, "In this strategy game, players must take it in turns to try and defeat their challenger with the fewest possible moves. Each person chooses and manages their team of ten Smileys (of which four are used - the rest are substitutes) from a selection of 60. The aim of the game is to use tactics and skill to become the best team manager, while attempting to score points by throwing potion at the opponent's goal." Like the Macrospace titles, Smiley Tactics allows players to create their own buddy lists, but will also search the network for a random opponent if you want to play when none of your friends do.The big question is how much will it cost to play? John Ozimek reckons, "Currently the revenue is the same as a normal game - i.e. the user pays once for the download, in this case 2.50. Playing over the network will cost GPRS fees; a normal game will last about 7-10 minutes and use 20-25Kb of data, which is about 20p. Obviously users that have a bundle deal for GPRS will be spending even less than that. There is no reason in the future why this kind of game cannot be billed on a per-game basis, and all kinds of clever event billing like the loser pays - but this is down to what the operator wants to implement at the end of the day."Loser pays? A great idea. But as with everything else in mobile gaming, progress depends on the many operators, game developers and phone manufacturers getting together and ensuring that they all support the same standards and agree on the same billing structures. Playing multiplayer games over the network is a brilliant, and yet incredibly obvious concept - the perfect symbiosis between the phone's primary role as a communication tool and it's emerging role as a games platform. These parlour games and turn-based puzzlers represent modest beginnings. It is up to the whole industry to decide where this goes.
For several years, politicians have presented IT as a way of providing new services and opportunities. These days, the tide is turning - politicians now seem to have decided the best way to introduce technology to Britain is by presenting it as a way to save money rather than spend it.This might not be as surprising as it sounds. The major political parties are competing to cut spending ahead of an election, and the huge costs of computerisation projects have made headlines recently. Last week, it emerged that Department of Health officials expect the NHS National Programme for IT to cost as much as &#163;31bn over the next decade, compared with the previously released cost of &#163;6.2bn. Clearly, overspend is a technology issue that will not be going away.Tony Blair's speech to the Labour party conference in Brighton mentioned the introduction of identity cards, which the Home Office estimates will cost up to &#163;3.1bn. Spending this in the short term will help save money over time, they claim, as it brings together disparate government processes and cuts inefficiency from the system.The Liberal Democrats oppose ID cards on civil liberties grounds, but are now highlighting the cost as well. "We think there are other things that have far more value than identity cards," says IT spokesman Richard Allan. "You should look at such a proposal as any business would: where would we put the money to achieve our objectives?"If the objective is better security, the Lib Dems say those billions should be spent on policing. Allan makes a similar argument for his party's support for open source software that is free of licence fees. He believes the state sector can benefit by examining open source alternatives - either by adopting them or using them to extract a better price for proprietary software. Although the government has a policy supportive of open source software, it "has shown insufficient drive in bringing it forward", he says.Tony Blair also spoke of "ending the digital divide by bringing broadband technology to every home in Britain that wants it by 2008". In the past, bringing high-speed access into the poorest homes could be a costly political exercise. But although 3m families receiving tax credits might receive state help, Labour's main strategy is to persuade the public to pay for broadband.The selling point will be the one used in the 1980s for home computers: education. The "hard-working   families" Labour referred to relentlessly at its conference will be convinced to buy connections to help their children with homework.Giving away or subsidising PCs would be counter-productive, according to Antony Walker, chief executive of the Broadband Stakeholder Group, which has been discussing the plans, and is funded in part by the Department of Trade and Industry.The Conservatives, for their part, are not in the game of spending   money unnecessarily. They want to increase broadband use through competition among suppliers. Stephen O'Brien, the shadow trade minister, told their conference's parliamentary IT committee (Pitcom) fringe meeting that users should have a choice of "competing but inter-operable networks which do not share the same vulnerabilities", rather than relying on BT's phone lines for their final connection.O'Brien highlighted unused   capacity on other networks: "The cost of opening up half a dozen new national networks with local radio access has been estimated as rather less than the &#163;20bn lifted from the industry," he said, referring to Labour's auction for third-generation mobile phone spectrum.He added that the last Conservative government had allowed a regulated duopoly in telecoms, with the hope that new entrants, such as the cable companies, would eventually mean the end of a need for a telecoms regulator.Stephen Timms, who was e-commerce minister until last month's reshuffle, told the Labour conference's Pitcom meeting that his party saw competition as "a means, not an end" - unlike the Conservatives. So the government's new communications regulator, Ofcom, has a duty of care to the citizen, he said.Timms, now a Treasury minister, defended the DTI, which both Lib Dems and Conservatives would dismantle. "It's a mystery why the other parties are talking about evacuating trade and industry," he said, adding that the department takes "a very big role in bringing the changes we need".
Like a Japanese soldier emerging from the jungle long after the end of the second world war, the Digital Inclusion Panel last week stepped into the light - heroically, still fighting to end the digital divide.The panel was conceived a year ago to continue one strand of the e-envoy's work as his office metamorphosed into the Office of the Head of e-Government. Little has been heard of it since. Observers assumed the panel fell between the cracks when the e-envoy's responsibilities were divvied out among the Cabinet Office, the Department of Trade and Industry, the Department for Education and Skills and the Department for Constitutional Affairs.Wrong. Last week, the panel resurfaced to publish a strategy  document called "Enabling a Digitally United Kingdom".It begins by asserting that the war on digital exclusion is far from over. Although almost everyone has the opportunity to get online - 96% of people know somewhere they can use the internet - only half of us bother. Officially, 48% of Britons are not digitally engaged. These are not so much digital refuseniks as digital never-even-thought-about-its. They tend to be old, or poor, or both. Such people, the report says "are simply unaware of how they personally could benefit from becoming digitally engaged".Time will, of course, erode age as a barrier in itself. My bet is that quite soon, we will notice that the web has been taken over by oldies. Wikipedia isn't being compiled by teenagers. The poor, on the other  hand, will have a tougher time - unless something is done.The panel observes that digital inclusion can't be achieved by the state alone. It recommends more efforts by voluntary groups and industry. IT companies don't have to be altruistic: "Very significant commercial opportunities" exist in services that persuade people to cross the digital divide.On the day of the report's publication, one of its recommendations came into effect. Half a dozen IT companies joined forces with the charity Citizens Online to set up the Alliance for Digital Inclusion. It will lobby for change and try to coordinate different initiatives aiming at getting more people online.Government cannot duck out entirely, however. The panel's report urges that the network of 6,000-odd UK Online centres stays  in business. These are often run by community groups, which are better equipped than government to communicate with hard-to-reach groups. Central government, however, footed most of the cost, and that money is now running out.No one seems keen to pick up the bill, which may explain why the whole digital inclusion agenda is a bit of a policy orphan. This is reflected in the strategy document, which is introduced not by a minister or even the Cabinet Office head of e-government, but by Andrew Pinder, the last e-envoy.He supposedly left public life in August (four years after being hired as a temporary stand-in). While it is nice to see Pinder's picture again, using yesterday's man doesn't send the right signals about tomorrow's agenda. Where is the e-minister?
Entering a hospital was once a death sentence. "Every cure stands still, every wound becomes a sore and every sore is apt to run into gangrene," wrote John Bell, the pioneering Scottish surgeon, in 1780.Before antiseptics, patients were five times more likely to die from an operation carried out in hospital than one done at home. Any patient who could afford it insisted their surgeon make a house call: in 1810, the novelist Fanny Burney endured a mastectomy in her bedroom - without anaesthetic.Modern hospitals bear little surface resemblance to 18th-century dying rooms. Since Victorian times, they have been symbols of modern medicine, and politicians close them at their peril. But hospitals kill many people: 40,000 NHS patients die annually because of "adverse events", according to Dr Foster, a medical research firm.Now, however, the pendulum may be swinging back to home care, thanks to IT. "Hospitals are infection factories," says Dr Ricky Richardson, a consultant at Great Ormond Street children's hospital in London. For years, Richardson has been a passionate advocate for using IT-based care to reverse the trend towards hospital-centred medicine.Dr Paul Johnson, of the telemonitoring research centre at John Radcliffe hospital, Oxford, says that patients equipped with hi-tech, low-cost "telemonitors" can be encouraged into better health at a fraction of the cost of hospital treatment.With billions being poured into newNHS IT systems, there is a chance for e-health to become routine. So far, however, the programme has emphasised getting patients into hospital, not keeping them away.The revolution will come from two health care information technologies - telemedicine and telecare.Telemedicine has been around since the early 1960s. It covers any arrangement for diagnosing and treating disease remotely, via everything from a telephone call to videoconferencing. At least one pilot project even relied on digital photographs sent through the post - bandwidth was expensive and it was quicker than sending the patient in person.Clinical trials have shown that conditions such as skin cancer can be detected remotely on a consultant's screen, while x-ray images and data from heart monitors can be assessed thousands of miles from the patient. Telemedicine has been used for years out of necessity in remote parts of the world, and in places where doctors don't want to go: one early installation was in a Texas prison.Telecare covers the use of IT to monitor people's health at home or in their daily routines. It is newer than telemedicine because it depends on the technology being cheap enough to hand out to patients, rather than being kept inside the health service.One of the most promising uses of telecare is to allow elderly and other vulnerable people to stay in their homes rather than go into residential care. This week, the London borough of Newham demonstrated what could be possible in a "show home" packed with telecare sensors.The flat, in a tower block of sheltered accommodation, contains sensors to detect movement, extremes of temperature, gas leaks, whether the resident has got up from a chair or  out of bed, and whether the bathroom has flooded. The front door has a "bogus callers" button that can be pressed if the resident thinks she is being hit by a distraction burglar.Each sensor communicates wirelessly, on the 869MHz frequency, the European standard for telecare, with an alarm device that phones an alert through to a control room over a normal line. Each device has a unique electronic identity, so it will not set off an alarm in a neighbour's flat.Newham is not the first council to use telecare. Local authorities such as Lothian in Scotland and Liverpool City have similar systems. Liverpool is trialling a telecare system in six homes. A network of sensors monitors the resident's daily movements. They report to a PC in the house, which learns the person's daily routine. If the PC detects something out of character, it triggers action.Telecare for the elderly is potentially big business. In July, the chancellor, Gordon Brown, announced funding for 1.5m "care alarms" by 2008.An even more promising development is to help people take control of  their health. Studies have shown that patients who monitor their blood pressure, for example, are more healthy than those who have it done in the consulting room. According to a study published in the British Medical Journal in July, home monitoring reduces the incidence of "white coat hypertension" - the rise in blood pressure caused by a doctor strapping a sphygnomanometer to your arm. The procedure also involves patients more closely in looking after their health.In Oxford, Johnson sees the ability to monitor patients' vital signs remotely as a way to healthcare that is both cheaper and more effective than putting people in hospital. One trial involves remote foetal monitoring, by giving pregnant teenagers a "belly bra" with built-in ultrasound sensors that relay data to a central monitoring station via mobile phone signals. Johnson says that this kind of technology is ideal for reaching young teenagers who are often socially disadvantaged and ignore conventional health services.Johnson says the national NHS  programme for IT represents a "unique opportunity to provide the vehicle for equality of care and support the public ... in adopting cost-saving, life-enhancing self-care". The specification of the programme's &#163;6bn care records service says that e-health and telemedicine technologies will be an essential part.For the moment, the programme is occupied with more mundane things: replacing the NHS-wide network and getting an electronic appointment-booking service up and running to fulfill the government's promise to offer choice of hospitals.However, the system of shared electronic health records being created by the programme is an essential ingredient of telecare. Patients will no longer rely on a single institution holding their record - it will be updated wherever they come into contact with the health service.At public appearances, Richard Granger, the NHS IT chief, has begun to talk about the programme as enabling the treatment of patients away from hospital, and of patients taking control of their  records. At an IT conference in London recently, he asked the audience how many had a record of their car's service history. A forest of arms appeared. However, not one admitted keeping a copy of their health record. "That's what we want to change," Granger said.But it will be years before the national programme catches up with the best local efforts to give patients access to their health records.Dr Brian Fisher, a GP in Sydenham, south London, provides patients with a kiosk in his waiting room where they can read their record and get electronic advice. The touch screen is a version of the doctor's practice management system, from Emis, a specialist British firm that dominates the GP computing market. Access is controlled by a fingerprint reader.Patients see everything in the doctor's record, apart from information about third parties. Results of tests are labelled to show whether they are normal or whether the patient should see the doctor. Fisher stresses that patients don't suddenly get hit with bad news. "We wouldn't put anything on the system that would have frightening implications without talking to the patient first."Patients can print off records and in future, they will be able to burn an encrypted CD. Fisher has been sharing paper records for 18 years and reckons about three-quarters of patients look at them. Computer access was a logical step now that the practice keeps all its records electronically.The system also helps patients make difficult decisions, for example whether to have surgery. A library of decision aids in the kiosk takes patients through the process and advises them of side effects. This is an important facility: Fisher estimates that three-quarters of his patients don't have the internet at home.By 2008 or thereabouts, every patient in the NHS in England should have access to their electronic medical record. (Scotland and Wales have broadly similar goals, though they are going about them differently.)However, whether the NHS uses new IT as a reason to shed some hospitals depends on political and cultural as well as medical factors. Even as the NHS invests billions in IT, it continues to borrow money to build new hospitals.Clinically, the trend is away from disease-palaces and towards short stays and day-care in specialist centres. Last week, a study in the BMJ claimed that a heart surgical procedure similar to the one carried out on Tony Blair early this month could be safely carried out by a nurse in a day surgery unit.However, thanks to the animosity between clinicians and NHS administrators, attempts to move procedures out of hospitals are often attacked as cost cutting. Last week's BMJ paper attracted a flood of correspondence voicing fears about the consequences for training junior doctors.There is a precedent. In the last century, the Royal Navy clung to big ships because senior officers needed something to command and junior officers somewhere to learn. Today's big teaching hospitals are the NHS's dreadnoughts. And like dreadnoughts, hospitals are political dynamite. Hospitals are still vote winners, even if people die there.
Bouncing mailIn the past two weeks, I have been receiving attachments carrying the W32.Netsky.P virus, which Norton filters out. What's worrying is that I'm getting returned messages from people I don't know suggesting they've intercepted mail from me carrying a virus. I've run full scans and they have detected no virus.Peter McCutcheonJack Schofield replies:You don't have to worry about returned messages unless they are ones you have sent. W32.Netsky.P is a mass-mailing worm that exploits a bug in the way Microsoft's Internet Explorer used to interpret unusual forms of MIME header to execute an attachment automatically when the email is read or even viewed. The patch was published in March 2001 (see security bulletin MS01-020 athttp://masl.to/?W29C22099) and should not affect anybody who has done even casual updating. However, it is also distributed via file-sharing systems under a large and impressive variety of names, such as Ringtones.mp3.exe, Harry Potter 1-6 book.txt.exe and Eminem Spears porn.jpg.exe.W32.Netsky.P has its own SMTP mail software, so it can send out thousands of emails regardless of which email software you use. It forges the From: line using email addresses picked up locally, so your email address probably appears several times on the infected PC: perhaps one of your business contacts has recently downloaded Netsky.P as Adobe Photoshop 10 crack.exe or whatever. If you read some of the mail headers (seewww.stopspam.org/email/headers.html) you may be able to find the sender's IP address and complain to their ISP. This is worthwhile if you have a persistent offender. You can also complain to the idiots who use software that bounces messages back to forged addresses, but it won't have any effect.If you run anti-virus scans locally and online at sites such as Trend Micro's Housecall and Symantec, you can be sure you don't have Netsky.P. However, it is also worth keeping an eye on your internet connection. If you double-click the connection icon in Windows' system tray (next to the clock) it will tell you how many bytes of data you have sent and received. If you have sent 100K of email and the pop-up says you have sent 100MB of data, you can start worrying.Wi-Fi phoneI am trying to find out which mobiles support Wi-Fi and/or WiMax.MAJS:I don't know of any Wi-Fi phones available in the UK, unless you can get an HP iPaq h6315/h6340, which is really a Windows Pocket PC-based PDA - Expansys is taking pre-orders (http://masl.to/?M2CC21099). However, the T-Mobile MDA III Pocket PC is on sale in Germany for &euro;450 (http://masl.to/?F2DC14099) and is expected to arrive in the UK fairly soon. For a comparison of the early contenders, seewww.msmobiles.com/news.php/2951.html. WiMax (IEEE 802.16) phones are probably still years away.XP v NAVI have installed XP2. The only problem is that it keeps saying my Norton Anti-Virus is switched off when it is on.Paul KinlockJS:Some viruses try to disable security products, so ignoring probes is a self-defence mechanism. Symantec's website says: "Your Norton security products contain tamper protection features that prevent malicious code    from determining their status. This tamper protection also prevents the Windows Security Center from determining the status of your Norton security products." (www.symantec.com/techsupp/sp2/faq.html#9) A LiveUpdate has been provided to remove the problem. Reader David Peate also posed and helped answer this question.Backchat&#183;Last week, Peter del Tufo complained he could not search for words in AOL 9's email software, and that AOL had suggested he search it in AOL 7. I suggested he switch to a better third-party email program using the standard IMAP protocol, which AOL now supports. Cass Stainton from the AOL Comms Team protests: "AOL 9.0 mail does allow full searches for specified keywords in emails, including the body of the email itself, via a dedicated tab within the mailbox." The instructions are to click Read on the toolbar, choose the Search Email tab (fifth from left), pick Search Options (in underscored blue text, to the right of that screen), then click the option that says: Search content of email messages saved on my PC. Cass adds: "We're checking our records to clarify why Member Services gave incorrect information to this member."&#183;Nigel Miller suggested del Tufo install "the excellent standalone free AOL Communicator Email software (Keyword: AOL Communicator) designed as complementary to AOL 9. This will give him every advanced email search option he needs, as well as allowing a more transparent and accessible backup feature." The main drawback is that "you cannot import existing saved emails into this long-trousered version from the bundled AOL 9 email program for unexplained reasons. However, this could be overcome by forwarding old emails to another personal account".
"Microsoft (MSFT) and watch maker Swatch are offering a new line of wireless data watches, the companies said Wednesday, bringing the era of Dick Tracy wristwatch radios one step closer. The watches offer news, sports, weather and stock quotes, among other snippets of content, via Microsoft's MSN Direct wireless data service," reportsReuters."The watches come with three levels of service. Each comes free with local weather, news headlines and stock index levels. For $40 a year, users can receive more weather data, personalized news and sports scores, stock quotes, horoscopes and the like. For $60 annually, they can receive instant messages and calendar reminders from their PC if they use Microsoft Outlook software."The watches utilize unused local FM radio channels to broadcast general content as well as personalized scheduling information to watches. Messages can also be delivered to the watches using Microsoft Messenger instant-messaging software."
Mitch Altman's TV-B-Gone is "a new universal remote that turns off almost any television. The device, which looks like an automobile remote, has just one button. When activated, it spends over a minute flashing out 209 different codes to turn off televisions, the most popular brands first," reportsWired News."Altman said people who hear about TV-B-Gone start thinking about other nuisances. Friends have asked for ways to jam cell phones, shut down vehicle subwoofers and kill car alarms."Comment:TheTV-B-Gonesite has used up its 5GB bandwidth allowance.Update:There's a new sitehere.
"Apple reported stellar sales of its iPod music player for the latest quarter, which ended Sept. 25 and saw just over 2 million of the diminutive hard-drive based devices fly off the shelves. That's music to the ears of PortalPlayer, the Santa Clara (Calif.) company that designs the integrated circuits and software powering both the iPod classic and the iPod mini," reportsBusiness Week Online.The company is going for an IPO. However, "PortalPlayer admits that 89% of its revenues came from Inventech, the third-party manufacturer building iPods for Apple in China," and it's still not making a profit."PortalPlayer does supply chip designs to iPod competitors, including Aiwa, Philips, RCA, Rio, and Samsung. But until those customers get more traction in the digital music-player market, PortalPlayer will lack customer diversity and remain exposed to Apple's decisions."
What doFootball Manager 2005and flawed strategy gameRepublichave in common? On the surface nothing, but both games are being released on the Mac. Yes, Mac owners will soon be able to guide an underdog to Premiership glory, or berate the ruling political class in a fictional Soviet society. But this all begs one simple question. Why? Is there anyone who buys a Mac for gaming? It's like buying a second hand SNES to useMario Paintrather than play Super Metroid  utterly pointless.Of course, there is the argument that after a hard day's graphical designing or iTunes synchronisation a Mac deserves some gaming free-time. After all, even designers and musicians need to kick back after a day at the Photoshop/Pro Tools coalface. But why do it on the Mac? The graphics cards in them are no match for a PC and if you want to play older, less graphical intensive, games then buy a second hand PC for 200 quid rather than spend a 1000 more on a Mac.So why do publishers bother? Why is that small, hardy band of Mac gamers worth the effort? Do they each buy ten games a month? Do they picket the offices of the major publishers? Or is it, in fact, that they will pay top dollar for aged PC games that now sell for a few pounds? Remember that Republic was released in 2003 for PC and is now available for peanuts.I can't think of any big games that have debuted on Mac in the last five years. In fact sinceMarathonall those years ago, what has there been that wasn't superior and out first on PC? The Mac has a lot of plus points, but gaming isn't one of them. Mac gaming should RIP before it becomes even more embarrassing.
As Gamesblog's sole representative at the annual games industryPro Evolution SoccerCup last night, it's fair to say that hopes were low. And I didn't disappoint. A narrow 3-0 defeat in the qualifying round meant my participation was short and sweet. I'm blaming a number of factors. The fact that it was held at Stamford Bridge's gaudy and soulless environs; the fact that I played someone from the specialist press as opposed to my usual opponent from the lifestyle mags; the fact that there was anex-Eastenders actorplaying whose name I couldn't remember, which bugged me; but basically, of course, I wasn't good enough. Sorry Aleks, Keith  football's not coming home this year.
This one was brought to my attention a day or two ago, but I forgot to blog it."The biggest ever switch by a UK local authority away from Microsoft software to 'StarOffice' desktop solutions based on open source software is set to take place at Bristol City Council," reportsE-Government Bulletin."Bristol is poised to move up to 5,000 of its staff desktop computers to the StarOffice 7 system early in the New Year, in a move aimed at saving an estimated 1.4 million pounds over five years. The Bristol decision concludes a three-year evaluation of the technical, financial and cultural issues of software migration, including a 600-user pilot in the council's Neighbourhood and Housing Services Department."'Our ICT officers are convinced that the technical quality of StarOffice is good, that the financial business case is accurate and that the cultural issues can be managed so that the migration is handled effectively,' said Stewart Long, head of ICT. Long said it was highly unlikely that his council's plans would go the same way as those laid earlier this year by the London borough of Newham, which abandoned a similar move following last-minute price concessions from Microsoft."
1Pro Evolution Soccer 42Fifa 20053Tony Hawk's Underground 24Fable5Burnout 3: Takedown6The Sims 27Pokemon Fire Red8Star Wars: Battlefront9Rome: Total War10Pokemon Leaf GreenSource: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack
My goodness, we are a generous bunch. We've got 5 copies of Electronic Arts'multi-million-sellinginteractive phenomenon The Sims 2 to give away to lucky readers. If you want to get in on the simulation action, headhereand find out more.
"Budding young web designers are to get the chance to make their mark in a new initiative to celebrate internet design skills in the classroom. Arts Minister Estelle Morris launched the Web Design Challenge today, a joint project from the Hansard Society and the Design Museum.""Commissioned and funded by Culture Online - part of the Department for Culture, Media and Sport - Web Design Challenge gives young people a unique opportunity to develop their design and computer skills while exploring issues of Citizenship.""The national competition has been designed especially for 11- to 14-year-olds (Key Stage 3) and all schools across England are invited to take part. Prizes include laptops, games consoles and design resources as well as the chance to attend a master class from top web designer, Daljit Singh. The overall winner will see their site go live in summer 2005."Schools can sign up by visitinghttp://www.webdesignchallenge.org
American doctors who postponed a kidney transplant between two men who met through a private organ donation website have decided to let the operation to proceed, despite legal and ethical concerns about the surgery.The operation, scheduled for today, is believed to be the first transplant arranged through a website designed to match organ donors with recipients, said Jeremiah Lowney, medical director of MatchingDonors.com, where the two men made contact.Doctors at Presbyterian/St. Luke's Medical Center in Colorado initially postponed the procedure to replace Bob Hickey's kidney after he had already been admitted to hospital. However, the hospital's ethics committee that the operation should be allowed to go ahead as long as both men pledged that neither was profiting financially.Rob Smitty, who read Hickey's story on the website and agreed to give him a kidney before the two had ever met, said he felt vindicated by the decision.
 
"They're allowing me to do something just good for this man," said Smitty, from Tennessee.In a statement, hospital chief Mimi Roberson said the decision to allow a "compassionate exception" does not mean the hospital is endorsing the website, and said officials will give greater scrutiny to such transplants in the future.Mr Hickey said he first learned about MatchingDonors.com in January, the same month the website became operational. The company, based in Massachusetts, charges varying fees to post profiles of people looking for live organ donors.Hickey, who has needed a transplant since 1999 because of a kidney disease, was tired of waiting on the national donation list. Within three months of posting on the website, he received 500 offers for donations, which he eventually whittled down to Smitty, a part-time photographer and food distributor."It gave me so much hope," he said.
Delivering a small blow to the stable foundations of various anti-piracy contentions that "piracy hurts the games industry" is theannouncementthat the almost pathologically anticipated Xbox exclusive first person shooterHalo 2has broken virtually every pre-order sales record in the same week as the French version wasleakedonto the internet. According to gamesindustry.biz, this guarantees "first-day revenues higher than any movie in history". Yowza.For those who prefer to play above the board, the release date in the US is on 9 November. For us in PAL-territory land (i.e., Europe, Australia and the rest), we get our monumental kicks two days later on the 11th.
Imagination Technologies has been showing off its Power VR MBX chipset at the ARM Developer Conference in Santa Clara. The 3D graphics technology is designed to be fitted into mobile phones alongside a standardARMprocessor - in a similar way that graphics chips do all the polygon and special effects calculation in games consoles. The technology demos look pretty impressive, but this is becoming a crowded market with ATI and nVidia working on their own 3D graphics solutions for mobile handsets.Anyway, take a look for yourselfhere. I'm rather concerned about the cel-shaded pig though - whoever told Imagination that producing a farmyard animal using an exhausted and out-dated graphical technique/fad would be a good way of showing off their technology? It's like Ferrari launching its latest model with leopard skin seat covers.
You would not call it a resistance movement - yet - but there are signs that the Treasury's demand for big efficiency savings is provoking sharp dissent. As autumn draws on, managers are saying of the &#163;21bn target for 2008: it can't be done, or at least - contrary to what Sir Peter Gershon said in his report to the chancellor in July - it can't be done without harming public services.From the offices of West Devon borough council in Tavistock to the glitzy suite of an international consultancy in San Francisco, voices are being raised in doubt and dismay.David Incoll, the West Devon council chief executive, says the demand for 2.5% efficiency savings a year has to mean cutting frontline services. "A significant proportion of our residents in Devon are elderly," he says. "They need and expect face-to-face services, for which call centres and information technology cannot substitute."The consultants, reluctant to be named for fear of losing Whitehall contracts, cite studies that say Gershon's assumption that new IT saves money is wrong. IT may pay off in productivity gains, but only in distant years, well beyond the Treasury's three-year timetable.Last week, health minister John Hutton dismissed reports that the integration and renewal of NHS IT - which includes the gigantic task of putting patient records and appointments online - would end up costing &#163;30bn, or five times the official projection. But no one, especially the NHS IT supremo Richard Grainger, claims this project is a cost saver in the short term. Over the next five years, the NHS will not just have to pay for equipment but for extra bodies and top to bottom retraining in GPs' surgeries, hospitals, primary care trusts and authorities.On a bright July day, Gordon Brown sought to trump the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats with Labour's promise of 100,000 civil service job cuts and big savings in administration costs, not just in Whitehall but in local government and the NHS. It is darker now. Political events have knocked Brown's authority, especially the return of Alan Milburn to Tony Blair's side as election chief. The Treasury's competence in delivering these big savings is openly derided.Some pity is extended to the man in charge of the efficiency programme, John Oughton, the chief executive of the Office of Government Commerce. He looks like piggy-in-the-middle between the Treasury and the frontline.Take the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP). It is meant to sacrifice 40,000 jobs, but finds itself with a new secretary of state and, possibly, big shifts in policy on pensions. Phasing out pension credits - the means-tested scheme - and increasing the basic pension would, in theory, allow staff numbers to be reduced, but only over several years.Blair wants fewer people on incapacity benefit. Getting them back to work will take more, not fewer, officials to investigate their circumstance and provide personal support - but jobcentres are being closed in pursuit of efficiency gains. The DWP's permanent secretary, Sir Richard Mottram, may face the dilemma of either giving No 11 its efficiency gains or No 10 its cuts in the number out of work because of disability.Managers at the Child Support Agency - potentially a hotspot again as the "fathers' rights" lobby becomes vocal - fear that they cannot keep up if they have to deliver the stipulated jobs cuts.Gershon's report said savings could be made by streamlining the way public bodies buy &#163;117bn worth of goods and services from the private sector each year. But it now turns out that his script on procurement is not the same as the one being acted out in the Office of Fair Trading (OFT).It is anxious. "Where the public sector is focused on short-term value for money gains, there may be a risk that competition is reduced," says a report commissioned by the OFT. But without "short-term value for money gains", the Treasury's targets are unreachable.The OFT is less worried by everyday council contract letting (which, it admits, no one has much data on) than by council deals on sewage and waste disposal, defence spending, NHS purchases of drugs and procurement of IT. It bemoans "an overly strong focus on price". What it wants public bodies to do - at a time when they are under immense pressure to make savings - is concern themselves with the structure of private markets and themselves take steps to encourage new firms, especially small and medium-sized firms, to bid for contracts.The OFT, which has acquired extra independence under Labour, has the capacity to make a fuss, even refer matters to the Competition Commission, which would be severely embarrassing for the government. Efficiency versus competition is a battle the Treasury would rather avoid.&#183;David Walker edits Public, the Guardian's magazine for public executives. To subscribe emailpublicsubs@guardian.co.uk
Symbol, which is best known for handhelds with built in bar-code readers, has launched a new range that could give some much-needed impetus to the TLA (three-letter abbreviation) industry. The TLA in question is, of course, EDA, or "enterprise digital assistant".As thepress releaseso eloquently puts it: "Symbol Technologies, Inc, The Enterprise Mobility Company (TM), today introduced the first in a new family of durable enterprise digital assistant (EDA) products specifically designed for business essential applications within the enterprise environment. Targeting the growing mobile enterprise market, the new Symbol MC50 mobile computer was created for mobile workers within organizations that are seeking to capture, move and manage information at the point of business activity in order to increase productivity and efficiency, while improving customer responsiveness and satisfaction."Forrester Research defined the EDA back inSeptemberand Wyse launched some EDA's inOctober, but the shortage ofGoogle hitssuggests EDA is struggling to take off in the TLA stakes.Counterattacks can be expected from theElectronic Design Association, theEconomic Development Administration, theEuropean Demolition Associationand the powerfulEidgenssisches Departement fr auswrtige Angelegenheiten.
"Iraqi militants who kidnapped an Australian reporter in Baghdad and threatened to kill him "Googled" his name on the Internet to investigate his work before releasing him unharmed, the journalist's executive producer said Tuesday," reports Associated Press."John Martinkus, the first Australian confirmed as having been held hostage in Iraq, was seized early Saturday and held for nearly 24 hours before being freed. His executive producer at Australia's SBS network, Mike Carey, said the Internet... likely saved Martinkus.""They checked on him to see if he was who he said he was," Carey told The Associated Press. "They Googled him and then went onto a Web site  either his own or his book publisher's Web site, I don't know which one  and saw that he was who he was, and that was instrumental in letting him go, I think, or swinging their decision."The only hostile environment I'm planning on visiting soon is a pub in Hackney, but better make sure I've still got the top ranking on my own name... just in case.
Our hallowed bastion of gameland is being threatened by a new danger. No, not parental control, government warning or sequelitis but evil capitalist product placement shenanigans which will promote the latest brand of jeans, shoes and discount meat products to our easily-swayed soft brains!While advertising in games is not terribly new (Danger-shooterKingpinfeatured Diesel-wear,The Sims Onlinesold McDonalds hamburgers,There.comfeatured buy-able Nike for your avatars), Activision has boosted the momentum by making a deal with the car manufacturerChrysler, and fundingresearchto boot. Their Surrey tractor-esque Jeep has second billing to OAP skater dude Tony Hawk in the recently released iteration of the series. This isn't just a flash-in-the-pan event either; Peter Molyneux's eagerly anticipated titleThe Moviesis also in on the act, incorporating Chrysler into its script.Essentially, the announcement on Monday suggested that serious marketing thought is going into "how long and how often players interact with brands". Suddenly big business is aware that gamers are getting more out of their entertainment than previously anticipated for a "kids' medium" (I expect we have some of the negative publicity to thank for that) and that, as virtual world academicEdward Castronovahas explained to me in the past, there's been a significant dip in TV ratings since the boom of computer gaming.There is good argument to suggest that the interactivity of the medium is an important aspect of taking in the message, and the research addresses when, how and where active interaction with a brand in a game is the most cost-effective. The results indicate that games are a viable avenue in which to product place: 87% of the participants remembered seeing an in-game brand, and this translates into pay point purchases.However, this calls into question a discussion I had at lunch the other week with a couple of games industry professionals. While we all admitted that such blatant corporate promotion is inevitable due to spiralling production and development costs, only one of our number was enthusiastic about it, suggesting that it opened up new financial possibilities and mass market appeal for the products. Myself and the other lunching member of the party were more sceptical, and were concerned with the future of such "beneficial" arrangements when it came to content and design.What, for example, happens when a well-known car manufacturer's in-game vehicle is used for an in-game un-lawful violation, is driven away and then explodes, killing innocent non-playable characters? Will that well-known car manufacturer start having editorial control over what goes on in the game?Will a trainer manufacturer have a say over what moral character a massively-multiplayer online game avatar must ascribe to if it purchases models of its footwear?What other dangers await when the advertising cloak lifts?As a young industry, eager to get in on the same scale as other forms of entertainment, here's hoping the games business takes heed from its older and potentially wiser brethren, and doesn't start flashing billboards in our digital faces. That would take out most of the fun.
No doubt you've heard about G2'sOperation Clark Countyinitiative, which is encouraging Guardian readers in the UK to send their views on the presidential candidates to voters in the pivotal Clark County area of Ohio. If that sounds like too much effort, mobile game developer Masabi has just launched 'Pick the Prez' a free java game that allows players to cast their vote in an online poll."Everyone has an opinion on the US Elections but as many of us aren't Americans we obviously can't vote" said Tom Godber, CEO of Masabi. "We were also interested to see who the world would vote for if they had the choice, so we created Pick the Prez to get a meaningful gauge of the world's choice for the President. At the same time we thought we'd bring some much needed comedy to the whole situation"Unprepared to let your lack of American citizenship get in the way of voicing your opinions? You can download the Java app via your phone from: http://wap.picktheprez.com.Alternatively, email your vote via thePick the Prez website
Computer games developer Eidos yesterday admitted it may miss the Christmas market for one of its crucial products, Championship Manager 5, as it has been forced to modify the game because it was too easy.But shares in the creator of Lara Croft were supported yesterday by comments from Eidos that it is still in talks with several parties interested in buying the business. It is trying to whittle the number of potential buyers down to what it terms "a preferred counterparty".The latest version of Championship Manager, which allows you to buy and sell football players and lead their team through a league season, was expected to be a Christmas hit.Eidos said its version of the game for PC will not happen this month, as planned, and warned that while it hopes to   have it in stores before Christmas "this may extend into the new year".A spokeswoman for the company said designers were altering the game because it is too easy. The company is still on track to have the latest version for the XBox and PlayStation 2 consoles ready for release in spring.Eidos shares closed down 1p at 91.5p as the company added that it is still talking to a number of potential buyers."The board of Eidos ... confirms that it is continuing to pursue discussions in relation to the possible sale of the company and is currently in the process of selecting a preferred counterparty," the firm said.Optimism that the company may fall to a bid has buoyed up the stock for weeks. Eidos is now valued at &#163;130m.Analysts have touted US publishers THQ and Electronic Arts and France's Ubi Soft as possible buyers.
EMI is taking the next leap into digital music through a link-up with Carphone Warehouse that will see the high street retailer sell the new greatest hits collection from Robbie Williams on pre-loaded memory cards.An increasing number of mobile phones can accept memory cards, which are commonplace in electronic goods such as digital cameras, to store data.Until now it has been up to mobile phone users to battle with technology and load music on to the chips in their phone.To kick-start the market Robbie Williams' greatest hits will be the first album to be released on a memory card. Many phones are capable of pumping out stereo sound but the memory card release will also include video footage of the artist.Carphone Warehouse is talking to EMI about delivering more pre-loaded memory cards in time for Christmas. While the Robbie Williams deal is exclusive, if sales of memory cards take off it is likely other retailers will start stocking cards.Danny Van Emden, digital media director at EMI Music, said: "The UK is in love with the mobile and it's the one device that we know our artists' fans have with them at all times - so the memory card is simply the next logical chapter."Carphone Warehouse will include the card in its new mobile entertainment brand, playmobile, which it is launching next month.
An often overlooked gaming issue which I had the valuable opportunity to explore for my MSc dissertation was the subject of how gamers with limited mobility get the chance to play on home games consoles. Well, it appears this is a hot topic in the press of late, with two independent news organisations covering the same scene. First is Friday's BBCarticlefeaturing a 17 year old with cerebral palsy who uses skills learned from playing the PlayStation with his chin-switch controller to move himself around with a custom-built wheelchair, and the second is from USA Today'scoverageof a quadriplegic man's ability to control Pong with his mind. With his mind? My word! Well, that's cyberkinetics for you...While these two news items highlight a couple of fantastic adaptive technologies, there are many others out there, from one-button controllers to sip and blow controllers which let everyone in on the fun. For those who would like to know more, there's information from some superb home-grown sources likeOne-Switch, andMarkBB's personal home page links, and more fromArcess, based in New Zealand.
Following the tuneful '80s loveliness ofVice City, Rockstar have announced the soundtrack for the forthcoming sequel - GTA: San Andreas. Set in a mythical early '90s LA the music is what you'd expect. This is a rap-heavy line-up, although alt-rock gets a look in with Rage Against The Machine. There is also some welcome early House music and plenty of Latin stuff. For the full list of radio stations tune intohere
The galleries onCNet("design specialists dream up the unexpected to help Microsoft get a foothold in the living room") brought to my attention the idea of non-conventional computing. This design for a media centre PC byOne &amp; Cocertainly has a non-computer feel about it. But where are all the other innovative designs?And I don't mean Macs - which are lovely and all, but still retain that ultimate sense of being a desktop computer. Where are the friendly designs, the organic designs, the natural desings? It's something I've wondered about for a long time.For example, I'd like to see more computers built as pieces of furniture, or even inserted inside natural substances such as blocks of stone (stick with me here). I'd like to see computers that felt like ornaments in our homes rather than millstones round our necks. To a certain extent, one-offs fill this gap in the market, but as we want technology to become less intrusive and more just another part of our lives, we're going to have to see the packaging do the same.Some people are doing it to make retro technology breathe again (thoughRetropod, which turned your iPod into an old skool Sony Walkman, has beenshut down) but tell me: where are the real designs of the future?
American "broadband service may get a little broader in the next few years, now that the Federal Communications Commission is graciously stepping out of the way ", reportsthe Boston Globe."Last week, the agency laid out new rules that should give the big telecom companies a big incentive to build us a better network. In their most controversial move, the FCC said that phone companies can build high-speed fiber-optic lines to within 500 feet of customers' homes without having to share the new lines with rival companies."That didn't thrill consumer advocates, who fear that companies ... will seize monopoly control of our broadband access and hose us down with absurdly high prices... Sure, monopoly abuse is a worry. Let's worry about it once we've gotten the nation wired."It's interesting from a British perspective - mainly because, despite claims to the contrary, we've got a monopoly on those lines in all but name. Right now BT owns thelocal loopand rents it out to other broadband providers. But what if it didn't - what if other parties could use the local loop for free? Would broadband costs drop drastically? Would other providers start installing their own, higher quality lines?While the vast geographical distances to be covered in the US may cause concern over potential monopolistic behaviour (a new gold rush for broadband provision), from a British consumer's point of view, the best way forward would be to get rid of loop ownership altogether.Still, splitting up the providers from the infrastructure isn't without dangers - just look at the mess that was made of rail privatisation in the UK and you get an idea of how such things can be bungled.
More than 150 million tracks have been downloaded from Apple's iTunes online music store, a significant milestone for the company, but new research shows the number of people using legal online services has fallen.The computer-maker said it passed the 150 million mark when Lauryn Hill's Ex-Factor was bought by a fan in Colorado.Independent research shows that Apple now has the lion's share - around 70% - of the global market in legal online downloads. Its nearest rival, Napster, which has just launched a pre-pay service in the UK, has just 11%.The figures come just days after the US computer-maker announced that it had sold over 2 million iPods between June and September, a 500% increase compared with the same period last year.Sales of the pocket-sized media player and revenues from iTunes - Apple is estimated to make up to 14p per tune from each download - helped Apple drive third-quarter profits to a bumper 59m.Apple said it planned to boost sales of musical downloads by opening services across Europe in addition to its recently launched operations in the UK, Germany and France."Crossing 150 million downloads marks another major milestone for the online music business. We're looking forward to bringing iTunes to even more music lovers when we launch our pan-EU music store soon," said Eddy Cue, Apple's vice-president of applications.Though Wall Street reacted favourably to the news, pushing Apple's shares to a four-year high, new research shows that the company and its rivals are not yet attracting significant numbers of new download devotees, at least not in the US.A study from US research outfit NPD Group said the number of people paying for legal music services peaked at 1.3 million in April and has fallen ever since."Over the 18 months since iTunes launched, paid music download services have been hoping for huge increases in paying customers; however, the number actually doing so has declined to about 1 million users per month," said thes NPD vice-president, Russ Crupnick.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
In an advertising market that is as gloomy as a misty morning on Dartmoor, there is one chink of light. New figures released last week showed that the online advertising industry is continuing to grow apace. The latest six-monthly update from Price Waterhouse Coopers reveals that, having overtaken cinema last year, internet advertising in the UK is now challenging radio's status as the fourth biggest medium behind TV, print and billboards.According to research due to be unveiled today by Microsoft's internet arm MSN, confidence is higher than ever among sales staff at major sites such as MSN, AOL and Yahoo! and the agencies that buy space on them. After years of trying, and in some cases under-delivering, it looks as if the internet's accountability, measurability and targeting is finally making an impression on the big brands. In certain sectors, notably cars and finance, online ads are now an integral part of any big campaign, rather than an afterthought.The MSN research reveals that more than eight out of 10 brand managers intend to increase, or at the very least maintain, their current level of investment in online. It seems that the efforts of the Interactive Advertising Bureau and the big online players to promote the medium are starting to pay off. Nearly seven out of 10 marketing directors and six out of 10 media buyers and ad agencies said that a better understanding of the value of online advertising was the key driver in encouraging them to spend more.But despite the continued growth curve, with revenues up 76% on the corresponding period last year and predicted easily to top &#163;500m by the end of 2004, the sound of champagne corks popping was curiously absent. That is because many in the industry still feel they are treated as a poor relation by mainstream advertising agencies. Despite the staggering growth of advertising revenues over the past two years, the amount of time people spend on the web is still far outstripping the amount spent by advertisers to reach them. Recent studies suggest that the internet now accounts for at least 15% of all media consumption among those with a web connection, with some estimating that those with high-speed broadband spend more time online than watching television.For those at the sharp end, such as Fru Hazlitt, UK managing director for Yahoo!, the battle for recognition remains a source of frustration. At a recent round-table event she said that some in the ad industry were still punishing online publishers for their attitude during the brief period of the dotcom boom when they went around telling everyone that traditional media were doomed. And this is partly tied up with the ongoing battle to convince those in the mainstream creative agencies that online ads are as valid as any other.The enthusiasm revealed by MSN's Online Pulse research is also tempered by the fact that many now see online advertising as a so-called "direct response" medium. In short, the uncharitable might see it as on a par with mailshots and the sort of adverts for loans that plague late-night multichannel TV. Much of the recent growth in ad spend has been driven by the increase in the amount spent on search marketing, where companies pay to have a link to their site listed alongside relevant search results.The challenge now for the likes of MSN and Yahoo! is to continue to convince big advertisers that the internet can be used as a so-called branding medium as well as a direct response one - in other words, to create the big branding statements that have tended to be the preserve of cinema, TV and billboard ads."I agree that there's still a long way to go, but we've increased one whole percentage point in a year and we're now hot on the heels of radio. That shows how much potential there is for the business," says Chris Ward, director of MSN UK. "The industry has risen to where it is today on the back of direct-response advertising. We need to consolidate on that, there's still a lot more to do there. But if we can do the same on the brand side as we've done on direct response, then that increases the cake massively," he adds.To this end, MSN has reorganised its home page to cut down on clutter and provide one premium advertising slot. The growing recognition of other services, such as Hotmail and instant messenger, as viable advertising media are is helping to increase the market, he believes.There has been some progress - most car launches, for example, now have a large online branding element because manufacturers realise that most people go to the web to research their new car. Entertainment has been another massive growth area, with new cinema releases and album launches getting a big online presence, says Ward. Innovations such as video and sound are also making online ads more attractive and eye-catching - the current campaign for White Chicks, for example, features clips from the movie embedded in the ad. And an advertorial deal for the film Shark Tale is also prominently displayed on the MSN home page.Music, in particular, is tipped for further growth with the growing popularity of online download services. The next big target area is fmcg brands, the everyday staples such as washing powder, that still tend to concentrate almost all their budgets on TV.For Ward, the challenge is for the big portals to stop scrapping among themselves for market share and to collectively bang the drum for the internet as an advertising medium. "There's still scepticism among some brand managers. They need hard evidence that they can show their boss in the lift. It's important not only for MSN but for the industry as a whole to provide that evidence." Overall, though, the outlook is sunny, says Ward. "If anything, it's got a momentum now. There have been enough examples of big brands with great creative work for it to demonstrably work for them. The word has got out. There's a steamroller effect. We need to look in the medium term at online being an 8-10% medium. If you look how far we've come in just five to six years, it's eminently achievable."
"An pill-sized brain chip has allowed a quadriplegic man to check e-mail and play computer games using his thoughts. The device can tap into a hundred neurons at a time, and is the most sophisticated such implant tested in humans so far," reportsNature."The device, called the BrainGate, was developed by the company Cyberkinetics, based in Foxborough, Massachusetts. Each electrode taps into a neuron in the patient's brain. The BrainGate allowed the patient to control a computer or television using his mind, even when doing other things at the same time. Researchers report for example that he could control his television while talking and moving his head."
'Whatever you do, don't release the handbrake,' says Dave Wilson. He disappears from my view, leaving me to contemplate the 'bonnet' of the car stretching out in front of me: 25ft long and 1ft wide. I feel like I've been strapped into a supercharged coffin. Looking over my shoulder, behind the eight gleaming exhaust pipes, 
I can see the two vast rear wheels quivering slightly. Dave pops up surrounded by mechanics wearing fireproof suits and rubber gas masks. He give me the thumbs-up sign - my cue to depress the clutch. The mechanics fire up the vast V8 3,000hp engine. Eye-stinging smoke fills the air, the car shakes and bucks on its blocks, and the roar of the mighty V8 makes my chest cavity vibrate like a broken speaker...The engine cuts and the smoke clears. Dave 'Grumpy' Wilson is the driver of the fastest methanol drag racer in Europe. Contrary to what you might think, drag racing has nothing to do with men in high heels and mascara. It's about launching a gas-guzzling, wheel-smoking 'car' down a quarter-mile track in less time than it takes you to spot a cross-dresser in an M&amp;S lingerie department.'Are you ever frightened?' I ask Dave. He looks puzzled - the idea of accelerating to 270mph in just over five seconds is his idea of a Sunday drive. Dave, who is 60 this year, is sponsored by PlayStation and drives for the American Car Import team, which is owned by the colourful Anthony Cohen. I ask him what it takes to be a top driver. He pauses, then grins: 'Balls, huge balls!'Drag racing, which has its roots in the illegal street racing of Detroit in the Sixties, has now become 
a sport with a cultish following in Europe. Fans turn up in their thousands to watch the masters like Grumpy Wilson, and also to thrash their own tuned-up cars in 'run what ya brung' events. But whatever they drive, from top fuel burners to 200mph 'funny cars', the gas geeks are all here for one thing - speed.The figures are so immense they leave you slack-jawed with disbelief. The acceleration is 0-100mph in 
less than a second; 270mph in just over five. The car costs 100,000. The wheels, at 1,000 a pair, have to be replaced every three miles.All eight spark plugs have to be changed every half-mile. And what about consumption? 'Oh, about one mile to every 24 gallons,' smiles Anthony. 'But it's environmentally friendly. We're burning methanol.'The teams have spent all day 'dialling' their cars into the track - fine-tuning them to get a split-second's more adhesion on the glue-sprayed surface. Now the 'Christmas tree' starting lights blink, the screaming rear wheels send up clouds of smoke, Dave drops his brake, the car bunches itself like a Wacky Racer and then, in the blink of an eye, is gone, hurtling towards the horizon. Five seconds, two gear changes and 24 gallons later, Dave clocks 270mph. And not a streak of mascara in sight.&#183;martin.love@observer.co.uk
"Take this quiz to find out which file extension most closely matches your personality." BBspot has added another silly quiz,here.
