Even when something seemingly goes right for BlackBerry in 2013, it swiftly goes wrong.For example, 1.1m people were so keen to get its BBM messaging app for Android that they downloaded a leaked version ahead of its official release on 21 September. The problem being that the app was buggy, generating "volumes of data traffic orders of magnitude higher than normal for each active user".Cue network issues, aswiftly-pulled launch, and the admission by BlackBerry's head of BBM Andrew Bocking that the Android and iOS versions of BBM need some more work. "This will take some time and I do not anticipate launching this week," heblogged.BlackBerry may be able to fix those problems and get BBM live for iOS and Android devices, but its real challenge is ensuring people care. BBM still has 60m active users on BlackBerry devices, but it's a fair question to wonder how many of them want to use it, as opposed to have to use it.That's not to deny that BBM has fans, but there's a nagging sense that at its peak, many people in its two key demographic groups used it because they couldn'tnotuse it, rather than because they loved the service.Employees used it because their employer told them to, and teenagers used it because it was THE social network for their peers. BBM was hugely important, but to some extent it was forced upon people – something that by extension could be said about BlackBerry handsets too.And, of course, it was free – which is why it caught on with the teens in the first place. But fast forward to 2013, and the reasons why people were forced to use BBM / BlackBerry have fallen away. Bring Your Own Device is increasingly common in workplaces, and teens have discovered a world of free messaging apps on other smartphones.So yes, 60m people still use BBM, but that pales next to the numbers being posted by newer, cross-platform rivals.WhatsApphas 300m active users, andWeChathas 236m.Line,NimbuzzandKakaoTalkhave 200m, 150m and 100m registered users apiece, although how many are active is unknown.BlackBerry has a fellow Canadian firm snapping at BBM's heels in the shape ofKik Messenger, with 80m registered users. And there are apps emerging from other categories like video calling (Tango), VoIP (Skype), social networks (Facebook Messenger) and photo-sharing (Snapchat).BlackBerry's decision to finally launch BBM for other company's devices was a response to this competition, but how does it stay relevant? It comes down to a choice between security or stickers. Enterprise or consumer.Security means doubling down on business users and their messaging needs, while playing up its experience providing secure communications – a couple of years ago, I would have added "stable" to that sentence, but more-recent service outages have dented BlackBerry's reputation on that front.Going the enterprise route would be a more-obvious move for BBM, and one that would fit more neatly with BlackBerry's claim last week that it was refocusing its business on the "enterprise and prosumer" market.There may be a sweet spot between companies' desire for secure messaging, and wider concerns among those "prosumers" about recent revelations around the cyber-spying activities of bodies like the NSA and GCHQ.Secure messaging is already a category: Silent Circle may haveshut down its Silent Mail encrypted email service, but it still offers its Silent Text messaging tool. Recently, startupWickrmade plenty of headlines with the launch of an app promising messages that "leave no trace". BBM could try to play in this market too.Another line of development might be to expand BBM into a wider workplace tool taking in collaboration as well as communication, heading off the threat that messaging may become just a feature for those kinds of services. Could BlackBerry go down that route? Certainly. Could it do it well? The jury's out.Apps like KakaoTalk sell stickers and themes from in-app storesPlan B: stickers. Double town on the teens and the twentysomethings who used BBM when they were teens. Go head to head with WhatsApp in the West, while learning from what Line, KakaoTalk and WeChat are doing in the East and adapting those lessons to the West better than they do.Another tough task in a world that can be confusing for thirtysomethings, let alone telecoms execs 10 or 20 years older. It's a world of emoticons and virtual stickers, of impermanent photo and video-sharing, games and digital scribbling.It's also a world of fast-evolving business models, from WhatsApp's annual subscriptions to the in-app sticker sales on pretty much all its rivals; the Facebook-esque social gaming platforms emerging from Line and KakaoTalk; andWeChat's exploration of real-world payments.Consumer messaging is an exciting and innovative space, and the numbers of users already signed up to the services above make them look formidable foes. Yet BBM isn't starting from scratch: it has whatever proportion of its 60m active users who are using it for play rather than work.Security or stickers. The first seems a safer choice, but has plenty of pitfalls in store. The second is certainly riskier, but with huge potential if BBM can truly understand the messaging needs of young people, and out-innovate those rivals to keep meeting them.Both paths hold out considerable opportunities. ScotiaBank analyst Gus Papageorgiou recently estimated thatBBM could add $5 to BlackBerry's share priceby growing its user base from 60m to 250m people, and bringing in $300m a year from in-app advertising – with a valuation of $2.7bn if BBM was a standalone business.But opportunities are one thing, and successfully seizing them quite another. BlackBerry's first task is to decide which way to jump – Papageorgiou's sums were seemingly based on it going down the stickers path – before knuckling down to the task of actually delivering that value.
Flipboard, the digital magazine app, has raised another $50m (£31m) in funding from investors, valuing the Silicon Valley company at $800m.The investment will be used to finance greater international expansion, finalise a Windows 8 app, and allow the company to hire more sales staff, Mike McCue, Flipboard&apos;s chief executive and co-founder, told technology blogTechCrunch.The funding round was led by investors including Rizvi Traverse Management, which led a funding round attemptto take PlayBoy Enterprises private, and Goldman Sachs, with existing investors Insight Venture Partners and Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers also participating, marking it as the latest sign of investors&apos; appetite for novel Silicon Valley-based content distribution platforms such as the Material, Zite and Pulse apps.Flipboard first launched in July 2010 as an iPad app with an interesting new spin on news aggregation, which turned people&apos;s Twitter and Facebook feeds into a digital magazine, later launching on the iPhone and Android.Version 2.0 of the Flipboard app was then launched in March as the company&apos;s &quot;largest release we&apos;ve ever done&quot;,McCue told the Guardianat the time, allowing users to curate and share their own digital magazines within the app, hoping to add to its existing 50m-strong user base.Fliboard&apos;s user base now totals about 85m users, according to McCue, with more than 2 million user-created magazines now available via theFlipboard apps and website.The recent funding round comes after an initial investment of $10.5m, and a second round of funding totalling $50m in April 2011, whichpreviously valued Flipboardat $200m.Flipboard is adding at least 200,000 new users a day with &quot;sometimes 250,000 or 300,000&quot; users, McCue told TechCrunch. “We have some of the world’s best brands advertising on Flipboard, such as Gucci and Louis Vuitton.”“When you tap on the ad, it will take you to a brand magazine. With version 2.0, these brands are curating magazines. [We are] generating revenue for all of our publisher partners,” McCue added.• The Guardian launched onFlipboardin March.
If you've ever dreamed of making the fabled journey from Lands End to John O'Groats but can't quite summon the energy for the 874-mile trek, Ordnance Survey may just have the answer. The mapping authority has constructed a scale model of the country in the popular PC game Minecraft, using more than 22bn virtual building blocks.ProgrammingOS Innovation Lab manager Graham Dunlop said the work took two weeks to complete by an intern, Joseph Braybook, a third-year physics student from the University of Bristol."When Joseph joined the team as part of Ordnance Survey's summer internship programme, we discovered he was an avid Minecraft fan," he added."We decided to build a Minecraft world using free-to-use OS OpenData products to display the landscape and terrain of Great Britain."Braybook's project revolved around creating a software interface between the OS's OpenData and the complex but publicly documented Minecraft mapping format."It's not feasible to build that kind of scale by hand, so it was a good project for our software development house and our new internship program," said Dunlop.Combining the data sets, the lab produced a scale reproduction with 86,000 geographically accurate square miles of Great Britain. To maintain the appearance of low-lying coastal features but still fit in mountainous terrain such as Ben Nevis – which is just over 128 blocks high within the game – Braybook chose a maximum height of 2,500 metres, scaling it down to fit the 256-block height limit in Minecraft.Building and 'crafting'Minecraft is a popular video game that allows its 33 million players to build, explore and play in a virtual 3D world, using small cubes representing different materials such as rock, sand and lava.Often described as a digital version of Lego, Minecraft has seen dozens of ambitious modelling projects, includinga scale reproduction of the USS Voyagerfrom Star Trek, andthe city of King's Landingfrom the TV and novel series, Game of Thrones.Players can co-operate within the virtual world to build structures, create user-generated adventures and challenges, and defend against a variety of in-game monsters.The OS's Minecraft Britain consists of 22 billion blocks built in the virtual world, which is the "largest and most detailed geographically accurate model built yet within Minecraft," according to Dunlop.To Southampton and beyondIt starts with the OS's head office in Southampton, through which Minecraft players can enter and explore the geographically-accurate 3D representation of Great Britain.Ordnance Survey's Minecraft map of Great Britain: mountains in Snowdonia are among the higher features. Photograph: Ordnance SurveyUsers can then recreate real-life man-made features on the map, such as Stonehenge or the Shard in London, iconic landmarks from fiction such as Hogwarts school or Wuthering Heights, or construct their own buildings and monuments with their imagination the only limitation.Getting the mapMinecraft fans who already own the game on their PC or Mac can download the map from the OS website. The homepage provides useful information, such as the XYZ co-ordinates of some geographic locations such as Mount Snowdon and Lake Windermere. Players can then customise the map, adding their own favourite scenic features.The Minecraft map of Great Britain can be downloaded here. You'll need 5GB of free disk space and at least 4GB of memory. After that, you're free to explore the whole country from the safety of your armchair."We have no immediate plans for the map, but we'll wait and see what kinds of requests the OS gets revolving around the data. For now, it's our gift to the world of Minecraft," Dunlop said.
Welcome to Stockholm: in constant iterationCaroline Walerud, co-founder of 3D scanning startup Volumental, explains that even in Sweden&apos;s mature startup scene, she had to turn to Kickstarter this summer to raise more than $20,000 in seed fundingVolumental, my own startup, was born in a hotel room during a Skype call at 3am in October 2012. I was calling three technologists from Stockholm&apos;sRoyal Institute of Technology, whom I had first met just days before. We decided to start the world’s first cloud-based 3D scanning service.The 3D revolution will change the world, but it requires access both to 3D printers and to 3D models for printing. But those 3D models are still too difficult to create - and that is what Volumental is here to change, from one of the top startup hotspots in the world.Caroline Walerud of 3D scanning startup Volumental. Photo by&nbsp;stockholminnovation&nbsp;on&nbsp;Flickr.&nbsp;All rights reservedWelcome to Stockholm, birthplace ofMojangandSpotify. We’re an educated, early-adopter people, often described as trendy Germans who speak great English. We’re tech-savvy and, with the help of a supportive ecosystem, our startups quickly go global. Volumental&apos;s first customer, for example, was Australian.Still, we are the land of the &apos;safety junkies&apos;, as described by the Swedish psychiatristDavid Eberhard. It pains me to write that Swedes are afraid of failure, but we are. Like it or not, successful ventures are not built in the lab; they evolve through repeated market testing. In that evolution, failure is natural and weeds out bad ideas. Failure should welcome feedback.Unfortunately even the government is afraid of failure, despite most early capital coming from public institutions with book-long applications. Early grants are earmarked for consultants, pushing the focus away from sales and towards administration and meticulous business planning.An introduction to VolumentalThe Swedish innovation agencyVinnovais doing a great job changing that approach, but they can&apos;t do it alone. Private funding cannot fill this gap: due to suffocating tax laws on investment Sweden has few business angels, and even venture capitalists are safety junkies in their own way. Because of this, Volumental is focusing on international funding sources, such as ourKickstarter campaignthat went live this summer and exceeded its fundraising target.How do startups compete with big business? That safety dependency means we fight for magical people, but they prefer stability. Instead of high salaries, we want to incentivise with shares and stock options, but tax regulation made this almost impossible to set up.Sweden must realise that today we are fighting for the rising stars in a global market, losing start-ups to the speedier Silicon Valley. In that 3am call, I took the leap into Volumental. It was the first of many late nights when we were only a team of techies with a cool idea, months of hard work with no pay and constantly firefighting problems.We’re still learning from our failures, now with customers, funding and a team of eleven, and getting closer to success. This is part of Stockholm - a capital iterating on its failures, and getting better every time.Caroline Walerud, chief executive and co-founder of VolumentalKlarna: The biggest mobile startup you&apos;ve never heard ofKlarna tells Jemima Kiss why its payment system takes the pain out of buying on mobile, and why it is also sitting on a powerful big data play• One-click mobile payments tool• Used for 30% of Sweden&apos;s ecommerce transactions• Pay later option that consolidates bills across multiple retailersBuy something usingKlarnaon any retail site and you&apos;ll immediately notice the difference: a clean, minimised login that can be done in one click, and you can choose to pay immediately using Visa, Mastercard or online banking – or choose to pay next month.Director of product management Ted Bowman says complex logins, repeating information and paying before goods arrive were all points of pain that Klarna is trying to fix.&quot;We think we are the first product that makes people want to buy on mobile,&quot; he adds. &quot;No one has totally cracked it but we&apos;re very focused on mobile conversions.&quot;Klarna's mobile checkout service. Photograph: KlarnaBowman explains how the fiddly process of buying online is easily disrupted – the doorbell rings, the kids kick off, you can&apos;t find your purse – so the simpler to process, the more likely you are to complete the transaction. And if you buy using Klarna from multiple sites, you can pay the whole bill together once each month.How can Klarna offer credit to consumers without taking on too much risk? The answer, says Bowman, is by employing far more sophisticated and comprehensive ways of tracking a user&apos;s creditworthiness. &quot;We think we have the best risk assessment in the world, looking at 142 different factors on a transaction-by-transaction basis, from social media and time of day and to data on individual things you have bought. If you suddenly go online and buy five iPads shipping to Romania at 5am, we&apos;ll flag that up.&quot;Ted Bowman, Klarna's director of product management. Photograph: KlarnaThe front end, meanwhile, combines a simple interface with the idea of making Klarna the &apos;want&apos; button on retail sites. The focus is on being part of a physical goods delivery system - there is no interest in being used to buy virtual goods, which have a less tangible value. One click checkout is done using your email address or phone number, and the process uses information from previous orders or a third party provider to prefill the rest of your details.How ethical is it to gather this kind of fine grain information about consumers and use it against them in this way? &quot;The German authorities are very particular about the data we use to make credit decisions,&quot; says comms VP Claes Tellman, who not coincidentally has a background in the risk assessment-heavy gambling industry. &quot;Debts are growing for younger people, but debts on Klarma have gone down to 0.5%. We don&apos;t let debtors in.&quot;Are they challenging PayPal? &quot;We&apos;d be happy to have the level of success they have had in the US but we do think there is room for improvement,&quot; says product manager Phil Mikal of the eight countries in which Klaran operates. &quot;Our product is not the same country to country, and we learn through the pain and success of each unique product.&quot; In Sweden, the benefits are a highly educated workforce with a way of working that is very focused on solutions to problems, he explains. Swedish companies tend to be less hierarchical, so junior staff are more free to questions managers.Stockholm's archipelago.&nbsp;Photograph: Ville Hyv&ouml;nen/flickrKlarna&apos;s story is a familiar one of tenacious founders in their early 20s with a good idea. Sebastian Siemiatkowski, Victor Jacobsson and Niklas Adalberth have had a meteoric rise from meeting at Burger King, to a level of ubiquity in Sweden on a par with cash or credit cards, where Klarna accounts for 30% of all ecommerce transactions. Klarna&apos;s slick Stockholm offices are home to most of its 800 staff, backed by Sequoia, General Atlantic, Digital Sky, Oresund and by veteran Swedish investor Jane Walerud – mother of Volumental founder Caroline – who pitched in the first $80,000 back in 2005.There&apos;s an intensity and growth in Sweden that echoes the success of Silicon Valley, but a particularly Swedish thought leadership, commercial polish and highly skilled workforce.Klarna's new office, as modelled in Lego. Photograph: Jemima KissKlarna is being used by 15,000 merchants, starting to expand from its large user base in Sweden, and has been used by 20 million individual consumers for 60m transactions since launch. It processed €2bn in transaction volumes for 2012 with an average spend of €40, and is profitable with &quot;a couple of hundred million in revenues&quot; since launch.As well as breaking new markets, Klarna is also looking at its goldmine of real-time retail data; a powerful chunk of market insight especially at peaks such as Christmas. Compare that to market insight at the startupEditd, which mines fashion sector data from retail and trend watching sites to inform retailers designs, stock and price points and you can see how powerful, though sensitive, this cross-industry could be. &quot;That would have to be rolled out in a universally accepted way because sharing data between merchants is controversial. We&apos;re not yet at a point where we could release that as a product, but we are looking at that on our roadmap.&quot;Tictail: the future of selling onlineTictail&apos;s sleek, simple and brilliant plan is to be the Tumblr of online stores – and with an API to match. Co-founder Carl Waldekranz tells Jemima Kiss moreCarl Waldekranz, co-founder and chief executive of TictailStockholm soundbites: Per Roman of GP BullhoundJemima Kiss interviews Per Roman of tech investment bankGP Bullhoundon the strengths and challenges of the Stockholm tech sceneReading on mobile? Listen to the interview on Soundcloud hereSpotify: why discovery tools put it on course for the mainstreamBeloved by music geeks the world over, Spotify is arguably Sweden&apos;s most famous modern export. But how can the service move into the mainstream? Jemima Kiss speaks to Ian Robbins on Spotify&apos;s product development team for music discovery• Sweden&apos;s most famous startup wants a more mainstream consumer audience• Web version and stickier recommendations designed for more plays• Artist pages to be pushed as promotional toolsSpotify's lobby at its Stockholm HQ. Photograph: Jemima KissMusic discovery has been top of Spotify users&apos; request list since, arguably, the service began. The site offers two different experiences, explains Ian Robbins from the product development team; the lean forward user who knows exactly what she wants to listen to and isn&apos;t daunted by that blank search box; and the lean back user, who wants a more serendipitous experience akin to radio.It&apos;s that leanback experience that had been missing until the discovery feature for the web app launched in April on trial and then more broadly in May this year. Crucially, discovery is a feature designed to pull in and keep new users, making the service more sticky and accessible – and mainstream.&quot;Personalisation is a powerful experience and infectious,&quot; said Robbins. &quot;When you come into the product from the first day as a new user, it shows what you&apos;re listening to, what might interest you and tells you that if you follow artists and bands the experience will become even more personalised.&quot;Collaborative workspace at Spotify. Photo: Jemima KissUsers who browse more play more music, he said, pointing to user data, so the aim is to encourage more playlists and more plays. He described more &quot;affection&quot; for Spotify itself once those kind of discoveries have been unlocked.This desire to appeal to a mainstream music fan informs the way that Spotify rolls out new products; rather than use an elite group of Spotify obsessives or musos to test new features, the site now rolls out to 1% of all users, then 2%, then 5% and then site-wide. Feedback is then far more relevant for the majority of users.Spotify admits to being caught out by the speed at which users are moving to mobile platforms.&quot;It makes &apos;platformisation&apos; even more important. Everything is now mobile first,&quot; says Robbins. &quot;That isn&apos;t the priority for all companies – it depends what the product or service is, and who the user base is.&quot;iPhone users, for Spotify, are slightly more geeky, but the rocketing number of Android users – and more mainstream users – means it is now as important to develop for.The three core products are now iPad, iPhone and web app, the latter being a significant step towards reaching a mainstream who might be uncomfortable downloading desktop software.A Nirvana-themed meeting room at Spotify's HQ. Photograph: Jemima KissThere are clever tweaks in discovery; the new preview tool plays with press-and-hold, so click off and the current song continues playing. A little of the touch-and-hold of Vine? The preview is a small clip a certain percentage of the way through the song – &quot;the magical mean&quot;.Spotify has also ditched the &quot;friend&quot; model in favour of the &quot;follow&quot; model; Robbins describes this as a broader and more relevant term, as users can follow albums as well as artists. Those artist pages can now be customised, giving them a profile to curate and making followers – their fans – visible.Making playlists for fans is popular;Daft Punkdo this regularly, and the massive success ofGet Lucky on Spotify(and everywhere else) has made it the site&apos;s number one track of all time with more than 63m listens. Robbins talks about the acquisition of fellow Swedishplaylist company Tunigoin May. &quot;It was already one of our best partners and the traffic stood out last year – it&apos;s about brilliant curation.&quot; It gave Spotify a market-tested playlist tool, and accelerated its work on music discovery tools.&quot;Phase four is to expand that artists experience to more of a promotional platform,&quot; Robbins says. &quot;That follow model means artists can take advantage of having all those fans, so they could ask followers to log in to share a preview of their new single. We want to create a level of customisation that is measured, so not quite theMySpaceside of the spectrum but not the same site for everyone – developers get tools, and artists get promotion.&quot;Stockholm soundbites: Johan Jorgensen of FundedByMeJemima Kiss interviews Johan Jorgensen ofFundedByMe, a platform that connects investors with entrepreneursReading on mobile? Listen to the interview on Soundcloud hereStockholm soundbites: Anton Johansson of OsomA simplified classifieds app,Osompresents items for sale in an Instagram-style format. Founder Anton Johansson tells Jemima Kiss about &apos;emotional shopping&apos;Reading on mobile? Listen to the interview on Soundcloud hereKing: quietly ruling the social games spaceA veteran of 10 years in the casual games space, King&apos;s format for social and increasingly mobile games is one of Sweden&apos;s big success stories• Games studio specialises in casual, social games• Breakout hit Candy Crush Saga• Games translated into 30 languagesKing&apos;ssuccess in casual, social games seems less covered by the media than console-centric games press, but that could just be because its core audience of female players aged 25 to 45 are more interested in playing the games rather than reading about them. King&apos;s own focus on that area, and refining a format that has worked repeatedly, came after their initial strategy of partnering with portals such as Yahoo started to falter.King is working on hit-proofing its games. Photo: Jemima Kiss&quot;Facebook was sucking the air out of casual game play but that took a while to understand that,&quot; says Sebastian Knutsson, chief creative officer. &quot;We reinvented what we did, took half the Stockholm staff and put them on new formats using our knowledge of games, until we found formats that work well.King is profitable, though Knutsson won&apos;t talk financials. Users are 50% to 60% female in that 25-45 age bracket, although more men are finding King&apos;s titles since it began to focus more on mobile; they seem happier to admit to playing these accessible, populist games on mobile than on Facebook.King's Thomas Hartwig and Sebastian Knutsson. Photograph: /PRIts runaway success is the Candy Crush saga, a familiar format of addictively rearranging colourful sweets. &quot;We don&apos;t expect every game to reach that level of success, but we are trying to hit-proof the business by launching games on our platform on the web in a smaller, lighter form, then get a sense of the response and embellish the gameplay,&quot; says Knutsson. &quot;We have a higher success rate than most, but many of our games are evergreen. Card games are as popular as ever, and Tetris just as much as it was 20 years ago.&quot;For casual gamers, or people just starting, it&apos;s normal to start with something that feels familiar, even nostalgic, just as new users of Spotify tend to search for the music they loved 20 years ago. The way to engage those users is not by giving them tools to brag about their achievements, but with tools that let friends help each other – particularly on the infamous level 65 of Candy Crush.King's games had around 92 million daily users, as of June 2013, with Candy Crush its breakout hit. Photograph: /PRKing has offices in London, Stockholm, Hamburg and Bucharest among others. Knutsson said the focus on product and innovation – perhaps without the bluster and hype of some US social games companies – has contributed to a stealthy success for this sector; Scandinavian games accounted for five of the top 10 iPhone games at time of writing. It&apos;s often said, but the principle of being humble about success is innate.&quot;I think you have to be careful about believing that success is permanent, that we have to say what the mistakes are and build the right internal culture and manage that success in a good way,&quot; says co-founder Thomas Hartwig. The team develops games quickly – about three months is typical from conception to launch – and the focus is on developing game IP, though the ideas that don&apos;t work are just as important in informing game design.Plans afoot in King's Stockholm office. Photo: Jemima KissIt&apos;s easier to grow new territories on mobile, he said, but while there is huge potential in the US and Europe, it&apos;s Asia – particularly Japan and China – that would be the grand prize. &quot;There&apos;s intense competition from local players and it&apos;s hard for western companies to grow big. China has a huge market and big studios. The future giants will be Asian – Tencent has something like 48,000 staff. But Candy Crush has been the number one game in Hong Kong, Taiwan and Singapore. The game is general enough that it speaks to a mainstream audience but needs strong marketing channels and partnerships to get into that market.&quot;There are 39 staff at King who work on data analysis, using information on gameplay to inform their new titles. &quot;That work with data combines with intuition and experience to fine tune our games. But longevity is trickier than getting the one hit that explodes. Repeating it is the big challenge, though there is an advantage in being in a segment where the games aren&apos;t really bleeding edge – the consumers are less fickle, and if you have good relationships with those consumers you can keep them for 10 years.&quot;Stockholm soundbites: Fredrik Espinoza and Magnus Sahlgren of GavagaiSemantic data analysis tool for speechGavagaihas multiple applications. Chief technology officer Fredrik Espinoza and co-founder Magnus Sahlgren introduce the technologyReading on mobile? Listen to the interview on Soundcloud hereStockholm soundbites: Martin Kaellstroem of MemotoLifeblogging toolMemototakes two photos a minute all day. Chief executive Martin Kaellstroem tells Jemima Kiss why he thinks we need a lifeblogging cameraReading on mobile? Listen to the interview on Soundcloud hereSchibsted: How one &apos;reckless&apos; acquisition cast the mouldThe Scandinavian publisher explains its ten-year strategy of building – and buying – complementary sites around classifieds and consumer services• Newspaper publisher with portfolio of 20 consumer websites from finance to weather• &apos;Broken the addiction to the advertising model&apos;• Media companies well placed to offer marketing support for growthSchibsted's Stockholm office. Photo: Jemima Kiss Photograph: /Jemima KissWhile most of the rest of the newspaper industry was tying itself in knots about the death of print, Norway&apos;sSchibstedwas ploughing ahead with diversification. In 2003, Schibsted paid around £20m forblocket.se, a traditional online classifieds site that has become a template for complementary businesses to Schibsted&apos;s media portfolio. With plans to close the printing presses in 2017, the race to online profitability is on.Though &quot;considered reckless&quot; by the media at the time, according to head of growth investments Dan Ouchterlony, Blocket has become Sweden&apos;s biggest classifieds site and profits quickly grew to justify the purchase price; in 2012, EBITDA profit grew 54% year on year to £41m. Schibsted had failed to replicate what Blocket was doing in the early days, and so bought the site instead.Blocket is Sweden's most successful classifieds site. Photo by&nbsp;THS Armada&nbsp;on&nbsp;Flickr.&nbsp;Some rights reserved.&quot;The decision was not a management one, but driven from the floor because journalists felt classifieds were a natural extension,&quot; says Ouchterlony. Schibsted has invested in another seven established classifieds sites, including Willhaben.at in Austria and Coches.net in Spain, as well as 14 earlier stage sites includingMudahin Malaysia andBikhir.main Morocco. Most are based on the Blocket model, though Richard Sandenskog, a former journalist and the investment manager for Schibsted Growth, says the point is not to make a quick buck out of consumers, but to provide tools that help them make better decisions.Aftonbladet office. Photo by&nbsp;bengt-re&nbsp;on&nbsp;Flickr.&nbsp;Some rights reserved.Schibsted&apos;s media properties include Norway&apos;sAftenpostandVerdens Gang, the 20 Minutes brand inFrance,SpainandSwitzerlandand the Swedish national tabloidAftonbladet. Aftonbladet&apos;s network claimed4.8 million unique browsersfor the last week of August 2013 making it one of the busiest sites in Sweden, with Blocket recording 3.3 million. Another principle has been to use unsold inventory on Schibsted&apos;s media sites to promote its own companies – rather than flogging the space through services like Google who auction to the highest display bidder. TV guides, weather, daily deals, personal finance, insurance and mobile price plans all complement those media sites, said Sandenskog. Schibsted&apos;s sunny open-plan Stockholm offices are buzzing with banks of startup teams, all working on these complementary products.Schibsted's early-stage startups share its Stockholm office. Photograph: Jemima Kiss&quot;Journalists don&apos;t think they are in the media business – they think they are in the content production business, so they don&apos;t get excited about new business models. But the fact that we have this model today shows we are major global players – the mindset is a more commercialised environment than broadsheets.&quot; Sandenskog said journalism has been addicted to the ad-funded model for 150 years, yet display advertising is just not large enough to support news businesses now. &quot;Management has been doing this long enough to be curious about what could happen if they bet on the internet, and did so even during the financial crisis – we effectively moved to cannibalise our own business.&quot;But the window of opportunity to develop these consumer-focused web businesses is getting increasingly competitive. Concept clones now take months, not years, to roll out and with increasing activity in China and the ever present US, that competition is global. But that does have some benefit for a Scandinavian company initially insulated against English-language competition by its domestic market. &quot;We&apos;re getting bigger and bigger footprints, and can help startups omit VCs,&quot; said Ouchterlony. &quot;We explain that we can help them scale, and use our firehose of marketing power as well as the experience of our 20 portfolio companies.&quot;&quot;There are hundreds of profitable internet companies - very healthy local investments and transparently profitable. The profound conclusion you draw is to not try to be the next Facebook, Google or Twitter.&quot;From Schibsted's entrance hall. Photograph: Jemima KissStockholm soundbite: Bengt Lidgard and Sven Emtell of DoReMirThe chief executive and chief technology officer ofDoReMirjoin Jemima Kiss to explain how music notation tool Score Cleaner evolved from a research project to a simple but powerful consumer appReading on mobile? Listen to the interview on Soundcloud hereStockholm soundbite: Martin Vilcans and Rikard Herlitz of GooGoo&apos;s browser-based tools power 3D graphics for games and retail sites, all built in HTML5 and plug-in free. Jemima Kiss finds out more from Martin Vilcans and Rikard Herlitz fromGooReading on mobile? Listen to the interview on Soundcloud hereNeed to know...• Sweden&apos;sGreen Party MPand economic spokespersonPer Bolundwon a standing ovation at Stockholm&apos;s STHLM Tech Meetup earlier this year for making a proposal to the Swedish parliament that would reduce tax startup employees pay on their equity in the company. At the moment, employees are effectively taxed twice on equity, meaning they lose as much as 80% to 90% of the equity value in tax. That makes it much harder for startups to use equity as an incentive to attract new talent – something that&apos;s standard in the wider tech industry – so it&apos;s bound to be hugely popular. That said, the Green party won only a 7.3% share of the vote in Sweden&apos;s last election and is very far from being in power, so there is little chance of changing the law unless one of the major parties decide to pick this up.• &quot;Jantelagen&quot; is somewhere between a social tradition, a cultural mindset and an unspoken characteristic of Scandinavians in which individual success or self-promotion is frowned upon, while humility and shared success is seen as more worthy and valuable. It is often discussed and regularly dismissed, but however realistic, there has unquestionably been a lack of self-promotion and credit for the Swedish startup scene in particular, which punches way above its weight in terms of commercial acumen and talent.• LA-based tech rabble rouserTyler Crowleyhas beenliving and working in Stockholmthis year helping organise Stockholm&apos;s Tech Meetup and motivating entrepreneurs and developers to promote Stockholm&apos;s talent more widely. The hashtag#sthlmtechis supposed to help that, but there&apos;s also the blogSwedish Startup Space,Martin McKenna&apos;s excellent blog on the scene and even apop-up shopfor startups. There&apos;s no shortage of specialisttech meetups, and an international, established pool of veteran tech talent contributing to the discussion, includingMaja BrisvallandBeata Wickbom.The last word on Stockholm&apos;s brightest stars:TheInstabridgeapp makes your Wi-Fi network easily shareable with friends:Maginedoes live TV better – viewers can remind, pause and watch programmes from the start. EntrepreneurMahesh Kumaris one to watch:Stockholm at night. Photo by&nbsp;Jacob Haddon&nbsp;on&nbsp;Flickr.&nbsp;Some rights reserved.Stockholm at night. Photo by&nbsp;Jacob Haddon&nbsp;on&nbsp;Flickr.&nbsp;Some rights reserved.The Swedish government agency Stockholm Business Region paid for accommodation and travel for this report. Editorial is independent
A good platformer is like a shark, it needs to constantly move forward or it dies. Rayman Legends is a platformer that has no problem with momentum. It's a game that's been meticulously crafted to keep you moving. Every jump leads precisely onto the next water-drenched slope which slides down to zip-line before the checkpoint. At times it moves with the agility of a slickly produced Sunday morning cartoon, when in actuality it's a video game. A video game that leaves others looking like dead sharks.If you've played 2011's Rayman Origins this will all sound very familiar. This is ostensibly the same game, and not just reminiscent of Origins but of all platformers that came before it. Rayman makes no attempt to hide what it is, it's an honest to god platformer. No indie gimmicks in sight. They'd be wasted here.What Rayman Legends has going for it is charm. Characters exuberantly animate across a greater variety of richer environments. A Ukelele-laden score sets an appropriately joyous backdrop. It's stunning, goofy and polished to the nth degree.The limiting structure from Origins, gone. In its place an efficient hallway of levels and bonus mini-games. This has freed up Legends to explore a wider range of aesthetics and mechanical concepts.Each level still has a unique hook of its own, with only a handful feeling recycled from Origins. The balance between comical romps where the heroes are transformed into ducks and the more onerous escape-the-wall-of-fire stages feels just about right. The latter of which demand split-second precision and can be some of the most rewarding in the game.Musical levels are a standout where every action is choreographed to jubilant covers of tracks like Black Betty and Eye of the Tiger. There's just not enough of them.There's also a greater emphasis placed on boss fights now presented in 3D. While they appropriately convey a grand sense of scale, the 3D models used for bosses feel too visually disconnected to the illustrated world they're in. Also expect a lot of repetition.Finally there are levels that reveal game's since cancelled Wii U exclusivity. Touchable switches and swipeable platforms would feel right at home on Nintendo's touchscreen controller. On Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 versions of the game though this is relegated to pressing a button when an onscreen character hovers above the previously tactile element. They feel as incongruous to the platform as they sound but the level to level variation stops them from being dreaded.These minor gripes, however, are surmountable when everything else feels so adept. Rayman Legends feels more polished and looks even richer than its already stunning predecessor. As far as pure platformers go this generation, you'll be hard pressed trying to find one better than this.
The battle to control your living room entertainment experience is hotting up – and it looks like the forthcoming next-gen consoles from Sony and Microsoft will have a new competitor to deal with. Valve is coming.The PC gaming giant, which owns and runs the Steam digital distribution platform, has announced SteamOS, a Linux-based operating system designed for living room PCs. Designed entirely around the company's hugely successful gaming service, the OS will provide seamless access to the over 2,000 titles, and will also allow users to stream games from their main PC or Mac to the living room TV.The idea is to make it easier for families to enjoy PC gaming on their main display – and to make digital gaming itself more accessible. "As we've been working on bringing Steam to the living room, we've come to the conclusion that the environment best suited to delivering value to customers is an operating system built around Steam itself,"reads the official site. "SteamOS combines the rock-solid architecture of Linux with a gaming experience built for the big screen. It will be available soon as a free stand-alone operating system for living room machines."Family members will also be able to share games from each others' accounts, taking it in turns to play, save games and earn achievements. Furthermore, Valve says it is working with content services to bring streaming music and video to the SteamOS.Valve founder Gabe Newell has previously attacked the Windows 8 operating system, calling it "a catastrophe". Microsoft's latest OS provides its own digital gaming service, designed along similar lines to the Apple app store – but Newell suggested this potential monopoly would hit margins for developers and PC manufacturers and drive many from the market. In contrast, the SteamOS is more similar to Google's Android proposition: a blueprint that can be adapted by hardware manufacturers and end users. From the announcement:"With SteamOS, 'openness' means that the hardware industry can iterate in the living room at a much faster pace than they've been able to. Content creators can connect directly to their customers. Users can alter or replace any part of the software or hardware they want. Gamers are empowered to join in the creation of the games they love."Valve has said that the SteamOS has been streamlined for game performance and that developers will be able to release optimised versions of their latest titles for the platform. Its big challenge, then, will be to get committed support from third-party publishers. Steam currently has over 50 million users and the service currently dominates the PC digital gaming landscape – as a brand, it adds considerable currency to the idea of an entertainment-focused living room PC.And this is unlikely to be Valve's final disclousure in this area. The company has promised two further revelations this week, one of which may well be an update on the fabled Steam Box, a dedicated console-like PC that fans have been expecting for many months. As for the third announcement … We'll just point you tothis articleand cross our fingers.
"Every little helps", as Tesco says, and its hope must be that every little tablet it sells will shore up its online grocery shopping, Blinkbox TV and movie service.The seven-inch Hudl tablet comes in four colours – black, blue, purple, red – and runs Google's familiar Android software on a high-definition screen. So how does it compare against the giants from America – the recently-refreshed Google Nexus 7, Amazon's Kindle Fire, and Apple's iPad mini?The only clue it's a Tesco tablet rather than some generic product is the logo stamped on its soft-touch plastic back, and a small 'T' in the corner. That's no bad thing.Tesco has put in a fast 1.5 gigahertz quad-core processor but hasn't messed around with the perfectly usable Android "Jelly Bean" operating system. It feels fresh, clean and responsive, even when running graphically intensive games, and can run any of the 850,000 standard Android apps.The screen is sharp and clear: websites and book text are easily legible, videos crisp and colourful. Stereo speakers on the back provide loud, clear audio, and Tesco promises to have 600,000 books via its Blinkbox ebook service. As with other seven-inch tablets, the Hudl is light enough to wield easily with one hand.The soft-touchback and thumb-wide screen bezel mean you don't have to worry about it slipping out of your grasp, or your fingers accidentally activating the touchscreen.You could ignore Tesco's apps and services in favour of those available through the Google Play store. But if you are a Tesco shopper (isn't everyone at some point?) the retail giant's integrated applications and services on the Hudl provide quick access to your online grocery orders, Tesco Direct shopping, and even Tesco Clubcard and Tesco bank account.The bundling of the free Clubcard TV service as well as the full Blinkbox TV, movie and music streaming services (lots of TV shows and films, no monthly subscription), boost the entertainment possibilities.There are family-friendly user settings, and for those unfamiliar with tablets — which is likely to be almost every buyer — Tesco has built a setup guide, which walks you through common settings and the configuration of the parental controls.But it's the price that really sets the Hudl apart. Even at the full price of £119, it's £80 cheaper than Google's Nexus 7 and £150 cheaper than Apple's iPad mini.And though Amazon's Kindle Fire is £99, the Hudl has a superior processor and interface.• On 23 September the headline on this story was changed to reflect the fact this is not a full review of the Hudl
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDear Google: shouldn't you worry about your own health? &gt;&gt; Wired.comRyan Tate:It was only two summers agothat Page vowed in a Wall Street conference call to "put more wood behind fewer arrows" at Google. "Focus and prioritization are crucial, given our amazing opportunities," he said. This commitment to focus is invoked whenever Google wants to kill off a product it has tired of, like Google Labs, Google Reader, or Calico's predecessor Google Health.Yes, Google has done health before. And failed.The fewer-arrows thing makes sense. Google was blindsided by Facebook, and its ad rates, priced by demand, have been declining for nearly two years as it struggles to figure out the mobile market. The vast majority of its profit comes from AdWords, launched in 2000, and AdSense, launched in 2003.Yet Google's wild experiments continue. The company is pumping money into self-driving cars, flying power-plants, wireless internet blimps, $1,500 robot glasses, and, now, a fight against death itself. By Google's own admission, it's not clear that any of these ideas will ever make money for the company.We've never found out how much Android (2008) generates. Though that isn't the point of it.Post-PRISM, Google confirms quietly moving to make all searches secure, except for ad clicks &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandDanny Sullivan:In the past month, Google quietly made a change aimed at encrypting all search activity — except for clicks on ads. Google says this has been done to provide "extra protection" for searchers, and the company may be aiming to block NSA spying activity. Possibly, it's a move to increase ad sales. Or both. Welcome to the confusing world of Google secure search.…I suspect the increased encryption is related to Google's NSA-pushback. It may also help ease pressure Google's feeling from tiny players like Duck Duck Go making a "secure search" growth pitch to the media. Duck Duck Go and StartPage.com have seen large gains in traffic, though relatively speaking, what's large is nothing for Google. The PR loss is far, far greater than the user loss, if any. But Google doesn't like PR losses of any type.But as he points out it could be about ad sales too.Microsoft's hardware, round 2: Surface 2 and Surface Pro 2 &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaMicrosoft is sticking to the same basic form factors and concepts that it first demonstrated last summer. Both tablets are iterations of the design we've already seen with the first generation Surface products. They both retain the trademark kickstand, angular design, and metallic finish. The kickstand has been updated, however, and now supports two positions.As before, there are two variants: a lower-price ARM machine, running Windows RT 8.1, and a higher-price x86 machine, running full Windows Pro 8.1. The ARM version has lost its RT moniker, now being named simply "Surface 2."Surface Pro 2 improves the internals, picking up a Haswell processor, which replaces the Ivy Bridge in the older unit. Microsoft is touting a 75% improvement in battery life. Beyond that, it looks essentially identical to its predecessor.The Covers still aren't part of the price ($449 for Surface 2, $899 - yes! - for Surface Pro 2), so add on another $119 at least just for the Touch Cover. Odd how the Covers seem to be essential for what should just work as a tablet.Walt Mossberg's First WSJ Tech Column &gt;&gt; WSJ Digits blogOctober 1991:Personal computers are just too hard to use, and it isn't your fault.The computer industry boasts that its products can help everyone become more productive. Maybe so. But many people can't afford the time and money needed to get the most out of PCs.Plus ca change.Ballmer sees Microsoft's 'almost no share' in mobile as an opportunity, regrets mistakes &gt;&gt; The VergeSpeaking at Microsoft's financial analysts meeting [on 19 September], CEO Steve Ballmer was refreshingly realistic about the company's struggles in smartphones and tablets. "Mobile devices. We have almost no share," he admitted on stage, before noting he didn't know whether to be enthusiastic over his admission or uncomfortably tense. "But I'm an optimistic guy, any time we have low market share sounds like upside opportunity to me." That upside opportunity is the key reason Microsoft moved to secure Nokia's phone business."The Nokia deal is a lot of things," said Ballmer. "One of the things it is, is a way to make sure we can capture the gross margin upside because we're making most of the investment today, that we need to make even owning Nokia." It's clear Microsoft wants to take some of the smartphone profits away from giants like Apple and Samsung, and Nokia is a key part of that plan.It's fascinating how Google has destroyed Microsoft's business rationale in mobile by making Android free, and in effect forced it to buy Nokia. Next question: is Google making money from mobile?Why Twitter can't win its war on spam &gt;&gt; Daily DotThrough those sites, the developers gained entrance into "an underground market that connects Internet miscreants with parties selling a range of specialized products and services." Over the course of 10 months, the researchers did business with 27 merchants. They later calculated that these merchants were responsible for registering 10% to 20% of all accounts later flagged by Twitter as spam. Charging just pennies per account but selling thousands of profiles at once, the merchants generated between $127,000 and $459,000 collectively during the course of the study.The sheer volume of the operation was astounding.Apple's advanced fingerprint technology is hacked; should you worry? &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott:If your data is valuable enough for an attacker to go to the trouble of stealing a super-high-resolution photo of your fingerprint and molding a fake finger, you probably should be using multi-factor authentication. And in fact the iPhone already does that. Your fingerprint enrollment information is stored in a secure area in the A7 processor that powers the iPhone 5s. If someone manages to steal your fingerprint, they also need to steal your phone. That fake finger by itself won't work with another iPhone unless you also have your Apple account credentials.Windows 8.1, which was released to manufacturing a month before iOS 7 but won't hit shelves until October, has similar technology. A fingerprint identification framework designed for use with the same type of reader as is found in the new iPhone (a big improvement over older swipe-based fingerprint readers) is built into Windows 8.1. It can be combined with the Trusted Platform Module (TPM) in a Windows 8.1 device to create a virtual smartcard that makes spoofing of enterprise network credentials very difficult.The Chaos Computer Club's hack is probably going to make zero difference to the number of people who actually use the fingerprint unlock system on the iPhone 5s.TouchMarks:: smartphone touchscreen latencies &gt;&gt; AgawiAgawi tested the responsiveness of touchscreens:As you can see, the results are remarkable. At a MART [Minimum App Response Time] of 55ms, The iPhone 5 is twice as responsive as any Android or WP8 phone tested. All the Android devices' MARTs fell in the same 110 – 120ms range, with the WP8-based Lumia 928 falling into that bucket as well. (Incidentally, the ranges all span about 16ms, which is expected given the 60 Hz refresh rate of these smartphones. 1/60s = 16.6ms)There are several possible reasons for this. Since touchscreen hardware has significant latency itself (check out this videofrom Microsoft Research for a visual demonstration), our best guess at Agawi is that Apple's touchscreen hardware is better optimised or more sensitively calibrated for capturing and processing touch. Another possibility is that while the Android and WP8 code are running on runtimes (Dalvik and CLR respectively), the iPhone code is written in closer-to-the-metal Objective-C, which may reduce some latency.In the comments, an Android developer says "Yes, that matches what we see." Android and WPhone owners, meanwhile, respond by saying "U R BIAS".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.GTA Online to add microtransactions? | GameSpot.comThis is likely to provoke some debate online:Grand Theft Auto V's multiplayer mode – GTA Online – could introduce microtransactions, if a new claim turns out to be true. Reddit user 1880 discovered a file from the store section of the GTAV menu (which is currently empty) that mentions something called "Cash Cards."This XML file mentions downloadable content from the game's special editions, as well as four "Cash Cards" ranging from $100,000 to $1,250,000."Cash is king in this town. Solve your money problems and help get what you want across Los Santos and Blaine County with the purchase of cash packs for Grand Theft Auto Online," reads a description of the cards. "All purchased cash is automatically deposited into your character's bank account. Spend wisely, cash therapy is fleeting."Rockstar will no doubt clarify soon, but this sort of in-game microtransaction has already featured in several other triple A titles, including Assassin's Creed III, as well as Xbox One launch title, Ryse. It's likely to happen more as publishers seek to offset the growing costs of long-running game services.Sony acknowledges western interest in Vita TV greater than expected | Games industry news | MCVThe Vita streaming concept that Sony revealed during its pre-Tokyo Game Sjow press briefing last week has garnered more interest than the company thought it would:Western interest in the recently-revealed Playstation Vita TV has exceeded Sony's expectations, according to senior vice president Masayasu Ito.Speaking with Eurogamer, Ito explained that feedback since the hardware's announcement earlier this month has been "strong" and "more than expected.""Of course, we are thinking about launching it in the U.S. and Europe," Ito later confirmed to Polygon – noting that Sony would need to launch Vita TV with western equivalents of the Japanese video streaming services."We will look into each possibility before launching this in the West."Vita TV acts as a media extender, allowing gamers to enjoy PS4 titles in other rooms away from their main TV set-up. It also projects Vita titles onto the big screen. It is currently only confirmed for Jaspan, China and South Korea.GTA V Disappearing Vehicles Being Investigated by Rockstar | IGNHas this happened to you?Rockstar is aware of issues Grand Theft Auto V players have encountered with customized cars disappearing from their garages and is investigating the issue, according to a support page on its website.Some players who have customized a vehicle and stored it in a garage have found that vehicle is missing after completing a mission. Rockstar has not yet developed a fix for the problem, but in an update on the issue's support page, Rockstar did offer up some information that can help players to avoid running into any problems with disappearing cars.I've actually just had the opposite bug: I returned to my garage recently to find two identical cars, one on top of the other.Xbox One: "Our long term vision hasn't changed at all" | GamesIndustry InternationalHere's Xbox exec Phil Harrison confirming what Phil Spencer told me last month – that the manufacturer hasn't changed its central philosophy of a hyper-connected console with a digital future:Our long term vision hasn't changed at all. We haven't diluted our long term vision, which is all of the benefits of a connected ecosystem and what that means for all of the stakeholders - us, developer, publisher and crucially, the player. None of that has changed. What we recognised was when you put a disc slot in the front of a machine certain expectations come with that disc slot. We had to adapt some of our policies and it was best that we did those before we launched, which we've done.He also mentions that you shouldn't expect many indie titles on the console this year:I don't think we're going to see things at launch. I don't think it's realistic to see a developer get the programme and build a game and get it into the market on November 22. It's reasonable to expect in early 2014 we'll start seeing the first games come through.The man behind God of War is working on a new game ... and hunting ghosts? | PolygonDavid Jaffe has announced his new studio, ahem, The Bartlet Jones Supernatural Detective Agency. Here he tells Polygon about the company's bizarre benefactor:Jaffe tells me, with a completely dead-pan voice, that this person, this approaching-80-year-old ghost hunter, werewolf curer, demon tracker, is backing a chunk of the studio and that when Jaffe's not working on the game with his small team, he's occasionally tracking down the spirits of the dearly departed.I think perhaps they were painting the new office and not letting the fumes out properly.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Games narrative considered in the same breath as cinema and television? Plenty of people – many of them gamers – may still snort at the idea. But there is growing cross-pollination between these artforms.ScreenwriterDavid S. Goyeris one example. He's best known for his work on films including Blade, the Dark Knight trilogy and Man of Steel, as well as TV shows FlashForward and Da Vinci's Demons.But he also wrote for the two Call of Duty: Black Ops games, and as a gamer himself, is in a good position to compare and contrast games narration to its more established cousins."The film industry has been around for 100 years, and modern video games have been around for 20 or 25 years. If you compare it that way, the games industry is still in its fledgling days, but I do think the narratives are becoming more complex," said Goyer, speaking at aBAFTA and BFI Screenwriters Lecture Seriesevent in London last night."The games industry is realising that they have to be. When they sought me out for Black Ops, on one hand they wanted the guy who worked on Batman Begins, and to put that on the game box. But on the other hand, they recognised that technology had been driving the narrative in games."By that, Goyer explained that as motion-capture technology has become more advanced and game characters have become ever-more lifelike, so the narrative around them has had to catch up."As the CG in motion capture made it look realistic, it put more of an onus on the game makers to make the dialogue they're saying more realistic," he said. "It doesn't matter what they say when they're 8-bits, but if they look almost photo-real, it matters. More and more the games industry is realising that."Goyer said that writing for games is more like writing for television than for films, suggesting that each level is like an episode with a beginning, a middle and an end. He added that he relished the creative challenges of Black Ops II's branching narratives."It wasn't even linear: based on the decisions you made, we had 17 or 18 different endings. It was very complicated, like a flow-chart – if A, then B then C – but kinda fun to work on too," he said."That first game came out and did more money than Avatar, so it was incredible to work on something like that. And the second one did the same again: it was bigger than The Dark Knight or Man of Steel will ever be."Call of Duty: Black Ops II: 'Bigger than The Dark Knight or Man of Steel will ever be'. Photograph: ActivisionDuring the audience Q&amp;A section of his talk, Goyer put one games rumour to bed: he's not working on a script for a Metal Gear Solid film – "I like Metal Gear Solid, but no, I'm not involved" – and tackled a question about why so few movie adaptations of games have worked convincingly."I think there's really only been one successful video game adaptation, and that was probably Tomb Raider. Whether or not you thought it was a good movie, it was successful financially," said Goyer.So why haven't other game adaptations worked? Goyer suggested that it's because most good games are about "immersive environments", particularly first-person shooters – which have spawned many of the films in recent times."Most games, although that is changing, tend not to have strong characters. If you think about video games, you think about how cool that level was, or 'how cool it was when I did that thing'," said Goyer."If you are adapting an environment or a milieu into a film, a video game does a better job of it. The film will never do as good a job as the video game. But once we start seeing video games that have more memorable characters, you'll see better movie adaptations. We'll see how Assassin's Creed works…"Goyer was challenged over his Tomb Raider comment by an audience member, who suggested that the Resident Evil films might meet the same commercial-success criteria."They get a pass because they were doing the zombie survival-horror thing," he said. "I like the games and I like the movies, but I don't think it's because Eve is a super-amazing character."The questioner politely pointed out that the heroine of the films is a new character, Alice, although the verbal slip arguably proved Goyer's point.Most of his talk focused on the TV and movie worlds, including some pointed jabs at the state of the film industry, and the way it treats its writers. For example, his advice to producers:"Hire someone you think is talented, and then get the fuck out of the way. Park your ego," said Goyer. "It's a lesson very few studio executives manage to put into practice, but if more did, I believe the film industry would be much healthier."Da Vinci's Demons is Goyer's latest TV project. Photo: StarzGoyer sits on the Writers Guild of America board, and admitted that while the number of working screenwriters in the US movie industry has fallen from around 2,000 10 years ago to 1,500 now, the number of TV writers has grown from around 3,000 to 3,500 in the same period."While the screenwriting industry has contracted, the television writing industry has expanded rapidly. You can see where those 500-odd screenwriters went. Television is no longer regarded as a second-tier medium," he said.Goyer cited the likes of Jonathan Nolan (Person of Interest), Frank Darrabont (The Walking Dead), David Benioff (Game of Thrones), Jane Campion (Top of the Lake), David Fincher (House of Cards) and Guillermo del Toro (The Strain) as examples of the creative shift from films to TV."Television is more profitable than film: it's a higher margin business and international co-productions are booming," he said, citing Da Vinci's Demons – co-produced by US company Starz and BBC Worldwide – as a prime example."New platforms are emerging: Netflix, Amazon, Hulu and Xbox. And film actors are gravitating towards television, because there are basically better roles there," said Goyer."Television is making the kind of epics and genres that the movie studios used to make, and often doing it better with more complex narratives and corresponding budgets."Goyer also compared the US and UK television industries, suggesting that US writers "tend to be more empowered" than their British counterparts, and calling for more creative freedom for the latter."You have phenomenal writers in the UK," he said, citing Mark Gatiss, Steven Moffat, Abi Morgan and Julian Fellowes among others. "If I could wave a magic wand over the industry here, I wish your television writers could be given even more autonomy."But Goyer returned to the notion of television as a booming industry where in general, writers get more respect than they do in Hollywood – while accepting that the latter, including his partnerships with directors Christopher Nolan and Zack Snyder, has treated him well."Is the sky falling? Not really. It's just that the work and the opportunities are migrating elsewhere. Now, much of the exciting stuff is happening on the small screen instead of inside the multiplexes," he said.Goyer praised Nolan for the pair's creative partnership across the three Dark Knight films, which rebooted Batman to critical acclaim between 2005 and 2012."Chris had never read comic books: he didn't know the world. So he trusted me on that franchise and with Superman to know what was canon: what could be changed and what couldn't be changed," said Goyer."Early in Batman Begins he said 'does he have to have a utility belt?', and I said 'yes'. And he said 'why?'. And then he showed me a design and it was all black. And I said 'it has to be yellow', and he said 'oh…'"Batman was rebooted for The Dark Knight trilogy with his yellow utility belt intact. Photograph: Allstar/WARNER BROS/Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarWhat about that canon, though? Goyer said he went through all the existing comic books, and wrote down the themes and elements that had remained "sticky" throughout the previous 70 years, as the characters had been reinvented over and over again."I identified the 10 things that remained sticky about Batman and Superman, wrote them up and said to Chris 'These are the 10 things that should be in the movie. Like the 10 commandments. As long as we honour that, we'll be good," said Goyer.He added that a crucial part of the development process involved visiting New York to meet the publishers and editors of Batman "on our own dime, for two days" to ask their opinions on the upcoming film."We said 'what do you think should be in a Batman film, and are there any rules that you absolutely would not break?," he said. "It sounds simple, but none of the other writers had bothered to do that. They dismissed the comic books and their creators. We earned their trust."Goyer also said that there was never a chance of Batman and Superman's worlds combining under Nolan's watch, despite both men working across the films."Chris made it very clear that he wanted those three Christian Bale movies to stand alone and be their own thing. I knew there was no chance whatsoever that that version of Batman would ever cross over with Superman," said Goyer.His speech also looked beyond the big hits of his career so far at some of his earlier work, including 1990's Death Warrant, an action movie starring Jean-Claude Van Damme."JC was this Belgian pretty-boy model who'd learned how to do the splits and a spinny-round kick, and somehow got himself a movie deal," said Goyer, who recounted the pair's first meeting to talk projects."He told me 'Hollywood will try to destroy you, but I will protect you like an eagle!' Then he gave me a big hug, and rubbed his knuckles on the top of my head like you would do to a little brother. And then completely randomly, he said 'The homosexuals love me…'"Goyer cheerfully showed a largely dialogue-free clip of Death Warrant – "great writing, huh?" – and said that while it wasn't his finest hour, it was an important reminder that writers have to start somewhere."There's nothing wrong with learning your craft in the trenches," said Goyer. "Van Damme actually taught me some things. He said 'one day, you'll write a script that's too good for me'. And thankfully, I did!"
The Coalition says it intends to unearth the “unvarnished facts” about Labor’s multi-billion dollar signature infrastructure project, and new management at NBN Co will spearhead a 60-day strategic review.The communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, confirmed publicly on Tuesday that he sought theresignationsof NBN Co’s Labor-appointed board members, although he contended that requiring the incumbent directors to resign was not a criticism of them as individuals.Turnbull said the new government wanted “complete flexibility” to implement its policy agenda in broadband – and was seeking better “chemistry” on the board.He said the cabinet would shortly appoint a new management team at the organisation, and it would subsequently drive a 60-day “strategic review” focusing on establishing the true costs and timeframes for the NBN project.Turnbull gave an explicit signal that the policy the Coalition took to the election in September was not the last word on broadband policy. He said the new government “was thoroughly open-minded” and “agnostic” about technology.The Coalition considered asking the Productivity Commission to do the review, but dumped the idea because of concern there were too many linkages between personnel at the commission and the NBN project. Peter Harris, the Productivity Commission chairman, previously served as secretary of the Department of Broadband, Communications and the Digital Economy under the former Labor communications minister, Stephen Conroy.Turnbull said the purpose of conducting the strategic review inhouse was to ensure the board and NBN Co management owned the conclusions, and implemented them.He said NBN Co should be as transparent as a publicly listed company. He suggested the company would produce weekly statistics on the progress of the fibre rollout. “We want from NBN Co nothing more or less than the plain unvarnished facts. I’m interested in the true news, what’s actually happening,” Turnbull told reporters in Sydney.“This strategic review is going to be a very, very rigorous and objective exercise in getting to the facts of the matter. The goal of the strategic review is principally the following: to ascertain what it will really cost in dollars, and what it will really take in years and months to complete the project on the current specifications; and then to assess what options there are to reduce that cost and time by using different techniques and different technologies.”Labor has branded Turnbull’s move against the board vindictive – but the incoming communications minister points to examples of underperformance and cost blowouts in the project as justification for the new broom. On Tuesday, Turnbull said the NBN’s rollout target for June 2014 had already been revised down by almost half, only four months after the forecast was made.Turnbull declined to comment publicly about the personalities he intended to bring into NBN Co, but the widespread expectation is that former Telstra boss Ziggy Switkowski will be the new executive chairman.In the interim, the incoming government has drafted astatement of expectationsfor NBN Co, requiring it to meet its contractual obligations while the strategic review is completed.The statement allows NBN Co to deploy a “wider range of technologies”, including VDSL, in the rollout.“The interim statement provides NBN Co with the flexibility to use a wider range of technologies to connect businesses and homes to the network,” the document issued by Turnbull says. “For example, this will allow NBN Co to trial the latest VDSL technology to deliver superfast broadband to homes and businesses in multi-dwelling units such as apartment blocks.”“A key priority will be to reduce the backlog of 66,000 premises passed by the NBN fibre network which cannot currently obtain service. This includes the majority of apartments, schools and businesses in areas where the fibre network has been rolled out.”Turnbull said he expected the review would lead to NBN Co adjusting the timeframes for the rollout, and to revised costs for the project. “The NBN rollout to date has repeatedly missed its targets.”
It's Tuesday.
Malcolm Turnbull has confirmed that he asked members of the NBN Co board, the government-owned company responsible for operating Australia’s broadband network, to resign last week.A spokesman for Turnbull confirmed to Guardian Australia that the communications minister had made the request ahead of the NBN Co board meeting last Friday but could not say when the approach was made. News that almost the entire board had offered their resignationbroke on Monday, with the communications minister previously unwilling to comment on the matter.The spokesman said there was no further comment on when a new board would be installed, but it is understood the matter will be considered at the next the next federal cabinet meeting where the tendered resignations will also be formally considered.The NBN Co refused to comment.Labor communications spokesperson and candidate for the Labor leadership Anthony Albanese said the move signalled the beginning of the &quot;trashing of the national broadband network&quot;.Turnbull had been a critic of the NBN Co board during his time as shadow communications minister. “It is remarkable that such a large board doesn’t have anyone with hands-on experience in building a telecommunications network or running one, and if you were assembling a board for a project of this kind, that’s the sort of experience you would want to have on it,”he said recently.It has been suggested that the former Telstra chief executive and physicist Ziggy Switkowski could be appointed as a replacement chairman of the board.Earlier in the monthTurnbull described Switkowski as a “very well qualified” person to chair the board.The Abbott government has signalled at least three examinations into broadband: an independent audit of NBN Co&apos;s books, a review of its commercial progress and a Productivity Commission inquiry into broadband policy.The Coalition is looking to change Australia’s national broadband network from a faster fibre-to-the-premises model, begun under the previous Labor government, to a slower and cheaper fibre-to-the-node model.The move has met with protest, andan online petition calling for the Coalition to return to the Labor modelhas received nearly 260,000 signatures.
BlackBerry, the once-dominant maker of smartphones that fell on hard times in recent years, has found a suitor willing to pay $4.7bn for the troubled company.Fairfax Financial, a Canadian firm that already owns 10% of BlackBerry, has agreed to join forced with an unnamed consortium of other buyers to acquire the company for $9 a share.The move would take BlackBerry private, removing it from a public listing on Nasdaq, where stocks have fallen from a high of $148 in June 2008 and now languish at about $8 a share. On the announcement, BlackBerry stock rose a modest 2% to $8.85 a share, giving the company a market value of $4.65bn.The deal is not done, however. First, Fairfax will spend two months vetting the company's financial statements. That due diligence is expected to be complete by 4 November, BlackBerry said in a statement.BlackBerry said it could take a better offer if another buyer appears.The agreement, which halted BlackBerry's stock on the Nasdaq at $8.23 a share in midday trading, is only a letter of intent, which is a step below a full merger agreement. Fairfax is still "seeking financing from BoA Merrill Lynch and BMO Capital Markets," BlackBerry said, indicating that any deal is in its very early stages.Analysts have been skeptical about BlackBerry's efforts to turn itself around, and several of them released a batch of downbeat assessments before the sale announcement.BlackBerry announced last week that it would miss revenue estimates by a large amount, warning Wall Street that it would only record revenues of $1.6bn instead of the $3.1bn expected by analysts. The company also said it would write off about $1bn due to excess inventory of the BlackBerry 10, which suffered disappointing sales.That announcement was greeted as calamitous by analysts, including Nomura's Stuart Jeffrey, who wrote to clients about BlackBerry's sharply shrinking revenue: "This might just be the worst miss that we have seen in 17 years of covering tech stocks."In an effort to cut costs, BlackBerry also plans to lay off 4,500 employees.RBC Capital Markets analyst Mark Sue told investors on Monday morning that BlackBerry "may run out of cash in 12–24 months" if it did not go through another round of layoffs. Sue said BlackBerry burned cash fast and that its patents are declining in value, as rivals slow down their interest in buying companies purely for intellectual property.Jeffrey listed the litany of BlackBerry's ills in a note to clients last week, and particularly noted BlackBerry's difficulties in finding a suitor."Management has announced more headcount cuts, a further slimming down of the handset portfolio, and an exit from the consumer market. Many IT departments have started looking at BlackBerry alternatives," Jeffrey wrote in a short but critical research note."The board still has no update on its search for strategic alternatives. In the absence of an announcement on strategic options by the board, management can only try to manage the pace of declines."Michael Genovese, of MKM Partners, estimated that BlackBerry's real value is only $7 a share. Of that, the company's services division is worth $5 a share, Genovese estimated, while the operating system is $1 and the intellectual property is worth another $1 a share."We expect BlackBerry will soon go away as a handset brand and likely as a smartphone operating system too. The brand may only remain as part of the standalone BlackBerry Messenger application before long," Genovese wrote before the deal was announced.It's not clear whether the Fairfax agreement will be enough to answer BlackBerry's critics about the future of the company. While it shows that BlackBerry has done the work to attract a buyer – which not many analysts believed it could – the agreement is so soft that it may not provide the certainty that the market wants.It may instead serve as a lure to other buyers, putting what Wall Street calls "a floor" on the company's value, and, in essence, starting a bidding process.Fairfax Financial, headed by Prem Watsa, is a life insurance and investment management company based in Toronto.
When is an RTM not an RTM? When it's the release-to-market version of Windows 8.1, which was made available via developer channels earlier this month.Microsoft, which usually puts up preview and RTM versions of new software early on its Technet and MSDN channels for subscribers, had said that in a change to its usual approach, developers and subscribers would have to wait until GA (general availability) on October 17 – just like everyone else.Following some wailing and gnashing of teeth, Microsoft changed its mind and made the RTM available so that developers and system admins can test applications against the final version and prepare to roll it out to enterprise.Microsoft says that's because it's working on a much faster schedule of upgrades than previously: we can expect big updates to Windows around once a year in future. And it's keen to stress that this RTM isn't actually the final,finalversion that will be released to all and sundry next month; that version will be more polished.With that caveat in mind, what's the very-nearly-but-not-quite-final-polished version of Windows 8.1 like? One note: this is hands-on based on some time playing with it on a non-touch laptop: I might have missed how to do some things and I haven't looked in detail at all the apps and wrinkles.Install and re-StartWindows 8.1: begin the install process.The install process is straightforward. I did a format and clean reinstall on my laptop, which took just under 20 minutes on an SSD – your mileage may vary if you're installing it on a traditional spinning HDD. You can go for the clean install, or you can upgrade, choosing to keep your documents, settings and programs or just your personal files only. You don't have to boot off the install media, either: you can mount the ISO file within Windows 8 and launch setup.exe from there.Windows 8.1: the Start screen is unchanged, and synchronises with othersOnce the install is finished and you've signed in, you arrive at the Start screen. If you've synchronised other Windows 8 computers to your Microsoft account, you'll be presented with any custom wallpaper you've set (note: that's my custom wallpaper, not a Microsoft one), though as I'd gone for a clean install, I had to redo all my custom settings.Windows 8.1: at last: you can boot straight to the DesktopOne criticism of Windows 8 has been addressed: you can now opt to boot straight to the Windows 7-style desktop. However, setting this up is fiddly and not something you'd work out for yourself. Here's how it's done• go to the desktop (by clicking on the desktop tile in the bottom right-hand corner)• right-click on the Taskbar• click on Properties, Navigation• Tick" When I sign in or close all apps on a screen, go to the desktop instead of Start".I also advise ticking "Search everywhere" instead of "Just my apps when I search from the Apps view", as well as Show the Apps view automatically when I go to Start. That means when you initiate a search, it will also search your documents, emails etc rather than just your apps.Who moved my Search?Ah yes, Search. In every version of Windows from XP to 7, searching meant clicking the Start button and typing your search term. The disappearance of the Start button from Windows 8 was one of the biggest WTF moments for users, as it meant the search tool seemed to vanish.In Windows 8 and 8.1, you have to hit the Windows key, which takes you either to the Start screen or the Apps view, depending on how you set up your PC, and start typing your search term.You might think that the return of the Start button would also mean the return of the handy search field it invoked in previous versions of Windows.Here's the bad news: it doesn't. I grew used to the absence of the Start button in Windows 8, and think the form in which it has returned is somewhat useless. Clicking it simply takes you to the Start screen (or the Apps view, depending on how you've set it up).It's more useful if you right-click it: you get a series of useful shortcuts including an elevated command prompt, disk management and the control panel.Windows 8.1 bring better visual promptsAll of this is fine once you get the hang of it. But Windows 8 was rightly criticised for providing little in the way of help to people floundering around trying to get their OS to work for them. The RTM of 8.1 does offer more help in the form of big, intrusive visual prompts when you first start using the OS, including pointers to the new Start button.Windows 8.1 brings a Help screen with big visual prompts.If you're using 8.1 on a non-touch laptop, you might be driven bonkers, as I was, by the fact that the Charms bar is invoked by sweeping in from the right-hand edge of your touchpad, which means it pops up all the timeThere's no way to disable that natively: if your touchpad is driven by a Synaptics driver, I suggest that as a priority you head straight to the Synaptics website todownload the latest version of the touchpad driverand once it's installed, untick Enable Edge swipes.Windows 8.1: if you have a Synaptics touchpad, you can set it to ignore the 'swipe-from-right' invocationModern life is betterEven if you work mostly in the desktop, you will still probably interact with the Modern apps, which have had an overhaul. Mail has particularly benefited from a rethink: it now takes its visual cues from Outlook 2013.In the sidebar on the left you can add favourite contacts and folders. You can also pin individual folders to the Start screen for quick access.Users of Outlook 2013 and Windows Phone will be familiar with how Mail aggregates contact details from social media accounts, but its implementation in this app is much improved.Windows 8.1: you can add more details and contact methods for peopleClicking on a contact in the body of an email brings up a card offering options to email, call or SMS; clicking More details brings up that person's contact card in the revamped People app.Windows 8.1: the revamped People app is still clumsyI think the revamped People app is still clumsy. It does a good job of pulling in details from a range of social media accounts, but that can be overwhelming. It doesn't seem to offer a way of filtering how you see your contacts: I don't want to see everyone I follow on Twitter plus all my Facebook friends and LinkedIn contacts in addition to my own address book contacts: that's more than 1,000 people. On my Windows Phone, I filter my contacts list so that only those in my address book are visible in the list: I couldn't find a way to do that in this app.This only shows a fraction of my contacts beginning with 'A'This shows just a fraction of my A contacts, including dozens of people I follow on Twitter)Switching between the Modern UI and desktop apps is still confusingSwitching between Modern UI and desktop apps is still confusing. Pointing to the top left-hand corner will bring up a list of running apps; click on the app you want to switch to, as before. However, when closing a running Modern app, instead of just dragging it down to the bottom of the screen, you now have to wait for it to do a twirl before it actually closes. Just dragging it down merely hides it, which means when you want to switch between modes you might be confused or exasperated by how many Modern apps you turn out still to have running.Split screen on Windows 8.1Modern and desktop apps can run side by side, and you can adjust how much of the screen each takes up. That's fine on a big monitor; on a laptop or tablet the screen can get pretty crowded.Stop StartFor those who were baffled by how to shut down their PCs under Windows 8, it's now a bit easier: right-click Start and it's one of the options there. (Note, if you're still on Windows 8, the old-fashioned three-finger salute – Control+Alt+Delete – seems to be the fastest way to reach the shutdown button.)However, there's another way to shut down – annoyingly, it's hidden in a nest of system folders, and you'll have to set up a shortcut to access it quickly. It'sexplained here: Slide to shut down brings the shutdown action from Windows Phone to the desktop: set it up and you'll be able simply to close down your machine with a single sweeping gesture.SummaryThat hidden usefulness seems to sum up this almost-final release of Windows 8.1: there are some quite elegant functions, but other parts of the revamped OS are still an uncomfortable, often clunky compromise brought about by Microsoft's earnest desire to solve some of the problems that gave this release of the OS such a bad name.The bad name is partly deserved: the radical changes to the interface made it difficult for users to get to grips with, and unnecessarily alienated many. Under the hood, it's an excellent OS: it feels fast in use and it's forgiving of older hardware – I've installed it on a range of machines, some quite elderly, and in most cases it's been an improvement.One unsung benefit is that it comes with antimalware – Windows Defender – baked in to the OS, which means that a new user doesn't have to faff about deciding which trial to activate (don't activate any of them – just uninstall them) or choosing another third-party solution.If you've warily stuck with XP, now is a good time to jump, not least because support for XP is coming to an end next year.Vista user? Upgrade.Windows 7 user and happy with it? The case for an upgrade is still not compelling.Pros:more help for new users, the return of the Start button, improved Mail appCons:Start button isn't a return to its former glory; interface remains confusingThis article was updated on 24 September: "earlier this week" in the first paragraph was corrected to "earlier this month".
BlackBerry bosses bought a private jet worth more than $20m (£12.5m) two months before the firm announced a near $1bn loss and plans to lay off 4,500 staff.The company, which has struggled to keep up with competition from Apple's iPhone and Google Android-powered devices, bought a secondhandBombardier Global Express jetin July, according to the Wall Street Journal, which scrutinisedCanadian aircraft registry records.It is not known how much BlackBerry paid for the jet, which can carry up to 19 passengers, but similar planes are advertised for between $25m-$29m.The aircraft was delivered to executives as the company was running at losses of more than $11 million-a-day. Last week the Canadian company said it lost between $930m-$955m in the three months to the end of August and warned its 12,700 staff that 40% of them will lose their jobs."Several years ago, the company bought two medium-range Dassault aircraft," BlackBerry said in a statement. "Earlier this year the company decided to sell both planes and replace them with one longer-range aircraft. The company considered several options and selected a used Bombardier aircraft, which was eventually delivered in July."BlackBerry has now decided to sell the plane. "In light of the company's current business condition, the company has decided to sell that aircraft and will no longer own planes."
Apple shrugged off its critics, and analysts who said the high-end smartphone market was saturated, by announcing it has sold nine million iPhones in just three days.The company's share price jumped more than 5% to $492 in response, adding $4bn to its value in minutes - though it remains well below its all-year high of $543 from January.The figures are nearly double the record figure of five million in 2012, when it introduced the iPhone 5.Though the company did not release a sales breakdown between the new iPhone 5s - which incorporates a fingerprint reader - and the cheaper, and coloured, 5c,data from Mixpanel, a mobile analytics company, suggests the breakdown was 2:1 in favour of the pricier devices. Anecdotal evidence suggests that the new "gold" iPhone 5s - deemed ugly by some - was the most popular model.Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive who under Steve Jobs drove the operational side of the business - and built up its supply systems so that it could cope with colossal spikes in demand like the weekend's - expressed his delight."The demand for the new iPhones has been incredible, and while we've sold out of our initial supply of iPhone 5s, stores continue to receive new iPhone shipments regularly," Cook said in a statement. "We appreciate everyone's patience and are working hard to build enough new iPhones for everyone."The sales figures put the struggles of rival phone makers Nokia and BlackBerry into sharp focus. The value of iPhones sold was calculated at more than the enterprise value - the price minus cash - of Nokia's handset business, sold to Microsoft for €5.4bn earlier in September. And BlackBerry, which is preparing to formally announce a $1bn loss on Friday, managed to ship only 3.7m phones in the past three months.The sales come despite a German hacker groupclaiming to have fooled the fingerprint readeron the iPhone 5s with a scanned version of a fingerprint captured from glass, and reports of security vulnerabilities on some features.Apple also said that its new iOS 7 software has been installed on 200m devices since its launch last Wednesday - which it called "the fastest software upgrade in history".That means it may be only a few days away from reaching as many users as Google's Android 4.1.x,which has 287m users.The higher figure is in part due to the new phones going on sale in many more territories than in 2012 and preceding years. The phones were available in the US, Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Puerto Rico, Singapore and the UK - whereas in 2012 the list did not include China and Puerto Rico. China alone is reckoned to have contributed 3m sales. In 2011, the then-new iPhone 4S sold 4m in US, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Japan and the UK."It's an impressive opening weekend, but unsurprising because older models [were] still selling well immediately prior to the launch," said Ian Fogg of IHS. "But a great logistical achievement."Apple's gigantic sales figure also turns a spotlight on Samsung, whose launch of its Galaxy S4 in spring. The South Korean company said that it sold 10m of the new phones after 28 days - and 20m after two months - but soon afterwards financial analysts marked down its stock because they felt the sales were slow, and indicated that the top end of the smartphone business, which the S4 targets, was tapped out.That in turn led to renewed focus on Apple's strategy, and speculation that the cheaper 5c would have to be priced at around $400 SIM-free in order to compete in the middle market.But Apple ignored that trend and priced the cheaper 5c at $549 for an unlocked handset.
FitBit, Jawbone, FuelBand, MyFitnessPal, Lose It, RunKeeper, Endomondo, MapMyRun, Withings, Moves, Foodzy, GymPact, WeightConnect, Fitocracy, Runtastic, Striiv, Tictrac… Just a few of the services and/or gadgets trying to help us quantify ourselves in 2013.Whether we're tracking calories, steps, workouts or sleep (or not uncommonly, all four), there's a bustling industry of startups – together with big guns like Nike – hoping to collect and analyse that data on our behalf.Investment is pouring into the sector from investors, the most popular apps are attracting millions of users, and new hardware (fromSamsung's Galaxy Gear smart watchto the M7 motion co-processor inside Apple's iPhone 5s) is paving the way for more innovation from these services.Yet in 2013, there's also a warning light flashing for some people around privacy: questions about what these startups are doing with our data, which could be of interest to employers, insurance companies and the authorities in ways we may not always welcome.An interesting time, then.RunKeeper, an app for tracking running, walking, biking and other activities, is one of the services gaining traction. According to chief executive Jason Jacobs, it's a positive time."The trends are really starting to accelerate for this to being more mainstream. You've got the sensors that are coming out in the smartphones and now the wearables, as well as the internet of things that sits on top of all these devices and makes them smarter," he says."There are more than 23m people using RunKeeper, and the active base has more than doubled in 2013 to date. Not only does the base continue to grow, but as that base gets larger, the percentage that it's been growing has also been increasing."RunKeeper has been evolving fast over the last year, most recently with version 4.0 for iPhone, following other developers in stripping back the interface to fit in with iOS 7.It's also playing a more active role, from (optional) push notifications reminding users to workout to a new series of training programmes geared to specific goals, such as training for a 5k run or losing weight."Tracking to us isn't where the real value lies. The value lies in driving engagement and improvement over time, so we've been spending our time helping people get better results around their data in a sustained way" says Jacobs."Whether you're training for your first 5k, walking a certain amount of miles or losing a certain amount of weight, people do need help, especially the more casual users. People that follow these formal training programmes, their engagement goes through the roof."The more you use an app like RunKeeper, the more data it has on you – and the more interesting that data becomes for other companies. Employers or insurance companies wanting to know how active you are, for example, or advertisers who'd love to be able to target campaigns at groups like dieters or joggers.A recent report claimed that 20 of the most popular health-tracking apps weresharing users' data with nearly 70 third-party companies, while big insurance companies were starting to partner with these startups.RunKeeper is involved in the latter trend asone of the partners for US insurance company Aetna's CarePass scheme, although users have to explicitly connect their RunKeeper account to CarePass before any data is shared.How is the company approaching privacy issues? "We take the responsibility very seriously. You have to put people in control of their own health information, and not steer down a wrong path," says Jacobs."We've been very careful along the way to make sure we put users squarely in control of their own information, including being able to export all of their data at any time."He plays down the significance of insurance companies' interest in the health-tracking space, while pointing to the possible benefits for people who opt in to schemes that, for example, save them money on their health insurance premiums."Some people see this as beneficial: getting money back without having to save their gym receipts for three months in a roa. But other people want no part of that," he says. "With anything we do, the important things are transparency, and that it's squarely under the control of the user."One of the trends that will see apps like RunKeeper collecting more data is the emergence of new wearable devices, smart watches in particular. RunKeeper has already launched an app for Samsung's new Galaxy Gear smart watch, and its Android and iPhone apps work with the Pebble smart watch too."Wearables like smart watches are starting to bring fitness into a more compelling form factor: into a general purpose wearable device. It's only a matter of time before watches untether themselves from the phone," says Jacobs."It's going to take some time for the technology to get there, but it's inevitable that it will happen. I don't think smart watches are going to be a replacement for the smartphone. They're a category in themselves that creates a whole new wave of use cases that will be most compelling on the watch, and fitness is an obvious one."RunKeeper works with the Pebble smart watch (pictured) as well as the Samsung Galaxy GearJacobs is also enthusiastic about Apple's iPhone 5S and its M7 motion co-processor, which is designed to gather data on people's motion using various sensors, then make it available to compatible apps with less of a strain on battery life."With RunKeeper, one of the pieces of magic is how little you have to do other than opening the app, hitting start and then hitting stop after your activity. In the future, though, you'll be doing even less," he says."Apple's announcement is a step in that direction. If the sensors can run passively in the background, you don't have to do anything to hit start and stop. But it's good news and bad news."The bad news isn't really bad news for people, more a competitive challenge for RunKeeper: as Apple commoditises core motion-tracking technologies, many more developers will be able to launch activity-tracking apps. But the good news?"The good news is that all that extra resource you would have spent on doing tracking well, optimising battery life and accuracy… you don't have to worry about that any more," says Jacobs."You can just focus on the user experience. Getting social, notifications and guidance right: all the things that drive measurable improvement to people's behaviour."While the M7 may fuel another burst of new apps to challenge RunKeeper, in the slightly longer term, Jacobs sees consolidation coming for the activity-tracking market, as unpopular apps die and those with traction and/or good technology get acquired."Right now it's a fairly fragmented landscape, but ultimately it's pretty clear there will be consolidation, and out of the other side there'll be a handful of big, enduring companies that get built in this space," he says."I do think some companies will get acquired and others will go away. It's better for everybody if a handful of big, trusted companies get built that are enduring, and give a user a holistic view across their data. And of course, everyone wants to be one of those handful of companies."Including RunKeeper. While Jacobs doesn't divulge any acquisition plans for the company, whose last round of funding was $10m in November 2011, he does say there are plans for deeper partnerships with apps in "adjacent" categories, citing MyFitnessPal and Jawbone UP as two examples."In each category there's a handful of companies we believe are doing things right, so we're going to work more closely with them to deliver a more consolidated experience to users," says Jacobs."We're really investing in the software side: you're going to see big improvements from us and others in the next several months."Meanwhile, there'll be better hardware to take advantage of: more, cheaper and smarter sensors inside smartphones and wearables, which in turn will get more people making use of these sensors, and the apps that they power.He also promises that the apps themselves will get smarter, going beyond their roots as pure trackers. "There's a lot of data out there, but you've not seen people really using that aggregated data to drive better decision-making for the end users," he says."As Amazon got bigger, it got smarter at delivering a more personalised shopping experience. As we build smarter data products, we think there are really exciting possibilities for companies like us."One example: RunKeeper has a mass of data on where people are running in the real world, which on an anonymised, aggregated basis could help it to publish details of popular running routes for its users."When we think about data, that is the stuff that gets us really excited," says Jacobs, who suggests that the path to ethically making money from people's data lies in this kind of feature, rather than in selling that data to third parties."You see the negative [privacy] stuff in the press, and I hope no one goes down that path, but we are a user-focused company, and we're building this to drive results for users," he says. "When we ultimately focus on business models, it'll be about those things that make the user experience better."
My husband, Ronald Bishop, who has died aged 91, was an inventor, industrialist and philanthropist. He also had a great love of life.The son of Reginald, an engineer, and his wife, Clara, Ronnie arrived at Clare College, Cambridge, aged just 17. A double first in engineering launched him into the world of future Nobel laureates; during the second world war he worked on armour plating for tanks with the distinguished scientistNevill Mott.Much of his life was spent in the north-east of England, beginning in research and development at the engineering firmWhessoe. After several years working on oil storage vessels in Canada, he eventually became managing director of Whessoe and an important employer of skilled labour in Darlington and Stockton.His inventions led to numerous patents used in nuclear power stations, oil storage and oil rigs. He led trade delegations all over the world, including one to China in the 1980s. His contribution to the north-east, where he chaired the North-East Industrial Development Board, which provided regeneration advice and grants, led to him being appointed CBE in 1987.In retirement, he served as a non-executive director of Girobank and was a college governor at Durham University's Hatfield College, where he was elected a fellow in 1998. He maintained his ties with Clare College, where he was a generous benefactor. His philanthropy developed links between the dioceses of Durham and Lesotho, in southern Africa, and he raised £1m to rebuild the parish centre atAll Saints and Salutationin Darlington, the church he served for many years as an active layman.Ronnie was a man of passionate commitment: to cricket and to fly-fishing, to ideas and to friendship, to whisky and to wine, and above all to his family. The death of his first wife, Barbara, in 1997, after 49 years, left him even closer to his son, Christopher, and his grandsons.We married in 2000 and enjoyed great happiness together. Ronnie continued to entrance adults and children alike with ingenious projects and grand constructions (tree houses taking over from oil rigs). An inspiring man whose courtesy never left him, he led a full life which enriched many people.He is survived by me, Christopher and his grandchildren.
Steve Wozniak, the co-founder of Apple, wants a smart watch.“I want the entire smartphone, the entire internet, on my wrist,&quot;he told Wired’s Nate Lanxon. &quot;I want a larger display than they&apos;re starting with. They&apos;re starting with … displays that are the size of the iPod nano, which is the size of an ordinary watch of the past. I think we&apos;ve got to get a little beyond this watch of the past.&quot;“I hope [a future smart watch is] independent, works on its own and is not connected with Bluetooth to the smartphone in your pocket, but that doesn&apos;t mean it would be bad if it were that way.”Most commercially available smart watches, fromthe PebbletoSamsung’s Galaxy Gear, connect to another internet-connected device.In the interview, Wozniak lends his support to another new wearable technology Google Glass.&quot;I think that has a chance too, and the reason is: I want one,” he said. “I don&apos;t have one because I haven&apos;t enough time to be an early tester.”&quot;I think that&apos;s where our biggest innovations come from. It&apos;s people looking back at themselves and saying, &apos;Here&apos;s something that I really want that doesn&apos;t exist. I&apos;m going to make it, maybe just for myself and my company.&apos;&quot;Wozniak, who now works as the chief scientist forenterprise flash storage company Fusion-io, said he expects more work around speech recognition.&quot;I want to be able to speak with errors in my wording, errors in my grammar,&quot; he told Wired.&quot;When you type things into Google search it corrects your words. With speech, I want it to be general enough, smart enough, to know &apos;No, he couldn&apos;t have meant these words that I think he said. He must have really meant something similar.&apos;&quot;That&apos;s going to take a lot of software, a lot of artificial intelligence work over the next five to 10 years.&quot;In 1976, Wozniak designed theApple Icomputer singlehandedly, partnering with high school friend Steve Jobs to raise capital to sell the computer&apos;s circuit boards to fellow computing enthusiasts. A year later, Wozniak designed theApple II– one of the first successful mass-produced PCs.Wozniak ended his full-time employment with Apple in 1987, butremains an employee of the company, “keeping [his] small salary forever”.Wozniak has developed a reputation for being an early adopter of advanced technology, but not always successfully. The 63-year-old is famous for being one of the most enthusiasticusers of the Segway, the gyroscopically stable electric scooter that, its inventors claimed, would change the shape of cities worldwide.“The Segway hasn&apos;t delivered on its initial promise, to put it mildly,&quot; Y Combinator co-founder Paul Grahamwrote in 2009.“There are several reasons why, but one is that people don&apos;t want to be seen riding them. Someone riding a Segway looks like a dork.”Additionally, it fell foul of regulations across the globe. In the UK, for instance, the devices are classified as powered vehicles, and fail to meet the safety standards required to be used on public highways.•Wozniak might not like the Pebble watch, but read our review to find out why Charles Arthur loves it
Twitter could float within two months and has reportedly entered talks with Wall Street banks about a loan facility of up to $1bn (£623m) ahead of its stock exchange debut.TheNew York Post, which has reported Twitter&apos;s talks with JP Morgan Chase and Morgan Stanley, says the float is expected before the US Thanksgiving holiday on 28 November.Twitterannounced it was planning a float earlier this month but did not specify its timetable, filing S-1 documents for the initial public offering (IPO) with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US.It is not obliged to specify its launch date until 21 days before the IPO.Investors value Twitter, founded in 2006 by Jack Dorsey, Biz Stone and Evan Williams, at more than $10bn (£6.3bn).The New York Post says that the loan facility is yet to be finalised but is in talks about a credit line of between $500m and $1bn.The funding would giveTwitterextra flexibility to bolster its position ahead of a float with possible acquisitions that would improve its financial ability.Recent acquisitions includingMoPub, a mobile advertisingnetwork and Trendrr, which tracks &quot;second screen&quot; communities chatting during TV shows.Financing ahead of a public flotation also means Twitter would avoid having to return to the capital markets to finance international expansions following a stock market launch.This follows a well-worn route of other companies that have floated.Facebooktook out an $8bn financing package before it launched, while social games companyZyngaraised about $1bn.
There are few entrepreneurs who would openly state that they would turn down a $1bn offer from Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, but John O&apos;Nolan is one of them.A former volunteer for theWordPressblogging community, O&apos;Nolan has co-founded Ghost, a new lightweight blogging platform offering a simple, clean and free publishing tool for independent bloggers.Ghosthas initially launched to a small group of investors whodonated money through Kickstarter, the crowdfunding website.The minimal structure and design reflects the ethos of other pared-down blogging platforms such as the US rivalMedium, but the British pair have incorporated Ghost as a not-for-profit and are using income to fund development of the site.&quot;If Facebook came to me tomorrow, and said ‘here’s $1bn, we want to integrate Ghost into Facebook’ … no matter what the human side of me wants to do, I cannot.”“We don’t want to make millions,” he says. “I personally, categorically do not want to make millions. I had huge ambitions for making a million before I was 25, the startup dream… but then I realised if I had a lot of money, I would buy a Lamborghini and a house, and six months later I would just be bored.”The Ghost UI. Photograph: tryghost.orgPledging to build an interface focused on writing and editing blogposts, the software raised almost £200,000 from 5,000 backers on Kickstarter in May. Many expressed frustration with WordPress, the dominant blogging platform, whose tools have become bloated and unwieldy.“Bloggers are only interested in one thing – their content broadcast on the internet – the rest is noise,” says developer and designerChris Southam, explaining why he backed the project.“Current systems get in the way of this, with a ton of options and configurations to provide an all-singing and dancing experience, while the content is limited to typing into a box the size of a postcard. Madness!”As well as simplicity and focus, the developers claim that the plugin architecture will make the platform more expandable than other easy-to-use competitors, such as Tumblr.Using Ghost on a tablet. Photograph: Rick NunnUntil 2011, O’Nolan was the deputy head of the WordPress UI Group, while co-founder Hannah Wolfe quit a job as senior developer at London printing firmMoo.com.The software will be fully open-source, meaning that any developer can use the basic code free of charge. The revenue for further development will be generated through a shared-hosting service, aimed at users who don’t have the ability to set up a server themselves.If users have anything to worry about, it’s that Ghost may overreach itself. “Less is more when it comes to Ghost in the future. Hopefully they can handle the pressure not to move to far from their original plan,” says Southam.While O’Nolan is proud of the software’s simplicity, he has big plans for it.“Who it’s really targeted at, where I hope it goes … is to be genuinely a platform that can help large publications, something that can take some of the problems that people like the Guardian, like the Times, like CNN experience every single day.”But how will he keep the platform easy to use for beginners, while still powerful enough for enterprise? “The problems are not insignificant. It’s going to be really, really fun to tackle.”•Having cracked the problem of making a usable CMS, is Medium now trying to crack the problem of funding journalism?
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 21 September 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Grand Theft Auto V (18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (43)12 (–)Pro Evolution Soccer 2014 (3+)PS3 (64)Xbox 360 (30)PC (5)13 (–)The Last Of Us (18+)PS3 (100)144 (1)Saints Row IV (18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (33)55 (4)Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Blacklist (18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (39)Wii U (3)PC (2)56 (6)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition (7+)Xbox 360 (100)137 (3)Diablo III (16+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (33)PC (4)78 (5)Disney Infinity (7+)Xbox 360 (42)Wii (29)PS3 (20)Wii U (4)59 (–)Aliens: Colonial Marines (18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (37)PC (1)910 (2)Kingdom Hearts HD 1.5 Remix (12+)PS3 (100)211 (8)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes (7+)Xbox 360 (33)PS3 (21)Wii (20)3DS (12)6312 (19)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II (18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (38)PC (1)Wii U (0)4413 (20)Grand Theft Auto IV (18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (40)6414 (9)Lego The Lord Of The Rings (12+)Xbox 360 (41)PS3 (24)Wii (21)DS (8)3315 (12)Max Payne 3 (18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)PC (0)2616 (13)Rayman Legends (7+)Wii U (32)PS3 (28)Xbox 360 (26)VITA (12)417 (17)Need For Speed Most Wanted (7+)Xbox 360 (40)PS3 (37)VITA (19)Wii U (3)4118 (–)Farming Simulator 2013 (3+)Xbox 360 (73)PS3 (20)PC (7)219 (7)Payday 2 (18+)Xbox 360 (77)PS3 (23)620 (–)Harvest Moon 3D: A New Beginning (3+)3DS (100)1UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Germany's Chaos Computer Club says it has cracked the protection around Apple's fingerprint sensor on its new iPhone 5S, just two days after the device went on sale worldwide.In apost on their site, the group says that their biometric hacking team took a fingerprint of the user, photographed from a glass surface, and then created a "fake fingerprint" which could be put onto a thin film and used with a real finger to unlock the phone.The claim, which isbacked up with a video, will create concerns for businesses which see users intending to use the phone to access corporate accounts. While it requires physical access to the phone, and a clean print of one finger which is one of those used to unlock the phone, it raises the risk of a security breach."This demonstrates – again – that fingerprint biometrics is unsuitable as access control method and should be avoided," said the Chaos Club's blogpost author, "Starbug". "In reality, Apple's sensor has just a higher resolution compared to the sensors so far. So we only needed to ramp up the resolution of our fake. As we have said now for more than years, fingerprints should not be used to secure anything. You leave them everywhere, and it is far too easy to make fake fingers out of lifted prints."The group does not claim to have extracted the fingerprint representation from the phone itself, where Apple says it is held on a secure chip. Instead it relies on capturing a high-quality fingerprint elsewhere, and having access to the phone."Relying on your fingerprints to secure a device may be okay for casual security – but you shouldn't depend upon it if you have sensitive data you wish to protect,"commentedsecurity specialist Graham Cluley.Apple did not respond to a request for comment on the hack.The revelation is the third security failing discovered since the phone and its iOS 7 software were released last week. First, a hacker found that they could use a flaw in iOS 7's Control Centre feature on the iPhone 4S and 5 to access photos and send emails. Another found that the Emergency Call screen can be used to place a call to any number.The Chaos Clubdetails its methods for the fingerprint hack, which begins with a high-quality fingerprint lifted from a glass, doorknob or glossy surface. The print, which essentially consists of fat and sweat, is made visible using graphite powder or a component of superglue, and then photographed at high resolution to create a 2400 pixel-per-inch scan. That is then printed onto an overhead projector plastic slide using a laser print, forming a relief. That is then covered with wood glue, cut and attached to a real finger.Apple introduced Touch ID, as it calls the fingerprint system, on its top-end iPhone 5S, unveiled earlier in the month. The technology uses a scanner built into the home button of the phone to take a high-resolution image from small sections of the fingerprint from the sub-epidermal layers of the skin. Apple says "Touch ID then intelligently analyses this information with a remarkable degree of detail and precision."Users can choose to use up to five fingerprints - which can be changed - to unlock the phone and optionally pay for iTunes Store purchases. They have first to create a passcode of at least four digits, and then "enrol" fingerprints separately. Apple says that the process creates a mathematical representation of the fingerprint representation, and that it is only stored on the phone.Apple'sown notes about its Touch ID systemon its site say that Touch ID will incrementally add new sections of your fingerprint to your enrolled fingerprint data to improve matching accuracy over time. Touch ID uses all of this to provide an accurate match and a very high level of security."The company says that "Every fingerprint is unique, so it is rare that even a small section of two separate fingerprints are alike enough to register as a match for Touch ID. The probability of this happening is 1 in 50,000 for one enrolled finger. This is much better than the 1 in 10,000 odds of guessing a typical 4-digit passcode. Although some passcodes, like "1234", may be more easily guessed, there is no such thing as an easily guessable fingerprint pattern."It notes that after five unsuccessful attempts to match the fingerprint, the user has to enter their passcode, and the fingerprint unlock will not work.Speaking to BusinessWeek just after the iPhone 5S was unveiled, Craig Federighi, Apple's head of software, emphasised that the fingerprints would not leave the phone. He said that making a finger unlocking and purchasing system "sounds like a simple idea, but how many places could that become a bad idea because you failed to execute on it? We thought, 'Well, one place where that could be a bad idea is somebody who writes a malicious app, somebody who breaks into your phone, starts capturing your fingerprint. What are they doing with that? Can they reuse that in some other location? Can they use it to spoof their way into other people's phones?'"He said that Apple's focus had been to make sure that "no matter if you took ownership of the whole device and ran whatever code you wanted on the main processor [you]could not get that fingerprint out of there. Literally, the physical lines of communication in and out of the chip would not permit that ever to escape."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Agent name-dropped in GTA 5 Easter Egg | CVG UKJust when you thought that Rockstar North had forgotten all about that seventies paranoid surveillance thriller is announced six years ago...Rockstar's seemingly hidden an Agent Easter Egg in GTA 5... on the number plate of one of the game's high-end cars.Here's the footage:The GTA development team often hides messages on license plates, but usually they're silly jokes or Scottish football teams. Could they have just confirmed their next project?This is what Metal Gear Solid 5 gameplay looks like during the day | VG247Another video...Konami did a live demo of a Metal Gear Solid 5 mission at TGS (not a real mission, but it does take place in a real game location), running on PS4 and showing off the Fox Engine's ability to render sunlight.Okay, let's have a look then.Yep, that's MGS alright.Man vs. Snake: The story of a compulsive competitor | PolygonInteresting feature on the forthcoming documentary:The film has already reached its funding goal on Kickstarter, earning $62,298 of its initial $53,470 goal as of press time. It.follows the high score champion of Nibbler, a game you're likely too young to remember and that's largely be lost in the mists of time since. Nibbler is the first billion-point video game, and for 25 years Timothy McVey was the only name to have the highest verified game score of the arcade era of gaming.In 1984, at the age of 16, McVey walked into the Twin Galaxies arcade in Ottumwa, Iowa and for the next 44 1/2 hours played Nibbler, securing his name as somewhat of a cult hero among arcade game aficionados. Now, after five years of work, filmmakers Seklir and Tim Kinzy have developed a documentary that follows McVey's attempt to reclaim his title following rumors of a newly set higher score in Italy.If you loved King of Kong, this sounds unmissable.Atlus' message to fans after Sega buyout | Eurogamer.netLots of gamers have been worried about the effect of Sega's recent Atlus buyout. The cult developer of titles like Persona and Shin Megami Tensei now wants to assuage those fears. Here is president and CEO Naoto Hiraoka:"We have nurtured a great relationship with Sega Inc. for a long time, especially concerning our consumer games business in Japan. I believe the collaboration between the two companies at this time will be mutually beneficial for the following reasons:• Sega understands our drive to achieve quality and to expand awareness of the Atlus brand.• Our respective strengths in game development complement each other well."We are extremely happy to be able to continue with our business, and be able to report this good news to our fans and customers. Again, we would like to express our gratitude to everyone who has supported us."Deep Down is Enduringly Mysterious | IGNCapcom's fantasy action RPG was shown early on as a next-gen title, but little has been revealed since then. It's at the Tokyo Game Show though, where Keza MacDonald discovered a few more details of this apparenrtly time-spanning romp:Apparently the player can touch artefacts to transport them inside their trapped memories, but given that New York has only been around since the 1600s, how does that work? Do you run in round touching things in museums like a curious, disobedient child? Is there an Assassin's Creed-like Animus set-up?The Tokyo Game Show demo didn't really answer these questions. There are futuristic-looking elements to the interface that suggest an Animus-like device. The on-screen character was clad in thick armour and brandished a spear, creeping through dark corridors where light from the outside crept through cracks between the stones or spilled from torches, but the UI was all Minority Report-esque floating icons and annotations.Set in 2094, we seem to be looking at a mix between Assassin's Creed and Dark Souls, with some Dragon's Dogma chucked in?Porting Canabalt and Super Crate Box to the Commodore 64 | IndieGames.comThis is a fascinating talk given at GDC Europe by retro coder Paul Koller, who converts current indie titles for olde worlde platforms.In this free GDC Europe 2013 talk titled "Porting Contemporary Games to a Vintage Platform" (courtesy of GDC Vault), Koller explains the challenges he faced in porting these indie hits to old platforms, dealing with procedural levels, loads of bullets, and fast-scrolling parallax backgrounds on a 1 MHz CPU and only 64KB of RAM.I can't seem to embed the video, so follow the link in the header above. Canabalt works brilliantly!You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft inches toward Office on iPad, Android tablets &gt;&gt; ComputerworldIf Windows 8.1 and a slew of new Windows hardware from Microsoft itself -- more touch-enabled notebooks and a broader array of tablets that includes refreshed Surface devices -- sell better than they have, Microsoft may hesitate to offer Office on iOS and Android, figuring it should keep Office exclusive to Windows a bit longer.But if sales don't match the projections Microsoft has settled on internally, it would pull the trigger on Office for the iPad, [Patrick] Moorhead [of Moor Insights &amp; Strategy] said. "Does having Office on Windows 8.1 incent buyers to buy a Windows machine over an iPad or Android tablet?" asked Moorhead rhetorically. "If not, I would expect them to rapidly move to put a more robust Office on iPads and Android tablets, because they wouldn't be losing anything at that point."Fall 2013 Windows Tablet Preview &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott:Microsoft and its hardware partners will unleash a new generation of Windows tablets for the 2013 holiday season, in a variety of price points, sizes, and form factors. The new choices I see this year are far more interesting than the 2012 entries, I think, and benefit from updates to the underlying hardware and software platforms.What we see here are several mini- and full-sized tablets running on the Intel Atom "Bay Trail" platform, plus Microsoft and Nokia devices running on ARM. What's most interesting about Microsoft's Surface lineup for 2013, perhaps, is that they have three devices. And two of them are running Windows RT 8.1 on ARM.Surface 2 will be unveiled on Monday.117,336 total apps in the Windows Store and the best/top Windows 8 apps as of Sept 22nd &gt;&gt; WinBetaAs of September 22nd, there are 117,336 in the Windows Store, an increase of 862 apps in just one week. Compared to last week, the top-five free apps has seen some minor shuffling around. Skype retains the lead as the top free app, while we see a new app called "Mortar Melon Classic" make its appearance in the list. Microsoft's own Network Speed Test rounds out the top five. The top five free apps in the United States based on popularity are:• Skype• Mortar Melon Classic• Netflix• Google Search• Network Speed TestSpot the interloper.London Metropolitan Police: recovered bicycles: is one yours? &gt;&gt; a set on FlickrLondon's Metropolitan Police:Have you had your bicycle stolen?The Metropolitan Police Service would like to reunite owners with their bicycles and these photos are a selection of the most identifiable cycles that we have recovered.If you believe one of these bicycles could be yours please contact the officer detailed in the photo.Some of them are just frames. Even so, great idea. (Only 17 so far..) Are other cities trying the same thing?The internet hates me &gt;&gt; The AwlChris Hermelin:My solution [to being unemployed in New York] was to grab my typewriter that I bought at a yard sale for 10 dollars and bring it to a park. I'd write stories for people, on the spot—I wouldn't set a price. People could pay me whatever they wanted. I knew that I had the gift of writing creatively, very quickly, and my anachronistic typewriter (and explanatory sign) would be enough to catch the eye of passersby. Someone might want something specific; they might just want a story straight from my imagination. I was prepared for either situation.He wasn't prepared for Reddit's denizens to decide, based on a single photo, that they hated him. A salutary tale.Is the bizarre timing of BlackBerry's death tied to Nokia's panic sale to Microsoft? &gt;&gt; ForbesTero Kuittinen:The industry has experienced something like this before. In the 2000-2001 period, second-tier brands from Siemens to Philips to Panasonic started underperforming industry leaders dreadfully, which led to these companies pulling out of global mass market competition.It turned out that the second-tier brand weakness was a herald of a global slowdown in phone sales, which ended up mortally wounding Ericsson's phone unit and causing big problems for even Nokia and Motorola in the short term. The sudden summer deterioration of BlackBerry, HTC and Nokia in 2013 may thus not be a boon for their bigger rivals and Google's Asian vendor armada. This could be a sign of an industry slowdown that will create a hairy Christmas for all players.Lenovo Philippines lends typhoon victims a helping hand &gt;&gt; Lenovo BlogsLenovo Philippines, in cooperation with its smartphone distributor partner, OpenComms, partnered together on September 2 in Quezon City, Philippines to help area residents affected by heavy flooding.The Tulyahan River recently overflowed during the continuous rain brought about by Typhoon Maring-habagat, caused heavy flooding in the area forcing some 164 residents to evacuate their homes for safety reasons. Lenovo Philippines Country General Manager, Vicky Agorrilla, and Marketing Communications Manager, Anna Abola, were on hand to distribute relief goods to the affected families in the barangay.Apple CEO Tim Cook's complete interview with Bloomberg Businessweek &gt;&gt; BusinessweekQ: Has Android's rise in market share surprised you in the time that it's happened?I don't think of Android as one thing. Most people do. I mean, from a consumer point of view, if you look at what Amazon does with Android, forget the name Android for a minute. If you're coming down from a different planet and you were going to name it, you wouldn't name it the same thing as what another company does. If you compared that to what Samsung does, I'm not sure you would name that the same thing either.I think that the importance of that is overplayed. The truth is that there are more people using iOS 6 than there is any version of Android. And in days from now, iOS 7 will be the most popular mobile operating system. And so what does it really mean at the end of the day to show these share numbers and combine all of these disparate things as if they're one thing? I'm not so sure it has a great meaning to it at the end of the day.So your question, does it surprise me? I don't look at it in the same way as you might. I think the way a consumer looks at this is different. Does a consumer that's buying a Kindle think about it being an Android? Probably not. And so I think that's a bit different than where Microsoft and Windows was.Plenty more, including whether "market share" and share price matters.iPhone A7 chip benchmarks: forget the specs, it blows everything away &gt;&gt; GizmodoIntuitively, we know that the quality of a smartphone is just as reliant on its industrial design and the quality of the software it runs. But it goes deeper than that: the traditional "specs" distract us from what a gadget's guts actually do, and from a technological point of view, they distract us from the advancements that are actually making a product better.Exactly. But if you want to understand the difference between marketing hype and useful improvements (is it having four cores? Higher GHz? More bits?) then this Gizmodo article provides an excellent explainer. The iPhone benchmarks will no doubt be surpassed in raw numbers in six months; but how about "performance per watt", which tells you the battery life you get too? None of the spec-watchers ever seems to measure that. But that's what people notice in real life.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Monday!
The entire board of the NBN Co, the government-owned company responsible for operating Australia’s broadband network, has offered to resign in a move interpreted as reflecting a lack of confidence from the new Coalition government.The resignations were agreed at a board meeting on Friday, Guardian Australia understands.All seven board members, including chairwoman Siobhan McKenna, have agreed to resign, with just one member, Kerry Schott, expected to to be invited to stay on,according to Fairfax Media.The resignations have yet to be accepted by the communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, and it is unlikely they will be formalised in the short term as they need approval from cabinet.Turnbull has been a vocal critic of the board in recent months.In Julyhe described it as lacking the proper experience to operate the country’s broadband network.“... it is remarkable that such a large board doesn’t have anyone with hands-on experience in building a telecommunications network or running one, and if you were assembling a board for a project of this kind, that’s the sort of experience you would want to have on it,” he said.Turnbull has indicated in the past that former Telstra boss Ziggy Switkowski could make a suitable candidate to head the NBN Co.The Coalition is looking to change Australia’s national broadband network from a faster fibre-to-the-premise model, begun under the previous Labor government, to a slower and cheaper fibre-to-the-node model.The move has met with protest andan online petition calling for the Coalition to return to the Labor modelhas received nearly 260,000 signatures.Guardian Australia is awaiting comment from NBN Co.
Price £5,995MPG 47.9Top speed 97mphTwo questions motoring journalists are often asked: "What's the best car you've driven?" and "What's the worst?" The first is hard, as the "best" is always the car doing the job you need doing. An economical estate to take you to Scotland – step forward the Skoda Octavia; a hair-raising spin through the tree-canopied lanes of Kent – that'll be the McLaren 12C; a show-boater for the streets of Chelsea – how about a gullwinged Mercedes SLS? The second is almost impossible because, as the cliché goes, they don't really make crap cars any more – until now. Let me introduce you to theDacia Sandero– the worst car I have ever driven.Like all black-and-white statements, that rather simplifies the point, because the Sandero is also the cheapest new car in Britain. Not just cheap, but arse-out, rock-bottom cheap. It costs £5,995, which is £10,000 cheaper than the average price for a new car. So, when viewing it through this prism of "shocking affordability", one is forced to reevaluate. The Sandero has no fancy extras – in fact, it has no extras; it's barely got the basics. It has wind-up windows, no radio, squidgy seats, no&nbsp;central locking, no spare wheel. The unforgiving plastic dashboard is&nbsp;bereft of buttons, dials, read-outs – the car does nothing, so there is nothing to control. It doesn't so much seem basic as brutally regressive. It&nbsp;feels like the car your dad used to moan about driving 20 years ago, unlocking his door with a key, then leaning over to pull up the buttons on&nbsp;the three other doors.Dacia says it is able to offer cars at these prices by stripping its production of waste and "making an enemy of the unnecessary". I'd disagree with them on what is unnecessary.Dacia (pronounced Da-chi-a) hails from Romania and has a history going back to pre-Iron Curtain motoring – a&nbsp;low point for any product, not just&nbsp;cars. In 1999 Renault bought the firm&nbsp;and began turning Dacia into its own in-house budget brand – in the same way that VW has made Skoda its secret weapon of mass manufacturing. The great surprise has been how unanimously Europe has taken the skin-flint Sandero to its heart – the Romanian brand has been the fastest-growing on the continent for the past eight years and last year sold 350,000 vehicles. Now it's our turn to get on board.The 1.2-litre petrol engine is loud and high-revving, but eager enough. The car has done remarkably well in reliability tests, and Dacia clearly believes in its product, as it comes with a five-year warranty.From the outside the Sandero looks anonymous, but if you are paying less than six grand maybe that's a blessing. Inside it's bunker basic, but in a way its honest simplicity and rustic finishing is curiously likable. It's been built for the roughest roads of Europe, so it will be able to cope with ours here, and it handles better than you might expect on the motorway – though you won't be able to hear yourself think, let alone the nonexistent radio. It's also usefully roomy – most cheap cars are small. On closer inspection, you'll notice Dacia has been good enough to include power steering, airbags and ABS brakes. So there are some niceties.The worst car I have ever driven, yes, but also the best car I have ever driven that costs less than £6,000.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.uk
Put simply,Grand Theft Autois a British creation that says big things about America. WhileGTA IVwas a classic New York immigrant's tale,GTA Vcrosses coasts to comment on the hectic and the hollow that is Los Angeles, on the city's fascination with surface and its industries of image and light. So long as we're listening, anyway – otherwise it's a familiar, technically astounding playground of male power fantasies and might.Mirroring the frantic intersections of LA,GTA Vhas three heroes with entwined stories that players can leap between at any time. This banishes the occasional complaint of past games – becoming mired in a particular area or mission – and is part of a wider move towards playability.GTA Vis confident enough in its pleasures to dissolve the structures that once propped them up. The huge map, for instance, is explorable all at once and not in instalments, while mid-mission checkpoints remove lengthy restarts.The result efficiently speeds players into the game's action, and even better, improves the action. Missions are more varied, mechanics more robust and even divergent tasks – trying yoga – feel purposefully embedded into the story. But for all the effort spent onGTA V's story-led experience, the greatest thrill is breaking away from it. The world captures the texture and sound of California with uncanny precision, providing the tools to race through, fly over or thoroughly destroy it as one sees fit.This clash of sophistication and savagery is central to the contradictory heart ofGTA. Its radio stations deliver a cruel, precise mimicry of media fear-mongering even as you lightheartedly torture terrorism suspects. In a way, this is a key characteristic –GTAdemands to be irreverent on its own terms. But the expertise and brilliance of the best game of the series by far has enough of weight to say without the needless noise of outrage.
With the fall of Nokia looming over him, this weekend will be an uncomfortable one for Thorsten Heins, chief executive of BlackBerry. While the Finnish firm sold its mobile phone business to Microsoft for €5.4bn (£4.5bn) this month, questions are swirling as to how long BlackBerry – which signalled its distress in August by putting itself up for sale – can survive, and in what form.Things are so bad that onFriday night, market rumoursforced Heins to announce the top-line quarterly results a week early. And they are grim: an operating loss of up to $995m (£620m), including $960m of inventory writedowns on itsnew Z10 handsets released in January, a net loss of more than $250m, revenues half what analysts expected at $1.6bn, and phone shipments of 3.7m – which Apple will comfortably exceed with its new iPhones this weekend alone.For a company that once dismissed the iPhone for having no keyboard (a key  selling point for BlackBerry phones), it's a humiliation. The low shipment figure exposes Heins's claim in April that the new Q10 phone – the first keyboard-equipped model using its new BB10 software – would sell "tens of millions". It might have sold a million.Now the question is turning to how long BlackBerry has to go. On Friday, the company said it will cut 4,500 jobs, roughly 40% of its 11,000 total worldwide, adding to 7,000 jobs cut in the two previous financial years. It will reduce its future phone portfolio from six to four.One former insider asks: "How would BlackBerry win? There's no answer to that at the moment. A buyer? I don't see how they would make the case."This weekend was meant to be a new start for the company, with an attempt to turn back the clock to when it was the star of the tech world by offering its famous BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) software free for iPhones and Android phones. But rivals such as WhatsApp are already on both, with more users, while BlackBerry's base is dwindling both among consumers and businesses. BBM's arrival on the other platforms is two years too late, says the insider.Friday's bad news drove the stock down by 20%, to a market cap of just $4.5bn. Broken up, BlackBerry might be worth more: last quarter, it valued its patent portfolio at $3bn, and says it has $2.6bn of cash and no debt. The services business has around 35m business customers, who could fetch up to $4.5bn.But who would buy it now? Silver Lake, the private equity company that facilitated the recent $24.8bn buyout of Dell, appears uninterested – and Michael Dell has said his company won't go back into smartphones. Reuters reported last week that while Canada's Fairfax Financial Holdings, a 10% shareholder, might try to stage a buyout, interest from other private equity players is muted.So where did BlackBerry go wrong? Was it the PlayBook tablet, unveiled 18 months after Apple's iPad in September 2011 with the slogan "Amateur Hour Is Over"? That has devoured $750m in write-offs, but the insider says its software was essentially that used in BB10. So, costs aside, it wasn't a distraction.Instead, Mike Lazaridis, who devised the first BlackBerrys, and Jim Balsillie, who ran the company with him, failed to grasp how quickly the change ushered in by the first iPhone in 2007 would overwhelm the smartphone industry. According to the former insider, BlackBerry underestimated the speed at which businesses would start letting staff connect their own smartphones to company servers for email and more. "BlackBerry didn't move fast enough on that, nor get BBM out soon enough," the insider says.The key failing was that BB10 was two years too late. Lazaridis and Balsillie saw that BB7, which powers older BlackBerrys, was outdated, but the new version was not released until January this year.Heins was installed in January 2012 after the board ejected the two founders, but he does not escape criticism either. He was the chief operating officer and so "had the reins of the smartphone business", says the insider. That means the delay in releasing BB10 can be laid in part at Heins's door.Yet if BB10 had taken off, it would have cut the company's throat. That's because phones using that software don't generate any service revenues from sending emails, data and web pages – which amounts to between a fifth and third of revenues, and rather more of profits.All eyes are on BlackBerry now. But the message is not a positive one. The turmoil in the smartphone industry is brutal; more casualties may follow.
Some things never change. For as long as I can remember, people in the west have been paranoid about the orient – and about China in particular. I grew up in an ultra-devout Catholic household in rural Ireland and I remember my mother being petrified by what people then called "the yellow peril", by which they meant the supposed threat to western civilisation posed by the Chinese communist regime.This paranoia was not confined to my mother, incidentally. It was shared by most postwar US administrations. It led Harry Truman to go to war in Korea; and, decades later, to the Kennedy and Johnson administrations becoming embroiled in the jungles of South Vietnam. And although a kind ofunlikely rapprochement was engineered by Richard Nixon and Henry Kissinger in 1972, profound suspicion of China endures to the present day.It is widely believed, or at any rate confidently asserted by the US, for example, that the Chinese government is the most persistent abuser of cyberspace. (A bit rich, that, coming from the home of theNational Security Agency, but we will let that pass.) Special units of the People's Liberation Army, operating from buildings that have been identified by western analysts, spend every waking hourhackinginto the servers of American hi-tech companies and government organisations. And this abusive hacking, so the Cassandras maintain, is intensely purposeful: its aim is to steal industrial secrets (intellectual property) from the west so that they may be used to give Chinese companies a market advantage."In the post-information age," writes Mark Anderson, one of the fiercest critics of China's activities in this sphere, "the global economy is driven by technology and IP is its primary asset class. Wealth is the result of invention and those individuals, companies or countries desiring wealth must obtain it by either inventing or stealing those inventions. Nations in this new information economy find themselves in one of two businesses: robbing others' "information banks" or protecting their own. A successful IP theft or protection strategy can mean jobs lost and gained, middle classes destroyed and created and military power shifted."Now just because you're paranoid doesn't mean that they aren't out to get you. It's conceivable that Mr Anderson'sapocalyptic visionsare based on a solid foundation. It's also true that contemporary China does not have the rule of law as we would understand it in the west, which means that it's pretty difficult to mount prosecutions for infringement of intellectual property. But even allowing for all that, two things about the current hysteria about China bother me.The first is that it has echoes of earlier, semi-racist panics. The implicit assumption is that these oriental types are incapable of inventing stuff themselves, so in order to make economic progress they have to rip off the inventions of our clever chaps. They can't create, in other words, so they have to copy. Readers with long memories will recall that once upon a time we in the west used to say such things about the Japanese. Nikon and Canon just made inferior copies of German Leicas and Rolleiflexes. Sony just made knock-off copies of American transistor radios. And of course Datsun and Toyota cars were rust-bucket jokes.Well, guess what? It turned out that the joke was on us. Leica very nearly went under. Rolleiflex morphed into a niche manufacturer of beautiful, expensive analogue cameras. Nikon and Canon learned how to make astonishingly good cameras and lenses and now dominate the world market. Sony became a company that for several decades was as revered for elegant design as Apple is today. AndToyotataught the rest of the world how cars should be manufactured. So much for occidental superiority.And that highlights the other puzzling aspect of the assumption that the only way the Chinese can get on is by stealing from us. One of the most striking aspects of the engineering and science departments of elite British and American universities is the astonishing numbers of Chinese students studying in them for postgraduate degrees. I've met quite a few of these students in the course of my day job. They are uniformly hard working and many are very smart indeed. Most plan to return home after they've obtained their degrees or completed their post-doctoral research. And anybody who thinks that they are intellectually inferior to their homegrown counterparts is not paying&nbsp;attention.It's possible, of course, that when these migrants return home their creativity will be stifled in some way. They may find it difficult to get venture capital, for example. Or the dead hand of local communist officialdom may squash their entrepreneurialism. But of one thing I am sure: if China doesn't become a technological innovator, it won't be for lack of talent. There may come a time when we will need to steal from them.
Artistic freedom was the credo of this year's Digital Days summit from Ubisoft, showcasing forthcoming games built on the publisher's UbiArt framework.Child of Lightwas the star title, a role-playing game with gorgeous inkwashed visuals creating a skewed, quasi-fairy tale aesthetic. As Aurora, a girl stolen away by the Queen of the Night, players are aided by a sprite named Igniculus as she battles her way home through a magical kingdom. Deliberately subverting "princess" tropes, the whimsical coming-of-age story is a huge departure for writer Jeffrey Yohalem – best known forFar Cry 3– but the mix of exploration,Final Fantasy-style combat and pervasive charm should win gamers over come its 2014 release.Similarly impressive wasValiant Hearts: The Great War,set during the first world war. This adventure game switches focus between four characters on either side of the conflict, linked by their experiences in the trenches and a bond with a military dog. This centennial release is likely to prove emotionally harrowing despite its vaguely comedic, cartoonish imagery.Elsewhere,Rayman: Fiesta Runprovides a welcome follow-up to last year's brilliant Jungle Run, while heavy hitter franchiseAssassin's Creedgains an HD console release of PS Vita'sLiberation, and the all-newAC: Pirates, spinning the ship-to-ship combat ofACIIIinto its own iPad game completes an impressive line up.
So it's been a bad week. On Monday, I had to switch off Classic FM when it played Wagner, since he was an antisemite. Then I burned my copy ofThe Hunger Games, because it's all about children killing one another for entertainment. Finally, I threw my television out of the window becauseBreaking Bad's Walter White is a drug-dealing psychopath, and the show's fans love him for it.OK, I didn't do any of that, because that would be absurd. If we rejected every creative work that is in some way "problematic", the canonical cupboard would be bare. So why are so many people I meet so shocked that, as a woman and, whisper it, a feminist, I enjoy playingGrand Theft Auto?The GTA series certainly isn't female-friendly. Loved by teenagers, it has become one itself: yet in the 16 years of its existence, it hasn't once offered players the chance to experience its sprawling scenery and high-octane thrills as a female character. In the latest instalment, released last week, women are once again pushed to the margins.You can rescue one whose car has broken down, spy on another having sex with her boyfriend while she checks her phone, and, of course, visit the obligatory strip club and "make it rain" bank notes. There aren't any female characters to root for, be impressed by, or even fall in love with. It was the same in the last game: women were there to nag you, or be bribed – whether with fancy dinners or cold, hard cash – into having sex with you. Women are GTA's wallpaper.Given all this – and the way the series has allowed you to visit a prostitute, then kill her to get your money back – perhaps the horrified reactions shouldn't be surprising. When I went onChannel 4 Newsto talk aboutGTA, Jon Snow asked: "Aren't you worried, as a woman, that the whole thing isn't a bit creepy?"Well, yes, it is creepy, but worried isn't the right word. I'm bored, more than anything, as well as irritated that another generation of young players isn't being offered something more exciting than this. "The medium has grown up, and now the GTA franchise is a giant juggernaut that appears to be punching down instead of up," says female games journalist Leigh Alexander. "I think that's why its problematic elements rankle – not because I'm 'offended', but because it seems lazy, repetitious. I'm not 'offended' that I can't play as a woman; I'm disappointed at the missed opportunity."That feeling isn't unique to video games. Playing the newGrand Theft Auto, I realised I feel about it the way I feel about Martin Amis novels. I admire the cold brilliance, the execution, the imagination: but I will never love that world, and I never feel inclined to return to it once the story is over. In bothLondon FieldsandGTA's Los Santos there's no place for me; I can visit, but I'll never feel welcome.What distinguishes games from books, or films, is that the dodgy sexual politics and wanton violence of one is used as a stick to bash them all. Partly, this is down to the old hangover of the idea that games are for children, when the average age of a player is now 30. Then there's the idea that games are a "niche" or "geek" pursuit, even thoughGTA Vtook an astonishing£500m worldwide in its first day on sale. Finally, there's the spectre of violence. Games are an easy scapegoat forhorrific acts committed by those who happen to play them, despite thelack of evidence of any causal link.An unpleasant feedback loop has developed: between the sneers and the moral panics, gamers have become hyper-sensitive to criticism. We have a chip on our shoulders the exact shape of a tabloid front page. And that makes it hard to articulate the idea that while the medium is thrilling, exciting and innovative, individual titles can too often be derivative, nasty and riddled with stereotypes.TheGrand Theft Autoseries is certainly guilty on the last two counts. The novelist and critic Tom Bissellhas described the protagonist's Jewish lawyerin 2002'sVice Cityas "an anti-Semitic parody of an anti-Semitic parody", while in the new game one of the main character's daughters has a tattoo that reads "skank", and one mission involves you helping a paparazzo capture a starlet's "low-hanging muff".That's enough to make me sigh, but not give up. My own red line in games is the unthinking use of rape, whether as a "character building" incident for female protagonists (but, strangely, not for male ones) or as an "edgy" version of a sex scene. In the run-up toGTA V's release, a disturbing forum posting went viral. "I want to have the opportunity to kidnap a woman, hostage her, put her in my basement and rape her every day, listen to her crying, watching her tears," it read.Now, I would flat out refuse to play a game where you could do that, regardless of whether it was forced on me by the storyline, or merely an option in sandbox play. So am I being a hypocrite running people over in my virtual car without a pang of remorse? I don't think so. "In games the aim is, usually, to beat your opponent before they beat you," says Simon Parkin,who writes for theNew Yorker. "It's a game of reactions, speed and quick planning based upon principles of fairness – or of the protagonist overwhelming the odds. This is in no way analogous to rape, which is all about an assertion of power in an unequal equation. If you're threatened with rape, you don't respond in kind."For the same reason, I am uncomfortable aboutGTA's torture scene, where you extract information, along with a tooth, with a pair of pliers. Enjoying violence when it's not a "fair fight" feels very different to being quicker on the draw than an armed enemy.This is where game fans' defensiveness becomes a problem. It takes a brave critic to slaughter a sacred cow – particularly by pointing out sexism in games – because the backlash can be so fierce. Anita Sarkeesian, who appealed for crowdfunding to make a web series about female characters, became the subject of an internet hate campaign as a result.On the #1reasonwhy hashtag, hundreds of women vented about why they were such rarities in the game industry: they felt their work was dismissed, their opinions were ignored, and some were subject to sexual harassment at conventions.That is not a message that many gamers want to hear, nor do they want to confront the fact that this is a mature enough medium to face proper scrutiny. When Carolyn Petit of GameSpot calledGTA V"politically muddled and profoundly misogynistic",the review attracted more than 20,000 comments, many of them viciously hostile. "GameSpot shouldn't have given GTA V to a woman to review  … their input is pointless," was one of the most printable.Yet Petit was incredibly positive overall about the title, giving it 9 out of 10, and she tells me that theGTAseries is one of her all-time favourites. "I'm much more engaged by a game that makes meanings I find problematic than by a game that doesn't attempt to mean much of anything at all," she says. "If creators genuinely want to put out works that celebrate misogyny, they are free to do so, and we are free to talk about their work critically."She's right: the conversation needs to be more sophisticated. Without decrying game violence as a symptom of our moral decline, we need to explore how that violence is presented, and what it means within the game world. The same goes for misogyny.So yes,Grand Theft Autois offensive – deliberately so, because controversy sells. Yes, it is "problematic" in its treatment of gender, race and sexuality. And yes, it is also an incredible technical and artistic accomplishment. In other words, it is just like any other milestone in any other creative field. Fans and  detractors alike need to stop the special treatment.Helen Lewis is deputy editor of the New Statesman
Taking a bike on a train in Britain is never a life-affirming experience, especially when travelling with Virgin. All those carriages, all those empty first-class seats, and still&nbsp;they can find space for only two piddling bicycles. And bagging one of&nbsp;those spots is needlessly complicated, too. You can't book online, your bike needs more tickets than you do, and if you get a seat at the opposite end of the train from the bike compartment, you'll spend the journey worrying that someone's nicked your ride along the way.The separation anxiety is all the more acute when the bike isn't yours and is worth £1,799. I borrowed a&nbsp;Bamboo BikefromBlue Door Bicycles in Crystal Palace, and signed a scary disclaimer that would leave me liable if I didn't get it back in one piece. Fretting in coach A a full 10 minutes' walk from my steed in coach J, I eventually decided a bike thief would surely be deterred from nicking anything apparently held together with brown parcel tape. It isn't, of course: the lugs are made of flax, wrapped around with hemp twine and set with resin, but it gives off a very homemade vibe.I know what you're thinking: a&nbsp;bike frame made from bamboo, held together by hemp. Just add a saddle filled with quinoa, brake cables made from air-dried seaweed and a pair of SPD-compatible vegan sandals, and you'd have the Guardian in velocipede form. But the choice of bamboo in this case is less about appealing to the sort of people who are happy to shell out £2.30 for a newspaper each Saturday than about making a superstrong yet light bicycle.Apparently, bamboo is stronger than steel, and it doesn't shatter like carbon fibre or dent like aluminium. It also makes for a responsive yet comfortable ride, the stiff frame absorbing vibration the way a hunk of bread mops up gravy. Riding around Manchester city centre, my energies are usually spent slaloming around potholes, but on the Bamboo Bike I&nbsp;ploughed straight on and barely blinked. The ample suspension on the front forks kicked in when I&nbsp;tapped the hyper-sensitive disc brakes, leaving meboinging like Zebedeeeach time I stopped at the lights: rather more useful when off-roading, which is, of course, where this bike comes into its element.The prototype was developed at&nbsp;Oxford Brookes University and gained the all-important BS EN safety mark before going into small-scale commercial production. Each bike is built to order and by hand in Scarborough, which partly explains the hefty price tag, though it's actually at the cheap end of the bamboo bike market. Yep, there is such a thing. You read it here first.Bamboo mountain bikePrice£1,799FrameBambooGroup setSRAM X5ForksX-fusion
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewSet in deep space, rymdkapsel has you building and defending a gradually extending space station. It takes place on a single screen, and has only three challenges to complete: build walkways to four monoliths and investigate them; attempt to do that in under 45 minutes; and survive 25 waves of alien attackers. It's not easy. The gently paced real-time strategy assumes its own slow rhythm as you martial minions. The result, accurately described by its developer as "meditative", is an obsessively engaging cycle of construction and defence, punctuated by moments of raw panic when you misjudge your timing, because a single mistake can be your undoing in games that last upwards of an hour. The game's elegant, minimalist style and sparsely ambient soundtrack perfectly complement the concentration necessary to complete challenges that are only simple  on paper.
Those yet to purchase entertainment behemoth Grand Theft Auto V may need to trade in some old games to ease the financial burden. Assisting in this unpredictable process is the website and recently released iOS appTrade In Detectives, which searches every trade-in offer in the UK to find you the best possible price for your games. As an added boon, it's also free.Those smarting from the disappointment ofOuya, the Android-based games console that looks pretty but has way too few games to be of interest to anyone, may not be holding their breath forGame Stick.It also uses Google's operating system but is made by PlayJam, the people behind the free games on Sky TV, so along with Android games it will have access to some of their catalogue. If you've actually played games on your Sky box, however, that might not sound a particularly enticing prospect.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewGrand Theft Auto V is a three-character amalgam, featuring a successful middle-aged, formerly retired bank robber, a thug from the hood who wants more from life, and a dangerously psychotic hillbilly meth dealer.You wouldn't want to get stuck in a lift with them but their frailties make them gloriously human protagonists. Set in sprawling Los Santos, the game's proxy for LA and its surrounding state, there's a huge city to explore as well as tracts of countryside, mountains, lakes and hick towns, but its vastness only becomes apparent when you fly across it. It's also bitingly satirical, in-car radio ranging from Weazel News ("Confirming your prejudices") to wickedly black-humoured ads lampooning America's pyrrhic love affair with prescription chemicals. A rich variety of activities, missions and distractions, and endless wry cultural references make this a wonderfully savage masterpiece.
Amazon is top of a "hotlist of targets" drawn up by the leading internet child abuse watchdog in a fresh attempt to tackle what it says is a steep rise in reports of extreme images online.The Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), which polices child sexual abuse material, said it had seen a tenfold increase in reports to its hotline about graphic images on third-party pages hosted on computer hardware provided by the retail giant.Websites using Amazon Web Services' online storage facilities were used to distribute at least 372 unlawful abuse pictures of children in the first half of this year, according to the IWF. A third of these images were categorised as "the worst of the worst", showing rape and torture.Amazon is one of a number of leading technology firms – including Apple and the blogging site Tumblr – being targeted by the watchdog as part of a renewed assault on paedophilic images online.But the sites complained of are independent of Amazon, simply paying for website hosting services it provides.Figures seen by the Guardian show that the number of reports by members of the public to the IWF rose to 3,706 last month, one of the highest numbers since records began in 1996. That is also a 55% increase compared with last year.Reports of pictures showing abuse of children under 10 have risen by almost a third in the past year, and alerts about the most graphic material have increased by 61%.Authorities believe the huge spike is linked to heightened sensitivity among internet users since the murder of five-year-old April Jones in October last year. Mark Bridger was jailed for life in May for the sexually motivated attack, which he carried out after looking at child abuse images online.Web firms have been under pressure to do more to tackle the problem since the culture secretary, Maria Miller, demanded a fundamental change in the way the industry approached child abuse images after Bridger was jailed.The industry-funded IWF, which is leading the clampdown alongside the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre (Ceop), is hiring seven analysts to help tackle the issue – but will still be stretched, with only 11 officials dealing with around 123 images a day.Susie Hargreaves, the IWF chief executive, said: "This is a significant time for the IWF as we undertake our biggest expansion since our establishment in 1996. Increasing our hotline team enables us to respond to public reports quicker and become proactive in our fight against paedophilic images on the web."The IWF is to warn Amazon, Apple, Samsung and other web firms, including the blogging platform  Tumblr and file-hosting service Dropbox, that their products are being used to share unlawful pictures of child sexual abuse. "For some like Amazon, Dropbox and imgur, their services are being abused by those who wish to distribute images of children being sexually abused," she added."Therefore, we can offer them practical services to help them deal with the issue quicker and more effectively, as well as the benefit of being seen to be doing the right thing."Hargraves also called for manufacturers of webcams, USB sticks and cameras to join the body, saying they had a corporate social responsibility to act because their products were being abused "to create and distribute criminal images".Many major internet firms, such as Google and Facebook, are members of the Cambridgeshire-based IWF, but others, including Amazon, Apple and Samsung, are not.
Thousands of people lined up outside Apple stores across the US on Friday, as the new iPhone went on sale for the first time.In Manhattan, more than 1,000 customers were outside the flagship Fifth Avenue store by 8am, including some people who had been camped outside for two weeks. In Pasadena, a fight broke out near a store where homeless people had been paid to wait in line.Apple's chief executive, Tim Cook, surprised those waiting at Apple's Palo Alto store by arriving to greet enthusiasts on Friday. Aneyewitness told Apple Insider, the news and rumour website for Apple products, Cook "shook the hands of everyone in line". The CEO then "went on his way", the witness said.The annual unveiling of the latest iPhone model has become an opportunity for Apple devotees to showcase their commitment to the cause, with some going to extraordinary lengths to be one of the first to purchase the new device.In Manhattan, two men spent two weeks outside the Apple store to buy new iPhones,the tech website VentureBeat reported. The men, who VentureBeat described as "idiots", had been sitting and sleeping in camping chairs in a bid to promote their business. It was not immediately clear whether they had succeeded.Gene Munster, an analyst from the investment firm Piper Jaffray,told CNETthere were more customers waiting in lines for iPhones this year than in 2012. At the Fifth Avenue store there were 1,417 people in line at 8am, CNET said, an 83% increase on the 775 people in line last year.While most customers were able to remain calm as they lined up to purchase iPhones, three people were arrested at a store in Pasadena, California after a fistfight broke out minutes before the outlet opened. Two men were detained after brawling in the line, police said, while a third man was placed on a 72-hour mental-health hold after running into the street in what theAssociated Press describedas "an enraged state".Police lieutenant Jason Clawson said it appeared the enraged man may have been among several homeless men who were hired to buy iPhones for other customers outside the Pasadena store.CBS Los Angeles reportedthat "many people" in the line had been recruited from downtown Los Angeles, some earning $35 to wait in line for the iPhone."I was asked yesterday if I would be willing to sit in line for someone so they could get a phone. I said, 'Sure, I've got nothing else to do.' So I'm here," one man, named Mickie, told the news channel. He said he was driven from the Midnight Mission area to the store with 10 other homeless people.
BlackBerry confirmed it was firing 4,500 of its staff on Friday as the struggling smartphone firm said it expects to lose nearly $1bn in the three months to August on disappointing sales of new phones.Revenues for the three months were only $1.6bn, the company said, against analysts' forecasts of $3bn – indicative of a collapse in its business after lacklustre sales of its new Z10 and Q10 phones. In all, it shipped 3.7m smartphones in the quarter, its lowest since summer 2007, when the first iPhone came out.The company's shares crashed from $10.20 to $8.03 before recovering to $8.73, a 17% drop on the day, valuing it at $4.5bn. The shares were briefly suspended as rumours of the loss circulated, and it was forced to indicate its quarterly earnings a week ahead of their scheduled date. It said it would announce a loss of between $930m and $955m next week.That brings its total losses in the past seven quarters to $1.8bn, putting its viability as a going concern into question.The company announced it was putting itself up for sale at the end of August – which market observers took to indicate it had failed to find a buyer privately. Microsoft's acquisition of Nokia this month effectively left the Ontario-based company in the cold.Though Canada's Fairfax Holdings is believed to be trying to put together a private equity buyout, others think it will be sold off piecemeal.The company blamed the loss partly on "more intense competition" following poor sales of the Z10 and Q10, released in January and April.Apple launched its two latest iPhones yesterday, which analysts were predicting could sell 5m in the opening weekend.BlackBerry's firings follow the loss of 5,000 jobs last year and a smaller round of redundancies this summer. The new losses will reduce Blackberry's 12,700-plus global workforce by about 40%. Expenses will be cut by 50% by the end of the first quarter of 2015, the company said.BlackBerry's share of the smartphone market has plummeted as Apple and devices from Samsung, HTC and others have taken its once sizeable lead.BlackBerry had over 14% of the US smartphone market in 2011 but, according to research firm IDC, it now has under 3%. Once the market leader, it now trails in fourth place behind Microsoft's Windows Phone brand, devices powered by market leader Google's Android system and Apple, IDC says .Thorsten Heins, the BlackBerry chief executive, told Bloomberg in April that the Q10 could sell "tens of millions". So far the figure appears to be below 5m.
Pinterest, the pinboard-style social network beloved of crafters and cooks, is to introduce advertising in the form of “promoted pins”.The site’s chief executive and co-founder,Ben Silbermann, announced the changeon Thursday.“For our first test, we’ll promote a few pins in search results and category feeds,”he wrote in a blogpost. “For example, a pin for a Darth Vader outfit from a costume shop might be promoted in a search for &apos;halloween&apos;.&quot;Silbermann was keen to emphasise that the promotions would be “tasteful… transparent… [and] relevant”, and the system would change over time based on user feedback.At present, the company is offering the trial scheme to selected advertisers for free.“We want to see how things go and, more than anything, hear what you think,&quot; said Silbermann&apos;s post.“Nobody’s paying for anything yet - we want to see how things go and, more than anything, hear what you think.”Thedemographic of Pinterest’s communityis particularly appealing to advertisers, showing strong support amongst women and people with university-level education.Promoted pins are not the first attempt at monetisation by Pinterest. The site collects &apos;affiliate&apos; payments on purchases made through outward-bound links.That strategy led toa minor controversyin early 2012, after users complained that it wasn’t clear enough that Pinterest was modifying their links to insert the affiliate codes.“We’ll always let you know if someone paid for what you see, or where you see it,&quot; wrote Silbermann, emphasising the transparency of the new promoted pins tool.Pinterest has faced new competition in recent months from Fancy, a New York startup with a similar focus on curating images of desirable items.In July, Fancy received funding worth $53m (£33m), giving it a valuation of $600m (£374m). That includes investment from Will Smith and American Express, but doesn&apos;t bring its valuation close to Pinterest, whose most recent funding round secured it $200m (£125m) and valued it at $2.5bn (£1.56bn).•Find out more about Fancy, Pinterest&apos;s celebrity competitor.
Apple has been hit by shortages of its latest iPhone as its new flagship handset launched in the UK.Mobile phone operator O2 was the worst affected by the supply problems. It confirmed that its stores did not have any stock of the 5S, Apple's top-of-the-range model , which features a fingerprint scanner and retails from £549.Stock of the gold-coloured 5S sold out almost immediately at Apple's largest UK store in Covent Garden, London, where staff lined the entrance to applaud jubilant customers who had queued overnight to be among the first owners of the new handsets.One shopper, who did not give his name, entered 30 minutes after the store opened to find the limited edition gold phones had already sold out."They haven't got gold in stock at the moment, but I can exchange [a standard] one for a gold one easily if I keep it sealed in the box." he said.At Apple's Regent Street store, Noah Green, 17, was the first in the queue, having only left his vigil to shower at a nearby gym since setting up camp outside the store at 4pm on Monday. Emerging from the store 20 minutes after the doors opened to rapturous applause, clutching a gold 5S, he said: "It's the best feeling in the world. I'm the first in the United Kingdom and I have the best phone."The teenager said he turned down offers of up to £5,000 for his prime spot in the queue, saying he would only consider giving up his place for £10,000.A spokesperson for O2 said the company had made its 5S stock available in its online store, with the majority of models available for delivery within three to six weeks. "This is the first year we have chosen to put all our stock online and through our customer service due to the limited availability," said the O2 spokesperson. "Customers can also order in store but there will be a three to six week delay in receiving the phone – our stores will be in touch with the customer to confirm when their phone has come in."Other mobile operators are also experiencing limited stock levels of the 5S. An EE spokesperson said there was limited supply."We're also expecting to receive further deliveries of stock soon, so customers who want the iPhone 5s on Orange or T-Mobile can place an order in store or with our telesales agents, who will contact them as soon as stock becomes available," the EE spokesperson added.Vodafone also has stock, but it is being sold in all stores on a first-come, first-served basis, according to a company spokesperson. Three declined to comment on stock levels of the Apple's flagship phone, but confirmed on Twitter that the iPhone 5S was available both in-store and online.Analysts said Apple tends to favour its own stores when allocating stock. "Apple has always prioritised stock for its own-brand stores to guarantee the strong Apple store brand and that customers can always come in and pick up the latest Apple hardware," said Ben Wood mobile analyst with research firm CCS Insight. "When Apple sells directly to the consumer its cutting out the middle man and therefore makes more money from sales through its own shops and online store."However, Wood does not expect the stock shortages of the iPhone 5S to impact Apple in the long run: "Apple is exemplary on its logistics, and I can't foresee any longer term issues." The iPhone 5S and iPhone 5C launch marks the biggest in Apple's phone history, launching simultaneously in both traditional markets including the UK, US and Europe, as well as China and Japan among others.
Whenever a video game story gets featured on the front page of the Guardian website – asmy Grand Theft Auto V reviewdid – I'm always pleased, but also slightly apprehensive. I know it'll be read by people who don't usually play games and that can be interesting. I fantasise that maybe one of those people will read the article and think "I'm going to give this gaming lark a try" and that they will buy a console on their way home from work, and that it'll change their life for the better. At the same time, however, I also know to expect a series of variations on two classic negative comments: "You geeks need to get out more" and "Do adults really play these things?"These points of view are, of course, knee-jerk hangovers from the early era of games, when they were generally thought of as something kids did. Inmy response to James Delingpole's comment piece on GTA 5 earlier this week, I argued that the moral panic surrounding games was  akin to the worry caused by the advent of rock'n'roll or video nasties – the older generation fearing some new madness of youth. With games, though, we can also throw in technophobia. Games are dangerous and scary because they are about violence (sometimes)andthey require you to plug something into your TV. So you know, best just to ask for them to be banned, because ifyoudon't like them then they are probably causing teenagers to kill people.I get that fear, it's fine. It's utterly wrong in my opinion, but … I get where that fear comes from.When I am feeling less reasonable, the "do adults really play these things?" comment really gets to me. Partly this is because I am 42 and I review these things for a living. I'vedealt with my insecurities about this before, but to have people questioning the mental faculties of mature gamers is something of a personal slight. But it's not just that. It's something else. Something more important.The brilliant game designer Raph Koster says that we love video games because they teach us things, and we like to learn. What's more, they teach us things in the exact way that our brains prefer to take on new information: through systems and patterns. Even better, games teach us within a safe environment where it's OK to get stuff wrong. You may lose a life in a game when you make a mistake, but good games brilliantly balance the inconvenience of this with the provision of power-ups and health packs – little nuggets of grace in the learning system. If you don't think games teach us things, then you should play Tetris or Minecraft or Richard Hofmeier's excellent retail simulation,Cart Life. You now know more about geometry, architecture and the economics of poverty than you did a few hours ago – which is nice.So games are partly about learning and we should never stop learning. They challenge us and we should always be challenged. Portal is so clever and funny and difficult, you have to think in new and unusual ways about space and representation on the 2D screen. The smartphone titles Drop 7 and Stickets provide so much complexity with such rudimentary materials: shapes and numbers and manipulation. Do you want to feel clever? Get good at Drop 7. We should always seek to feel more clever.So, you see, part of why this "do adults really play games" thing makes me cross is that it's about intellectual snobbery, or even just intellectual ignorance (is that an oxymoron?). No one scoffs incredulously at commuters doing the crossword, or at Magnus Carlsen winning a chess tournament – but they're doing the same thing as gamers – they are playing. And we should never ever stop playing.And that thought brings me round to the real annoyance. That there are people who seek to place a metric on fun. This type of fun is better than that type of fun – or maybe we're not supposed to have fun at all? I wonder if the "do adults really play games" people scour the Guardian site looking for forms of fun that they don't agree with, and place similar comments on all of them. The fun police. Are you having the right sort of fun, the sort of fun I like? No? Then I shall condemn you in the comments section. What do these people hope for? That someone who has fun playing games will think, "Oh crap, what am I doing?!" And that they will stop?Maybe I can save you some time. They won't. Because the people who read game reviews and the people who play games know that games are wonderful and can be enjoyed as part of a healthy lifestyle. Also, increasingly, they engage with us emotionally. Gone Home is painfully moving and so damned right about how families sometimes let us down when we need them; The Last of Us says something simultaneously terrifying and hopeful about what we will do to protect loved ones. That's a lesson all adults need and can use.Games are also becoming more serious. Iranian designerNavid Khonsariis currently writing a game called 1979 about the Islamic revolution in his home country. He can never go back, because the conservative newspapers in Iranaccused him of spying and of distributing propaganda. He wants to tell people about the revolution and he knows that a game is a good way to portray different perspectives, and to encourage viewers/players to explore and understand those viewpoints. Navid Khonsari once worked on Grand Theft Auto so he really knows that adults play and enjoy this powerful narrative medium.I don't think people go to the books section of the Guardian and write "why not go outside? Do adults really read books?" under every review. It's OK to stay in, curled up with a good novel, but not a game. Why? Because one is somehow better than the other? In what sense? If we're going to be mean, how many people actually read really good, really intellectually enriching books? Look at the bestseller list – a lot of people like escapism and there's nothing wrong with that. Adults between the ages of 25 and 35 spend more than three hours a day watching TV – you're not telling me that's all political documentaries and worthy dramas, right? Hey that's fine too. Why judge? Just, you know, accept that others feel differently.Adults play video games. Heck, there are hundreds of video games designed just for adults! It's just like everything else. Adults fly kites, adults play bridge, adults make sandcastles and do jigsaw puzzles. Games like GTA worry people because they're violent and they have some questionable content – adults can handle it. And not all gamers like GTA. As my friend Simon Parkin mentions inhis article on immorality in game worlds for the New Yorker, it's OK to love games but be worried about aspects of them. We're adults, go for it!As I've written before, games have won – they are here to stay, and their importance is growing. We live in what game designer Eric Zimmerman calls a ludic century; everything is about interaction and play – from TV to smartphones to social networks. And games are the approachable face of that. TV execs are learning from games, banks are making their websites more game-like, the military is definitely learning from games. Some of this is good, some of it is troubling, but sorry everyone, video games are not going anywhere – they're goingeverywhere.Adults play video games. We talk about them, argue about them, love them and share them with our kids and our families. I consider my life to have been enriched by video games and by meeting their designers. Richard Lemarchand (Uncharted series), Adam Saltsman (Canabalt, Hundreds), Robin Hunickie (Journey) and Peter Molyneux are among the most interesting and intelligent people I have ever met. I have wonderful memories of playing and sharing games like Resident Evil, Pro Evolution Soccer, Rock Band, Battlefield, Katamari Damacy... the list goes on. I store those memories with my others, I don't grade them lower because they involved graphics and joypads.If you've ever written "do adults really play these things?" please try one. Go to an event like GameCity or Rezzed or the Eurogamer Expo and have a go. Nothing bad will happen. You might confirm your beliefs, that's fine, but at least you'll see that adults play games. You won't have to ask that question anymore. You'll know. You'll have tried and learned. That's a good thing. That's something all adults do.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).Infinity Blade III (£4.99)ChAIR Entertainment's epic trilogy reaches its conclusion, with more eye-popping scenery, more characters (two) and many more enormous monsters to stick a sword through. There's the usual levelling up, "massively social" clashmob challenges to co-operate with players around the world, and even a new song by Imagine Dragons on the soundtrack.iPhone / iPadToca Cars (£0.69)Children's apps developer Toca Boca's latest app is a sandbox driving app for 3-9 year-olds. One mode gets them to race around a cardboard world knocking things over, while the other lets kids create that world by placing houses, trees and other items. Then knock it all over again.iPhone / iPadHamlet: Explore Shakespeare (£9.99)Cambridge University Press and developer Agant have released a series of Shakespeare plays as iPad apps in recent months, with Hamlet the latest to get the treatment. The app offers the full text, an audio performance and photos of famous productions, with a host of interactive features all geared to better understanding the play (rather than just whizzy novelties).iPadGrand Theft Auto: iFruit (Free)GTA V's official companion app should be an essential download, but be warned that a lot of people are struggling to sign in to it – as shown by its two-star average rating on the App Store. When it works, it'll provide news and social features, let you pimp your rides ready for use in the main game, and play a virtual pet mini-game to develop the Franklin character's dog Chop. And if you're playing GTA V on console, it's well worth downloadingits separate manual apptoo.iPhone / iPadAngry Birds Star Wars II (£0.69)Rovio's latest Angry Birds game is its second to be set in the Star Wars universe, with characters turned into birds and pigs, and 120 levels to fling them through. This time round, you can play as both sides, and there's a range of Telepods toys that interact with the game.Read our reviewfor the full lowdown on the game.iPhone / iPadGoogle Wallet (Free)This one's US-only for now, but it's a significant move from Google, bringing its payment app from Android to iOS. It stores your credit and debit card details, lets you send money to people in the US using their email addresses, and can be remotely disabled if your phone gets nicked.iPhoneAxel Scheffler's Flip Flap Farm (£0.69)Axel Scheffler was the illustrator for The Gruffalo, among other books. And Nosy Crow has made a succession of well-crafted book-apps for children. They're a match made in heaven for parents, then, and their latest app is great fun. Inspired by printed flap-books, it gets kids to make weird and wonderful animals from two halves (e.g a Shig from a sheep and a pig), with poetry to match.iPhone / iPadCrowded Fiction (Free)Literature for older readers, here: an intriguing app that poses the question "what if reading eBooks and fiction was more like playing video games?" And while some gamers AND readers will roll their eyes at the idea, Crowded Fiction is the latest interesting attempt to explore the potential of interactivity in fiction. Journalist hero Jackson encounters fist-fights and car chases while investigating a museum curator's murder. Worth investigating.iPad100 Cult Films: BFI Screen Guides (£2.99)The British Film Institute has teamed up with developer Aimer Media for this listy app profiling 100 cult movies – "from Akira to Withnail and I, from Beyond the Valley of the Dolls to This is Spinal Tap; from Italian cannibal movies to Japanese anime..." Details, stills, links to trailers and fan sites, and the ability to tick the films off as you watch them all feature. There's another app in this series too, for100 American Independent Films.iPhone / iPadDisney Infinity: Toy Box (Free)Disney Infinity is that company's ambitious attempt to compete with Activision's Skylanders: a video-game universe with its own range of physical toys that can be scanned in for use on consoles. In this case, those characters are Disney's famous faces, from Jack Sparrow and Lightning McQueen to the Lone Ranger and Mr. Incredible. Toy Box is the companion app for iPad, where children can build their world and scan in the same toys.iPadMary Berry (£1.99)Yes, that Mary Berry: of The Great British Bake Off fame. This is her solo app with a festive theme: 15 recipes for Christmas, taking in Traditional Roast Turkey, Apricot and Chestnut Stuffing and a nut roast for vegetarians. Berry's app gives you the necessary shopping lists, step-by-step instructions and kitchen timers to ensure Christmas Day goes with a bang.iPhone / iPadBBC Wildlife Bumper Book of Answers (£4.99)The latest BBC app-mag is tailor-made for parents facing difficult wildlife questions from their children, promising as it does to explain what evolution is, why crabs walk sideways and why people are scared of spiders (among others). The app offers hundreds of questions and answers in a slick tablet app.iPadCarnage Racing (Free)This iOS racing game comes from the developers of console series Midnight Club, and the production values are accordingly top-notch. It combines racing with stunts and combat, with weapons including a flamethrower, bombs and road sludge to nobble the opposition. Solo skills can then be tested against other people in the eight-player online racing mode.iPhone / iPadWomen's Health 28-Day Fat Blaster (£1.99)This app comes from Women's Health magazine: a 28-day programme made up of sessions under 30 minutes each, promising to "turbocharge your metabolism, build lean muscle, and torch tons of calories". Instructions and timers are included.iPhoneHeroes of Camelot (Free)Kabam's The Hobbit is currently one of the most popular mobile games in the world, up there with the likes of Candy Crush Saga and Clash of Clans. This new game may find plenty of players then: it's a card-battling RPG set in Arthurian times, with multiplayer battles and (of course) lots of dragons to fight.iPhone / iPadLooptical (£10.49)MooCowMusic was one of the first developers to ever have an app shown off by Apple: fun musical app Band was demoed at the App Store's announcement in 2008. Five years on, it's still working in music, but several leaps on. Looptical is a full mobile-studio app for musicians, recording and mixing up to 24 stereo tracks, and helping you create loops and share them with other apps.iPhoneThe Good Pub Guide 2014 (£4.99)Pubs. Yes, fellow Brits, there is an app for them. It's the official iOS version of The Good Pub Guide, offering reviews of 4,800 ale-houses across the UK, including images and the ability to add your own comments. Listings for another 20,000 pubs are also included, with everything plotted on a map. Extra points to Random House for the release version of this app being 2014.0.0.iPhone / iPadNiko and the Sword of Light (Free)This is another take on bringing fiction to the iPad in an interesting form. Niko and the Sword of Light is an animated comic book by a team of designers who previously worked on Tim Burton's Alice in Wonderland film. It sees hero Niko setting off on a quest to save his kingdom by finding a magical sword – complete with voice narration and a soundtrack by DJ Yoda.iPadJake's Never Land Shapes and Patterns (£2.99)Jake and the Never Land Pirates is Disney's modern TV show reboot of Peter Pan, and this is its first educational app. It gets children to recognise shapes and patterns through three piratical mini-games starring the characters from the TV show.iPhone / iPadCaptain Bubblenaut (£1.49)Developer Dean Tate has decent form, having worked on the first two BioShock games, then Dance Central. He's since teamed up with another developer, Owen Macindoe, for this characterful action game, where you guide the titular hero through a series of colourful levels battering "erfling" enemies out of the way as you go. It's hoping to be the next Tiny Wings, and doesn't suffer in that comparison.iPhoneThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
The government will test a mobile phone-based emergency alert system this autumn in areas across the UK.The system sends alerts via text messages or the cell broadcast network, which operates on a separate network not involved in the transmission of calls or texts, to mobiles phones warning of flooding, industrial accidents and other local risks.The Cabinet Office announced the trails in partnership with three UK mobile phone operators, EE, O2 and Vodafone, after the government’s 2010 Strategic Defence and Security Review committed to “evaluate options for an improved public alert system&quot;.Public participation across the UKThe trials will commence later this month and continue through till November in Easingwold, in North Yorkshire, Leiston, in Suffolk, and Glasgow city centre, covering up to 50,000 people.Participants in the trial will be asked to provide feedback and take part in local focus groups, forming part of a report expected within the first half of 2014.The tests will be conducted to evaluate the efficacy of the two different emergency alert delivery systems before a potential roll out of a mobile phone-based alert system to the rest of the country.The emergency alert system will only be used under situations where the government “judges that by sending the alert it can prevent the loss of life or damage to the environment or property,” said a spokesperson for the National Security Council.Only under set “civil emergency” events will the proposed emergency alert system be considered. These include disease pandemics, coastal flooding, terrorist attacks, volcanic eruptions abroad that could pose a risk to the health of UK citizens, and severe wildfires.Don’t panic, this is just a testFrancis Maude, the minister for the Cabinet Office, wanted to reassure the participants of the test, who won’t be contacted before hand that “these tests are not linked to any threat or specific hazard in their area.”Similar systems are in use in Australia, the Netherlands,the Philippines, and the US, where two separate incidents have seen the system used recently: Once by the California Highway Patrol alerting residents to two missing children in the state in August, which drew complaints, and once in North Carolina, which successfully led to a 17-month-old being reunited with her family.Potential security riskThe two services being tested as delivery mechanisms for the emergency alerts to mobile phones differ in their level of security.The cell broadcast system runs on mobile phone operators’ “secure networks that they&apos;ve spent significant time building and defending,” said Marc Rogers, principal security researcher at mobile security firm Lookout. “Their security measures will be sufficient to prevent casual spoofing that would cause panic.”SMS messages are less secure and can be spoofed by scammers, with spoofing services freely available online.The government was described as being “vigilant” during trials for any such activity, and that spoofing as a security concern “will be one of the factors evaluated in the final report”, the National Security Council spokesperson added.
