Despite their ubiquity, despite the vast sales and the increasing calls for the medium to be recognised as an artform, video games – that most obviously visual of media – still have an image problem. And it is more than superficial, it goes to the heart of the home, where concerned parents worry about the deleterious effect on their sons and daughters. However, while the evils of gaming rhetoric may make the most noise, parents who have fears may be intrigued to know that it is not the only story in town.Children themselves are now refuting the stereotype that gaming is a mindless, pointless hobby, as the flexibility of the medium allows them to grow from player to creator. And the game-makers agree: “Games as a medium always involve creativity on the player’s part,” says Benjamin Donoghue, creative director at Blackstaff Games. “Creativity is about exploring what you can do within a defined set of rules.” Blackstaff is currently working onDogBiscuit: The Quest for Crayons, a drawing game for mobile devices in which the player designs parts of the game world.Then there is Joshua Davidson, founder and managing director at a company called Night Zookeeper, who says it’s important to include an element of creativity in games for children: “Night Zookeeper was set up to encourage children to stop just being the consumers of digital content and start becoming the creators,” he says. LikeDogBiscuit, the Night Zookeeper apps and website encourage children to draw, in this case magical animals for the zoo. The team found that asking players for creative input increased their engagement: they were more likely to read stories if they could illustrate them themselves.In time, children develop the patience for more involved creation. TheLittleBigPlanetgames are fun, and visually appealing platformers, but also include a set of accessible level-creation tools. More than nine million levels have been made so far and the studios at Sony has now employed creators from theLittleBigPlanetcommunity. “The beauty of games likeLittleBigPlanetis you don’t need to know how to code a language to make something,” says senior producer Tom O’Connor. Yet even programing languages needn’t be an insurmountable barrier for children. Independent developer Adriel Wallick ran classes at theGameCity festivallast year teaching kids how to make games with a simplified language called Scratch. “The response was amazing,” she says, “Most days were fairly full and the kids were super into it.” Most memorable to Wallick was how excited her students were the first time they programed something and then again when they’d completed the introductory tasks and were told they could now create whatever they wanted. “Most kids at this point would quietly ask me if they could do something that they initially think is ridiculous,” she recalls, “And when I would say yes, their eyes would light up and they’d get to work.”One child who has taken this creative urge to the bank is12-year-old Sam Smith, who went from making levels inLittleBigPlanetandLego Indiana Jones 2, to tinkering with variables inStarboundandGarry’s Mod, to using a program called GameMaker: Studio to develop a game calledSpacepants,which is now available to buy on the App Store. “I make games instead of going to school,” says Sam. Thousands of children in the UK are home educated like Sam, but game development is one way to cover the basics: “It teaches mathematics, it teaches language. I learned a lot of spelling and especially maths, making the calculations inSpacepants.”Literacy, numeracy and computer skills aren’t the only benefits. The EU has co-funded an initiative calledNo One Left Behindto get children as young as eight making games, with an adapted version of a free mobile tool called Pocket Code, to study other subjects such as science and history. GameCity’s organisers are also involved in the initiative. Sam’s father Jonathan Smith, co-director of GameCity and Nottingham’s new National Videogame Arcade, says his other son created a monastery simulator when learning about the dissolution of the monasteries. “He loves games, so that was a very natural form of expression for him.“If your child can play games they can probably make games,” says Sam, “That’s one of the awesome things about video games in general.”“This is all the bedrock of why we’re doing what we’re doing here,” Jonathan adds of the NVA, which hosts regular workshops for kids, “We’re building Hogwarts for theMinecraftgeneration.” For anyone with a child who would like to learn the magic of making games for themselves, a trip there is a good place to start.CHILD’S PLAYADVENTURE TIME: GAME WIZARDatgamewiz.comThis licensed mobile game lets players draw their own levels either in the app or on paper, a creative way to try out level design.PROJECT SPARKprojectspark.comLike LittleBigPlanet, this Xbox/Windows game has a community of players who share their creations for others to play or adapt. Watch out for in-app purchases.SCRATCHscratch.mit.eduThis free tool was developed by Massachustetts Institute of Technology and is used across the world. It’s accessible but provides a foundation to learn more complex programing languages.MINECRAFT: PI EDITIONpi.minecraft.netFor Minecraft-obsessed kids with a Raspberry Pi, this version is a great way to learn how rewriting code can change things in a familiar game.
Are you a gadget fiend or a technophobe?I was a technophobe for years but I’m warming to it now, mainly because I have to. It’s part of my job – sending audition tapes to America involves know-how with cameras, then uploading to Vimeo or Dropbox. Actors are also meant to have a social media presence these days. So the industry is changing and I’m scrambling to keep up.Do you have meetings and auditions over Skype too?Yes, it’s weird. There’s always those awkward pauses. You do a take, then there’s an excruciating four seconds of silence when you wonder whether they’re totally unimpressed or it’s just the time delay (laughs).Do you research roles online?Definitely. The internet’s an amazing resource. I’ve recently started – particularly for [Channel 4 period drama]Indian Summers– finding archive footage and 1930s photos, bookmarking pages on Pinterest and creating a mood board so I can immerse myself and flesh out my character’s world.What’s the most technologically advanced project you’ve worked on?Stardust[2007 fantasy film] was a massive production at Pinewood: huge sets, lots of green screen. I’ve also just shot a sci-fi film calledGenesisin which I play a scientist in a post-apocalyptic world. Often you don’t see so much of the technological aspect on-set, it tends to come in later and get done elsewhere.Was there much CGI onIndian Summers?We filmed in Malaysia and obviously didn’t have the Himalayas around us, so mountainous wide shots were filled out afterwards. But the landscapes of Penang were so luscious, they often look CGI even when they’re real!What was it like working in that extreme heat?Challenging. So humid, it was like being permanently wrapped in a damp blanket. We were forever using hairdryers on our frocks and all got addicted to an isotonic drink. I don’t what’s in it but it really pepped me up. Three cans and I’d be raring to go.Olivia Grant as American heiress Madeleine Mathers in Indian Summers.You travel a lot for work. How has technology changed that experience?It’s a bit old-fashioned but I’ve got a dictaphone that I take everywhere and use to rehearse lines. I watch a lot of TV online. I’ve just bought a little keyboard for my iPad, although I must admit it’s still in the box – anything involving the words “wireless” or “Bluetooth” tends to scare me. The iCloud is bewildering too. I’m improving but haven’t nailed that side of things. I even did some classes at the Apple store.How was that?Surprisingly good. This guy at the Genius Bar was helping with my laptop and said: “It’s like you’ve purchased a house but only put a chair in it,” – which made me determined to sort myself out. I feared it’d be shaming – just me and a load of 70-year-olds – but it was cool. I learnt basic Garage Band and iMovie. Highly recommended.Are you an Apple addict then?Yes. I deliberated for a while because I’d heard great things about Samsung Galaxy, but ended up getting an iPhone and have since gone completely Apple: MacBook, iPad, iPhone – the full set.What’s your most expensive gadget?My Canon SLR camera. I’m forcing myself to improve my photography. Again, I shouldn’t admit this, but I’m still mainly using an expensive camera on automatic setting. I’m slowly learning how to use it manually.What are your favourite apps?Snapseed transforms my pretty basic images into something a bit more special. LineLearner is also great.Is your phone on the table at dinner?No, I tend to think it’s rude. Although I was guilty of it myself onIndian Summersbecause the cast had a WhatsApp group to stay in contact. It worked beautifully but did dramatically increase the messages coming in, so I was probably tapping away too much.Do you use textspeak or emojis?Never textspeak or smiley faces but I have three emojis I use a lot: the three sparkly stars; the lipstick kiss, which I use in quite a camp way; and the red flamenco lady – she’s fun.Have you got flash gadgetry at home?I’ve had no permanent abode for a while, so haven’t been able to make bulky purchases like widescreen TVs and walk-in fridges. But I’m in the process of buying a flat and I’m looking forward to all that hugely. It’s a new build and comes with a wine fridge which makes me feel incredibly grown-up. It means I’m a proper person. I got a pension recently as well. (Laughs)Do you love or loathe social media?Love. I enjoy Instagram and Twitter. Facebook’s my more private one for staying in touch with my university friends.If you could time travel, where would you go?I’d like to have grown up in the early Seventies. My parents always make it sound so much fun – festivals and free love. I probably should’ve said something worthy about Tudor or Roman times, shouldn’t I? (Laughs)
The Handsome Collection comprises Borderlands 2 and Borderlands: The Pre-Sequel, both of which have been given a next-gen graphical overhaul. Like the mighty Diablo, Borderlands is a game of loot gathering, every group of enemies slain yielding a tempting new set of guns to be pillaged. But unlike Diablo, which takes itself very seriously indeed, Borderlands has become self-aware and, especially in the Pre-Sequel, can’t help mocking first-person shooters and video games at large, from the absurdity of stealing everything in sight to a boss fight with a neon sign above the baddy’s head saying “kill this guy”. Its cel-shaded looks won’t be for everyone and neither will the prevalence of multiplayer co-op, but sifting through its thousands of guns proves as addictive as ever, while its offbeat sense of humour permeates everything from dialogue to the names of your expansive collection of weapons.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKBOX BOY! 3DSThe surprise of last week’s Nintendo Direct, the games giant’s regular internet address to fans, was BOXBOY!. Unlike most newly revealed games, this one was available for download straight away and, despite being a 3DS game, it isn’t in 3D or even in colour, presenting its four-cornered protagonist Qbby in glorious monochrome. Qbby can only make small hops, but he can also squeeze out lines of squares, which join together to make bridges, hooks or weights to trigger switches. New ideas are introduced gradually, letting you get comfortable with them as you collect each level’s bonus crowns on your way to the exit. There’s no penalty for failure, with retries starting you exactly where you were before you fell into the spiked pit or suffered self-immolation by simply drawn laser beam. However, there is an upper limit of available boxes for each level, beyond which you can still finish but without the coveted “perfect” score. Like all the best puzzle games, once you spot each solution it all seems childishly simple.Nintendo, £4.49Oddworld: Abe’s Oddysee - New’n’Tasty, Xbox One, PS4 &amp; PCAlthough there are no human beings in Oddworld, it still has fat cat capitalists and lowly indentured labourers. Abe is a slave at RuptureFarms meat processing plant, which harvests alien lifeforms and grinds them up to make pies, cakes and other mystery meat treats. Their newest snack turns out to be made of Abe’s friends, a fact that turns him from humble employee into an extraterrestrial Che Guevara, rescuing his buddies and smashing the system. Its gorgeous-looking 2D puzzle-platforming action breaks out into swooping 3D shots of the factory in all its grizzly splendour, a process that looks even more beautiful thanks to nearly 20 years of technological advancement. First released in 1997, this retains all the original features, but is tempered for a post-millennial audience who expect their games to be less cruelly difficult. That’s not to say there won’t be moments of controller-smashing frustration as you try to time a series of jumps perfectly, only to be killed over and over again.Oddworld Inhabitants, £14.99
The power to surprise, is the Kia’s motto. You see, even that’s wrong: we all have the power to surprise. The hard part is being able to give people anicesurprise.The headline problem here is that the Kia is so underpowered. The 1.4L diesel engine seemed to run out of puff going round a corner. Long-distance driving was miserable; it was never happy in any gear. The brakes felt squelchy and uncertain. It was skittish on the motorway, making heavy weather out of the slightest change in road surface. At 71mph, the rear-view mirror shook, giving the impression that the cars behind were vibrating. To the very front, are two triangular side windows – their purpose could only have been decorative. But by some law of physics that car designers ought to know, they reflected the white lines of the road into the sides of the windscreen, so you drive with a perpetual flashing on both peripheries of vision. It was exhausting. I’d emerge from the car shaking my head, as if concussed.The light, tinny fitments of the cabin undermined all the natural authority that should emanate from a car. Cheap-looking armrests flapped down to interfere with the usability of the hand brake. The engine started reluctantly, always raising the possibility of failure. It’s the first car I’ve been in for ages with neither satnav nor docking station. A USB port made nonspecific promises. It didn’t look as if you could connect an iPod, but perhaps you could charge it? Nope. The parking beep is sluggish – you’d be better off using your own senses.Even though it is short, the combination of width and blunt steering meant it had none of the nippy mischief that makes the compromises of a small car worthwhile.And yet, the boot was surprisingly large. The back seat could accommodate three adults (many small cars make this claim, but they’re often talking about child-sized adults). The on-paper combined mpg is good, beyond diesel-good – heaps better than the petrol version, which might make you feel better about the pokelessness. They say emissions are so low they didn’t feel the need for ISG technology (Intelligent Stop and Go). They could go lower if they were serious about it, but cost is the third factor: anything to push it above £15k would make serious mincemeat out of its competitiveness. I did not like it. Is that coming across? Not one bit.Kia Venga 1.4 CRDi SR7: in numbersPrice£14,895 (as tested £15,385)Top speed104mphAcceleration0-60mph in 14 secondsCombined fuel consumption62.8mpgCO2emissions119g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating3/10• Follow Zoe onTwitter

There were no over-excited enthusiasts triumphantly brandishing white boxes at the Apple Watch launch at Selfridges in London. Instead, a handful of shoppers formed an orderly queue, enjoy ed iced Earl Grey tea served on trays by uniformed waiters, and patiently waited for their appointments.The discreet event on Friday was quite a departure for Apple, whose past product launches have famously attracted long queues and high spirits. This was a preview, not a regular shopping trip, a chance to fiddle with the watch’s features in a light-flooded, pristine space before ordering online and waiting for the watches to be shipped from 24 April.It was a deliberate strategy. The crowds made for good television coverage in the past, but they have become something of a curse for the company.Related:Apple Watch reviews: the 'elegant', overpriced gadget 'you don't need'For a start, they lead to stores running out of devices and a large number of customers leaving disappointed. Selling devices online means it is easier for Apple to control its stock and manage customers’ delivery expectations.The Apple Watch is particularly hard to sell in stores, as it comes in a plethora of customisable options. Most importantly, however, the queuing crowds encouraged the depiction of Apple fans as nerdy and obsessive, and the company wants to market its watch to a higher-end, fashion conscious market. Apple hastargeted the fashion press hard.“The days of waiting in line and crossing fingers for a product are over for our customers,” Apple’s retail chief, Angela Ahrendts, said in an internal memo sent to store employees andleaked to Business Insiderrecently. “This is a significant change in mindset, and we need your help to make it happen. Tell your customers we have more availability online, and show them how easy it is to order. You’ll make their day.”The strategy worked. The pavements were bare outside Apple stores in Regent Street and Covent Garden on Friday morning.Members of the public around the world catch their first glimpse of the Apple WatchAt Selfridges, one of the first through the door was Ajay Chowdhury, a self-confessed Apple “fanboy” who ordered a watch with a navy blue strap and stainless steel case online at the end of his appointment. “I love the design,” he said. “I haven’t loved any other e-watch. I tried it on and it feels terrific. They say we check our phones 150 times a day, so I hope this will stop me doing that all day and pissing my family off.”Gwen Renard also hoped the phone would help her spend less time glued to her iPhone screen. “I love fitness and fashion,” she said. “I was going to buy a fitness band. I am pregnant and I need a new toy to help motivate me to lose weight afterwards, but I realised I wouldn’t wear a fitness band and a watch as well, so I decided to get an Apple Watch instead.” Renard’s watch will have a pink leather strap, and she plans to wear it in rotation with others by Cartier and Chanel.The experience feels exclusive, with the Apple pop-up store housed in a chic corner of Selfridges’ wonder room, where timepieces, jewellery and accessories by brands from Bulgari to Chopard are sold. Appointments take place around a gleaming display case full of the watch’s various incarnations, from the £299 sports version to the £9,500 18-carat rose gold model.It’s impossible to tell from the sales assistant-led demonstration how well the smartwatch will work in everyday life, but toying with it for a while – scrolling through messages, flicking through contacts and photographs – certainly builds a sense of excitement. It also helps customers decide whether they like the look of the thing.“I wanted to come and check the aesthetics,” said Marina Austin. “I’ve been looking through Vogue, I’ve seen that they are featuring them, but to my eye they still look quite masculine. I think either they will evolve or our eyes will get used to them.”For now, this would be one watch rather than the watch in her life. “I like the sportier white one. I usually wear watches that are more blingy – a Tag watch today, Michael Kors watches. But I don’t have a sports watch.” After ordering online she left, like the other customers, with nothing but anticipation.Additional reporting by Samuel Gibbs
The Apple Watch was made available to order on Friday, withthe company’s attempt to discourage customers from camping outside Apple Storesproving largely successful.At 8:01 on Friday morning, London’s major Apple stores in Regent Street and Covent Garden had bare pavement outside – a far cry from the bustling scenes greeting the company’s last major device launches, the iPhones 6 and 6 Plus.But Angela Ahrendts, the company’s retail chief, won’t be sad at the lack of a scrum, having advised customers directly that online was as good as offline. “To provide the best experience and selection to as many customers as we can, we will be taking orders for Apple Watch exclusively online during the initial launch period,” she said in a press release.Those stores (as well as the Apple outpost in the Selfridges department store) do have one unique draw: the only units of the solid gold, £8,000 Apple Watch Edition available to try on in the whole of Britain. Customers will still have to book an appointment, in slots of up to 15 minutes, using the company’s website, before they can put the 18-karat slab of gold on their wrists, however.No other city in Britain will have any units of the gold watches available to try on (or even look at) in-store, leaving the watch – Apple’s attempt to compete with traditional watchmakers tendency to sell expensive solid-gold watches to the super rich in the West and abroad – a London-only prospect for the time being.That’s not to say would-be buyers can’t pre-order the watch in other cities, though. But they won’t be able to try them on before they buy them, meaning they may as well have stayed at home. As Ahrendts made clear,the Apple Watch isn’t available for pre-order directly in any Apple store, with the company moving to an all-online system: customers are able to try on the watch (including the Watch Edition, in the three London stores), but then have to use in-store iPads to pre-order them.That hasn’t stopped the device from being an apparent success in its first day. Within minutes of the pre-orders being made available, delivery times for many models of the watch had lengthened to 4–6 weeks, and by the end of the day, every watch available was backordered by at least that much.As for the gold Apple Watch, the hefty price tag doesn’t seem to have put off buyers. Pre-order now, and the earliest it will arrive is this June.
Following the hacking by a pro-Isis group that took a French television station offline, a live interview with a TV5Monde reporter has unwittingly exposed the usernames and passwords used for a variety of company accounts and services.The hack sawTV5Monde’s computer network taken offline, disrupting a variety of company services from email accounts to the production machines used to edit video, including the servers used to send television pictures for broadcast.Reports indicate TV5Monde’s lax approach to security, including its failure to segment its broadcast machines from its administration and user computers, contributed to the hack, making it easier for the attackers to cause damage.That same failure to take security seriously revealed a collection of the TV station’s usernames and passwords that were scribbled on a mess of sticky notes and index cards stuck to a walllive on TV.The accounts for the station’s YouTube channel, Twitter and Instagram were all visible, along with a collection of others.‘There could be an element of luck’Other reports have pointed to weak passwords such as the French equivalent of “qwerty12345” as a possible hole through which the hackers gained entry to the TV station.“Typically you have difference phases in an attack like this. The first one would be identifying who has the necessary access to the systems to actually do harm. Infecting just some random computer generally isn’t enough. They go to unprecedented levels and a great deal of effort during the planning phase, researching the targets as apposed to actually hacking them,” explained Christophe Birkeland vice president of engineering at security firm Blue Coat Systems.“But there could be an element of luck, such as that particular person being sloppy with their data on Facebook giving the attackers enough information to take control of their corporate account through brute force,” he said.Simple passwords are easy to guess through automated means for hackers attempting to gain entry into vulnerable computer systems, such as TV5Monde’s.“It’s not possible to be 100% bulletproof in today’s cyberthreat landscape,” said Birkeland. “Instead, companies must be prepared for an attack, to detect it and implement systems to limit it’s impact as quickly as possible.”“What we’re seeing here is real-world impact, the disruption of critical infrastructure, access to information and an important part of a democratic society. The attackers are breaking new ground, and this might not be the last we hear of this. We could see a broader campaign, where TV5 was just one hit,” said Arandjelovic. “We’re seeing TV5 coming back online, but it’s entirely possible that they haven’t purged all traces of the attack from their systems and could still be compromised.”•French media groups to hold emergency meeting after Isis cyber-attack
Facebook has admitted that it tracked users who do not have an account with the social network, but says that the tracking only happened because of a bug that is now being fixed.The social network hit out at the report commissioned by the Belgian data protection authority, whichfound Facebook in breachof European data privacy laws,saying that the report“gets it wrong multiple times in asserting how Facebook uses information”.“The researchers did find a bug that may have sent cookies to some people when they weren’t on Facebook. This was not our intention – a fix for this is already under way,” wrote Richard Allan, Facebook’s vice president of policy for Europe in a rebuttal.Allan listed and responded to eight claims isolated from the report written by researchers at the Centre of Interdisciplinary Law and ICT (ICRI) and the Computer Security and Industrial Cryptography department (Cosic) at the University of Leuven, and the media, information and telecommunication department (Smit) at Vrije Universiteit Brussels.Some of the claims listed by Facebook are not made in the report, including one that states “there’s no way to opt out of social ads”. The report clearly states that “users can opt-out from appearing in so-called Social Ads”.“Facebook’s latest press release (entitled “Setting the record straight”) attributes statements to us that we simply did not make,” said authors of the study Brendan Van Alsenoy from the ICRI and Günes Acar from Cosic.Cookies, tracking and web impressionsFacebook also disputed some of the terms the authors of the report use, such as their definition of “tracking”.“Facebook does receive standard ‘web impressions’, or website visit information, when people visit sites with our plugins or other integrations. The authors misleadingly call this ‘tracking’,” said Allan. “Unlike many companies, we explain how we will use this information and the controls we honour and offer.”Allan also wrote that Facebook is transparent about Facebook’s use of cookies for security, personalisation and ads.“Cookies tell us when people are logged into Facebook. That’s why you don’t have to enter your name and password every time you visit, and so we can alert you in case someone else is trying to log in as you from an unknown computer,” said Allan.But he also reinforced the point that “Facebook is offered free of charge, and we do that by showing ads we think are relevant to people’s interests”, which is also the funding method used to support many other services including those from Google, Microsoft, Yahoo and media organisations.The Belgian Privacy Commission is expected to decide whether to act on the report on 29 April.Facebook is under increasing pressure outside of Ireland, where the company is headquartered and regulated by the Irish data protection authority. A task force of data regulators from Belgium, France, Spain and Italy has been set up to look at Facebook’s privacy practices, while the Flemish, Dutch and European parliaments have also called for closer looks at the company.“We deliberately chose to open up our findings to public scrutiny so that anyone can check our sources and methodology. People who are interested can compare the ‘claims’ Facebook attributes to our report with its actual contents. We still remain open to additional comments and suggestions, including from Facebook, in relation to our actual findings,” said the authors of the report.•Class action privacy lawsuit filed against Facebook in Austria•Leave Facebook if you don’t want to be spied on, warns EU
It’s Friday!
Independent music labels are increasingly willing to speak out about digital music and what it means for their artists and businesses.From complaining about YouTube’s contracts to giving their views on streaming services like Spotify, indies are ensuring that their views are heard in the main music industry debates.Which is why a day at the Music Connected conference in London was a good chance to take the independent pulse on a number of digital issues.Organised by trade body AIM, it brought together labels, digital distributors and industry experts to talk about streaming, social media, piracy and other topics. Here are some of the more notable discussion points.1. Indie labels want to make the best of streamingIn 2015, some major labels are rumbling about whether Spotify should restrict or even remove its free, ad-supported streaming tier. Among the independents on stage at Music Connected, though, there was a more pragmatic consensus.“Technology is what’s moved people away from owning and into as easy access to music as possible. You can’t fight technology, we just have to find as many ways of getting people onto that boat as possible,” said Nicolas Rizzi from distributor The Orchard, who defended the free tiers of companies like Spotify.“Obviously the revenues are nowhere near what we see from subscription tiers, but it’s all about getting to the customer, and in many cases, the free tier is the only way of getting to that customer,” he said.“We just have to make the best of it… It’s about getting as many people to listen as possible, as that will lead to many other aspects of spending.”One positive point: indie labels say they are punching above their traditional weight on streaming services – their market share of streams is higher than their market share of sales.“As indies we over-index on streaming, and within streaming we over-index on premium, because the type of music we’re releasing will appeal to early adopters,” said Gerald Youna of Beggars Group.SoundCloud is sharing advertising revenues with some artists.2. Labels are more cautious about SoundCloudA lot of independent artists put new music up on SoundCloud, even though – unless they’re part of its recently-launched advertising program – they won’t get paid for streams of those tracks.Why? Because they like the site and its community and see it as a way to build their audience, and/or because they appreciate the analytics they get back on where their fans are, which helps to plan touring.It was interesting to hear notes of caution from labels at Music Connected though, who are thinking hard about the comparison between SoundCloud and services like Spotify whichdopay royalties.“If you’re a brand new band with no fans yet, and you start promoting on SoundCloud it’s going to be very hard to migrate those fans over to Spotify and the other licensed services,” said Youna.“If you start fresh with a band, and management are ‘we just wanna be on SoundCloud because it’s cooler and it’s where our fans are’ that’s definitely not the way forward.”Others were more positive, with caveats. Leon Grant Bussinger from Warp Records stressed that his label appreciates the role SoundCloud plays for its artists, but pointed to the importance of parity with other services.“Immediately when we put something on SoundCloud, we put it on every other licensed streaming service too,” he said. “After a while, SoundCloud streams taper off and Spotify streams start to overtake them. And this is a good thing.”3. YouTube still more of a help than a hindranceIndie labels fell out with YouTube in a big way in 2014 over the terms of the contract for its YouTube Music Key service, but particularly when you talk to digital executives from labels, they still see its value.“It’s more of a help than any kind of hindrance. We’re exposed to far more audience than we would be on any other platform. It’s the largest streaming music service in the world, so it’s obviously a help,” said Bussinger.Rizzi noted that The Orchard has a team of more than 20 people dealing with YouTube on behalf of its label clients, so it plays an important role. But he admitted: “There is a problem there for sure: the fact that the audience on YouTube is so huge, compared to the revenues. And taking people away from other services, that is a problem”.That referred to the concern that YouTube is possibly making a paid subscription to services like Spotify less appealing. “We just have to tread carefully and find he right balance between our efforts on YouTube and on other places.”Madonna has been trying out a series of social apps to connect with fans.4. Madonna on Meerkat? That’s ‘ridiculous’In 2015, Madonna has already popped up promoting her new album on Instagram, Snapchat, Grindr and Meerkat, in a campaign that’s trying to reach old fans and new on the social apps that they might be using.But is she trying too hard? Perhaps unsurprisingly, a panel of indie marketing experts were unimpressed. “When Madonna goes on Meerkat it’s just ridiculous,” said consultant Angie Somerside, who was backed up by David Emery of Kobalt Label Services.“With that case you can see the meeting: ‘Right, we want to get our demographics down. We want to get on Radio 1! Right, where are they? They’re on Snapchat. I’ve heard about this thing called ‘Meerkat’… It’s the tail wagging the dog, very much so,” he said.Somerside said that marketers working for artists shouldn’t get sucked in to trying to make fans install the latest buzzy app in order to connect with them. “A lot of that is bad advice. It’s the behaviour that dictates what works, not the technology,” she said.“The kids decide whether they want to be on Vine or WhatsApp. No one knew that Twitter would do what it did. The kids dictate it with their behaviour: you can’t make people do things now.”5. Is Thom Yorke the King Cnut [sic?] of digital music?Indie labels weren’t criticising Thom Yorke at Music Connected, but industry consultant Mark Mulligan had some thoughts on the musician’s opposition to Spotify, comparing him to King Cnut trying to beat back the rising tide of streaming.“The tide is coming in … and if he stands there resisting, he’s going to get washed away,” said Mulligan. A bit unfair, given that with In Rainbows’ pay-what-you-like release and the BitTorrent bundle for his last solo album Tomorrow’s Modern Boxes, Yorke has done more than most artists to experiment with new forms of digital distribution.“Things do change, they do change really quickly. The transformation can be utterly pervasive, yet we all find ways to survive if we’re willing to find ways to work with this change,” maintained Mulligan. “There are two ways you can face change: one, ‘I need to rethink the way I do everything’, and two, ‘Crap, I don’t want this to happen’.”Spotify playlists are an increasingly influential music discovery tool.6. Watch out for playlist payolaPlaylists are an important new currency on streaming services, from those created by fans that have picked up hundreds of thousands of followers, to the ones curated by labels, and the ones on Spotify’s homepage created by its own editorial team.Getting songs on to popular playlists is increasingly important to labels, but there may be potential for shenanigans.Some indie labels worry that major labels will start putting more pressure on Spotify to include more of their songs, while others note that some independent creators of popular playlists are hoping to charge money to add tracks – in the same way that some YouTube gamers have started charging developers to put their games in a video.“We’ve been asked for money. They seem to think that they can make money from it. It seems clear to me that someone’s been paying them money, otherwise they wouldn’t be so confident that they can charge,” said Will Cooper of PIAS, during a panel on playlists. “It’s not a surprise. Clearly payola worked well in American radio, so why wouldn’t it work well on Spotify?”Spotify’s Chris Stoneman agreed: “It’s certainly something we’ve heard is happening, people asking for money.” But he warned against it, saying that people follow a playlist “because it’s good: people aren’t going to follow a playlist that is throwing tracks in because it gets money.”7. Indie labels should come together with their own playlist brandEach of the three major labels has its own team creating playlists on Spotify, complete with their own consumer brands: Digster for Universal Music, Filtr for Sony Music and Topsify for Warner Music. They curate and promote these playlists, including adding songs from rivals, but also as a way to promote new tracks from their own artists.For now, there isn’t anything comparable for the indie sector, although a number of labels run their own playlists. One idea floated during Music Connected was for someone to take on the role of creating a bigger, indie-focused playlist brand to compete with Digster, Filtr and Topsify.“It just makes sense,” said Sammy Andrews of Cooking Vinyl. “It kind of seems mad to me that no organisation has stood up yet and said ‘let’s do this’. We’re represented with [independent record] stores, but we should be represented with playlists too.”“There is definitely a gap in the market for an independent playlist curator, on Spotify at least,” added Spotify’s Chris Stoneman. The challenge is finding someone willing to get the backing of the industry – and then to manage the process of soliciting and choosing tracks from the huge number of independent labels.8. Sometimes Instagram is the best way to promote musicOne of the most interesting sessions at the conference came from Sarah Gasperi of label Mute, talking about the digital marketing for the last album by Liars: Mess On A Mission. Rather than Facebook or Twitter, the campaign was driven by Instagram.“We decided to make it the centre of that campaign,” she said, pointing out that as a band, Liars are very big on communicating visually, not just through music or written content.“We could clearly see that Facebook and Twitter were not the platforms that were fitting the band. The way they were using them was quite sparse: not always regular… Instagram was really the heart of that campaign: and the start of any engagement and interactive effort that we put together.”That included 15-second teaser videos posted to Instagram then shared elsewhere, and a contest for fans to pose with a limited-edition 12” released for Record Store Day, as creatively as possible. “All the teasers were 15 seconds, and all the visuals were striking and unique, and posted on Instagram then spread around.”9. Mailing lists are important – even if Radio 1 doesn’t think soPretty much every musician has a mailing list, but the topic is rarely the subject of excitable discussion at music industry conferences. Not because they’re inefficient ways to market music, though.“Every time we work with clients who have large email lists, you can see that they drive a hell of a lot of sales,” said Darren Hemmings of digital marketing agency Motive Unknown, which works with bands like Drenge.Hemmings suggested that labels sometimes put more focus on social networks and other services with public figures, so they can impress radio bosses enough to playlist their tracks.“It drives me nuts that labels just won’t focus on it, because they will choose to focus on publicly viewable metrics so that George [Ergatoudis – head of music] and co at Radio 1 will look at this and feel this is the thing that will go on the playlist,” he said.Judge Jules at AIM’s Music Connected conference.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the Guardian10. Judge Jules wants more to be done to tackle piracyJudge Jules made his name as a DJ, before retraining as a lawyer – he nowworks at London firm Sheridans. He had some more caution about streaming service SoundCloud during a panel on piracy.“SoundCloud is the great trapdoor for artists’ material appearing on torrent and illegal download sites. It’s something that needs to be treated with exceptional caution when you’re an artist and a label,” he said.“It’s a numbers game: most of the pirates will just look at SoundCloud and scrape everything, whether it’s demos, whether it’s DJ mixes. And there’s automated software that will make that appear on these sites, and then on Google.”He called for industry bodies like the BPI to lobby even harder for government action to help crack down on piracy sites. “The targets have to be web hosts surely. there has to be a quicker way to deal with web hosts and get a blocking order that day,” he said.Jules also warned that if Spotify is forced to remove or restrict its freemium tier, piracy may be the beneficiary. “The more freemium there is, the less the demand for illegal downloading there will be.”
1. PocketIf you often find yourself stumbling across articles online that you don’t always have time to read then you should consider installing Pocket, a simple but powerful extension that allows you to save, favourite and bookmark articles - as well as videos and images - at the click of a button. You can then access this content at a later date by heading to the Pocket website or downloading an additional app on your phone or tablet. This is a great way to catch up with longreads if you commute a lot or if you tend to get bored when you’re on the loo.2. AdBlock PlusAdBlock Plus does exactly what it says on the tin - it blocks annoying adverts online. This includes large banners, pop-ups and those skippable but frustrating adverts at the beginning of YouTube videos. There are lots of alternatives out there, but this is based on one of the originals, AdBlock (which rather confusingly was not created by the same people behind AdBlock Plus) and is still being updated and maintained. While blocking adverts can remove many eyesores and annoyances from your favourite sites, try to be reasonable with this extension. Many websites depend on ad revenue to exist. Consider whitelisting the little guys.3. ProxmateProxMate is an extension that allows you to view content online that may be blocked in your country. The extension does this by using a proxy server, which in very basic terms tricks whatever website you’re viewing into thinking you’re accessing the site from another location, therefore potentially unlocking region-locked content. The legality of accessing region-locked content in the UK, however, is difficult to pin down and depends on what content you are trying to access and for what reason. You should always check you’re not breaking any laws or terms of service agreements before using this extension.4. GhosteryYou are almost always being tracked online. Most of the time the tracking is harmless and implemented for your convenience - for instance, a website may wish to track what kind of content you enjoy viewing the most in order to push more appropriate suggestion your way with each new visit. However, this tracking can sometimes become too intrusive and a little creepy. Ghostery allows you to keep track of the trackers, providing you with the power to blacklist those you deem unnecessary and whitelist those you deem helpful - essentially it puts some of the control back in your hands and that’s always a good thing.5. Reddit Enhancement SuiteIf you use Reddit even semi-regularly, you’ll wonder how you got by without this extension. Reddit Enhancement Suite, also known as RES, streamlines your Reddit experience and provides advanced controls that would otherwise be unavailable to regular users of the website. For example, some of the features include switching accounts on the fly, tweaking the overall style of Reddit, saving comments, tagging users and much, much more. With a thriving community and regular updates and improvements, RES is a must-have for almost all users of Reddit.6. Google DictionaryDouble click any word in your browser with Google Dictionary installed and a full definition of that word will pop up in a small box directly above it. For some words there’s also a button in the window that, when clicked, plays a recording of the correct pronunciation through your speakers. Click ‘More’ at the bottom and you’re provided with translations, word origin, more definitions and even a graph displaying the history of the popularity of your chosen word over the last 200 years. You can also use the extension like a regular dictionary by clicking the small book icon in the top right of your browser and searching for a specific word.7. Click&amp;CleanClick&amp;Clean is a little extension that does a lot. Primarily, Click&amp;Clean is meant to defend your privacy online by deleting some of the local traces of your internet activity. It’s also great at clearing away a lot of the junk that your browser accumulates over time and at protecting your system from some malware. With a single click you can delete your typed URLS, scan your PC for malware, delete your browsing history, remove download history, erase temporary files, clear cookies and empty cache, delete client-side Web SQL databases and remove flash cookies. You can also instruct the extension to delete all of these variables every time you close your browser - although we’d only recommend this for people who are exceptionally worried about privacy.8. LastPassLastPass is one of the more popular password managers available right now. Once setup, it can encrypt, generate and remember your passwords for you. Part of the reason for its success is its ease of use. The extension sits in your browser window and will ‘autologin to your sites and sync your passwords everywhere you need them.’ What’s more, it’s cross-platform, which means it not only works on most browsers, but most of the popular operating systems too. If you’re even a little worried about how secure you password is, it’s well worth giving this extension a go, although if you want to make use of all the features you will need to pay a small fee.9. BufferThe Buffer extension provides a hassle free way of sharing content across Twitter, Facebook and other social media platforms. With a single click you can share a webpage, image, video or thought on your social media platform of choice and schedule it to publish at a specific time. For example, if you’re keen for lots of people to see one particular post, then you might want to publish first thing in the morning or at lunch time. This is really useful if you’re a night owl and want to share content when more people are likely to see it, or if you know you’ll be busy on a particular day but still wish to remain active online. Furthermore, the extension works with additional features found only on the Buffer website, so if you head to bufferapp.com, you can do fancy things like monitor the analytics behind your posts.10. AlienTubeIf you use Reddit a lot, you’ll often click on links to YouTube videos. Unfortunately, the comments below these videos can frequently be petty, pointless, irrelevant or offensive. This can become tedious. Reddit, however, usually has more to offer and is regularly praised for its comments thanks largely to its effective, simple voting system and vast community. AlienTube takes the comments from Reddit and puts them under YouTube videos. This generally makes the comments less infuriating and occasionally educational or funny.11. Hide YouTube CommentsIf Reddit comments annoy you as much as YouTube comments, then you don’t have to have anything displayed at all - just install the Hide YouTube Comments extension and they’ll all disappear. An almost identical extension for Firefox is also available called No YouTube Comments. An additional extension worth trying out is called Hide Fedora. This doesn’t hide all YouTube comments, rather, it hides the troll comments that seem to be trending right now that often contain the phrases “le reddit”, “fedora”, “m’lady”, etc.12. The GuardianIf you’re reading this then you probably quite like the Guardian - but did you know there’s a Guardian extension? Once installed, a small Guardian icon will rest in the top right-hand corner of your browser. This icon will alert you when new articles have been published in your favourite sections of the Guardian, which can be changed in the settings menu. If the Guardian is your main source of news and you’re a regular visitor, then this is a great extension to have. Otherwise, you’re better off with a more extensive feed reader, like Feedly.13. FeedlyMiniFeedly is a popular news aggregator that allows you to gather news feeds from different sources into one place. Download the FeedlyMini extension and adding feeds to Feedly becomes a lot easier and more efficient. After you’ve installed FeedlyMini, you’ll notice a small Feedly icon in the lower right corner of your browser. Click on it and you will be presented with several different options, such as adding the website you’re currently on to Feedly, saving to EverNote, tagging, bookmarking or sharing the site on social media. If there are some webpages where Feedly will be irrelevant or in the way (such as Netflix, for example), you can blacklist them, preventing the icon from appearing.14. PanicButtonEver been caught looking at something you shouldn’t? PanicButton will help you to avoid these embarrassing moments and what’s more, it’s wonderfully simple. Once installed, a big red exclamation mark will be present in the top right corner of your browser. Click the exclamation mark, or the ‘panic button’, during moments of distress and your tabs will be saved as bookmarks in a separate folder and shut down - all in the blink of an eye. The only thing left on your screen will be a blank tab. Click the panic button again and everything will be restored. You can bind the panic button to a specific key should you prefer.15. HTTPS EverywhereHypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) is the encrypted version of HTTP, the technology protocol which determines how web servers and browsers respond to commands and how messages are sent and received. The Electronic Frontier Foundation’s (EFF) - a nonprofit organisation that seeks to defend civil liberties in the digital world - HTTPS Everywhere is a neat little extension that forces websites to use HTTPS, even when they default to the less secure and unencrypted HTTP.16. The Great SuspenderIf you have a lot of tabs open at the same time for an extended period, you will know that your browser can become very sluggish. This sluggishness is usually caused by small memory leaks. The Great Suspender is an extension that tries to solve your browser’s sluggishness by turning off or ‘suspending’ all of the tabs you’re not using, therefore reducing your browser’s memory footprint. The extension is pleasingly configurable - you can tell it to auto suspend tabs after a certain amount of time or manually suspend them yourself. You can even whitelist some tabs while keeping auto suspension turned on. This is only available on Chrome, but Suspend Tab is a good Firefox alternative.17. PushbulletPushbullet pushes all of the notifications you receive on your phone, to your PC. This includes, but is not limited to, phone calls, texts and WhatsApp messages. Very useful if you don’t want to be glancing down at your phone throughout the day. What’s perhaps even more useful is the ability to send text, URLs, images and screenshots from your PC to your mobile device. Prior to using Pushbullet, I had to email myself a long URL if I was initially viewing it on my PC and wished to open it on my phone. This was a faff and long winded - Pushbullet solves the issue.18. Turn off the lightsA handy little extension if you watch a lot of videos, Turn off the Lights will dim everything on your screen with the exception of the video itself at the click of a button located within your URL bar. This should give you a slightly more comfortable viewing experience, perhaps causing less strain on your eyes. If you’ve ever used BBC’s iPlayer in a web browser, you’ll be familiar with the effect. The extension works for just about every video site out there, including YouTube, Vimeo, Dailymotion, Hulu, Metacafe and YouKu.19. Lazarus: Form RecoverySo you’ve spent the last 45 minutes filling out a form online and you click ‘Submit’ only for the webpage to crash. What do you do? If you’ve installed the Lazarus Form Recovery extension, you sit back and activate smug mode as you effortlessly recover your hard work. Lazarus allows you to do this by autosaving everything you type when filling out forms. Now, whenever a website times out or inexplicably disappears, you’re only ever a few clicks away from reinserting the text that was in your original copy.20. Hover ZoomHover Zoom is another one of those extensions that doesn’t do very much, but after using it for a few weeks, you’ll wonder why it’s not implemented in all modern browsers by default. Once installed, just hover your cursor over any thumbnail image you come across online, and Hover Zoom will zoom in on the picture without navigating away from the page. This is really handy for popular websites like Reddit, which is littered with images, or Deviantart, where you can view endless galleries of amateur and professional artists. This is a Chrome extension, but a good FIrefox alternative is Thumbnail Zoom Plus.21. Cloud to buttThe cloud is big. The cloud is important. The cloud is everywhere. But what if you’re sick of the cloud? The answer is to install Cloud to Butt, an extension that will change all instances of ‘cloud’ to ‘butt’ so you’ll never have to read about the cloud again. For example, ‘Google drops a log into its cloud’ now becomes ‘Google drops a log into its butt’ and ‘Cloud security: A quick guide’ becomes ‘Butt security: A quick guide’. This does not get old. Ever.
PERISCOPEiOS, freePeriscope is a new video app from Twitter, but while its other Vine app is about sharing six-second looping clips, Periscope is about broadcasting live video from your smartphone to any of your Twitter followers interested enough to tune in.STAR WALK 2iOS, £2.99/Android £1.96If you’re planning on getting out at night to gaze at the sky, Star Walk 2 is an excellent app to take with you. It’s a stargazing app that identifies constellations, planets and satellites as you point your smartphone or tablet at them.BEATPORTiOS/Android, freeMany fans of dance music will already know Beatport as an iTunes-style music downloads store, but now it’s venturing into Spotify-like streaming too. Its app offers a great introduction – or a chance to dig deep – into electronic music of all kinds.NUZZELiOS/Android, freeNuzzel is one of the apps hoping to help aggregate your social network feeds, pulling in updates from Twitter and Facebook friends so you can browse them from a single app.LAYOUTiOS, freeFacebook’s photo and video-sharing service Instagram has a new standalone app, Layout, which helps you make collages of multiple photos to share on both its parents. It’s simple to use: you choose your shots, then decide on a layout from several choices.OFFICE LENSiOS/Android/Windows Phone, freeMicrosoft’s latest app lets you take photos of documents and whiteboards, then cleans up the images and translates them into editable Word, PowerPoint or PDF files. Great for following up brainstorming sessions.RIFFiOS/Android, freeThis standalone social app from Facebook lets you create videos with friends, and friends of friends, sharing 20-second clips that are combined into a single video.THE EDITiOS/Android, freeOnce upon a time, experts wondered whether many people would shop on a computer, let alone a mobile phone. The Edit is the latest slick shopping app proving those early doubters wrong: you browse clothes, shoes and jewellery, swiping the products you like to save them.SHAUN IN THE CITY – SHEEP SPOTTERiOS/Android, £1.49With Shaun the Sheep having been a cinema hit, here’s a way for children to get out to explore London with the help of Aardman Animation’s lovable character. Fifty statues of Shaun decorated by artists are scattered around the capital, and this app helps find them.SNOW WHITEiOS, £3.99British publisher Nosy Crow has made a succession of beautiful fairytale apps for kids, with Snow White the latest. All the classic elements are here – dwarves included – with playful interactivity that never distracts children from reading the story.STICK CRICKET 2iOS/Android, freeWith summer on the horizon, how about a game of mobile cricket? Stick Cricket 2 focuses on batting, as you slog and swipe your way through a succession of challenges against progressively better bowlers. Be warned: it’s very addictive, indeed.SILLY SAUSAGE IN MEAT LANDiOS/Android, freeThe silliest title in this month’s roundup, but one of the best mobile games of 2015 so far: a well-designed adventure starring a stretchy dog and a cast of colourful characters. There are elements of classic game Snake here, but with more puzzles and traps.ATTACK THE LIGHT – STEVEN UNIVERSE LIGHT RPGiOS £2.29/Android £2.42Steven Universe is a popular show on Cartoon Network and now it’s got its own game. Attack the Light is far more than just a branded tie-in: it’s a playable, accessible role-playing game in its own right, worth trying even if you haven’t seen the show.THE TRACE: MURDER MYSTERY GAMEiOS, £3.99You can’t beat a proper hard-boiled detective yarn, and The Trace is exactly that but in interactive form. Your job is to solve a murder, getting hands-on with forensics and making deductions as you explore the scene. You’ll be quickly drawn into the story.ANGRY BIRDS STELLA POP!iOS/Android, freeThe latest Angry Birds game is the latest departure from the series classic horizontal bird-flinging action. It’s a Puzzle Bobble-style bubble-popping game, as you fire coloured bubbles at other coloured bubbles to make matches and destroy them. It’s fun.FAST &amp; FURIOUS: LEGACYiOS/Android, freeAs the latest Fast &amp; Furious film screeches into cinemas, here’s an official game from developer Kabam. It’s a very polished racer, fuelled by in-app purchases, that sees you customising an array of cars then taking to the road for high-octane races.RYAN NORTH’S TO BE OR NOT TO BEiOS/Android, £4.49Who said mobile games couldn’t be literature? This game jokily claims to restore Shakespeare’s Hamlet to “its original second-person non-linear branching narrative format”, with a narrative adventure that’s packed with sly wit.FINAL FANTASY RECORD KEEPERiOS/Android, freemiumIf you’re a fan of the Final Fantasy RPG series, you’ll love this: a game that collects together some of the best bits from Final Fantasies down the years. It’s the equivalent of a greatest hits music album, providing a nostalgic fix for fans.DUNGEON HUNTER 5iOS/Android/Windows Phone, freemiumMore fantasy action here with the fifth in Gameloft’s Dungeon Hunter series of mobile games. It’s a great-looking dungeon-crawler with plenty of monsters and treasure to discover, and a freemium structure that nudges you to pay quite often.STAR WARS REBELS: RECON MISSIONSiOS/Android/Windows Phone, freemiumWhile fans wait for the next Star Wars film, animated TV show Star Wars Rebels has been telling some more tales from its universe. This game is a polished platform adventure with plenty of familiar sights, from TIE Fighters to stormtroopers.
Warner Bros has confirmed that its next Lego video game will be called Lego Dimensions and allow players to place real minifigs and blocks onto a special sensor pad so that they appear in the onscreen action.The game will feature multiple entertainment licenses, most of which have already featured in the best-selling Lego series of action adventure titles. Minifigs of Batman, Gandalf and Lego Movie hero Wyldstyle will all be included in the initial package, which will also feature the Lego Toy Pad and a collection of bricks that can be constructed into a “gateway” model that affixes to the pad.The game will involve Lego characters teaming up to defeat an evil antagonist, Lord Vortech. The gameplay will resemble previous titles in the series, with a platforming style action and puzzles. Environments will take in elements of the various licensed brands, with expansion packs, including Wizard of Oz and Back to the Future, coming later. Players will then be able to reconfigure the figures and model packs to customise the experience.“When kids play with Lego bricks, they build beyond the singular brands, intermixing all of their favourite characters and universes, and we have come up with a way for players to experience that in games,” said Jon Burton, creative director of developer, TT Games, in a press release. “Now for the first time in a videogame, Lego fans can play in the virtual world and in the real world – combining everything without restrictions.”“Imagine putting Lego Gollum from The Lord of the Rings behind the wheel of the Lego Delorean in New Ninjago City – the creative play is endless.”The project has been rumoured for several weeks, and news about the launch was leaked on Reddit on Thursday morning. Warner Bros quickly moved to confirm the release.Lego Dimensions will only be the latest competitor to enter the profitable “toys-to-life” video game genre, in which physical character models interact with onscreen action via a dedicated peripheral that used near-field communication technology to transmit data. Activision essentially created the sector with its billion-dollar Skylanders series, followed later by Disney Infinity. Nintendo, too, has its range of Amiibo figures which interact with a selection of Wii U titles.The toys-to-life concept is popular among game publishers because it provides two revenue streams: the games themselves and the collectible characters and playsets that go with them. Skylanders now features four main games and over 100 character models.Lego of course is the first brand to enter the market with an already established line of toys and sets, and the new block-building element to the Dimensions gameplay aligns with the creativity of the toys. Previous Lego titles sometimes offered level design editors, but rarely featured creative model making.Lego Dimensions is set for release on 29 September in Europe (27 September in the US) for Xbox 360, Xbox One, PS3, PS4 and Wii U.
In February of this year, Charles Barkley, once a US National Basketball Association (NBA) star and now an analyst on TV programme Inside the NBA, said about his mindset whilst a player:“I always believed analytics was crap.”On the face of it this is a pretty strange comment for an analyst to make. But if you look a little closer at the world of sports, the wider stakeholders stand to benefit as much, if not more, from analytics than the players themselves. With the current data revolution happening in sport, clubs, event organisers and sponsors are even more attuned to the transformative possibilities wrapped up in analytics. But who really has the most to gain?How technology changes the gameThe unveiling of theelectronic scoreboard at Yankee Stadium in New York in the 1950’s; the introduction of theWilson T2000 chrome tubular steel tennis racquetin 1968; the arrival of theCyclops electronic line judge at Wimbledon in 1980; the ubiquity of lightweight video cameras from the 1980s onwards, making it possible to record, playback, measure and broadcast live sporting events on television and now online. Every one of these developments was driven by the same factors - a combination of looking for every advantage possible to win games and looking for new ways to increase fan loyalty, grow audiences and make money.More recently, whentechnology originally developed for missile trackingarrived in US basketball in 2012, data gathering possibilities soared. Now it was possible to really track players, measuring anything from speed to leaping ability to touches of the ball. Player Position Tracking (PPT) is making inroads into sport for good reasons. It offers new ways for the media to enhance what they deliver to consumers and it enables clubs to up their analysis game, making decision based on facts.As far as Johan Apel, CEO ofChyronHego- global leaders in broadcast graphics creation, playout, and real-time data visualisation - is concerned, there’s no question that technology is changing the world: “Tracking technologies enable fantastic media products to be created but, probably more importantly, help athletes achieve even higher performance levels.”The business of sport and technologyThe good news is, managers and fans alike appear to be addicted to data. So, the opportunity to collect more will inevitably make sports more compelling for fans and attract larger audiences. The opportunities for brands, if they can get the fit right, is enormous.Watch brand Tissot’s sponsorship of theInternational Basketball Federation(FIBA) since 2008 is a great example of a good fit. Tissot is part of Swatch group, which also includes Swiss Timing, specialists in timing, scoring, data handling and broadcast solutions to major global sports events.Tissot has partnered with FIBA since 2008. According to the brand’s website “the alliance with such an international sport as basketball underlines the brand’s dynamic nature and its values of precision and performance.”Intelligent sponsorship by technology providers offers great opportunities to deliver high quality data and enhance the experience of an event. Partnering with the right sponsor could mean not having to invest in building systems, saving time and money. If the technology provider has experience of other sports there’s the possibility to leverage an enormous amount of expertise.But there are a number of potential dangers.Clubs may find themselves bound to the standard services and technology in a sponsor’s portfolio or that of a subsidiary, which has the potential to hamper innovation. Other clubs could have more flexibility to adapt to newer systems and give themselves a competitive edge in more ways than one.Given the mania for gathering data, sponsors could want to collect and own fan data for their own marketing purposes, risking weakening of loyalty and credibility for clubs.The answer for teams and event organisers has to be to partner with brands and technology providers with a commitment to being transparent and acting ethically.The futureIn late 2014, US basketball team the Philadelphia 76ers debuted what their website described as a“new, state-of-the-art court projection system”. It was bright and colourful but nothing else. This embodies the dilemma of technology in sport: how can it be used to really add value and not just be hi-tech window dressing?This is where intelligent sponsorship in a world of complex brand alignment really can make a difference. As Professor Steve Haake, director of theCentre for Sports Engineering Researchat Sheffield Hallam University, says: “Sport has adopted technology rapidly over the last ten years, collecting data to improve athletic performance. Now, professional clubs have realised that this data is valuable in other ways too, to make the match-day experience more exciting and to reach those at home, not even at the game. This is the current revolution in sport.”How to really unlock data value is the challenge clubs and brands sports are wrestling with.Wolfram Klug is a sport business technologist, former business &amp; technology director at international basketball federation FIBA, and CEO of the sport organisation consultantsDigital SportTheCreative Data hubis funded byAccenture. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled ‘Brought to you by Accenture’. Find out morehere.
Samsung won’t be able to keep up with unexpectedly high demand for its new curved screen Galaxy S6 Edge smartphone, the company has admitted.Head of mobile JK Shin told press on Thursday that because the curved screens of the S6 Edge, which roll over the left and right sides of the smartphones, are difficult to manufacture the Korean firm won’t be able to keep up with demand for the model in the near term.Samsung released the curved smartphone as higher-priced twin to the regular flat-screened Galaxy S6, which was expected to be the dominant model of the two. But higher than expected levels of pre-orders at some UK retailers and mobile phone operators are running at a 60/40 split between the S6 Edge and the regular S6, according to multiple sources talking to the Guardian.“Some carriers are switching existing orders to get more of the S6 Edge, and it looks like demand for the model will exceed supply throughout this year,” said HMC Investment analyst Greg Roh. “That means average selling price will fall at a slower rate, which will have a positive impact on Samsung overall.”The Galaxy S6, which ships in 20 countries starting 10 April, is expected to set a sales record for Samsung’s Galaxy series of smartphones, said Lee Sang-chul, head of mobile marketing at the company, although he did not release figures for the current record of handset sales.Nomura analysts estimated that Samsung sold 80m Galaxy S3s in three years from its 2012 launch, and 43m S4s from the model’s April 2013 introduction to the end of that year. Some analysts say Samsung could ship 50m or more S6 phones this year. For comparison, Samsung’s chief rival Apple shipped 74.5m iPhones, of which it sells four models, in the last quarter of 2014 according to data from research firm Strategy Analytics.Samsung’s Shin also said the South Korean electronics maker is preparing a variety of wearable devices, including a new version of its Gear smartwatch, but did not give specifics. Apple’s first wearable device is due to roll out its 24 April, with pre-orders starting on 10 April.•Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge review: curves for pleasure, not function
A class action lawsuit over alleged breaches of EU privacy law, mass surveillance and involvement in the NSA’s Prism snooping programme has been filed against Facebook in Vienna.The lawsuit, which was officially filed in a Vienna court on Thursday, is being spearheaded by 27-year-old Austrian law graduate and privacy campaigner Max Schrems.The closely-watched case sees 25,000 users suing the social network for various rights violations, ranging from the “illegal” tracking of their data under EU law to Facebook’s involvement with the US National Security Agency.Each of the plaintiffs is claiming a “token amount” of €500 (£392) in damages, while a further 55,000 users have registered to join the procedures at a later stage.“Basically we are asking Facebook to stop mass surveillance, to (have) a proper privacy policy that people can understand, but also to stop collecting data of people that are not even Facebook users,” said Schrems.The case has been brought against Facebook’s European headquarters in Dublin, which registers all accounts outside the US and Canada, accounting for approximately 80% of Facebook’s 1.35 billion users.Schrems was able to file his action against the Irish subsidiary in a civil court in Vienna because he claims Facebook is in breach of European law on users’ data.Among other issues, judges will have to rule on Facebook’s objection that the class action is inadmissible under Austrian law – an objection dismissed by Schrems’ lawyer as lacking “any substance”.Schrems is alsofightingto stop the US security services from gaining access to his personal data held by Facebook and other US technology firms. His case, which has been crowdfunded, is currently being heard in the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, Europe’s highest court.Facebook declined to comment.•Data privacy: the tide is turning in Europe – but is it too little, too late?•Leave Facebook if you don’t want to be spied on, warns EU
What can you recommend instead of TrueCrypt, which I use for encrypting passwords and personal data. I use the File Container approach, which is all I need and is easy to use. I haven’t encrypted a complete hard drive.Microsoft offers BitLocker but that’s only available with the Enterprise and Ultimate versions of Windows 7, and it looks as though I need a Trusted Platform Module (TPM) chip, which my old motherboards don’t have.ChrisTrueCrypt was the most popular encryption program for Windows PCs but, as you know, it closed down last year under very odd circumstances. The unknown developers decided to quit, and changed their home page to say: “WARNING: Using TrueCrypt is not secure as it may contain unfixed security issues.” The page then explained how to switch to Microsoft’s BitLocker.This came just after Edward Snowden’s revelations, so there was a lot of speculation about backdoors, US government pressure, and so on. Even today, nobody outside TrueCrypt knows what happened.However, the TrueCrypt code has now been audited by the independentNCC Group, using crowdsourced funds. On 2 April, Matthew Green, research professor at Johns Hopkins University,reportedthat “based on this audit, TrueCrypt appears to be a relatively well-designed piece of crypto software. The NCC audit found no evidence of deliberate backdoors, or any severe design flaws that will make the software insecure in most instances.”The audit identified some glitches, but the Windows code is sound. There doesn’t appear to be an urgent need for anyone to stop using TrueCrypt. If you were starting from scratch, I wouldn’t recommend it, but I think you can continue to use it until you find a good replacement.Some other developers are continuing TrueCrypt’s development under different names.VeraCryptis one example. I’m not sure this is allowed by TrueCypt’s license, but the original programmers would probably have to reveal their identities to bring a lawsuit.At the moment, VeraCrypt has some momentum, but we don’t know which of the forks will find widespread support. When one does, be ready to switch.On the other hand, you don’t seem to be using any of the functions that made TrueCrypt popular, so you could easily switch now.Why TrueCrypt?TrueCrypt’s main appeal was that its encrypted “virtual drives” (container files) were cross-platform, and could be used with Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X and Linux. This made it handy for dispersed groups of developers with different hardware.TrueCrypt also let you create a container file on a USB thumbdrive and plug it into a Windows PC, Mac or Linux box. Off-hand, I can’t think of another free way of doing this, though for Windows 7/8 users,Rohos Mini Drivewill create a hidden encrypted partition on a thumbdrive.Another important feature was TrueCrypt’s ability to create “hidden volumes”. For example, you could have some fairly valuable data in a container while hiding much more valuable data. If government agents forced you to hand over your password, they would get the fairly valuable data but not all of it. (For this idea to work, you have to give up something worth encrypting, not cat videos.)TrueCrypt could also encrypt whole hard drives. This feature can be replaced by Microsoft’s BitLocker in Windows and Apple’s FileVault in Mac OS X, plusCryptsetupin Linux, perhaps. (Cryptsetup installs on a LUKS or Linux Unified Key Setup partition.)However, Windows 8 and Windows 10 preview users should not use TrueCrypt, VeraCrypt and similar products to encrypt their whole hard drive. It could interfere with the UEFI Secure Boot system, leaving these PCs unable to start.If you were using all TrueCrypt’s features, then replacing it might be a challenge. But you’re only using it to protect a few files in Windows. There are dozens of ways to do this, includingAxCrypt,CipherShed, PGP (Pretty Good Privacy) viaGNU Privacy Guard(GnuPG has a more accessible graphical interface), and your old archiving program.Archive filesBack in the 1980s, most people started to use file compression programs likePK-Zip, which made files smaller and thus saved disk space. They also allowed several different files to be combined into a single download. The zipped files were, in effect, encrypted, and if you added a password, then it would be hard for someone else to read them.Zip files were relatively easy to crack, but eventually, some archiving programs introduced strong encryption systems. For example,WinRARadded 128-bit AES encryption while the open source7-Zipused 256-bit AES encryption. Both are theoretically impervious to brute force attacks, and reasonably secure from targeted attacks. (There’s an academic paper,On the security of the WinRAR encryption feature, but unfortunately it’s at Springer and I don’t fancy paying £29.95 to read it.)Archive programs such asWinZip, 7-Zip and WinRAR are not as secure as dedicated encryption programs, but many more people use them to protect files. First, almost everybody already uses at least one archive program to unzip file downloads. Second, they’re much easier to use than dedicated encryption programs. Third, if you choose a strong password, they are good enough for most purposes.But protecting files is harder than it sounds, for reasons that few users will think about. For example, Windows may keep earlier copies of files in its Volume Shadow Copy Service. These will be hidden but can be restored. Word processors can save documents in the background to prevent you from losing your work, but these “scratch files” are not always deleted. Windows also saves things in its own giant scratchpads, pagefile.sys and hiberfil.sys, from which experts can retrieve data.Even if you encrypt a document and delete it, some or all of the information can often be recovered using an “undelete” utility. Real security requires that the “empty” space is overwritten several times.Password managersSo, rather than encrypting files of passwords and personal data, it may be better to use a password manager such asKeePass,Password Safe,RoboFormorLastPass.RoboForm may be the best option as it stores your data online, and fills in forms as well as remembering passwords. It works on all the major browsers on PCs and on mobile devices (including Windows Phone, BlackBerry, Palm and Symbian). It can also encrypt and store short notes for pins, credit card numbers etc. You just have to remember one master password. The main drawback is that the free version probably won’t handle all your passwords, but it’s reasonably priced at $19.95 a year ($9.95 for the first year).LastPass is the closest free alternative to RoboForm, and is also very good. Otherwise, KeePass and Password Safe are the best options if you want something that works as a standalone program, rather than as a web service.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Social games company Zynga has a new boss, but he looks strikingly similar to the old boss. That’s because heisthe old boss: the company’s founder Mark Pincus.Pincus stepped down as chief executive of the company behind FarmVille and Words with Friends in July 2013, hiring former Xbox executive Don Mattrick to replace him.Related:Zynga has lost 63% of its players. Is NaturalMotion the answer?Although he remained at the company, Pincus withdrew from all operational duties in April 2014,saying at the timethat “ultimately a ship is better with one captain putting a hand on the wheel”.One year on, the captaincy is changing hands again. “Don is departing the company and I am returning to Zynga as CEO effective immediately,”wrote Pincus in an email to staff.“I want to thank Don for his incredible efforts and leadership. He has laid groundwork that will benefit our players and company into the future.”Under Pincus’ original tenure as chief executive, Zynga rose to become the dominant publisher of social games on Facebook, but struggled to make the most of its huge audience when casual gaming began to boom on mobile devices. Mattrick was brought in to change that.While he has had some successes – in his email, Pincus cited the fact that 60% of Zynga’s “bookings” (money spent within its games) now happens on mobile, while its NaturalMotion subsidiary’s games have been installed more than 160m times – the company remains some way behind mobile rivals such as King, Supercell and GungHo Online.How far? Zynga reported revenues of $690.4m (£467m) in 2014, compared toCandy Crush maker King’s $2.26bn (£1.5bn) and Clash of Clans publisher Supercell’s $1.67bn (£1.13bn).Related:Peak Candy Crush? King's summer of 2014 could be Zynga's summer of 2012Zynga has already announced plans to launch a match-three puzzle game to rival Candy Crush Saga based on its FarmVille brand, as well as ambitious strategy game Dawn of Titans, which wasunveiled in March.“I am inspired by our upcoming products – it is the most exciting slate of mobile games in Zynga’s history,” Pincus told staff, before promising to reveal more details about his plans on 7 May when Zynga announces it next quarterly financial results.In aninterview with the New York Times, Pincus added that he intends to make Zynga’s famous focus on data and analytics a key part of its continued comeback strategy.“We need to get back to being the leader in mobile data and analytics, which leads to the best product management in our games,” he said. “I think I bring a DNA and passion, in that respect.”
YouTube is planning to launch a subscription version of its online video service, for which viewers will pay to remove its advertising.The Google subsidiary announced its plans in an email to channel owners, while also informing them that if they do not sign up to participate, they will have to set all their videos to “private”.The news follows thebeta launch of YouTube Music Key, a Spotify-style streaming music service that will eventually sell subscriptions, as well as children’s app YouTube Kids.“We’re excited to build on this momentum by taking another big step in favour of choice: offering fans an ad-free version of YouTube for a monthly fee,” explained the email to creators.“By creating a new paid offering, we’ll generate a new source of revenue that will supplement your fast-growing advertising revenue.”YouTube has not announced how much a monthly subscription will cost or a specific launch date, althoughThe Verge claims the price is likely to be around $10 a month, while creators have been given a deadline of 15 June to sign up.Related:YouTube: Hank Green tells fellow creators to aim for '$1 per view'Creators clicking through to the new partner terms discovered that YouTube plans to keep 45% of the revenues for itself, while sharing the other 55% out among channel owners according to their share of viewing by subscribers.Channel owners who do not want to take part will see their video settings changed to “private”according to YouTube. That’s the stick backing up the carrot of potentially-higher income from subscribers.“If you choose not to participate in our new paid offerings, you can change your video settings to private to keep videos hosted on YouTube. Though you can always choose whether to host any or all of your videos on YouTube, we strongly believe that any fan who’s willing to pay for a feature like an ads-free experience on YouTube deserves to access the exact same content that exists on the ad-supported site.”YouTube has previously experimented with subscriptions for individual channels, although the feature did not prove popular. In 2014, it also introduced the option for channels to usea tip-jar feature called Fan Fundingas a way to top up their income from advertising.Will people pay a monthly subscription to watch the kind of videos that have always been free on YouTube? It’s not the only company testing the theory.US startupVessel recently launched a service charging $2.99 a month, with the promise of access to videos at least 72 hours before they go live on YouTube. Meanwhile, crowdfunding firmPatreon has a roster of YouTuberswhose fans pay small amounts either every month, or every time they publish a new video.
New research has found that 72% of British adults are concerned about their private information online, worried about hackers and unauthorised access to their data.The research, conducted by YouGov, surveyed more than 2,000 British adults and found that 32% of respondents would be willing to pay to protect their information online. In a significant change in consumer behaviour, 29% felt it was their own responsibility to protect their data.The findings come two years after theEdward Snowden leaksrevealed that the US and UK security forces had access to and collected private data without permission, causing a backlash in the technology and security industries.A string of high-profile private data leaks and cyberattacks involving large companies, including household names such asBritish AirwaysandJamie Oliver, have kept data security in the spotlight.Changing attitudesWael Aggan, the chief executive of security firm CloudMask said: “Gone are the days when consumers took a back seat in protecting their data online.“High-profile data breaches, including celebrities’ nude photographs being pasted over the internet, credit card details being hacked and governments gaining permission to access Google and Microsoft customer data is forcing consumers to take more control of their privacy.”The change in attitudes comes as more and more personal information is demanded from every new service operating online.YouGov found that 70% of those surveyed shared personal information online when signing up for sites and services, including name, address and date of birth, which are often considered part of the secret personal information used to verify a person’s identity for banking and other secure services.Responsibility of businessDespite being worried about their private information, more than half of those surveyed said they did not want to pay for online protection, and 61% said the organisation responsible for the application or website should be protecting their information.Garreth Cameron from the information commissioner’s office agrees. “Consumers are becoming much more aware of the need to protect their personal data online and even though this survey shows they might be prepared to pay to do that, it is still ultimately the responsibility of the businesses who hold that data to make sure they follow the laws around data protection.“Businesses should be doing everything they can to keep information safe by investing in consumer privacy online, both in terms of education, increased protection and good practice.”•Islamist hackers seize control of Defra’s air-quality website•What to do if your email gets hacked and what to do to prevent it happening
One of Britain’s most successful Olympians, Jonathan Edwards still holds the world triple-jump record 12 years after retiring in 2003. In the years since, he has become a familiar presence as a sports commentator, and fell deeply in love with cycling – in step with the rest of the nation – at the 2008 Olympic games, where Britain’s cyclists won 14 medals. “I remember being in the stadium in Beijing, commentating, and BBC1 cutting away from the athletics to go to the cycling, which was almost unheard of then,” he says. “Maybe it did have an effect, subconsciously.”Cycling quickly became a passion for Edwards, and has provided a return to the rigours of athletic life. “My wife would say I’m obsessed , I would say I’m borderline obsessed,” he says, “I like the training and the numbers, I like to measure my heart rate, watts, time; it takes me back to what I knew and loved as an athlete – that simplicity of training, goals to aim for. I like that, I like feeling fit.”Edwards has an enviable collection of road bikes, including one given to him by Sir Chris Hoy. In the city, however, he finds riding a standard bicycle a nuisance, especially in London, where he spends much of his time. As a newcomer to folding bikes, he assesses the six candidates – folding and unfolding each one again and again with suspicious incredulity. After spending the best part of a morning riding around on them, however, he seems positively invigorated. “There’s a kind of ethereal, spiritual aspect to cycling,” he says, “being out in the open, under your own steam. You’re doing it yourself, you’re not being driven in a bus – it gives you a very different perspective.”BIRDY TOURING DISC12kg,SIMPSONCYCLES.CO.UK, £1,729Specialist German model, aluminium, with SRAM dual-drive gears and disc brakes. Designed for longer distances.The Birdy Touring Disc.Photograph: Karen Robinson/Observer“With a folder that you’ll be packing and unpacking a lot; travelling around with it; getting knocks – the less that can go wrong the better. This has disc brakes and two sets of gears – 24-speed in all – which is impressive, and it rides quite nicely, but it’s a high level of complexity, and it feels almost over-engineered. The rear derailleur, for instance, hangs very low to the ground, which seems vulnerable. It’s expensive and it’s not light, which isn’t surprising considering how much they’ve thrown at it; for my liking there’s just too much going on.”DAHON JIFO9.2KG, RALEIGH.CO.UK, £609Biggest brand internationally, US design. Single-speed, aluminium frame; numerous alternative models available.The Dahon Jifo.Photograph: Karen Robinson/Observer“This is the one I wanted to ride the most, it looks great and it’s almost unbelievably small. It’s also very easy to put up and I like the way it folds; it’s not that dissimilar to the Brompton in that the back wheel swings out under it, but it’s easier to assemble and it’s more sleek and modern. It doesn’t have quite so nice a riding position as the Brompton – it feels a bit more perched, but the quick-release handlebars are a nice touch, and it wins on weight.”STRIDA SX13kg,VELORUTION.COM, £599(curved handlebars and Brooks saddle not standard)Unusual A-frame design, aimed at commuters, with carbon drive and disc brakes.The Strida SX.Photograph: Karen Robinson/Observer“This is a design piece. It looks lovely and it feels very well made – I would almost have expected it to be more expensive. But it’s also very odd. The riding position is highly unusual and feels slightly unstable; you’re very close to the handlebars and I was worried that, if I hit a bump, I might slip forward and impale my groin. It’s like a penny-farthing without the big front wheel; in fact it’s less of a folding bike and more of a collapsible bike, but it’s the best-looking of the bunch and it’s a clever design. Perhaps it’s less about getting you from A to B and more about making a statement.”BICYCLES4U MILAN EXPLORER13.5kg,BICYCLES4U.COM, £169Inexpensive Chinese import, aluminium frame, three gears; propstand and bell thrown in.The Milan Explorer.Photograph: Karen Robinson/Observer“It’s heavy, it’s awkward and it’s easy to unfold in the sense that it sort of falls apart when you pick it up. All the bits and pieces did feel noticeably cheaper than everything else – the joints, the saddle, the tyres – which you would expect given how little it costs. Is it a false economy? You’d only know over time. But it’s not lacking anything; it’s got gears, folding pedals, a kickstand and once you’re riding along, it’s fine. You’re not going to tackle huge hills on it, I wouldn’t think. So if it’s all you can afford, it’s great.”BROMPTON S2L10kg,COMPTONCYCLES.CO.UK, £955Familiar, British-built steel model. Upgradeable frame. Compact when folded.The Brompton S2L.Photograph: Karen Robinson/Observer“The Brompton, in comparison with some others, was slightly more fiddly to put up, but it does pack down really nicely. It also had an excellent, streamlined riding position, although the seatpost was slightly short. Riding a folding bike, though, is a different activity to riding a road bike, so niggling over 2cm of seat-height is probably a bit ridiculous. With these bikes, you’ve really got to take pleasure in the folding itself, and for that I think the Brompton wins. It’s so symmetrical, so tidy, and the others seem to have little bits that don’t fit so neatly. That said, the little twiddly knobs feel a bit old-school; I preferred the fast-release joints on the Tern.”TERN LINK D812.5kg,EVANSCYCLES.COM, £500Recently-founded Taiwanese brand, Dahon rival; aluminium, laterally-folding frame.The Tern Link D8.Photograph: Karen Robinson/Observer“There’s no beauty to the folded object – it just looks like a crumpled bike – but there is a beauty to how it unfolds: it’s very, very simple and intuitive. Intuitive doesn’t necessarily matter, because you’d learn how to use all of them over time, but it really is one, two, three and you’re ready to go. The saddle was high enough – I’m nearly six foot – and I liked the riding position. It loses out slightly on bulk, but it’s very functional, and remains high up in my affections.”
Ninja Theory’s lead environmental artist Aaron McElligott has created some unique worlds, from the post-apocalyptic future ofEnslavedto the surreal landscapes ofDevil May Cry. Here he shares with us the role he plays in immersing players into their gamesWhat does a lead environmental artist do?A lot of mentoring and making sure people are hitting the goals they want to achieve. Maintaining the vision of the creative director and managing schedules, checking performance of the game and making art.How much research do you do when designing worlds?We put in an awful lot of research at the beginning and this doesn’t really end. Everyone gets involved in research, there are often numerous awesome ideas that are better than things you’ve thought of yourself, no matter how junior the person who suggested it.How important is realism in what you do?There’s still an aim to reach total realism, which isn’t a bad goal, but the process of construction can be quite mechanical and a number of games are starting to have similar aesthetics. There are these awesomely powerful platforms where designers can create whatever their imaginations can dream up, but we often resort to reproducing reality.So what would you say are good examples of game environments?Grand Theft Autois an excellent example of showing a world full of life; even standing still can be visually stimulating; it makes you want to explore. TheUnchartedseries was great and even though the levels were relatively linear, the guys did a great job making it feel like you were part of a larger world. That’s often the hard part, making the environments feel alive when the character is not moving.
Hugh Herrsays he wants to eliminate disability. After 50 minutes listening to him speak atSXSWin Texas, it’s hard not to believe that he’ll do it. Herr is an impressive figure behind a podium; tall, imposing and with a well-cut suit that stops just below the knee. Below that, Herr is constructed of a pair of supremely impressive bionic legs.Herr has a seductive backstory, which begins with prodigious talent as a young mountain climber. He was lucky to survive a traumatic accident on Mount Washington in January 1982 in which he suffered severe frostbite and had both legs amputated below the knee.The same stamina and tenacity that made him an exceptional climber also made him dismiss the doctor’s verdict that he would never climb again, so his narrative goes.Within weeks of having his first prostheses fitted, Herr was climbing again and in a workshop augmenting his very basic prostheses. He developed a bladed device that could wedge itself into smaller crevices than a human foot, welded a crampon to a prosthesis so that he could climb frozen routes up mountains, and even made prostheses much longer than his natural leg length, which meant he could reach holds able-bodied climbers couldn’t stretch to.“At the beginning of that year society said I was broken. One year later I had surpassed my pre-amputation climbing abilities and done climbs no climber had ever done. I had augmented my body within 12 months, so much so that a few competitors were threatening to cut off their own legs.”The audience watching Herris already hushed and reverent, in awe of both his bravado and his achievement. And then he explains how much his work has moved on.His team mapped how muscles and tendons work in the human leg, processes controlled through the spinal cord, and then programmed microprocessors to emulate those movements – subtle but critical “positive force feedback”, or contraction and expansion of muscles and tendons.Hugh Herr with examples of the bionic limbs his lab has developed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.Photograph: Brian Snyder/Reuters/CorbisPut that computing power in a biomechatronic limb and the result is one that feels as good, or better, than a biological one. And lighter too – lighter than a graphite tennis racket.The biggest problem, and huge financial cost, for many amputees is the cluster of secondary skeletal conditions that later develop, typically hip, back and knee problems caused by limping on traditional prosthetics. Herr’s argument about saving the cost of treating all these related conditions is slightly undermined by the fact that his own legs cost several million dollars in R&amp;D resource.Bionics will become so appealing that some people may choose to amputate just so that they can augment their bodies; our own legs might begin to feel heavy and stupid, he thinks. Given cosmetic surgery now, how would we feel about going under the knife for an arguably more justifiable benefit? This raises some intensely challenging issues about whether we will see a far more profound human digital divide, already hinted at in sci-fi countless times: the augmented, and the unaugmented.In this view of the body as a biological machine, the parts that don’t work can be replaced, improved, remodelled.The brain is extraordinarily complex, but its functionalities and specificities are being mapped. Eventually electronics, tapping the body’s neural network, will be able to override what we currently consider disabilities.A colleague at Massachusetts Insititute of Technology,Ed Boyden, has already done exactly this with blindness. Boyden planted light-sensitive proteins on the faulty photoreceptors in the eyes of a blind mouse – effectively adding solar panels on to cells – and then switched them on. The blind mouse was no longer blind. It is rare to hear an audience gasp in amazement, but it happened here.“We have to go beyond what nature intended, a future where technology and what it is to be human are blurred. A new nature that will give us new bodies and where disability is no more,” he said.Depression, diabetes, paralysis, Parkinson’s disease, brain injuries, migraine, anxiety, tinnitus, sleep disorders, multiple sclerosis, schizophrenia – all these conditions could be eliminated, in Herr’s world. That is the promise.But it is a promise dependent on huge resources and cost and on a centre of technological expertise that gives the west yet more advantage and privilege, a conversation a thousand times removed from the poverty and disadvantage of the developing world.As Kerr says: “Remove technology and I am imprisoned. All I can do is crawl. But with it I am free.”
You stand at the ATM but, instead of producing your card and PIN, you unbutton your trousers while a dachshund, trapped in the machine, sniffs around your intimate regions, identifying you by your unique scent. This is the future dreamed up by artist and designer Soomi Park, as part of her projectThe Republic of Privacy, currently exhibiting at theBiennale Internationale Designin France.Park created the project while studying at the Royal College of Art in 2013, after becoming intrigued by the mass-collection of personal data by governments and corporations. “I was naive before the project started”, she says “but as I wrote my dissertation I became more concerned about privacy invasion. When Tim Cook says, ‘We want to change the way you live your life,’ that kind of speech scares me!” In response to these concerns, she invented the titular republic: an imagined utopia where citizens are guaranteed total privacy. The exhibition comprises artefacts and photographs documenting life in this fantasy world, including an eccentric wedding ritual and, not least, the dog-equipped cash machine. The specific idea of using dogs in institutional data-collection came from Park’s research into the history of state espionage. The Stasi, she explains, harvested scent-data by collecting strips of fabric from the interrogation-room chairs in which suspected dissidents had sat, to be used later to assist sniffer dogs in their searches. “I found that fascinating” says Park. “If dogs are well-trained, they can immediately recognise a scent.” The dog, pictured wearing the artist’s idea of scent-enhancing nose-gear, solves the problem of the bank having to keep personal information on record. “It’s private, because a dog can’t talk,” she says.But the solution is flawed, of course, since the act of being examined by the dog is itself an invasion of privacy. “It’s a paradox”, Park says, “It’s not supposed to make sense at the first glance, but I want to believe that it could provoke a debate.”
It’s the third round of the Call of Duty World Championships final between Denial eSports and Team Revenge. The series is tied 1-1, and this match is close. The Comeback map, a dense vortex of narrow streets and looming battered buildings, has become a slaughterhouse as close range firefights blast into life through its winding alleys and small open squares. The crowd, sitting in their hundreds on sloped bleachers just yards away from the competitors, are yelling and clapping. The tension crackles.For two frenetic hours, in a vast tented venue on a Los Angeles rooftop, this is the epicentre of the Call of Duty world. Activision’s billion dollar franchise attracts over 30 million online gamers a month, but right here is where the multiplayer component reaches its absolute peak. And this year, the whole feel of the game has changed.“There was a push to innovate after Modern Warfare 3 and Activision took that seriously,” claims Michael Condrey, co-founder of Sledgehammer Games, the San Francisco-based studio that’s been working on Advanced Warfare for three years. “We went off in some directions that made people a little nervous, some of them didn’t make it into the game. But we were given the time to fail and learn.”Of course, you have to recover from the cognitive dissonance of seeing the words “Activision” and “innovation” being used in the same sentence. But Condrey is adamant that his team, many of whom previously worked with him on EA’s intriguing sci-fi horror classic Dead Space, were given full creative freedom. He reckons the studio built and abandoned over 30 game modes before deciding on the final selection, and had radical concepts for how to change the whole shape of the multiplayer experience.“We wanted to try something with larger scale battles, we explored some technology that we thought would be interesting,” he says. “We even looked at teleportation, allowing players to teleport from one area of the map to another. We also had this concept early on that we called perk stacking. There were perks for the exosuit and perks for the player and you could take the same perk for both to double down on them. But we found that people were exploiting this in a way we didn’t like, it wasn’t balanced.”The evidence of this experimental process is there in every match at this championship. Admittedly, those glancing at Advanced Warfare’s multiplayer mode from the outside will probably see the same old Call of Duty. You’re still running around a series of claustrophobic maps while shooting at onscreen characters in military garb and repeatedly being shot yourself. That’s never going to change. But get closer, talk to professional gamers, try it yourself even, and the differences start to become clear.“It’s inherently different to every other Call of Duty – and that says a lot considering that this is a series of annual games spread across three developers,” says pro gamer Callum “Swanny” Swan of Epsilon eSports. “Call of Duty has always had its own charms - the way it moves, the weapons, the aiming – but I think Sledgehammer wanted to branch out. Advanced Warfare has made a huge difference to both the competitive and casual communities in terms of how to play the game. It is now more interesting to spectators, too, because of the added movement dynamic.”The big change is the addition of exosuits. Set in the near future, Advanced Warfare imagines armies of enhanced soldiers who wear robotic metal skeletons that augment their physical abilities. In the game, you can boost jump to great heights, or click the left analogue stick down to carry out a range of jet-propelled mid-air manoeuvres in any direction.According to Condrey, the idea of augmented movement was in the game from very early in its development. The design team had been looking into exoskeleton research being carried out by the military and in industry. The idea was intriguing but also potentially disruptive. “The boost jump was controversial at first,” admits Condrey. “It was only available in one game mode, but we were excited about it so switched it into the main movement set. People were worried about that.”There have, of course, been comparisons with Titanfall, another sci-fi shooter that uses robotic suits. In that game, however, it’s more about gaining height and wall-running to maintain it. In AW, the exo abilities are as much about speed, evasion and attack repertoire. The whole nature of movement is affected.Certainly though, the ability to gain map height very quicklyisimportant – for pro teams it has had a huge effect on the tactical approach to the game. “Advanced Warfare has really changed the way we play Call of Duty,” confirms Brandon “Sharp” Rodgers of Team Kaliber. “Before, it was mostly on one plane. Now, set-ups get broken a lot more easily, because of all the jumping and flying around the map. It takes a lot more teamwork, and more trading kills. We’ve had to adapt to that.”The ability to jump above obstacles has become a key feature of the mid-range game, allowing players with assault rifles to leap up, spot enemies from a distance and get a quick shot in. It also helps pro players combat a well-known exploit, the head glitch, which allows enemies to hide behind an object with only their head visible, but still shoot freely. As Rodgers explains, “A lot of people use the boost jump because past Call of Duty titles were always based around head glitches, you could often only see another player’s head. Now you can jump up and see their whole body, which is a lot easier to hit. Personally, I use a Bal [-27 assault rifle] so I’m always jumping to dominate aerial gunfights.”One-on-one engagements have also completely changed in the AW era. In previous games, when you had a close encounter with an enemy, it would usually be decided by an immediate shot, the effectiveness of which would be dependent on your reactions and the TTK (time to kill) stats of your weapon. But the spatial movement afforded by the exosuit has added complexity.“In older Call of Duty titles, you could think ‘OK, I know this guy is coming round the corner, I can prepare’,” says Ashley “Optic Midnite” Glassel, who creates Twitch and YouTube content for Optic. “Now, though, he may be coming in fast, slow, from the air, or sliding in. You don’t know but you have to counter him, while aiming and shooting. It’s fast, and it really opens up the skill gap; it’s harder to overcome the top teams who can adapt more quickly.”According to Greg Reisdorf, lead multiplayer designer at Sledgehammer, this was all part of the plan. “Exo abilities changed our approach to map design quite a lot,” he says. “The ultimate goal of any map is to get people into combat, that’s why we have these multiple lanes, so that players can quickly locate and engage with each other. What the ex suit does is bring new tools within those lanes. We can start putting elevation into the choke point areas and really use that to get players moving around more, using more cover ... When we wanted to spice up an area, we thought, ‘OK, what kind of boost elements can we support here?’”Reisdorf agrees with Glassel that exosuits have created a larger skill gap between the very best pro teams and everyone else. They’ve also changed the balance of play, slightly away from coordinated team movement, and toward something potentially more spectator-friendly: shooting skill. “In this tournament, we’re seeing a lot more of the slayer-style game,” he says. “It’s all about the players who are able to get more kills – their teams are getting ahead because they can win battles and really control spawns. We’re seeing more emphasis on gun skill.”The idea of making design changes that alter the game as a spectator sport as well as an interactive experience is also there in Advance Warfare’s other big addition: Uplink. In this team-based multiplayer mode, both sides attempt to grab a mini-satellite (effectively a ball) from its spawn site, carry it to the opponent’s base area and dunk it into a hovering hoop. Two points are awarded for physically carrying the satellite though the goal, while teams get one point for successfully throwing the ball from distance. Teams are also able to pass the ball between each other, but whoever has the object is unable to use their primary weapon, leaving them vulnerable to attack.It’s a fast, frantic and visually enthralling mode that led to some of the most dramatic competitive showdowns during the Call of Duty Championships. But according to Reisdorf, it wasn’t originally developed with spectators in mind. “When we were building Uplink, we didn’t realise it would be as great for eSports as it turned out,” he says. “We wanted to make a single objective mode with really focused combat. We put a lot of emphasis on it.”Condrey agrees that Uplink wasn’t designed specifically for eSports, but he says the design team quickly picked up on its merits. “We were looking at the most popular requests for new modes, and all the fan favourites were all the really, really strategic, objective-based modes like Hardpoint and CTF,” he recalls. “So we started deconstructing what was going on there – and Uplink was the result. It’s such an intuitive mode, everyone can understand the sport component, and the blending of that with Call of Duty makes sense. It’s as much fun to watch as it is to play.”The similarities between Uplink and a traditional sport are crucial to its effectiveness as a spectator phenomenon. Viewers can easily watch the progress of the ball around the “pitch”; they can see and appreciate the skillset behind passing and dunking – the conventions and tactical language of the mode are all innately understood. “It’s funny,” says Swan. “British players compare it to football with all the passing and stuff, while the Americans compare it to basketball, because of the dunks. These are all fun element for spectators.”Vitally, the mode has been continually iterated since its inception. Early on, pro players didn’t like it. It was easy to exploit weaknesses in the design; match wins felt capricious. “In the beginning a lot of people were sceptical, but Sledgehammer has done a good job of tweaking it,” says Rodgers. “You can’t pass the ball all the way across the map anymore. Now, with the passes, the throws, the dunks, I think it’s one of the best game modes to watch, and it’s up there with Hardpoint as one of the best to play.”Glassel agrees. “At first people weren’t excited by Uplink, but I played it at a press reveal and I said, ‘oh they’re using this for eSports’. I just knew it. It’s so fun to play and watch, especially when it’s close. The pro teams just do these crazy manoeuvres and these shots you could never spot yourself.”Now players are developing complex passing games, as well as other interesting tactics, like throwing the ball out of play as a last ditch defensive mechanic, or lobbing it at an opponent and then shooting them when they catch it – neither of which were anticipated by the designers, according to Reisdorf.For Condrey, another aspect of traditional sports that Uplink seeks to capture is that sense of showmanship – of consciously performing for the crowd. “In one of the Championship matches I saw one guy do an alley-oop to a teammate who then pulled a 360-degree slam. That’s exactly what happens in basketball when one team is rushing another – you get that sort of showboating. There’s a real elegance to it.”Despite being one of the biggest entertainment brands on the planet, Call of Duty remains a secondary player in the eSports scene. Its $1m annual prize pool and hundreds of thousands of viewers on MLG TV are dwarfed by the millions who watch League of Legends and Dota 2, and the record-breaking winnings being accrued by top players on those circuits.But the competitive CoD scene is growing, and the exosuits and Uplink mode have helped. Mike Sepso, co-founder of Major League Gaming, which shows CoD events on its online MLG TV channel, says viewing figures have shot up 400% since launch last year. “Right from the get-go in November, Advanced Warfare has been killing it,” he says. “I think some people were wary of being about to jump around, but it’s turned into a really cool part of the game. Uplink is one of the first modes that’s easy for someone who doesn’t play the game to understand whats going on. The teams have to think more about how they execute a play – they have to pass back and forth, and they have recognisable roles, like blockers and scorers. It’s just fun to watch.”The big question is, where now? The next game in the Call of Duty series will come from another studio, Treyarch, and is likely to be Black Ops 3. If this title becomes the new centrepiece of CoD eSports, what happens to the successful new features?“Now we’ve had the exoskeletons introduced, it’s hard to see where the series goes from here,” says Chris Marsh of specialist eSports news site, Dexerto. “If we return to just X-axis combat then it’s going to be a little bit dull I think. It’ll be interesting to see what Treyarch do but I get the feeling their hand might be forced on this one. I think that Sledgehammer delivered change extremely well.”As the fans file out of the Championship tent, into the glaring LA sun, there’s lots of chatter about favourite moments from the proceeding weekend. They sound like any sports crowd, really. Call of Duty is such a weird phenomenon; a ludicrous mainstream barrage of twitch-kill hyper action that swallows up real-life technology and military hardware into its fantasy of violence and victory. Now Advanced Warfare has shifted it closer towards what most of us think of as a sport. It is on the verge of becoming Fifa with firearms.Keith Stuart attended the Call of Duty World Championship on a press trip with travel expenses met by Activision.
Turns out that being driven around is not all that fun. Riding in a self-driving car can increase the likelihood and frequency of motion sickness,a new study from the University of Michigan has found. Unless, that is, you’re asleep.This is mostly due to the fact that passengers are more likely to be involved in activities other than driving.Related:Elon Musk: self-driving cars could lead to ban on human driversAs part of their study, Michael Sivak and Brandon Schoettle, who work at the university’s Transportation Research Institute, interviewed 3,255 adults in the US, China, India, Japan, UK and Australia, asking them what they would do in a car if they did not have to drive.More than a fifth of the respondents in the US, UK and Australia said that they would not ride in a self-driving car at all.Of those who would get in the car, almost half would still watch the road. Passengers also said they were likely to read (14% in the US), watch movies (7.8%), talk and text with their family or friends (12.7%), work (6.2%) or sleep (8.8% in the US).Those reading were the most likely to get motion sickness, followed by those watching a movie.About 6-10% of Americans riding in self-driving cars would be expected to “often, usually or always experience some level of motion sickness”, the report states. Another 6-12% of American adults would experience moderate or severe motion sickness at some time.Those napping while being driven – around 10% of the respondents who would agree to ride in a self-driving car – were the least likely to get sick. In fact, researchers didn’t even include results for how many of them would feel ill because sleeping has such a positive effect on motion sickness.Related:Insurers worry self-driving cars could put a dent in their business“For those able to sleep in moving vehicles, sleeping reduces the frequency and severity of motion sickness, as does being awake with the eyes closed,” noted the study.Maybe this is what being driven around has been about all along: catching up on sleep.With the advent of self-driving cars, being driven will no longer just be for the rich. Instead of having to pay for a driver, consumers will be able to spend just a few thousand dollars more for a new car and be well on their way to riding around and napping.In 2025, it is estimated self-driving cars will cost $7,000 to $10,000 more than regular cars,according to IHS Automotive. By 2030 that will drop to $5,000, and in 2035 to $3,000.
The first reviews are in and the Apple Watch is, errr, getting a lot of screen time? It’s “the best smartwatch on the market”, “a bulbous, friendly little thing” and “you don’t need one”.Two days before orders begin and nearly three weeks before its official release, Cupertino’s PR machine has allowed a select few to exercise their wrists in praise of their latest device. Reviewers have pulled out all the stops with videos and interactives worthy of an actual news story but while the coverage is extensive, the results are mixed. While the enthusiastic tech crowd is largely onboard, many have misgivings and point out that the clubby luxury watch world Apple is also courting isn’t as easily enticed.The watch is “Bliss, but Only After a Steep Learning Curve”, according to the New York Times. “It was only on Day 4 that I began appreciating the ways in which the elegant $650 computer on my wrist was more than just another screen,”writesFarhad Manjoo. The Wall Street Journal is less puffy: “Why can’t the watch’s battery make it past 10 p.m. on days that I exercise?”wondersJoanna Stern.Many reviews appear tinged with gratitude for having been granted early access to the tech world’s hottest device. “Everything about the Apple Watch whispers craftsmanship,” breathes Mashable’s Lance Ulanoff. The Verge’s Nilay Patel – he of the “ bulbous, friendly little thing” – seems, cautiously, enamoured. But none of the raves are unqualified, a comparative rarity for an Apple product launch.EvenDavid Pogue, often dinged by skeptics for having too often taken Apple’s side, notes that the gadget is overpriced. “What was Apple thinking with these breath-catchingly high prices?” he writes at Yahoo. “Is it hoping to depict these as exclusive, rarefied, aspirational products? By offering a $10,000 model, is it hoping to make the $350 and $550 watches look like bargains?”The upshot seems to be that the battery life is good, unless you’re using it as a glorified FitBit (which it kind of is), that the application loading times are very long (which Apple has promised to fix in subsequent versions) and that it’s a lovely little device,unlessofcourseyoudisagree, but it’s slow, not particularly intuitive and it’s probably worth waiting for the inevitable upgrade.There’s also a fundamentalist split between the haute horologie posse and the tech world: in the former, consumers expect a flawless device for an unspeakable amount of money. In the latter, where inconveniences and flaws are ironed out by simply iterating the product again, a new chunk of tech is often praised for the novelty of what it aspires to do. “Unlike the Cartier I got for college graduation, the original Apple Watch’s beauty will soon fade,” Stern observes.Apple has tried to please both camps here, and with mixed results. “[I]n an attempt to do everything in the first generation, the Apple Watch still leaves plenty to be desired,” writes Scott Stein at CNET. “Short battery life compared with other watches and higher prices are the biggest flags for now.” Patel also notes that for $500, Apple customers probably deserve a charging stand to put on the dresser at night. You can have one, but only if you shell out $10,000 for the gold version.One of the most serious questions for Apple around the device is what the size of the market for the Apple Watch will ultimately be. For early adopter wearables fans (not a particularly large contingent), the smartwatch isn’t exactly a new invention – cheap versions run less than $100 and chief Apple competitor Samsung’s models start off at about $200 and range up to just under $400. Apple is hoping watch lovers will buy the pricey version (the gold case is the only meaningful difference as the guts are all materially the same). The real reviews will start on 24 April when customers decide whether or not they have the cash, or the wrist space, for the Apple Watch.
Name:Spoilers.Age:They’ve been around ever since – SPOILER ALERT – the very first story was told.Appearance:A dying breed, apparently.What? They’re getting rid of spoilers? But I haven’t even started reading them all yet.Thanks for ruining the ending, you idiot.Ah, I’ll miss people like you.People like who?People who get irrationally angry whenever plot details of films and TV shows they haven’t watched are inadvertently revealed to them.I don’t get irrationally angry.You do. In fact – SPOILER ALERT – you’re going to get irrationally angry before the end of this article.Stop spoiling the ending!Anyway, listen. Google has been awarded a patent fora technology that identifies and obscures online spoilers, meaning that you won’t have to get your precious knickers in a twist whenever you learn that Darth Vader is Luke Skywalker’s dad.Stop it! I’d been saving that 35-year-old film for ages, specifically to watch this weekend!Sorry. But at least that offending line will be obscured for people who read this in the future.How the hell am I going to survive until this patent gets made?There’s already an app called SpoilerShield that does roughly the same thing for social media. You could download that.Anything else?To stop people blabbing details of the Breaking Bad finale before everyone had seen it,Netflix invented a system called Spoiler Foiler, which blacked out so-called “danger words” on Twitter.That still doesn’t go far enough. What else is there?Well, you could always try being a grownup and accepting that the entire world doesn’t exclusively revolve around you and your peculiar viewing habits, you entitled little crybaby.How DARE you call me a crybaby! I will not stand for this! You will pay for slighting me! You will PAY!See? I said you’d get irrationally angry.Please, for the love of God, will you just stop ruining the ending of everything.Hey, I said spoiler alert.Do say:“Finally, a technology that will [CONTENT TEMPORARILY OBSCURED DUE TO ITS SENSITIVE NATURE].”Don’t say:“I haven’t been this shocked since Bruce Willis turned out to be a ghost.”
My now five-year-old son was never very good at supermarkets when he was a toddler.Or, to put it another way, he wasexceptionallygood at having massive, aisle-shaking tantrums in supermarkets when he was a toddler, usually after being told we were there to buy groceries, not to buy 18 toy cars.This is why I quickly developed a well-planned route around my local store to avoid the toys aisle, while developing a range of distraction techniques to stop him remembering it.This is also why the angriest I’ve ever been with any company ever, pretty much, was the day I turned into the tinned-veg aisle to find a craftily-hung display of Hot Wheels toys.Related:Google denies YouTube Kids app unfairly targets childrenCue toddler meltdown, and parental fury. At least only one of us threw ourselves on the floor kicking and screaming at a volume audible in three counties. But look, I couldn’t help myself, etc etc.But yes, unexpected advertising aimed at your children can be annoying, which is why I can see how some parents may have been cross at finding ads in the recently-released YouTube Kids app, if they didn’t expect them.That disgruntlement has turned into aformal complaint to the US Federal Trade Commissionfrom a group of children’s and consumer advocacy groups, accusing Google of “unfair and deceptive practices” in the app. The FTCsays it is now going to “review the concerns raised by these groups”.Knee-jerk response: Google is evil! YouTube Kids is a pernicious threat to our children’s online innocence, designed to groom them into unquestioning consumers bowing down to the Googleplex! Pfft...Or, knee-jerk response: who are these idiots? Clueless souls who hadn’t realised there were ads on YouTube? Or opportunistic scaremongers looking for another reason to pile on to Google? Pfft...Either would make for a cracking opinion column, at least on the K. Hopkins provocation scale. Boringly, though, the truth is somewhere in between the two, with more thought and less jerk involved.‘Hordes of children are already watching videos on YouTube’The FTC complaint raises some important issues about the blurring boundaries between children’s entertainment and advertising that we need to talk about. But I think YouTube is grappling with these issues, rather than just cynically exploiting them.Related:Little Baby Bum: how UK couple built world's fifth-biggest YouTube channelThe company certainly never hid the fact that ads would be part of YouTube Kids, which wasreleased as an Android and iOS app in Februaryin the US.“It was really important for us to make the app free and available to everyone, therefore it’s ad-supported,”product manager Shimrit Ben-Yair told the Guardianwhen the app launched in the US in February. “We are taking a similar approach with the ads as with the content: narrowing it to what is family-friendly.”An important point: YouTube Kids is in part a response to the fact that hordes of children are already watching videos on YouTube, most while logged in to their parents’ accounts, with no restrictions on what ads (or, indeed, what videos) they might see.YouTube Kids is a walled garden on both counts, with YouTube’s team screening videos and ads alike for their appropriateness. If as a parent you don’t want your children watching ads, you have the choice not to use the app, just as you have the choice to not let them watch ad-funded TV channels.Personally, I’m still more cross about toy cars in the tomatoes aisle than I am about ads in a children’s app that I can choose not to install.For me, ads are an opportunity for a chat with my kids – admittedly, sometimes a stern chat about why they can’t have an expensive new toy just because they saw it on a screen – but I understand that other parents would prefer to avoid them for as long as possible.The FTC complaint about YouTube Kids raises some more important points, though, about what happens when the lines are blurred between entertainment and advertising. That’s an important discussion to have out in the open in 2015, as it relates to the digital world.‘Fun Toyz Collector is the biggest channel of all on YouTube’One example: unboxing channels, where toys (and a surprising number of Kinder Eggs) are unboxed and shown off for massive audiences of online kids. Fun Toyz Collector is the biggest channel of all on YouTube with427m views in February alone, with peers It’s Baby Big Mouth and Blu Toys notching up 228m and 205m views respectively that month.Related:YouTube is already big for kids, but it wants to be even bigger“Many of the video segments endorsing toys, candy and other products that appear to be ‘user-generated’ have undisclosed relationships with product manufacturers in violation of the FTC’s guidelines concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising,” claims the FTC complaint.Until recently, nobody even knew who the creator of Fun Toyz Collector was, let alone whether she was taking money from toy firms for any of her videos.Pushing for more transparency in this area is a sensible move, and is part of a wider debate about whether YouTubers should be subject to similar rules to TV channels on disclosing sponsorships and product placement.The advocacy groups are also concerned about branded channels on YouTube, from My Little Pony and Barbie to Fisher Price, Lego and McDonald’s. Their letter to the FTC asks for an investigation into how these channels mix entertainment with ads, suggesting that often, they’re more of the latter.Welcome to the world of “branded entertainment”, which is hardly a new thing in the children’s world – I grew up with He-Man and Transformers, longform toy ads in cartoon form – but which is growing rapidly on YouTube.Pretty much every major toy brand, as well as apps like Angry Birds and Talking Friends, are spawning “webisodes” on YouTube as well as traditional ads, which often sit side-by-side within the same channel. Lego, in 2015, makes films and TV shows as well as toys, remember.Again, the argument is over whether YouTube should be regulated in the same way that TV channels are on these issues. Should the team at YouTube Kids be including branded channels in the first place, and if they do, should they be labelling the ads more clearly as ads? It’s a discussion worth having.‘Should we be exploring ways to pay for content?’The FTC will decide whether further action is needed, and that will influence what YouTube does next for its youngest viewers and their parents. But just like most controversies around kids and digital, this all raises some questions for parents, and the choices they are making around their children’s digital entertainment.Should we be making sure we’re aware of what our kids are watching online and whether ads are part of that? Definitely. Should we be exploring ways to pay for content rather than rely on free, ad-supported sources? Maybe, if we can afford it.Related:YouTube studio Rooster Teeth launches 'family-friendly' Game KidsThere are burgeoning children’s sections on Netflix and Amazon, and an emerging crop of child-focused, ad-free subscription services likeHopsterandPlayKidsto consider too.(In the UK, of course, parents are lucky in having the BBC and its free and ad-free iPlayer app, which has plenty of CBeebies and CBBC shows to stream.)As things stand, YouTube Kids doesn’t have an option to pay a monthly subscription to remove the ads. Perhaps the FTC investigation will nudge YouTube into trying the idea, which is when we’ll find out how many parents are concerned enough to spend money on it.The basic idea of advertising funding children’s entertainment isn’t new or shocking, but the importance of that advertising being appropriate, clearly highlighted as ads, and carefully regulated – which includes looking at whether the old regulations for TV are fit for the online, on-demand world – is clear.If an FTC investigation into YouTube Kids helps Google and other tech firms continue to develop responsible policies for the children using their services, that’s a good thing. Likewise if it helps more parents make informed choices about their children’s digital entertainment.If it can expand into addressing the issue of dangling diecast vehicles in front of hair-trigger-temper toddlers when their parents are just looking for pasta-sauce ingredients... well, Bishop’s Stortford supermarkets are well out of the FTC’s remit. But I might just send them a letter...
If aleaked memo proves to be right, the ritual of long lines of Apple fanboys queuing outside stores for new product releases could be no more.While many won’t mourn the pantomime’s passing, for some the queueing, the camaraderie, the applause of the employees as they are welcoming into the store … a part of our recent cultural heritage is coming to an end.One of those fanboys - writing on condition of anonymity - reveals what it’s really like to experience the thrill of an Apple launch (although he swears he will fervently deny any of this ever happened if anyone asks!).OK, I’ll admit it. I’ve queued overnight to purchase one of Apple’s highly priced new gadgets, not once, but three times … and you know what? I enjoyed it.For me, it all started with the iPhone 3G – Apple’s first iPhone to match up to British standards with a 3G connection (what the hell was Edge anyway?). At the time I was rocking a Nokia N95, a marvellous smartphone that arguably had more features and functionality (oh, that camera!), but was leagues behind the iPhone in polish and usability.Out with the old Nokia N95 and in with the new iPhone 3G.Photograph: APLike a magpie that had spotted a shiny thing, I decided that I had to have the new iPhone. I knew the stock was likely to be highly limited, so if I wanted it within weeks of launch the only course of action was to queue overnight. And if I’m going to do something, I’ll do it right: be the first, make sure you get one, don’t queue for no reward. It made perfect sense at the time.At 4pm the day before – T-minus 16 hours until launch – I pitched my collapsable camping chair on the street with a friend outside of Apple’s Regent Street store in London in 2008, then the biggest in the UK. We weren’t the first; a surprisingly friendly man had beaten us to it, and seemed relieved when we turned up. He was no longer the loner on the street.It was just the three of us for some hours. We shared stories, had care packages dropped off by friends and family and after what seemed like days, but was probably minutes, a fourth devotee arrived to join our little band.As the minutes and hours rolled by, a progressive stream of people turned up. Some clearly having planned to be there. Others simply happening on the queue by chance.One man in a black suit, black tie and court shoes walked past at around 1am having just left a wake. His aunt had died and much booze had obviously been consumed, but that didn’t stop him joining too, although it did cause him to dash off periodically in search of a toilet.Having been apprehensive about what kind of person I was going to meet on the street in my overnight vigil, I was pleasantly surprised to find that everyone who joined the queue overnight was friendly. Our shared common interest in forking out over £500 for a new smartphone bound us together. Most already had the original iPhone and were looking to upgrade.Some brought beer, others food. It was like a nerd’s camping holiday, expect out on Regent Street.As night wore on we got hassled by a few passersby, but by that stage there were enough of us to stop any would-be antagonists from having a go.People wait in line outside the Apple store on Regent Street in London.Photograph: Demotix/CorbisI managed to convince one gullible couple that we were queuing for a one-day sale in the Lacoste store that was right next to the hall of Apple. They joined the queue, which was now tailing around the block, if only for about 10 minutes before realising, much to everyone’s amusement that they’d been had. Oh how we laughed.The hours between 3am and 5am were the worst. We had run out of beer. The last of the steak slices had been dropped on the street and we were all flagging. Someone thought they had some Haribo in their bag, but it turned out to be an empty packet.As the Sun started to rise and 6am came and went things were looking up. Morning was coming. The store was due to open at 8am and the queue behind us was now ginormous.Apple store staff started to arrive. The windows had been covered since the store closed overnight, and at one point someone thought they saw someone moving around in the shop. We later found out that they were rigging the new displays and setting out the new phones.As 8am approached we were shuffled into a formal queue, bottles of water and coffee were handed out and spirits were high. I didn’t quite know what was waiting for us. We were Brits, so surely it must just be an orderly quiet shuffling, credit cards in hand?A countdown started. Inside we could see a long line of Apple employees in branded light blue T-shirts. They lined the store, creating an almost red-carpet-like human channel, in through the door and up the glass stairs to the Genius bar where a huge stack of phones was waiting.The clock struck 8am. The doors burst open and everyone started clapping. Almost 100 blue shirts were applauding us, whooping and yelping with excitement. It was puzzling. Had I just won something? Was there a prize? Were we going to get free phones? Someone shook my hand. Another high-fived me. I must have won something.Applause, cheering and high-fives, but you still have to pay.Photograph: Yoshikazu Tsuno/AFP/Getty ImagesWe bounded up the stairs, hearts racing, eyes wide with the spectacle. I approached the desk and asked for my iPhone 3G in black with giddy excitement.“How would you like to pay?” the Apple store employee asked me.“Wh ... what?” I murmured, suddenly dragged back into the reality that, no, I hadn’t won anything and, yes, I still had to pay a not inconsiderable sum for a new phone that no one had tried yet and could have been awful (it didn’t even have copy and paste). “By card please.”I left the store, back down the glass stairs, through the big crowd, my wallet £500 lighter, my bag one iPhone heavier. I had been there, I had beaten the crowds and I had my iPhone. All it had really cost me in was one night’s sleep.Now the task at hand. Get home without being mugged.In 2013, Samuel Gibbs went to investigate the hubbub at Apple’s Covent Garden store for the launch of the iPhone 5S.
Watching a DJ at work close-up isn’t always the most riveting viewing experience. Unless you’re learning to DJ yourself, in which case it becomes much more interesting and useful.That’s one reason why British startupChew.tvis an intriguing spin on streaming DJ mixes, as seen on sites from Boiler Room to Ministry of Sound, and as heard on services like Mixcloud.The company has described itself “Twitch for DJs”, doing for dance music what Amazon’s live-streaming subsidiary has done for gaming. DJs use it to broadcast live video of their sets to online audiences, usually with a camera focused on their decks.In just a few months since launching, Chew has signed up 4,000 registered DJs who’ve created more than 7,000 broadcasts, with more than 13,000 hours of sets watched so far.Related:Ignite flies the flag for first-time founders and startups beyond LondonThe company, founded by Brits Wil Benton and Ben Bowler, recently participated in theIgnite startup acceleratorin Newcastle, and is now based in London.“We’re just closing our first seed round, and some investors we talk to see it as music/tech – the riskiest thing you can do as a startup – but it’s because it is a risky thing that there’s value to it,” Benton tells the Guardian.“We feel the technology has been there for a long time, but we’re just reaching a point where loads of things are colliding,” adds Bowler.He’s right: faster internet connections, better video streaming technology and sharp growth in the number of people DJing in their bedrooms or at parties all make this a good time to be exploring this particular area.In contrast to established sites, Chew isn’t really about clubs. “Once you’re not in a club with bad lighting and sweat dripping off the ceiling, it becomes more interesting from an engagement point of view,” says Benton.Until now, Chew has been more about people in (usually well-lit and mostly sweat-free) rooms showing off their mixing skills for an online audience, with live conversation accompanying the audiovisual stream.‘A chance to show how you perform’Benton citesa blog post by Josh Elman of venture capital firm Greylock Partnersabout the company’s investment in mobile broadcasting startup Meerkat as evidence of the importance of these social features.“He talked about ‘spontaneous togetherness’ which is a really nice phrase for explaining what this whole cultural thing is. On a digital level, you can engage with anyone doing any kind of cool stuff, anywhere in the world, at any time,” he says.“That’s hugely exciting for us, that we can connect that two-way dialogue. That’s where we’re getting to.”There’s a prominent phrase on Chew’s homepage, “Learn from the best”, which hints at more potential: a site where people don’t just watch and listen to DJ sets, but learn to DJ as well.Related:Free streaming is 'killing music industry': Ministry of Sound boss“We’ve spent the last three months bringing the bedroom DJs on board, but we’re already at the point where what they’re broadcasting is being used as an educational tool. Once we bring the bigger guys on board, the opportunity to watch how those DJs craft their mixes is powerful from both sides,” says Benton.“For a top-level DJ it’s a chance to show how you perform: the craft. And for the grassroots it’s a chance to learn how to mix and be a proper DJ, which is something that can be very expensive if you go to a formal DJ school at the moment.”Chew is already investigating partnerships with those schools, however: it’s already beenfilming at the School of Sound Recording (SSR) in London, and is thinking about how it might expand into pure tutorials content alongside the regular streaming sets.How will Chew make money? Bowler says the company is planning to raise money then focus on growing its community for a year or two, before turning its attention to brand partnerships – astrategy that’s also being tried by Mixcloud.“When we get to the point of having a big, engaged audience, we want to be able to go to brands and pick and choose who we want to work with in terms of collaborating on content,” he says.Chew is also thinking about “Pro” accounts for DJs who want more features, and are prepared to pay for them. Again, something that Mixcloud has tried, as well as music streaming service SoundCloud.Chew could become an educational resource, as well as an entertainment one.But back to that “Twitch for DJs” comparison. It’s a great soundbite, but mightn’t it become a millstone when – as is happening right now – theactualTwitch tries to become Twitch for DJs?Twitch is working with a growing number of DJs and dance musicians, including a recent dealto livestream the high-profile Ultra Music Festival.“It’s very positive for us: it proves that what we’re doing is of interest. If someone like Twitch who’s the biggest player in live video is looking at doing what we’re doing, it validates us,” says Benton.Related:Pacemaker launches iPad DJ app using Spotify as its music source“They’re going after the top-end DJ market – they did Ultra – which proves that those DJs are interested in doing this kind of thing. But what’s confusing from our point of view is that Twitch is the livestreaming platform for gamers, so for them to move into other verticals is to risk diluting their brand messaging.”Bowler agrees. “They’ve led the way, but their strength on the gaming side is they’ve built up personalities and a language in the chat, similar to YouTube personalities. We don’t think that will necessarily translate over to DJs very easily,” he says.“You’re not going to go to the Twitch homepage and see DJs there. So we think we’re in a good position, especially as we’ve built our structure around lower-level DJs.”Benton chimes back in. “The power in the global community is with the bedroom DJs. The top DJs may have the fanbases ... but it’s the amateurs in the bedrooms and at the weekends that make up the community.”Chew’s ambition is to help some DJs on their journey from bedroom amateur to globally-renowned pro. Although to last long enough to see that through, the company will need to successfully navigate the complex world of music licensing.DJ sets are a particular challenge here, when white-labels and mash-ups cause all kinds of headaches in terms of figuring out who to pay and how – as afamous row between EDM star Kaskade and SoundCloudover copyright removals of his uploads showed in 2014.‘We want the artists to be paid’For now, Chew has a “blanket” licence from British collecting society PRS for Music, which will cover the company up until it has more than £200k of annual revenues.“We went to the main rights holders and collecting societies before we launched, probably quite naively, to find out if we can do this in an organised, logical and structured way,” says Benton.“But the legal framework that has existed from the copyright side is so archaic, the framework for doing what we do just doesn’t exist yet. We’ve met with three of the big law firms who specialise in music licensing, and had different feedback from all three about what we should do.”Related:Tidal: 10 things you need to knowBowler stresses that Chew wants to pay the musicians whose music is streamed on the service by its DJs, suggesting that the difficulty of solving the problem of how is one of the exciting things at the startup. “We want the artists to be paid,” he says.Figuring out how to do that is one of the challenges lying ahead. In the near-term, Chew is working hard to help visitors find the DJs and sets that they’d like, while mulling partnerships with other sites and services – for example, internet radio stations who might broadcast their DJs’ sets on Chew.“This isn’t a winner-takes-all game: it’s an ecosystem. And we’re unique enough that we can play in that ecosystem,” says Bowler, who adds that Chew is thinking hard about how it can promote its DJs on services as varied as YouTube, Twitter, Facebook, Meerkat and even Vine.Chew is also hoping to get some big-name DJs on board, with some design changes planned – branded pages for DJs and the ability to take over its homepage, for example – to entice them to give the service a try.“It’s about six weeks until we start having the first massive shows,” says Bowler. “We’re doing five meetings a day with some really amazing DJs, and they all see the value.”
Rumours that Google is looking to buy Twitter propelled the social network’s stock price to a 4% rise on Tuesday, but this isn’t the first time it’s happened.Reports from market analysis firm Briefing.com indicated Twitter had hired Goldman Sachs to fend off two possible takeover attempts, including one from Google. The unconfirmed rumours, on which Twitter declined to comment, led to a 4% rise in its stock.A similar situation arose in January after unsubstantiated speculation of an acquisition by Googleled to a 3.3% risein Twitter’s stock. And that wasn’t the first time Google had been rumoured to be interested in snapping up the 140-character platform either.In February 2011, long before Twitter’s floating on the stock exchange in November 2013, unconfirmed rumours circulated that Google, Facebook and several others had held takeover talks with Twitter foraround $10bn.And in 2009 Google was apparently inlate stage negotiationsto acquire Twitter for around $250m, having just turned down Facebook’s advances, but nothing came of it.Twitter’s worth $34bn and Google has over $60bn in the bankThe situation today would involve much larger sums of money. Twitter is currently valued in the region of $33 to $34bn. The company now generates revenues of over $1bn and its reported 288 million monthly active users send 500m tweets a day with 80% of users active on mobile devices – a potentially lucrative advertising opportunity.For Google to buy Twitter now it would have to pay a healthy premium over and above the current market value, which would put it in the region of $50bn. Google has a sizeable cash stockpile of over $60bn, but it’s not in the same league as Apple’s $178bn and is less than Microsoft’s $90bn. As with most other US technology companies, some of that stockpile is situated outside of America in European, Asian and other countries in which it operates.Buying Twitter would require Google to repatriate a chunk of that cash and therefore pay tax on it, which would eat into its maximum cash buying power. But Google isn’t limited to just buying with cash.Like Facebook’s recent acquisitions, Google could buy Twitter with a mixture of cash and stock. The search company is currently valued at over $360bn.Twitters founders have sold to Google beforeTwitter’s cofounders also have history with Google. In 2003 Evan Williams and Biz Stone sold their blogging platform, Blogger, to Google for an undisclosed sum.A Google acquisition of Twitter is possible, but whether it is likely is unknown. Google has dropped its emphasis on social networking, reducing its push forGoogle+which reached its peak as as thesecond biggest social network in 2013. It has also started to separate products such asGoogle Photos from itand has dropped itsauthorship profiles from search, which was the driving force behind journalists using Google+.Does Google really need another social network to contend with Facebook?
Good news: online video star Hank Green has made around $2m of advertising revenue from the billion views of his videos over the last eight years. Bad news: he spent more than $4m making them.Green isn’t downcast, though: he wants fellow YouTube creators to look beyond the current advertising rates on Google’s service, which he suggests are around $2 per thousand views (CPM, in advertising lingo), and turn to their fans for financial support.In ablog post on Medium, Green outlined why YouTube is currently much less efficient at earning money from advertising than television:“A 22 minute TV program is accompanied by 16 30-second ads, at an average cost of $25 per thousand impressions. That leaves us with a per-minute CPM of around $19. A 5.5 minute YouTube video monetized the same way would make about $100 per thousand impressions. After a billion views, that’s $100,000,000.Related:Amanda Palmer helps crowdfunding firm Patreon reach $2m monthly payoutsGreen wants YouTubers to be aiming much higher, though: “If creators can climb their way to a $1,000 cumulative CPM, a person with an audience of just a couple of thousand people would be able to be a full-time creator.”How? Crowdfunding.This won’t come as a surprise to people who’ve followed Green’s career as one half of the Vlogbrothers with brother John Green, since the brothers launched their own crowdfunding service called Subbable in 2013, thensold it to another, Patreon, in March 2015.Rising production costs made Vlogbrothers’ foray into crowdfunding an inevitability: they effectively produce TV-quality shows but with a fraction of the advertising revenue. TheirSciShowandCrash CourseYouTube shows are now funded by Patreon backers to the tune of, respectively, $16.4k and $25.9k a month.Green sees crowdfunding as the key to expanding the range of shows on YouTube that are profitable enough for their creators to be able to make more of them.“YouTube has helped people create at least three massive genres of cheap-to-produce, high-quality content that viewers really, really love.Video game ‘Let’s Plays’, style tutorials, and direct-to-camera monologues (which we in the biz call ‘vlogs’) all fill those requirements and all score billions of views per month.Other content has been nearly impossible to make work. Narrative content has existed mostly as aspirational, money-losing, pre-pilot pilots for TV shows. Even content that TV people consider dirt cheap (like game shows, talk shows, and reality shows) is hard to produce with online video budgets.”Green wants more YouTubers and production companies to aim for higher CPMs, which he compares to “just every viewer paying an average of $1 per piece of content. That’s not crazy; it’s iTunes”.He described crowdfunding as a “just ask” model where fans of a creator or show will be happy to support it financially, if they’re given the chance.“What excites me most about the ‘Just Ask’ model is that it encourages a different kind of content. Instead of challenging creators to figure out how to get the highest view counts, creators have to puzzle out how to make the most valuable content,” he wrote.“How can I create something that someone will watch and say, ‘I would feel better if I had paid for that.’ That’s a different sort of content, and it especially encourages small-scale niche content.”Crowdfunding on sites like Patreon is just one option for online video creators in 2015, however.Newly-launched service Vessel ishoping to persuade viewers to pay a $2.99 monthly subscriptionin return for getting new videos at least 72 hours before they’re made available for free on YouTube, and has signed up a number of prominent YouTubers to try the model.Another US startup, Victorious – co-founded by YouTube’s former head of creator development and management Bing Chen – isplanning to launch apps for YouTubers including comedian Ryan Higa and boy-band Boyce Avenue, to boost their incomes.Meanwhile, YouTube itself is working hard at drumming up more money for its creator community, withan initiative called Google Preferredthat sells bundles of advertising across its most popular channels to big brands, with the aim of driving rates higher.Related:Inspired by The IT Crowd, MyMusic season two launches on YouTubeYouTube is also planning a new round of investment in popular and emerging channels. “We’ve decided to fund new content from some of our top creators, helping them not only fulfill their creative ambitions but also deliver new material to their millions of fans on YouTube,”wrote head of YouTube Originals Alex Carlossin September 2014.Carloss has since said thatthe latter initiative will launch by the end of 2015with plans to “fund beyond what they are typically able to realise”. YouTube is also dabbling in crowdfunding, with a“fan funding” feature available in some countriesfor viewers to digitally tip creators.Hank Green isn’t convinced that the latter will be a success – “as it’s not part of the traditional culture (and it relies on Google Wallet) no one really expects it to catch on” – but the overall picture is optimistic: YouTube ad rates, whether they increase or not, are far from the only potential source of income for creators in 2015 and beyond.
Hey there, it’s Wednesday!
Jeff Bezos has Amazon, drones, the Washington Post – and now he says he has a liquid hydrogen-powered rocket engine suitable for starting businesses in space.Blue Origin, the e-commerce billionaire’s commercial spaceflight venture, announced on Tuesday it had achieved “acceptance testing” for BE-3, the company’s New Shepherd suborbital system, and would be “modified for upper-stage applications” that will presumably push the rocket into orbit and beyond.Test flights are scheduled to begin later this year, according to Reuters.Dave Sparks, formerly an engineer for defence contractor SAIC, said: “Usually when you’re creating a new part or system, acceptance testing is the last stage of testing, to make sure it’s acceptable to the customer.”The customer, in this case, will be anyone who wants to go into space – Blue Origin’s stated goal is “dramatically lower cost and increased reliability” for space travel, with opportunities for researchers to study their subjects in microgravity, among other concerns.If all goes as planned, the New Shepherd will be a three-person capsule atop a rocket filled with propellant. The next set of propellants to undergo testing will be liquid oxygen and liquid natural gas, in the upcoming BG-4.“Liquid hydrogen is challenging, deep throttling is challenging and reusability is challenging,” said Bezos. “This engine has all three. The rewards are highest performance, vertical landing even with a single-engine vehicle and low cost. And, as a future upper stage engine, hydrogen greatly increases payload capabilities.”Space tourism has grown in popularity and feasibility in the last few years: the interested parties range from PayPal billionaire Elon Musk’s SpaceX to new divisions at established aerospace concerns like Boeing’s CST-100 and Virgin’s Virgin Galactic.
Soon, there won’t be a social app left that Madonna hasn’t used to promote her new album. Live video broadcasting app Meerkat is the latest, following the star’s use of Instagram, Snapchat and Grindr in the campaign for Rebel Heart.“Be here at 10am PST tomorrow for the world premiere of Madonna’s Ghosttown video!” explained a message onMadonna’s official Meerkat profile, which at the time of writing has just under 1,000 subscribers.Meerkat launched in February as the latest app enabling people to broadcast video live from their smartphones to their followers on Twitter. It has since been joined by Periscope, an app owned by Twitter that fulfils the same function.Madonna is the biggest star yet to use Meerkat, after a bruising few weeks for the app, which saw Twitter turn off Meerkat’s access to its social graph, then saw it plummet down Apple’s App Store chart following Periscope’s release.It is unclear how Madonna will use Meerkat to debut a music video as the app works by the broadcaster pointing their smartphone’s camera at whatever they want to stream.If Madonna is able to air pre-recorded footage it will be an interesting departure for Meerkat. Allowing users to stream pre-recorded video would give it different functionality in its battle with Periscope.Already this year, Madonna hasraised a rumpus on Instagramby posting doctored photos of Martin Luther King, Nelson Mandela, John Lennon and Bob Marley;premiered her last video Living for Love on Snapchat; andrunning a contest on Grindrencouraging fans to post their own altered images of the album artwork.Madonna’s Meerkat profile.It’s a sign of the music industry’s keen interest in the popularity of social apps, even – and often, especially – those not specifically focused on music.Related:Why Madonna’s Grindr contest is a savvy appeal to the ‘pink pound’Another artist, Jason Derulo, recently premiered his new video within dating app Tinder, with fans discovering his profile able to swipe right – as they would for a dating match they approved of – to watch Want to Want Me.According to Forbes, more than 1.1 million fans swiped right during the three-day campaign.Madonna’s decision to use Meerkat may come as a surprise to some fans, since she is now one of the 16 co-owners of streaming music service Tidal, which is planning to use similarly-exclusive video premieres to promote itself.Fellow co-owners Beyoncé and Rihanna have already debuted videos on Tidal before other services, butMadonna chose to make a 16-second teaser of the Ghosttown video available on Tidalahead of its full premiere on Meerkat.While less than 1,000 subscribers is a very limited audience on the latter, the video premiere will surely be promoted on other social networks: Madonna has 639,000 followers on Twitter while more than 18 million fans have liked her Facebook page.
An Australian court will assess how a Hollywood producer deals with people who illegally downloaded Oscar-winning movie Dallas Buyers Club amid fears that it used “scare tactics” to bully settlements from suspected pirates.In a landmark ruling on Monday, some of Australia’s largest internet service providers (ISPs) were forced to hand over the names and addresses of more than 4,700 Australian users who allegedly shared the 2013 Oscar winner on filesharing services including BitTorrent.An Australian justice will personally decide how much money Voltage Pictures will be able to demand from individuals. “I will also impose a condition on the applicants that they are to submit to me a draft of any letter they propose to send to account holders associated with the IP addresses which have been identified,” justice Nye Perramsaid. Another stipulation of the ruling was the the identities of the alleged pirates remain confidential.The ISPs – iiNet, Internode and Amnet Broadband and others –refuseda request to hand over the information in October, citing previous lawsuits filed by Voltage Pictures, which had engaged in a practice iiNet chief regulatory officer Steve Dalby called “speculative invoicing” ahead of the lawsuit.During the case, iiNet’s lawyers accused Voltage of using discovery letters to threaten those who had infringed its copyright into making settlements. “These are not scare tactics, these are facts,” Michael Wickstrom, a royalties expert and vice president of Voltage Pictures, told the court.Voltage is a smaller, independent film company – recent releases have included Don Jon, Killer Joe and Thanks for Sharing. It has aggressively pursued copyright infringement cases in the US and Denmark.In the US, aided by American ISPs, Voltage’s attorneys have been lining up names and internet protocol (IP) addresses of people who had illegally downloaded the movie and filing suit against them citing a 1976 statute that allows for a fine of up to $150,000. The defendants haveusually settled out of court for around $5,000, occasionally more.“Once those details are handed over, we expect these customers to face letters of demand, such as those we’ve seen overseas. In some instances these letters have demanded settlement amounts of up to $7,000,” Dalby wrote inthe 22 Oct postspeculating on the possible outcomes of the Australian lawsuit. Perram said he hoped to prevent egregious demands from the producer, while also curbing the high level of piracy in Australia.Peer-to-peer sharing services like BitTorrent link together identical files across computers and download them in chunks from multiple machines at once in order to avoid the need for a central server. BitTorrent software automatically sets downloaded files to upload (or “seed”) to other users searching for those files, thus turning many who use them into potential defendants in piracy cases.Some users may have unknowingly allowed illegal distribution of the film simply by not password-protecting their routers (the IP address is the same whether or not your torrent-happy neighbor steals your WiFi).Movie studios have responded forcefully to the increase in piracy, but many simply request that the downloader/uploader’s ISP serve their users witha written letter of warning. By contrast, some adult film distributors including the Io Group have aggressively pursued the lawsuit strategy with great success (andno little backlash), to the extent ofproviding convenient PayPal and credit card optionsin letters notifying defendants of the suit.However, the negative PR associated with suing potential customers has generally chilled the number of piracy cases brought against consumers – in 2008, the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) announced that it wouldno longer sue individual users.Other ISPs have opted (with the government’s blessing, in Canada) to throttle peer-to-peer traffic, slowing down the internet connections of anybody using the internet to access potentially illegal content via those services.
The days of long lines of Apple fans queuing outside stores for days ahead of new product releases could be numbered, if a leaked internal memo is to be believed.Every iPhone and iPad release since 2007 has been accompanied by long lines of expectant fans queuing around the block – often for days and nights – ahead the new gadgets going on sale.Now it seems Apple is making a direct move to stop the long lines and shunt people to its online storefront.“The days of waiting in line and crossing fingers for a product are over for our customers,” Apple’s retail chief Angela Ahrendts said in an internal memo sent to Apple store employeesleaked to Business Insider. “This is a significant change in mindset, and we need your help to make it happen. Tell your customers we have more availability online, and show them how easy it is to order. You’ll make their day.”‘Significant change in mindset’Beyond encouraging online orders, which start on10 April for the Apple Watchshipping on 24 April, Apple’s first smartwatch won’t be available directly from an Apple store in the UK, according to reports.Customers will be able to try on devices in store, but will be directed to kiosks or the Apple website to order their smartwatch. Those looking to pick up an Apple Watch from a store in the US will be able to, but will be discouraged from doing so when buying online.Long queues on launch days, which lead to stores running out of devices, are a mixed bag for Apple’s public image. They stand to reinforce the popularity of the brand, devices and devotion of fans, but those same fans are often derided by the media and the public for being obsessive.Stopping people from walking in and buying devices from stores will also serve to prevent grey market reselling, where people buy devices in countries such as the UK or US where they are on sale and ship them to countries where they have yet to be released.China had one of the biggest grey markets for iPhones until Apple launched in the country with devices that supported the nation’s TD-LTE mobile phone operators, which use a different technology to the majority of the rest of the world.•Apple Watch release signals firm’s transformation into luxury brand
Watchdog groups have accused Google of using “unfair and deceptive marketing practices” in its YouTube Kids app, arguing the app’s video selection includes content parents would “reasonably believe their children would not be exposed to”.The complaint to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), filed Tuesday by Aaron Mackey, staff attorney for Georgetown Law’s Institute for Public Representation, argues the service blurs the line between advertising and programming for kids.“Our primary concern is that children are exposed to an endless stream of content that may not disclose that they have certain deals with product makers,” Mackey told the Guardian. “And they just pop up on the screen in front of their kids, who are going to be served a lot of ads and not know the difference.”A Google spokeswoman strongly rejected the assertions. “We worked with numerous partners and child advocacy groups when developing YouTube Kids. While we are always open to feedback on ways to improve the app, we were not contacted directly by the signers of this letter and strongly disagree with their contentions,” she said.Google launched the YouTube Kids app in February, describing it as “the first Google product built from the ground up with little ones in mind”. But the Center for Digital Democracy, the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and several others co-signing the complaint, argue that YouTube Kids mixes and matches advertising and programming in a way that “would not be permitted to be shown on broadcast and cable television”.The complaint is addressed to the FTC, as distinct from the Federal Communications Commission, which oversees communications including broadcasting, cable (but not digital media). While the FCC does not have jurisdiction, despite the fact that some of the programming on the service is repurposed from television, the complaint cites some of the FCC’s rules, noting that the FCC calls this kind of advertising to kids “unfair” and cites psychiatric studies demonstrating that kids lack the ability to tell advertising from programming.Those TV rules, for example, mandate “bumpers” between programs and commercials – the five-second segments that announce that the showwill be right back– while YouTube Kids goes on in an uninterrupted stream.More seriously, the complaint alleges YouTube violates its own advertising guidelines: “Products related to consumable food and drinks are prohibited, regardless of nutritional content,” says the company’sAdvertising on YouTube Kids page,and yet the stream of watchable videos (not the ads, the actual programs) includes a McDonald’s channel, complete with a video starring Mythbusters’ Grant Imahara called “Our Food. Your Questions: What Are McDonald’s Chicken Nuggets Made Of?”A small tag in the corner reads “promotional consideration provided by McDonald’s.” The complaint alleges that this counts as deceptive marketing by YouTube of the Kids app, not to kids, but to parents.The complaint also questions “unboxing” videos – user0generated videos of new products, ranging from iPhones and new toys and sneakers, being opened for the first time. Last year Google said it had received 20m searches for “unboxing.”Google, the complaint notes, “urges advertisers to ‘[c]onsider how unboxing videos might help your brand connect with consumers.’” That kind of content is much harder to regulate that something coming from an established network, or even a studio. That, the complainants say, violates the FTC’s “Guide Concerning the Use of Testimonials in Advertising” (revised as recently as last year to account for massive changes in viewership), which requires that, “[w]hen there exists a connection between the endorser and the seller of the advertised product that might materially affect the weight or credibility of the endorsement (i.e., the connection is not reasonably expected by the audience), such connection must be fully disclosed.”Regulators have become increasingly concerned about advertising aimed at children online. Last SeptemberYelp and TinyCopaid $450,000 to settle a complaint with the FTC that they had violated the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act by collecting personal data without explicit parental permission. “The separation principles [between advertising and programming] don’t exist. When you’re a kid, you just think you’re watching My Little Pony 24/7,” said Mackey.
Retweets – they are part of the DNA of Twitter, and a big part of its success. In fact, one might say retweets are the whole point of Twitter, given that the platform’s modus operandi is to impart information, share content and jokes, and generally connect.The poorer cousin of the retweet is the “quoted tweet”, used when, instead of retweeting an original tweet, a person wants to add comment or opinion.This can be a very positive thing – for instance when a user is explaining why they find the content interesting – but can also be a source of great frustration.We’ve all felt the pain of composing an amazing tweet, and rather than watching the retweets roll in, receive notifications of people endlessly quoting the tweet. Especially irritating when the only addition is a redundant “RT”.Well, now Twitter has altered its “quote tweet” function, making it much more substantial.The change wasannouncedvia Twitter’s official account and demonstrated with a gif.Say more with revamped quote Tweet! Rolling out on iPhone and web, coming soon to Android.https://t.co/Bcl3E859nepic.twitter.com/fioAPPi0nW&mdash; Twitter (@twitter)April 6, 2015Rather than the “quote tweet” button just being a quick shortcut to copying and pasting the text and media content of a tweet, the new function embeds the original tweet a user is quoting. Make sense?In truth, this isn’t all that much different from when Twitter rolled out, a few months ago, the ability to embed tweets as cards within tweets, via copying a link. But embedded tweets were viewable only on the mobile app and not web.Twitter tunnelsSo, what does this altered function mean? Well, within hours, creative tweeters had already created the concept of “Twitter tunnels”.Otherwise described as people falling down wormholes of quoted tweet upon quoted tweet, like climbing the never ending staircase of anEschercreation, or becoming wrapped up in a chain email.New Twitter retweet function as designed by Escher#twittertunnelspic.twitter.com/IU1S5KFObz&mdash; HannahJane Parkinson (@ladyhaja)April 7, 2015This means the “back” button will certainly see a lot of action, as users attempt to clamber back out to breathe, eventually arriving at a timeline.However, it turns out “Twitter tunnels” can actually be put to some good use. Within hours of the function launch, users were joining up to tell tweet-by-tweet stories.Each new section of the tale embedded in another tweet. An example is below:Twitter tunnel spooky story, take 1:https://t.co/eL942AZxxz&mdash; alix (@alixmcalpine)April 7, 2015Stories told in the medium of tweets aren’t new – novelist David Mitchellwrotethe first short story on Twitter. Prolific tweeter and authorTeju Colefamously wrote an essay on immigration,A Piece of the Wall, via Twitter.The Guardian even has its ownTwitter Fictionseries – challenging authors to come up with a narrative within the 140 character limit (think along the lines of Hemingway’s “For sale: Baby shoes, never worn.”)Of course, people have actually found numerous ways to beat Twitter’s character limit using the likes ofTwitLonger(essentially a link to an outside web page).Also of use is the “screenshort”, AKA a screenshot of a passage of text, particularly useful for when one wants to quote a large section of an article.The screenshort is starting to be used by news outlet social accounts in order to promote content. It’s also utilised by teenagers to take a screenshot of the notes app on their phones, to expand on their thoughts.But what the new “quote tweet” button does is essentially extend Twitter’s character limit – allowing 116 characters in addition to the embedded tweet.ReactionSo what has the reaction been to the new “quote tweet” function? Mostly positive – people are enjoying the Twitter tunnels and the possibilities they offer.However, others find the concept of the “tunnels” irritating and have voiced concerns that Twitter is moving away from the simplicity that made it attractive in the first place.The danger is that Twitter’s UI becomes an acid trip of quoted tweets.Though it will be useful for storytelling and to put tweets into context, arguably users have already managed to do this by manually replying to their own tweets to create a chain.This means followers can more easily follow a tweeter’s train of thought, but it doesn’t exactly haveStorifyquaking its boots.When you quote tweet and the tweet gets deleted the tweet no longer lives😒pic.twitter.com/KHPfc0xe0g&mdash; April 22nd (@JeffChangx)April 7, 2015Still, it offers opportunities for narratives around particular events, whether that be TV shows, elections or other world developments.There does seem to be one clear downside of Twitter’s new function, however: what happens when an original tweet is deleted?So far, this results in an ugly “this tweet is unavailable” message where the original tweet is supposed to be embedded.So remember, if a politician makes a mortifying mistake on Twitter: make sure to take a screenshot.•Turkey bans Twitter in bid to block ‘propaganda’ pictures of kidnapping
New research by Stanford University into aluminium batteries promises to produce cells that are big enough for a smartphone and charge in just 60 seconds.The new high-performance aluminium-ion battery is the first using the metal – more commonly found in aircraft and car bodies – to demonstrate long life and fast charging. It does this using a graphite electrode. Previous aluminium batteries have suffered from poor life, failing after 100 recharge cycles.Stanford’snew batterycan be recharged around 7,500 times. Typical lithium-ion batteries used in everything from smartphones and laptops to electric cars last around 1,000 recharge cycles.A first look at the new batteryBut the new aluminium-ion batteries are far from being available for commercial use in electronics, producing just half the voltage of lithium-ion batteries.“I see this as a new battery in its early days. It’s quite exciting,” said Ming Gong, one of the authors of the study published in Nature. “Improving the cathode material could eventually increase the voltage and energy density. Otherwise, our battery has everything else you’d dream that a battery should have: inexpensive electrodes, good safety, high-speed charging, flexibility and long cycle life.”The new aluminium battery technology is not the only one vying to solve our battery life crunch – the primary issue holding back current electronic devices.Nanotube-based batteriesCurrent lithium-ion battery technology will reach its limit soon – there is only so much that can be achieved through tweaking the battery chemistry of a lithium-ion system – but a change in the way the electrode is made, using nanotechnology, could breath new life into lithium. By making the electrodes out of nanotubes researchers have dramatically increased the rate of recharging the batteries, reaching a 70% charge in just two minutes.Some researchers have used both silicon in place of graphite for the new electrodes. Others, including a team from the Nanyang Technology University in Singapore have patented the use of titanium dioxide nanotubes, which has been licensed for commercial development and could be available within two years.Pros:fast charging, longer recharge life (ie the number of times it can be recharged)Cons:similar energy density to current batteries means similar battery lifeSulphur-based batteriesResearch focused on squeezing longer battery life out of the same-sized batteries has experimented with different battery chemistries. One promising candidate is the sulphur-based battery.Lithium-sulphur batteries promise up to five times the amount of energy per gram as current lithium-ion technology. Once commercially available lithium-sulphur batteries are more likely to have an energy density closer to twice that of current batteries, but that would enable twice the battery life for devices and cars.The technology has been in development for over 20 years, and at least one company is aiming to have lithium-sulphur batteries powering electric cars by 2016, but batteries designed for portable devices such as smartphones are likely to be many years away.Pros:at least twice the battery lifeCons:low recharge life, volatile chemistry, similar recharge timesMetal-air batteriesMetal air batteries replace the cathode, which is typically graphite in traditional lithium-ion cells, with oxygen in the air. This saves weight and provides a cathode that can simply be replaced with fresh air that is essentially free.Saving weight means a higher energy density, which some researchers have claimed to be similar to petrol in these batteries, meaning longer life, making it ideal for electric cars. Tesla has a patented system for integrating metal air batteries into its electric cars, while an electric Citroen C1 was driven 1,800km on a single charge using the technology.But degradation issues, problems recharging them and poor recharge life cycles have hampered commercialisation of the technology.Pros:very high energy density means fantastic battery lifeCons:difficult to recharge, poor recharging lifeSolid-state batteriesSolid-state batteries remove the liquid electrolyte required by most other batteries to transfer ions between electrodes and generate electricity. In doing so they have a much higher energy density.Battery firm Sakti3, which recently saw investment and a commercial partnership with British vacuum firm Dyson, claims its batteries could store up to twice the energy and therefore battery life as current lithium-ion batteries.Pros:twice the battery life, safer, could be made into different shapes and sizes, more environmentally friendlyCons:not manySupercapacitorsCapacitors are used in all kinds of technology, but commonly in devices that need a lot of electricity in a very short space of time, like a flash or a sub-woofer in a car. They charge in seconds but release all that charge in one go.A supercapacitor works in a similar manner, charging in seconds but releasing its energy more slowly, like a battery. Current research using graphene promises supercapacitors that charge in about 16 seconds and can be recharged over 10,000 times. But even the best supercapacitors can only store energy in densities about the same as current lithium-ion batteries.Pros:almost instant charging, very long recharge life, potential for use as a secondary electricity storage device in electric carsCons:low energy density, therefore lower battery lifeNew battery technology is coming and could be in electric vehicles before the end of the decade, but it could be several years before cells fit for use in portable electronics make our smartphones last more than a day.
Reddit chief executive Ellen Pao may havelost her gender discrimination lawsuitagainst venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins, but she is optimistic that the case will have played a part in encouraging women to speak out about unequal treatment at work.In her first detailed interview since seeing a jury rule against all four of her claims against her former employer,Pao told the Wall Street Journalthat she thinks more women feel confident enough to raise these issues, while warning that there is much more work to be done to solve them.“I think it’s an issue of education and making people aware of it. Women who felt like they were uncomfortable before, that there was something that just wasn’t right, are hopefully now more comfortable pointing it out. They’re now able to point to discussions and research about it,” said Pao.Related:Ellen Pao lawsuit loss will not slow fight for gender equality in Silicon Valley“I’m definitely seeing a lot of conversations on Twitter, in the press, in different areas. I think it’s something that men are starting to notice, too. A man reached out to me and said: ‘Thank you for highlighting this issue. I’m seeing it now, and I never saw it before’.”Since the jury’s decision on 27 March, former employees atTwitterandFacebookhave filed their own gender discrimination lawsuits, while the debate sparked by Pao’s case about Silicon Valley’s approach – and that of the wider business world – to women has continued.In the interview, Pao suggested that while the most overt sexism may have been tackled in many workplaces, the problems that remain may be just as challenging to solve.“I think we have moved through a lot of the really blatant issues that are clear-cut and now we’re getting to harder issues. When you look at the overall experience of women in the workplace, they are not succeeding, and that seems pretty clear-cut to me. So how do we fix that problem?” she said.Pao hopes that men will enthusiastically join the conversation about gender discrimination, rather than avoiding it.“I do think men need to be part of the conversation. And I think it has to be a conversation where men can learn from it, and part of that is by being part of it and engaging in it,” she said.“You see men who will ask their wives, or they’ll ask their sisters or they’ll ask their co-workers who they know well. I think it starts out with those relationships where you feel comfortable, and it moves out from there as you become more aware about these issues.”One of the key issues raised during Pao’s case was about women’s behaviour in the workplace being scrutinised in a different way to men, often leading to them being accused of being either too aggressive or too meek – while male colleagues might be celebrated for the former.“Women get criticised on both ends, and you have this needle that you have to thread, and sometimes it feels like there’s no hole in the needle,” said Pao.“From what I’ve heard from women, they do feel like there’s no way to win. They can’t be aggressive and get those opportunities without being treated like they’ve done something wrong.”As the dust settles from the case, Pao is concentrating on her role as chief executive of online community Reddit, where she says she is practising what she preaches in order to foster a positive environment for women.“It’s an opportunity for me to try to put in things that I think are going to create this equal opportunity environment for everyone,” she said, explaining that this includes changes to Reddit’s recruitment process.“Men negotiate harder than women do and sometimes women get penalised when they do negotiate. So as part of our recruiting process we don’t negotiate with candidates,” she said.“We come up with an offer that we think is fair. If you want more equity, we’ll let you swap a little bit of your cash salary for equity, but we aren’t going to reward people who are better negotiators with more compensation.”How about the community itself? While Reddit is starting to “weed people out” in its recruitment process by asking them for their views on diversity, the actual site represents the whole, sometimes-toxic spectrum of opinion.Pao has overseen changes including banning “involuntary pornography”, but says that she is taking care to balance privacy with free speech on the platform.“One of the values is privacy. Another of the values is free speech, or an open platform for speech. Another one is the safety of our users, and people off the platform,” said Pao.Related:Reddit: can anyone clean up the mess behind 'the front page of the internet'?The Kleiner Perkins case and Pao’s work as Reddit chief executive has made her a lightning rod for criticism – and abuse – in recent weeks. In the Wall Street Journal interview, she admitted that she had received some hate mail, but that “overwhelmingly” most of the messages had been supportive.“I think everybody has their own perspective, and some people can’t relate to me, and that’s okay,” said Pao.“I think there’s a set of people who are seeing my story as being part of a much bigger story, and being part of their experiences. For me that’s very rewarding. It’s not going to be something for everybody, and that’s fine.”
Islamist hackers seized control of the government’s official air-quality website to post a message criticising Britain for its role in the invasion of Iraq in 2003.Visitors on Tuesday morning to the UK-Air website, part of the Department for Food, the Environment and Rural Affairs, were greeted with a black background with a a large portrait of the former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein.Beneath it a message in broken English read: “It’s time to remind the British government what you did with Saddam Hussein will not forget. And we are ready to sacrifice with everything, as not to give up Iraq and stay alert for the coming…”Twitter users noticed the hack, claimed by a group calling itself the Moroccan Islamic Union-Mail, as early as 7am. By 8am the message had been removed and replaced with a holding page.Moroccan Islamic Union-Mail appears to style itself as an Islamist version of the Anonymous hacking group.A Defra press officer told the Guardian that the department was “aware” of the hack but could provide no further details at that time.The hacked page included a link to an Arabic-language Facebook page for the Moroccan Islamic Union-Mail. A banner picture on the page showed eight masked men posing in T-shirts bearing the acronym MIUM. A link on the page led to a webpage hosting an Anonymous-style montage video made of news reports on the hackers’ exploits.On the news feed, the group claimed responsibility for a separate hack of Zambia’s state website, as well as posting anti-Israel messages and comments on Middle East politics.The Anti-Defamation League, which documents and counters racism, has previously accused MIUM of hacking on behalf of theIslamic Stateterrorist group. MIUM hackers have targeted Jewish websites in the US during the recent conflict between Israel and Gaza, the ADL said in a blogpost, beforeturning their attention to US military-linked websitesin response to the American-led air campaign against Isis which began in December.British forces are also involved in the campaign against Isis militants in Iraq. The backbone of the terror group is formed of Sunni Islamists, but elements of Saddam’s Baathist regime – which was backed by Iraq’s Sunni minority – are also said to support the insurgency.The UK was part of the US-led coalition that invaded Iraq in 2003, toppling Saddam after nearly 24 years in power. The UK’s role in the Iraq war has previously been cited as a justification for terrorist attacks and threats against British nationals.Mention of the Defra hack was first made on Twitter by Jim McQuaid at 7.05am. The UK-Air home page usually publishes pollution forecasts for the coming days and data on the latest pollution levels. Normal service had been restored to the UK-Air site by 8.24am.
Amazon’s newDash button, which will order replacement products at the touch of a button, might well usher us further towards the internet of things (IoT), in which a variety of connected devices talk to each other, quietly doing our bidding.The next step: household appliances that re-order consumables automatically, without the need for a button at all. But what does this universe of connected devices mean for our privacy?Companies have been talking about the IoT for years. There are many possible visions of it. Some think it’s about your smartwatch talking to your car, while your fridge independently talks to the grocery store to order you some more milk.Others have a more pervasive vision of hundreds, perhaps even thousands, of embedded, invisible devices that you touch in some way throughout your day.These could include everything from an embedded sensor in a petrol pump that knows whether you are filling your car with regular or premium, through to sensors in your office building that know where you are and display your files on the nearest screen, through to toothbrushes that know how long and vigorously you’re brushing for.Whichever way you cut it, the IoT is going to be big. In December 2013, Gartner predicted 26 billion devices installed by 2020. That’s not quite on par with Cisco’s 50 billion, but it’s not inconsiderable, given the relative shipments of more traditional devices.The PC age began in 1981, and while they werepredictedto have reached an installed base of 2bn last year, their growth was hindered by tablets and 2-in-1s, which only began shipping in 2010 and of which230mcurrently ship each year. TheGSMA, which charts the growth of smartphones after Apple shipped the iPhone in 2007, says that by the end of this year there will be 2.2bn of them installed worldwide.Clearly, as devices become smaller, they tend to ship more quickly. All of these represent just a fraction of the projected IoT device count within four years. It seems pretty clear that an awful lot of them will be sensors.What will they be sensing? The obvious scenario is health and fitness, thanks to the increasing number of wearable fitness devices on the market. But we are likely to see sensors for everything from public transport passenger counts through to energy meters, medical devices, environmental sensors, home security, parking meters, and vending machines.A Big Brother made of little thingsWhenever someone introduces a pervasive new technology, someone else gets worried about it. With many already worried about surveillance issues, it’s no wonder that nightmare privacy scenarios surrounding the IoT have been popping up.“The scariest thing is that we don’t know what the scariest thing is,” said Geoff Webb, senior director of solution strategy at identity and access management firm NetIQ.The problem with the IoT is that no one quite knows what it’s going to look like. It’s a continuum that things like Amazon’s Dash, connected cars and smart meters usher us along, rather than a state that we suddenly enter. No one really understood how the internet was going to affect things, and the impact of the IoT will probably be more pervasive, rolling out over time, but affecting us more immediately and in more profound ways.One thing we can predict is that an internet of sensors and other devices could generate a vast ocean of information about our activities.“People can pull that information together in ways that are very difficult to predict,” said NetIQ’s Webb.Some rental car firms now include sensors in the vehicles that warn drivers if they are driving too recklessly, based on how quickly and volatile its movements are. Some services are using phone services to do the same. He worries that people might be denied car insurance, for example, based on sensors like these delivering data to interested parties.“The capacity to correlate information is going to change all of those interactions,” worries Webb. “I lose power over a great deal of my life when there’s a massive amount of information over me that I don’t have control over.”What about other breaches, though, that may be more difficult to avoid, or are simply invisible? Could your utility’s smart meter – or yourGoogle Nestdevice – know when you arrive and leave at your home based on energy usage patterns? When your smart bathroom scale beams data to a cloud-based health service, could that data be used by a health insurance provider?Scary scenariosSome of these things may seem implausible, but there are already worrying signs. Smart TVs have been found tocollect a little too much dataabout your viewing habits and files, or simplybeam eavesdropped conversations back to a manufacturer. And US legislators have attempted – but so far failed to enact – the mandatory installation of ‘black box’ recorders in new vehicles.The scary scenarios are legion, and they’re serious enough that government regulators are getting interested. In January, the FTC produced areporton the IoT, highlighting some of the risks, and suggesting some ways to mitigate them.Cora Han, an attorney in the privacy and identity protection division at the FTC, said that companies involved with the IoT should consider “data minimisation” a priority.“Your device may well need to collect information, and that’s fine, but you should be up front about it, and think about if you need to collect all that information, and how you store it, and whether it makes sense to dispose of it when you no longer need it,” she said.The data she’s talking abouthas a monetary value, though, which makes it important to those companies. In many cases, their job is to deliver shareholder value, which means making money where they can.“Many of the reasons that these products are very inexpensive is because part of the business model is the ability to collect and resell your data,” said Chris Rouland, founder and CEO ofBastille, a company that scans for IoT devices and mitigates their security threats. Your sensor-packed wearable device isn’t really the product, he says – you are.Politicians “irrelevant”With that in mind, shouldn’t regulators step in and tighten legislation? The FTC advised against IoT-specific legislation, but called for baseline privacy legislation in the US. In the UK and Canada, such legislation already exists.Forget the law, said Rob van Kranenberg. “Policies are no longer hacking it. Politicians are fully irrelevant,” said the founder of theIoT Council, a loosely-connected group of professionals that consults on the subject. “What are you going to do with innovative startups that disrupt this? Put them in jail? Fine them?”“If we want to steer these developments we have to build a system together in which to harness the new ‘oil’: the data of our citizens,” he said.What does that look like? We need more sophisticated conversations about privacy with the companies harvesting our data from these devices, say commentators. The trouble is, few people seem to have figured out what those interfaces might look like yet. With such a vast amount of data being shared about individuals, trying to set those parameters individually will be tough.James Schmidt, EMEA director of partner product management Intel Security, says it could be transactional, with people agreeing to give up some data to get rewards, say. “We’re already there. It’s just going to be an evolution,” he said, giving fitness wearables as an example. “If you go to a portal to check out how many kilometers you ran, it could say ‘you hit this specific milestone, would you like to get points with this particular vendor’.”Rouland sees privacy in the IoT as equivalent to the ‘organic’ label on food; something that users may pay a premium for, to get peace of mind.“I see an opportunity to pay a premium for retaining my own data, or at least guaranteeing that my data is de-attributed from me,” he said, adding that he’d happily pay his fitness wearable provider another $1.99 (£1.33) a month not to sell his data somewhere else.Giving power back to individualsPaying the vendor not to breach your privacy feels more like a protection racket. Others want to put privacy square back in the hands of the individual, by giving them the power to dictate who can access their data.Usman Haque is the founder ofThingful, which he calls a search engine for the IoT. It documents IoT devices around the world, categorising them by function, so that you search for, say, air quality in Manhattan. Haque says that people should be able to set policies governing which devices can talk to the devices that they own, and what information is shared about them.“I can make data available in real-time to my doctor, but I might delegate access to monthly figures to my mother,” he explains. “And I might be happy to participate in a medical study where I give the years’ aggregate data. So privacy has to be granular.”Haque and Kranenberg are working on a “device entitlement layer”, in the form of theDowse Box. This is a device that plugs into your home network, and allows you to define what connects with it, and how. So, if your new smart meter decides to connect to your utility and tell it things about you, the box would let you know, and give you the chance to do something about it. The team is planning a smart meter device with Dowse integrated in it.Kranenberg sees more utility in such a box than mere data defence, however. “We could build an internet of neighbourhoods platform on these Dowse boxes, where people start sharing music. We could also create a platform for sharing cars, tools, and food – all the things in thesetransition townkind of things that are happening,” he said.A market for personal dataKranenberg envisages a system in which people could auction their data on an IoT version of eBay, selling it to commercial entities if they wish. But he also says they may give access to others who enhance it for them in some way, perhaps even paying those organisations a fee, creating an entire new market for data in which its owners are equal participants and beneficiaries.What kinds of enhancements might those be? Haque dismisses what he calls the “1950s” vision of the IoT, where your fridge orders you milk and chats to your smart watch. Instead, he envisages an IoT with connected asthma inhalers, which log where they are used and contribute this data to a network of other inhalers. An inhaler could then warn its user when they enter a risky area where lots of people have needed to use theirs.So, as often happens in science fiction, we are faced with two possible futures, one dystopian, and one utopian. More realistically, we might get one in which we manage to survive and prosper, in spite of the privacy challenges. So, yes, an Amazon Dash-style IoT predicated on consumption and inaction, but also hopefully a more imaginative one, in which creation and co-operation also have agency.“We are at the beginning of this, and there is an opportunity to set the agenda,” said Haque.The worrying part is that we don’t seem to be setting the agenda very well right now, with our centralized servers, PCs and smart phones. In fact, with security and privacy breaches popping up weekly, and with systematic government snooping, you might argue that we have done a terrible job.Are we equipped to learn from our mistakes and take control of our own data in a world that promises to be saturated with sensors? Perhaps the first step is to be aware of the IoT, and what it can do.
Mobile phone signal not quite as reliable as it should be? Getting a signal strong enough to make a call outdoors normally isn’t a problem, but indoors can be a completely different matter?Wi-Fi calling aims to solve indoor mobile black spots by allowing users to send and receive phone calls and text messages without using the mobile phone network.What does it do?Wi-Fi calling, as the name suggests, routes voice calls and text messages over the internet using a Wi-Fi network, connecting to the mobile phone operator without having to be connected to the network itself.Is that not just Skype?Several apps and services allow users to place calls over the internet (VoIP), and while it has the same effect, Wi-Fi calling is a whole different animal. Skype, for instance, uses a separate number and service and cannot be used for calls to emergency services for instance. Apple’s FaceTime only works between compatible Apple devices and cannot call landlines or other brands of smartphone.Wi-Fi calling replicates all the features and characteristics, including HD calling for smartphones that support it, of a standard mobile phone call using the same number and without relying on the mobile phone network or a separate app.Why should I care?Wi-Fi calling means that users can place calls in mobile phone black spots, as long as they have access to an internet connection.How does it work?The smartphone connects to the mobile phone operator via the internet rather than the mobile phone network, which sounds incredibly simple but allowing that sort of connection requires a new set of technologies.EE, for instance, uses a system called IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS), which essentially allows insecure connections from outside the company’s network acting as an interface between the internet and the mobile phone network, which then carries the call or text message on to the recipient.What do I need to do?The beauty of Wi-Fi calling is its simplicity. It requires no app, no additional number or service and doesn’t cost anything over and above your existing mobile phone contract. Users simply need to check a box on a compatible smartphone and connect to Wi-Fi. That’s it.Where can I use it?Anywhere with a Wi-Fi connection that you can use to get internet access, but primarily work or home Wi-Fi.How much broadband will I need?Voice calls and text messages don’t take up much bandwidth, so a connection in excess of 0.5Mbits per second, should be able to support Wi-FI calling.What if I leave home or the office?When taking a call on Wi-Fi the call is limited to that network. If the Wi-Fi drops out, when the user leaves home and the range of the network for instance, the call will drop too. There is no seamless handover between Wi-Fi and the mobile phone network for voice calls.When can I get it?EE’s Wi-Fi calling launches today. Other UK mobile phone operators are likely to follow in the near future.On which devices does it work?Not all smartphones support Wi-Fi calling. EE’s service is available on Apple’s iPhone 6, 6 Plus, 5S and 5C with a software update and will launch on Samsung’s new Galaxy S6 andS6 Edge, as well as Microsoft’s Lumia 640 from 10 April. Several other devices, including the Samsung Galaxy S5, will come at a later date.What are the alternatives?Other British mobile phone operators offer similar services using apps, which have advantages and disadvantages compared to Wi-Fi calling but are not baked into the smartphone phone dialler and services.Three’sinTouch appfor Android and iPhone allows Three customers to place calls and send text messages through the app when connected to Wi-Fi but not the mobile phone network. Like EE’s Wi-Fi calling, the inTouch app only works within the UK, but will work when connected to portable hotspots for other mobile networks.O2’sTU Go appis slightly more advanced. Available for the iPhone, iPad, Android, Windows Phone and Windows, TU Go allows O2 customers to place calls, send texts and check voicemail over the internet, but will work on non-smartphones including computers and tablets, which wouldn’t ordinarily be able to make or receive calls or messages.TU Go can also be used abroad, and can call multiple devices at the same time.
Unless home is under a rock without an internet connection, it’s likely you’ve heard ofPeriscope.The new live-streaming app, launched at the end of March byTwitteras acompetitor tokiller ofMeerkat, has caused a flurry of excitement.It’s not that live-streaming is new –UstreamandJustin.tv(RIP) have been around for years – but the availability of the medium on portable devices seems a game changer.I’ve been playing around with the app and have sussed out its user base. So,  here are 10 other scopers you’re likely to encounter.1. The journalistJournalists and news outlets have been quick to jump on Periscope in a way they didn’t do withMeerkat, despite the interest the latter app caused among tech-heads in the run-up toSXSW.Perhaps this is to do with Periscope’s ostensibly easier-to-use interface (UI), but is probably more to do with Twitter’s adeptness at sending out press releases.So far,The Verge,The Guardian,Sky Newsand theBBChave already broadcasted using the app, and presenterKay Burleyused itbehind the scenesof ITV’sLeader Debatesin the UK.2. The citizen journalistWill Periscope transform news though? It’s thequestioneverybody is asking. And by “everybody”, I mean journalists, obviously.There’s no denying that the impact Periscope and Meerkat could have on citizen journalism is exciting. Who knows how useful the apps might be in a hard-to-reach location, or during a rapidly developing disaster?We have already seen Periscope come into play with theNew York City fire last week(600 viewers), and journalism schoolPoynterhas just publisheda pieceon app best practice.Connection speeds might be a problem, however, as seen with the Periscope stream dedicated to discussing how Periscope streams would change journalism. Meta.News is just now reporting Manhattan *3 alarm building explosion - I saw live long ago on#Periscopepic.twitter.com/uWAwmwibfX&mdash; Ed Brophy (@BrophE)March 26, 20153. The pervertUsers making sexually suggestive comments to a young girl.Photograph: Periscope screengrabSerious point, here. What are Twitter going to do about the vast number of men (#notallmen), who are going to abuse the app to hit on women or make misogynist and/or overtly sexual comments?There’s even a term for how long it takes a dude to get his dick out in front of a low-res camera on any emerging internet platform. It’s called “time to cock” (TTC), and is the priapic relation ofGodwin’s law. So, is it only a matter of time before Periscope becomes a handheldChat Roulette?It probably goes without saying that sooner or later, Periscope pornographers will arrive on the scene, hot on the heels of adult moviesshot with drones.But of more concern is how Twitter will manage the creeps. A colleague and I were shocked to find a 13-year-old girl showing off her gymnastic skills being inundated with explicit comments from men.Which I guess leads us onto another type of scoper one will encounter: The Child You Desperately Want to Protect.4. The guy staring into his fridgeA trope that seems to have emerged is people sharing the contents of their fridges, like some sort of Z-list version ofMTV Cribs. I’m going to call these people “fridgers”.Imagine:Gwyneth Paltrowopening the door of a Smeg to reveal one stick of celery and a vomit-coloured smoothie.My personal favourite twist on this particular theme was the guy who live-streamed his decision making process of which soda to purchase from a vending machine.However, there is a tenuous connection from fridge voyeurism to something a bit more practical: I have seen people providing step-by-step cooking tutorials using the app. As someone whose culinary skills bring to mind Bridget Jones and herblue string soup, this could be quite a useful thing indeed.5. The reviewerLittle boxes, little boxes,sang Malvina Reynolds– little did she know that 50 years later millions of people would spend their time watching people onYouTubeunpackage toys and products in a phenomenon known as “unboxing”.Unboxing and reviewing could become very popular on Periscope; it’s a good example of how the app could serve a very useful purpose, allowing consumers the chance to ask exactly the questions they want and get a real-time response (without being pressured by a store clerk to buy a product).The Guardian has already used the app to deliver a review of theSamsung Galaxy S6 Edgeand fitness trackers, and we’ll be doing more reviews in this format in the future.LIVE on#Periscope: Misfit Shine and Jawbone Up Move - hands on - ask us questions about activity trackershttps://t.co/omoFPVE4Sy&mdash; Guardian Tech (@guardiantech)April 3, 20156. The AMAerWe all know how great AMAs are (AMA stands for “ask me anything”), a fascinating look into a subject or individual we may know nothing about. But, let’s face it, aReddit threadisn’t the most visceral of mediums, and the less said about most “web chats” the better.Periscope, therefore, could offer some real headway when it comes to shaking off ignorance. One of the most popular AMAers I’ve come across on the app is a blind man who answers genuine questions from users with warmth and humour and informative fact. More please.7. The petrolheadThere definitely seems to be a trend for drivers periscoping their wheels, which as well as raising some significant safety concerns, might possibly offer some options for Jeremy Clarkson’sfuture career.Thus far I’ve watched guys (mostly guys) drive down autobahns and highways and country lanes. This is mildly interesting if: a) you’re interested in the specs of a certain car, or b) the scenery is particularly beautiful. But a shaky shot of a glovebox from the perspective of a bored passenger isn’t entirely thrilling tbh.8. The cute petThis pug – both tired and famous.Photograph: Periscope screengrabParticularly popular so far are mainstay internet favourites: pugs and cats. Cat streams consist of felines curled up on laps, heavily purring into the mic, to a background soundtrack of owners saying “it’s a HE”, over and over after scopers write “She’s so cute!!!!” x1000.I also particularly enjoyed the streaming of a sleepy pug in a pub. “Can I have her?” popped up one comment. “No”, the owner replied, before adding: “Because she was very expensive.”9. The drunkWe thought drunk texting was bad. Then there was drunk tweeting. The onset of drunk scoping terrifies us all. I’ve already seen plenty of – I’m gonna go with “inebriated” – users of the app. After all, it’s always 3am somewhere.Still, there’s something to be said for 15 minutes of footage of a person stumbling to his ex-girlfriends house, shouting up to the window that he still loves her, then being confronted by her mum in a nightie (all available to view for 24 hours). What a time to be alive.10. The copyright infringerDiamonds are forever…well, for 24 hours at least.Photograph: Periscope screengrabNeil Diamond. That’s what I’ll tell my grandkids when they ask who was the first artist I saw live on Periscope. Neil was very popular, judging by the prevalence of hand clap emoji and multiple hearts.It’s also beenreportedthatDavid Guettahas already made his Periscope debut. As well as concerts, users are live-streaming straight from cinemas, with arounda dozen streamsofFurious 7thought to have been available to view on Periscope. That’s at least two streams per every person interested in watching that film.I can’t imagine sports fans will be able to resist either, given that vines and gifs of action are alreadypopular. Cometh the Periscope stream, cometh thewrathof Premier League broadcast rights holders.And coming soon to Periscope:Brands, celebrities, gap year travellers, confused parents, broadcast-bombers (think photobombers), bullying, proposals, some kind of world record attempt.•Up Periscope! Twitter’s live-streaming app is exciting us, but here’s how it could be better
The co-founder of notorious piracy site the Pirate Bay has hit out against the “piracy movement” calling it “dead” and “pointless”.Peter Sunde, piracy operator turned commentator, says that spending time and energy fixated on breaking copyright and the illegal distribution of movies, TV shows, music, books and software is a lost cause.“I for one don’t give a flying fuck. I don’t care if the ‘pirate movement’ lives, exists or whatever. I only care about the causes,” Sunde writes on thepiracy news site Torrent Freak. “As I’ve said numerous times over and over again, we lost those battles. Now some people are refusing to give them up, in true Monty Python spirit, claiming that their beloved ‘pirate movement’ is not dead. Mixing apples and pears.”Sunde claims that while the pirate moment is dead, the issues that birthed it in early 2000s haven’t been resolved. He says that the focus has been pulled away from topics such as censorship, access to information and culture and freedom of speech, to wrongly focus on the piracy enabling organisations and “nostalgic icons” such as the Pirate Bay.“Give up the idea of pirates being cool. They’re not. My biggest regret in my part in all of this was to use the word pirate. Not even Johnny Depp can make pirates look cool – and he manages to make cocaine-dealers look awesome. Pirates are awful. And today’s pirates – the ones in Somalia – also lost their battles. Good! So let’s get rid of this stupid culture of having a stupid culture,” writes Sunde.The about-turn by one of the founding fathers of the digital piracy movement follows his disowning of the current state of the site he created when it was raided by Swedish police taking it offline for months. Sunde said at the time that perhaps the Pirate Bay, which was now run by others not connected with the original founders, shouldstay dead and not returnhaving failed in its ideological mission to free content from draconian measures of media companies.Now Sunde is saying the same thing is true of the pirate movement: “Be something more awesome. Be a world citizen that cares about the same topics. Join other parties and make them understand the topics at hand.”“Just don’t sing songs about pirate booty, looting and shit.”
After four years of bloody armed conflict in Syria, hundreds of thousands of civilians have lost their lives and millions have been forced to flee their homes for uncertain futures in neighbouring countries or much further afield. It is a vast, incalculable human tragedy.But how much do you really know about it?Recently, BBC reporter Mamdouh Akbiek and researcher Eloise Dicker, put their knowledge and experience of the conflict into an interactive text adventure,Syrian Journey, which is available for free on the BBC site. Based on dozens of first-hand stories accrued during a BBC Arabic digital project on the region, it starts with the player selling their home in Damascus for a vastly reduced price, before making a series of gruelling decisions about what to do next. Do you flee to Egypt or Turkey? Do you trust the traffickers profiting from the misery of refugees? Do you reach Europe by sea (cheaper) or air (less risky)? Sadly, according to the game, many of those choices will end in tragedy.Both the Daily Mail and The Sun have reacted with bluster and fury to the project. In its story on Monday, the Mail claimed that BBC bosses have been “slammed” for depicting the humanitarian tragedy in a game. The article quotes a Middle East expert who states “the decision of the BBC to transform the human suffering of literally millions into a children’s game beggars belief.”Mostly, of course, this is down to a misunderstanding about what games are – or can be. It’s telling that the Mail’s expert refers to Syrian Journey as a “children’s game” despite the fact that no such claim is made on the game’s home page. Indeed, it is placed in the site’s news section, and is clearly labeled as a news-based interactive experience.The inference is that all games are for children, and that this is not a medium that can support or explore serious subject matter. It is, in short, an old-fashioned moral panic, a dated reaction to a medium that has been maturing for over 40 years. Indeed, interactive news games have been around for over a decade, ever since web-based platforms like Flash have allowed developers to quickly develop and distribute topical interactive experiences. A glimpse at the work of studios like Molleindustria and Persuasive Games shows how subjects like fast food production and airport security can be effectively analysed and expressed in game form.Ex-BBC journalist Janet Jones is now a professor in journalism and dean of arts and creative industries at London South Bank university. For the last 15 years she has been studying the evolution of journalism, from print, through broadcast and into the digital era. She’s not surprised that tabloid news sources would take such a stance.“The idea that in the future, news will be played rather than read is quite hard for some people to think about,” she says. “If you look at the history of journalism, whenever a new platform comes online, whether that’s been radio, television or the internet, you’ve had people saying that news could never migrate. The idea of television news caused a huge moral panic. The BBC was worried about influencing viewers in a way that would undermine the serious discuss of news culture. The idea of an anchor person was problematic – what if they made a particular expression while saying a phrase? How would that translate into the way the public received that news? They were worried about how a visual medium could communicate the discourse of news.”Now, however, most key news organisations are exploring the possibilities of interactive storytelling. Several major European news corporations have taken part in news hackdays in Cologne and Amsterdam, where experimental news games were produced over weekend sessions; meanwhile Buzzfeed already has a game development studio working on topical projects.Related:Gaming the news: why today's hack events are tomorrow's headlines“Games have really matured as a form in the last few years,” says Tomas Rawlings ofAuroch Digital, a Bristol-based developer that specialises in news games, and has produced its own exploration of the Syrian conflict,Endgame Syria(and has also made games for the BBC). “We’re seeing them being used in health, education, training and in simulation. So the idea that games must equal fun and so trivialise a topic is really out of touch. Games offer a range of ways of taking on a topic that linear forms can’t – putting you in the shoes of another person being one advantage; which this game does.”Over 33 million people in the UK now regularly play games, according toresearch by the Internet Advertising Bureau: the figures are similarly high in most developed countries. Games have become pervasive – and more importantly to a generation of teenagers, they represent our digital era. Through tablets, smartphones and social media, children now expect to be able to interactive with what they see on screen. They understand that games are a medium of communication, not just of entertainment. There is a vast difference in tone and nuance between, say, a blockbusting mega-release like Grand Theft Auto, and a title likePapers, Please, a game that beautifully and engagingly explores the idea of immigration politics. Like every other artform, from poetry to film, games are capable of nuance and subtlty.Syrian Journey is a very simple but very direct exploration of the country’s refugee crisis, but it houses the issues in a compelling and involving format. It is a digestible introduction to the concept of trafficking, and the desperate uncertainty of migration. (The Guardian launchedits own interactive gamein 2014, in which users assumed the role of a Syrian asylum seeker navigating the difficult entry into Fortress Europe.)According to Jones, this is not something that can be shut down. It is something that’s inevitable as we move from linear to interactive media.“You can’t stop a medium that now fundamentally underpins all communication in our society today,” she says. “You can’t cut off interactive media from the news discourse. It’s a misunderstanding that all games are frivolous and that’s all they can be. For years, interactive simulation experiences have been used in the training of pilots and in the military, they’re the way scientists explore how something may work. It’s an engrossing and intellectually challenging experience when you game an experiment – there are many scenarios underpinning every decision.“My children expect media to be interactive. I watch what they get from Buzzfeed, which is now investing in deeper investigative journalism, and I understand that interactivity is who they are, it’s how they engage with the world. My ten-year-old has probably never watched television – I expect a lot of children are the same. We can’t put this genie back in the bottle, we can’t make them interact with media in the way that I did.”Jones is now working on establishing the sorts of codes of conduct that will be needed as games emerge as a stable and conventional news medium. There will be outrages and mistakes on the way, as there have always been when new media channels have sought to tell us about the world, but there will also be new possibilities.This is only going to become more pressing, and more fascinating, when virtual reality headsets like the Oculus Rift and HTC Vive make it into people’s homes. Projects like the University of Southern California’sImmersive Journalismexperiment, in which researchers created a virtual depiction of a Syrian street scene during a missile attack, hint at the power and potential of placing us directly within news stories. Immersion, participation and direct visceral experience are all becoming part of the news agenda. Now, the response has to be one of preparation rather than knee-jerk terror.“Of course there are pitfalls, there always are with new media,” says Jones. “So lets have a look at those issues and work through them. To respond with moral panic, well,thatis what beggars belief.”
Access to pornography is recurring subject of much debate and strong views, and it’s back in the news again. The Conservatives have vowed to take existing filtering one stage further if they win the 2015 general election – if the party wins they plan to force adult content sites toemploy strict age verificationor be blocked from the internet. But is it possible, should it be done and is such a strict practice really needed?Where we are right nowCurrently UK internet service providers are compelled to provide parental controls that can block access to adult content. On setting up a new home broadband connection in the UK, the bill payer is given a choice: to filter content under various headings, including pornography and piracy sites, or to deliver the internet without filters beyond illegal content.The majority of UK ISPs provide granular controls for filtering various content and sites by type, but it is an active decision that must be taken before internet access is provided.The tools are intended to help parents control access to content, but as with all internet filtering technology there are ways to route around the restrictions.The Conservatives want to take filtering one stage further and force adult content sites to verify age beyond the simple “I am 18 or older” age gates that do not force users to prove that they are as old as they say they are.Any site that does not comply with the age verification restrictions will be blocked from the internet by ISPs in the UK.Isn’t age-restricting online porn a good idea?On the face of it, verifying the age of viewers of hardcore pornography seems like a good idea – the content is designed and produced for adults and most parents would like to prevent their children from viewing it.However, verifying age on the internet is a significant challenge. Most age verification relies on the possession of a credit card, which typically only those over the age of 18 can possess – but those as young as 13 can be issued with a pre-paid credit card, which behaves like a standard credit card but only uses funds preloaded into a virtual wallet.Using a credit card to verify access to pornography also directly links an identifiable person with their viewing habits, while the process typically requires a charge on the credit card to verify possession and is therefore likely to damage adult content sites offering free access.But perhaps the biggest challenge to the Conservatives’ plan is that circumventing age verification and blocking at the ISP level is relatively easy. A similar blockade of piracy sites,including the notorious Pirate Bay, has shown that users are willing to use virtual private networks, proxies andother technologiesto easilyroute around the blockade.Given that many sites are operated outside of the UK and the internet is a non-geographic entity, it is likely that those who cannot verify their age but want to view adult content will find a way of accessing it with little technical knowledge required.Is it right that the government at least tries to implement an age verification system for adult content, and would legitimate viewers of hardcore pornography be comfortable with verifying their age and linking their viewing habits directly to themselves? Will it even perform the job it is supposed to do and prevent minors from accessing the content? And should the government really be doing this or should it be down to the parents to control their children’s access to the internet?Tells us your views in the comments below.
