In February 2013, Opera Software announced that it hadpassed the 300m monthly users milestoneacross its web browsers for phones, tablets, TVs and computers.At the same time, it sprang a surprise by revealing that it was switching from its own Presto rendering engine to the WebKit engine that's familiar from other mobile browsers.The company said at the time that the switch would eliminate duplication of efforts: its engineers could focus less on trying to match WebKit features in Presto, and more on other improvements to Opera's browsers.I sat down with Opera's web evangelist Bruce Lawson at Mobile World Congress to talk more about this, but also about the wider mobile trends that have been driving Opera's growth, and the debate around web standards and native apps."When I joined four and a half years ago, we hadn't got to 100m users. Now there are 300m," he said. "That's big growth, particularly in uncertain economic times. The financials have been good, and the industry has been changing all the time."There have been surprises along the way. For example, the Opera Mini browser, which Lawson says was originally seen as a product for the developing world, turned out to be a big hit with Western smartphone owners as well."The one thing a farmer in rural Bangladesh has with a businessman in Barcelona is shit and expensive connectivity!" he said. "Both ends of the spectrum have the same needs, in that sense."Mobile has been part of Opera's bigger vision around the importance of web standards and interoperability, which Lawson noted is much more a fact of life now, rather than being seen as an "esoteric" campaign."These days, my missus uses Internet Explorer at work, Safari on her iPhone and Opera on the home computer. It's inconceivably stupid if, for example, your bank's website will only work on one or two of those browsers," he says."It's not an esoteric thing about web everywhere. It's just a rubbish consumer experience. People expect that their websites will work across modern browsers, and it really is a crusty old website that doesn't do that."The standards war is won, then? Perhaps not. In ablog post on his personal websiteat the time of the WebKit announcement, Lawson explained how the debate has shifted:"The web needs to win. Browsers are highly interoperable, because all vendors know that if they're not, they risk being overtaken by proprietary platforms. It used to be Flash and Silverlight that threatened the web. Today's threats are proprietary app platforms and locked-in 'eco-systems'. Tomorrow, new threats will rise."At MWC, Lawson told me how he sees the rise of "devices that you can't install other things on" as problematic – or at least devices where the manufacturer (e.g. Apple) sets the rules on what can and can't be installed.Opera, of course, does have its Opera Mini browser available on iOS, albeit conforming to Apple's rules on browser apps that compete with its own Safari.And now WebKit, which powers that very browser. Lawson is enthusiastic about the implications of the switch for Opera and its 300m users."WebKit is the kind of thing we dreamed of building," he said. "It adheres very well to modern standards: it's generally an excellently standards-compliant browser. And there are diverse organisations involved, with the small players playing an increasingly important role."Competing rendering engines, and the impact felt when a company like Opera switches from one to another, are important issues for web developers. Less so for internet users (whether mobile or not) who are choosing between browsers on other criteria."When you buy a car, you don't tend to ask who made the gearbox. If you're a long-distance sales rep, you might choose the car based on how comfortable it is to sit in four hours a day," said Lawson."If you're a petrolhead, you're interested in its nought-to-60 time. If you live in a city, you might be much more concerned with fuel consumption. Each of these people have different criteria, and they're largely not about who manufactured the engine."In other words, switching to WebKit will enable Opera to focus on making more innovative features to follow its speed dials and data compression technology, among others."If you're an engineer spending all of your time coding in order to duplicate something another guy already implemented in another rendering engine, the novelty palls," said Lawson."If you're an engineer and someone asks 'Would you like to do some cool shit, and here's lots of resources to do it', you're going to be a lot happier. Adopting WebKit has freed up loads of the cleverest people in the company to think about those things."Lawson said that Opera won't keep all this innovation to itself. The company contributed a small "symbolic" patch to WebKit on the day of its announcement, and will be adding others in the months to come.Do regular mobile users care about the web standards debate? Which sounds like a rude question, but isn't meant as such: it certainly affects them and their usage of devices, but do they understand why Lawson and his peers see it as so important?"If you talk about people who care about, say, Ubuntu being open and about open source, they're not consumers. Those are mega nerds and I'm proud to be one!" he said."If you mean my mum or missus, no, they don't know the terms interoperability and open standards. What they do know is the fact that when they go to a website on Opera, IE and Safari, it works. That's what standards give consumers, and that's what they notice."Lawson pointed to the explosion in connected devices within the home as being an important factor here – as I wrote this interview, NPD Group has just released results of a survey suggesting the average internet-connected US householdnow has 5.7 connected, app-capable devices."There's a PS3, Wii, laptops, smartphones, a smart TV, internet radio and then all the stuff I've got for work," said Lawson. "And of course, they all need to talk to each other."It feels like an exciting time for Opera, with mobile growth, the WebKit switch, anew Android browser beta, and its recentacquisition of a former competitor Skyfire, which had pivoted towards mobile video optimisation.iOS and Android may be the kingpins of the smartphone world in early 2013, but the efforts of Opera (and Mozilla, of course, with its Firefox OS) shouldn't be over-simplified as an attempt to beat those big guns.It's as much about keeping up the pressure on them to ensure the web platform remains open and becomes ubiquitous. Or as he puts it at MWC: "The standards discussion is still vital. We need interoperability to move the web forward and keep it as open as we need."
Until the moment the FBI burst through his door, it had been much like any other day for Barrett Brown.The 31-year-old writer and activist, closely affiliated to the Anonymous hacking collective, had been joking around late at night in an internet webcam chat room with a few friends. But the conversation abruptly halted when Brown's video feed blacked out. Amid a flurry of commotion and cries of "get down," a troupe of armed agents surged into his apartment in Dallas, Texas, and handcuffed him face down on the floor.Since that evening, on 12 September last year, Brown has been in a Texas jail awaiting a looming trial that could land him several decades behind bars. He stands accused of committing 17 offences in total, including aiding and abetting aggravated identity theft, making internet threats, and retaliation against a federal law enforcement officer. But it is no ordinary, open and shut case. It is a bizarre saga that involves a web of secrets, scandals, covert informants and some of the most widely publicised computer hacking conspiracies in recent history.US authorities have made it clear inindictments lodged against Brownthat they view him as a menace to society – an anti-government anarchist agitating for violent revolution. But supporters claim he is being subjected to heavy-handed prosecution, comparing his plight to that of Matthew Keys, the Reuters social media editoraccused last week of conspiring with Anonymous, and Aaron Swartz, the prominent internet freedom activist whocommitted suicide in Januarywhile facing a host of controversial hacking charges. In reality, neither side is the full story.Brown, just short of 6 feet tall, skinny with sandy brown hair, grew up in an affluent part of Dallas County, the son of a wealthy Texas real estate developer. He is a somewhat eccentric character – a college dropout firebrand with a history of drug addiction and a penchant forranting, red wine and cigarettes.Before he crossed paths with the FBI, Brown was a prolific writer who had contributed to publications including Vanity Fair, the Guardian, the Huffington Post and satirical news site the Onion. He had a short stint in politics as the director of communications for an atheist group calledEnlighten the Vote, and he co-authored a well-received book mocking creationism,Flock of Dodos, which the Harvard law professor Alan Dershowitz compared to works by celebrated authors Thomas Paine and Mark Twain."I really just wanted to write humour and was absolutely on track to doing so until a couple events and thoughts in 2009," Brown told me in August last year, shortly before his arrest. What changed his trajectory was that he immersed himself in what he would sometimes jokingly term "this computer shit" – a strange and chaotic world of online activism.There were a number of factors involved, each of them closely connected. It began when Brown hatched the idea for an internet thinktank he namedProject PM, in 2009, dedicated to investigating private government contractors working in the secretive fields of cybersecurity, intelligence and surveillance. Then, in 2010, WikiLeaks published thousands of classified US government documents. And at around the same time Anonymous exploded onto the world stage, attacking the Church of Scientology and defending WikiLeaks by declaring cyberwar on payment processors like Paypal and Visa, which had blocked the whistleblower website's funding sources after pressure from US politicians.Brown saw a conflation of interests between Project PM, WikiLeaks and Anonymous. He believed WikiLeaks was doing a "tremendous service to humanity" by releasing classified government information, and he was inspired by Anonymous, which he viewed as "unprecedented" because of the way it brought people on the internet together as a force for political change.Before long, Brown had directly affiliated himself with Anonymous, and by early 2011 he was working alongside some its most skilled hackers as a sort of de facto press officer.  He had no hacking ability, but instead put his flair for writing and rhetoric to use. He would send out missives to his media contacts and do televised interviews in which he would rail against murky government cybersecurity initiatives that he said Anonymous would expose.Some within the diffuse community of Anonymous took an instant dislike to Brown, accusing him of being a paranoid egomaniac who was seeking fame and hogging the limelight. But he rarely gave his critics a second glance because, as far as he was concerned, he had more pertinent issues to deal with – on one occasion embroiling himself in asurreal public spatwith a Mexican drug cartel over a kidnapped activist."We have hit upon things here that really do matter – that haven't been given due consideration," he would bark in his distinctive, rapid-fire baritone southern drawl. "The battlefield is the information flow."Brown's interviews, some aired as "exclusives" on major US TV news networks like NBC, grabbed attention. He viewed himself as engaged in what he would refer to as "information operations," almost like a military propaganda campaign. Hackers would sometimes obtain data and then pass it on to him. He would spend days and nights hunkered down in his small uptown Dallas apartment pouring through troves of hacked documents, writingblog posts about US government intelligence contractors and their "misplaced power"while working to garner wider media coverage.When servers belonging to the American security thinktank Stratfor were infiltrated by the hackers in December 2011, for instance, Brown alerted reporters across the world. Hetold the Timesthat millions of stolen emails, later published by WikiLeaks, could prove to be "the smoking gun for a number of crimes of extraordinary importance". It was mostly hyperbole, of course, but he was a skilled operator. He knew how to get headlines, especially headlines that would rile his adversaries.By becoming a public advocate for hackers implicated in major computer crimes, however, Brown was in extremely shaky legal territory. He had developed a close relationship with an Anonymous splinter group called AntiSec – a volatile, militant outfit that had evolved out of LulzSec, another Anonymous offshoot which took credit for a series of prominent attacks on government websites and multinational corporations over a50-day rampage in the summer of 2011.AntiSec became highly active toward the end of 2011, hacking Stratfor and then later a Virginia-based law firm involved in defending a US marine who had played a key role in a massacre of civilians during the Iraq war. The group dumped thousands of Stratfor customers' credit card numbers online and posted a large trove of emails obtained from the law firm, collaterallyexposing personal detailsabout victims of sexual assault in the process.It appeared that the hackers were becoming increasingly callous and equally careless, veering from the "vigilantes for good" image they liked to project of themselves.Brown said that the credit card leak was a "public relations blunder" that had caused internal conflict between the hackers. One party had been "blindsided" by the data dump, according to Brown, and one of the team quit the group and "went dark" because of it."I wasn't informed of the leak or the nature of the leak," he told me at the time. "I do defend them for it and I will take responsibility for defending them. But if I had my way it would have been done differently. I have no... they don't need me, basically, so they don't ask my opinion."But by then it was too late: Brown's relationship with AntiSec had pinned a law enforcement target on his back. A few months after the hack on Stratfor, he was raided for the first time by the FBI. He was not arrested, but some of his property, including his laptop computer, was confiscated as evidence.On the same day, 6 March 2012, anexplosive Fox News storyouted a core member of both AntiSec and LulzSec as an FBI informant. "Sabu," real name Hector Monsegur, 29, had been "turned" nine months earlier by the authorities after being traced to his New York apartment.In order to escape jail, Monsegur, a notorious loudmouth elite hacker who was considered a ringleader of the groups, had been covertly cooperating with the FBI to help build cases against, and track down, his former partners. It was an extraordinary development that shook the hacking community andmade front page news internationally.Prosecutors, likely assisted at least in part by evidence gleaned by Monsegur, have since accused Brown of aiding and abetting the transfer of the credit card numbers obtained from Statfor's servers in a case of aggravated identity theft. The hackers used the credit cards tofraudulently donate hundreds of thousands of dollars to charitiesincluding the Red Cross and Save the Children.Brown, who denies all of the charges against him, is also accused of a separate fraud-related offence that carries up to 15 years imprisonment for copying and pasting a hyperlink in a chat room to a file that allegedly included within it some 5,000 Stratfor credit card details. This has caused an outcry among some activists, with secret-spilling website Cryptome – which published the same link Brown is accused of sharing –posting a statementlikening the charge to "official chilling of free speech online" and criticising "over-reaching indictments."The spiralling debacle eventually took its toll on Brown. The FBI seizure of his property and the revelation about Monsegur, whom he angrily branded a "degenerate pussy traitor," seemed pivotal.When I spoke to him earlier in 2011 he had appeared optimistic – as if he felt he was riding the crest of an unstoppable wave. He would talk enthusiastically about "spiritual change" taking place due to revolutions sweeping the Arab world, and explain how young Anonymous hackers he knew had assisted activists in the Middle East by providing them with tools to counter government surveillance and tracking. But by spring 2012, his mindset seemed to alter, his mood darker and at times almost anguished."We're losing hope in the idea of trying to convince the American people to pay attention to something that matters," he lamented in April, speaking on the phone from Dallas. "To some extent we are all the enemy, all of us have failed."Brown was frustrated that mainstream media outlets were not covering stories he felt deserved attention. He would complain that reporters would often approach him and ask about the personalities of some of the more prominent hackers, like Monsegur, but ignore the deeper issues about governments and private contractors contained in documents that had been hacked.Complicating matters further, as a recovering heroin addict, Brown was taking Suboxone, a prescription drug used to treat opiate withdrawal. This was having an impact on his health, perhaps amplified by the cyclone of drama engulfing him. One day in August, he told me he had broken down in tears. "All of it gets to be too much," he wrote in an email.Three weeks later, Brown would be in jail. He had posted online a series of videos in which he appeared to issue threats directed at a named FBI agent, whom he accused of harassing his mother, and demanded that his previously seized property be returned.  In the videos he looked frazzled, pale and on edge. He concluded with a lengthy tirade, saying he feared drug cartel "assassin squads" were out to get him and warning government officials not to come near his apartment."I will shoot all of them and kill them if they come," he said, looking blankly straight into the camera. "It was pretty obvious I was going to be dead before I was forty or so – so I wouldn't mind going out with two FBI sidearms like a fucking Egyptian Pharaoh."Within hours of the video appearing, agents charged through his door and pinned him to the floor. For the FBI, it was clearly the final straw. Brown had moved from publishing long blog screeds blasting shady security firms to making violent threats. Hyperbole or not, a line had been crossed. His time was up.When the moment finally came, Brown can't have been too surprised. He suspected that one day he was going to end up carted off to a dingy jail cell, he just didn't know exactly when or in what circumstances. He had accepted his fate fairly soon after becoming involved with Anonymous."I'll probably be charged or indicted," he told me during one interview in early 2012. "I just hope that a trial will bring more media attention to the issues that brought me here in the first place."Brown is due to face two separate trials, the first of which is scheduled to begin on 3 September.Last I heard from him he was doing all right."How's everything?" he wrote in short message. "I seem to be in prison."
The front of HTC's website has a graphic with the legend "the wait is over", showcasing its metal-cased One smartphone with "Ultrapixel" camera. But for those seeking the phone, and for anxious executives looking to regain the company's lost position in the smartphone market, the wait will go on: HTC has delayed the release of the phone, reportedly due to problems in sourcing camera components and metal casings for the device.TheWall Street Journal saysthat Peter Chou, HTC's chief executive, may come under pressure to resign from his board: it claims he suggested he would step down if the new phone is not a success.The delay, which pushes back the release of the phone – announced on 19 February – to the end of March at the earliest in any market, and into April for many markets, will put extra pressure on the Taiwanese company.Update:An HTC spokesperson now says they provided the Guardian with incorrect information about fulfilment of pre-orders. Last week, in response to queries from the Guardian, an HTC spokesperson said: "We will start fulfilling pre-orders by the end of March in certain markets and will roll out product to more markets as we approach April."The spokesperson repeated this statement on Wednesday morning.But later on Wednesday, HTC's spokesperson said that they should have said that some pre-orders started being fulfilled from mid-March - which is why some customers already have the phone. We are seeking clarification on which models have been delayed. Some sources are suggesting that the silver models are shipping on time but that the black models are delayed. We do not have any confirmation of this.Update:in a statement on Wednesday afternoon, after this story had been published, HTC said: "The HTC One will start rolling out to customers from mid-March 2013 with our biggest priority being to get the device to people both quickly and efficiently."HTC has slipped down the rankings of smartphone makers since revenues hit a peak in August 2011, and barely eked out a profit in the fourth quarter of 2012 as revenues fell 62% year on year. Revenues slipped another 27% in the first two months of the year compared with the year-ago period.Now the Wall Street Journal reports that the delay is caused by problems in sourcing parts for the phones, which has become more difficult now that HTC is no longer seen as a "tier one" – top-level – manufacturer. Last year marked the first time that it didn't pay a year-end bonus to staff, the paper reported.It quotes an HTC executive as saying that the company had encountered problems with its component suppliers because it "changed its order forecasts drastically and frequently following last year's unexpected slump in shipments". The unnamed executive was quoted as saying: "HTC has had difficulty in securing adequate camera components as it is no longer a tier-one customer [to suppliers]."The problem emphasises the issues facing HTC, which makes phones running Google's Android and Microsoft's Windows Phone software, as it is increasingly squeezed between the two biggest smartphone manufacturers – Samsung, which last weeklaunched its new Galaxy S4, and Apple, which is reckoned to be ramping up production of a successor to its iPhone 5.At its launch, HTC said that the One would be available in March in 80 countries and with 185 carriers. Now it will come up against direct competition at the same time from the Galaxy S4.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSculpteo shows us what 3D printing is really good for: creating adapters for old iPod docks &gt;&gt; TechCrunchSculpteo, a French 3D printing company, is now offering custom iPhone adapters for older iPod docks, allowing you to add connect to your old Bose, Sony, JBL, and other docks with the new Lightning connector. Obviously you need a Lightning adapter but the $17 pieces will make it much easier for you to connect your phone to these older docks.Clever. Then again - $17? (Thanks @rubbernuke for the link.)Marine snail's teeth hold secret to nanomaterials for Li-ion batteries, solar cells &gt;&gt; WardsAutoAccording to the study, hydrated iron-oxide (ferrihydrite) crystals first nucleate on a fiber-like chitinous (complex sugar) organic template. These nanocrystalline ferrihydrite particles convert to a magnetic iron oxide (magnetite) through a solid-state transformation.Finally, the magnetite particles grow along these organic fibers, yielding parallel rods within the chiton's mature teeth that make them so hard and tough."Incredibly, all of this occurs at room temperature and under environmentally benign conditions," Kisailus says in a statement. This means similar strategies can be used to make nanomaterials in a cost-effective manner.Kisailus presently is using the snail's biomineralization pathway to grow minerals used in Li-ion batteries and solar cells. By controlling the crystal size, shape and orientation of engineering nanomaterials, he believes he can build materials that will allow the batteries and solar cells to operate more efficiently.See the picture, though. This is a snail that grows up to a foot long. (Thanks @beardyweirdy666 for original pointer.)Samsung apologizes... &gt;&gt; The Joy of Tech comic"Yikes! Look at the people calling the presentation sexist!" "We need to do something quickly to rectify this." (Thanks @avro for the link.)Samsung preparing wristwatch as it races Apple for sales &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"We've been preparing the watch product for so long," Lee Young Hee, executive vice president of Samsung's mobile business, said during an interview in Seoul. "We are working very hard to get ready for it. We are preparing products for the future, and the watch is definitely one of them."Lee had no comment on what features the watch may have, how much it would cost and when it would go on sale.Well, let's see if we can help here... (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link)Samsung S9110 - Full phone specifications &gt;&gt; GSMArenaJune 2009: perhaps this is the Samsung iWatch its executive was referring to: TFT capacitive touchscreen, 256K colors, 176 x 220 pixels, 1.76 inches (~160 ppi pixel density), Scratch-resistant glass, oleophobic coating. They're everywhere, aren't they?As tech wealth explodes, Silicon Valley poverty spikes &gt;&gt; Associated PressMeanwhile, outside the filter bubble:SAN JOSE, Calif. — On a morning the stock market was sailing to a record high and a chilly storm was blowing into Silicon Valley, Wendy Carle stuck her head out of the tent she calls home to find city workers duct taping an eviction notice to her flimsy, flapping shelter walls."I have no idea where I'm going to go," she said, tugging on her black sweatshirt over her brown curls and scooping up Hero, an albino dog.She glanced at the glimmering windows on a cluster of high-tech office buildings just blocks away and shook her head."Did you know Google shares hit $840 each this morning?" she asked. "I just heard that on the radio."Food stamp use at a ten-year high, homelessness up 20%, average income for Hispanics (one in four Silicon Valley residents) hit a new low. Don't shrug.CM developers passing on Samsung Galaxy S4 - should you? &gt;&gt; Android CentralOn one side, Samsung has to try to protect their IP. Some of the decisions they have made to help do this just aren't very developer-friendly, and some even violate the GPL (an open source license that covers everything in the Linux kernel used in Android). On the other side, you have a group of people that have to have a little access to this IP so they can build a working firmware for the device. They need everything covered under the GPL, and even a little friendly advice from the manufacturers is what it takes sometimes to get everything working just right. With the two sides unable to get together, frustration has set in and the developers have spoken. XpLoDWilD, speaking for Team Hacksung states:Nobody at Team Hacksung (the team behind Galaxy S2, Note, S3, Note2, G Tabs... official CM ports) plans to buy it, neither develop for it.This isn't the official position of CyanogenMod, but without Team Hacksung it's hard to see how it will get done. No jailbreaks for the S4?February PC shipments reflect slow first quarter &gt;&gt; IDC"Based on our latest quarterly figures, global PC shipments were expected to decline by 7.7% in the first quarter as vendors and the supply chain work through the Windows 8 transition," said Loren Loverde, Program Vice President, Worldwide PC Trackers at IDC. "However, our February monthly data suggest that we could see a drop touching double-digits in the first quarter and a mid-single-digit decline in the second quarter before we see any recovery in the second half of the year. Even getting to positive growth in the second half of 2013 will take some attractive new PC designs and more competitive pricing relative to tablets and other products."If it's a double-digit drop, that will be the first time since the third quarter of 2001 - just ahead of the launch of Windows XP, and when there was a big recession in the US.Even if it's a single-digit fall, that will be the fourth quarter in a row of falling PC sales year-on-year.Replacements for Google Reader &gt;&gt; ReplaceReaderWide array of choices.The world has no room for cowards &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityBrian Krebs:It's not often that one has the opportunity to be the target of a cyber and kinetic attack at the same time. But that is exactly what's happened to me and my Web site over the past 24 hours. On Thursday afternoon, my site was the target of a fairly massive denial of service attack. That attack was punctuated by a visit from a heavily armed local police unit that was tricked into responding to a 911 call spoofed to look like it came from my home.Writing about hackers isn't the way to a quiet life.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
This week the Guardian's Technology Editor Charles Arthur meetsAaron Levie the founder of box.com, the cloud storage service that is focusing on mobile and tablets in a bid to win market share in this competitive tech space.The Guardian digital correspondent Jemima Kiss meets two UK tech entrepreneursBen Medlock and Jonathan Reynolds to discuss their android app Swiftkeywhich acts as a clever alternative to the phone's inbuilt keyboard.And we have a tech news round-up including good news if yourGoogle's Erick Schmidt in the form of a $6m dollar bonusand bad news for Google in the form of anEbay report that claims keyword advertising is a waste of money.The music featured in this week's podcast is a track titledKalimba Tune by Ajello aka Luca Roccatagliati &amp; Fabrizio Tavernellion the UK labelRetrospective Records.
Security researchers havediscovered a botnet they have dubbed "Chameleon"which they calculate is costing display advertisers around $6m (£3.9m) per month by falsely viewing billions of pages and adverts on about 200 sites owned by a small group of publishers.The discovery points to widespread fraud in which adverts are clicked among networks of sites to generate money for sites and ad networks – though it is still unclear whether it is one or more publishers, or one or more ad networks which supply ads to the sites, which are to blame for the fraud.Spider.io, a security group which previously pointed out that a flaw in internet Explorer wasbeing exploited by advertising companiesto track users, says that the botnet consists of at least 120,000 subverted Windows machines, 95% of them located inside the US.Unlike most botnets discovered in the past, which have been used to send spam and host illicit pharmaceutical or phishing sites, Chameleon targets a couple of hundred sites which carry advertising – and make up 9bn of the 14bn ad impressions on those sites each month.The images show where the bots click on a web page (top) and where humans click (bottom)But such a colossal number of ad impressions would make those sites in aggregate as large as Facebook or Yahoo – something that Mike Shields, a writer on Ad Week,saysis highly unlikely.Now the question is who set up the botnet. Douglas de Jager, of Spider.io, said the financial motive may be that "owners of websites typically receive 55%-65% of the money spent by advertisers to serve display ads on their respective sites. Ad networks typically receive about 30% of the money spent by advertisers."But he declined to name any of the publishers being targeted by the bots, because they might be the targets of a scam run from outside – or, he suggested, "it could even be a single person within one of the companies, unbeknownst to others at the company."Fake ad impressionsThe bots are tailored specifically for creating fake ad impressions: "individual bots run [Adobe] Flash and execute Javascript [used to display many ads]," the researchers note. "They click on ad impressions with an average click-through rate of 0.02%" – slightly higher than humans – "and generate mouse traces." The bots appear to sites as PCs running internet Explorer 9.0 on Windows 7.But while that looks real enough, the clue is that the bots only visit 202 websites – and occasionally crash. They also generate clicks randomly dispersed around the page – unlike a real human viewing the page.De Jager notes that "this particular botnet is being used to emulate human users surfing the web … it is difficult to imagine why one would run this type of botnet across a cluster of 202 sites, other than to commit display advertising fraud." The bots are not scraping data, he added.One advertising executive who spoke to the Guardian on condition of anonymity said: "It's not just the 202 sites mentioned in Spider's research. Many other sites are being affected by other botnets. Some of these publishers may not be 100% at fault. It is possible that they may be unwitting pawns in someone else's fraud scheme. Regardless, they are huge beneficiaries of that behaviour, whether they are aware of it or not. And any publisher experiencing a huge growth in traffic should take responsibility for knowing where that traffic originates."Two publisher networks, Alphabird and Digimogul, have been identified as particular beneficiaries of the fake traffic. The executive listed four more – Forward Health, Precision Media, HiFi network and Relevad Corporation – which he felt were beneficiaries of "suspicious" traffic. There is no suggestion that the networks are complicit in the botnet's activity.Digimogul had not responded to a request for comment by the time this story was published. Alphabird was unavailable ahead of publication, but Justin Manes, Alphabird's chief operating officer, told Ad Week: "We buy lots of traffic all over the web, and we run a heavy ad load because you have to pay for it. We buy 100,000 visits for some sites [on the Alphabird network] and these sites obviously need content." He insisted that any fake clicks on ads meant "we're being duped. We're being robbed."Digimogul's chief executive told Ad Week that suggestions it has bot traffic to boost its page view numbers – totalling a billion ad impressions for one film site, which would put it in contention with Yahoo – were "silly". He told the site: "If we were using bots, we would be getting caught. Everything is by the book."Indications of fraudBut one advertiser says the company began realising there was a wide-ranging fraud a couple of months ago. "Our data science team began to see strange signals in the bid request data we receive from exchanges that indicated that something was amiss."We were first tipped off by the fact that particular newly created websites, that were putting their inventory on the exchanges, were scoring particularly high on our targeting models across many different clients. The scores they were receiving were off the charts. They were receiving scores higher than we have ever seen before for any website and they were scoring this way for many clients."That was peculiar because the sites were too new to have gained a substantial amount of traffic by organic means – and yet seemed to have eager readers of exactly the right sort."These websites varied in content drastically, yet they were all indicative of good converters [visitors likely to click ads] for a large number of clients," a representative of the advertiser said. "For example, a Chinese movie site, a woman's health site, an allergy site, and a video-game site were all being visited by the best converters for a women's clothing site, an insurance site, a travel site, and a restaurant."Unreasonable overlapsYet despite the disparate interests for which they catered, the sites had an "unreasonable" level of overlap in their user bases. So whereas the highest overlap between the New York Times's readership is with YouTube users – at 55% – a hip-hop site in a suspect network showed a 96% overlap with a film fan site, an 89% overlap with a men's health site, and also an 85% overlap with a women's health site, based on the cookies stored on the machine from earlier browsing."Over a hundred sites had over 50% over the same viewers as the hip-hop site," the network representative said. "What is even more suspicious is the variety in the types of sites. Apparently, all these 'people' that are interested in hip hop in finance, prescription drugs, men's health, women's health, cooking, futons, and greeting cards. There are many sites like those, and more and more are popping up daily."These sites were essentially herding users back and forth to rack up impressions on the exchanges. We dug further into the bid request logs and found users that are traversing back and forth between these sites sometimes at rates exceeding one advertisement per three seconds for a period of weeks."The key problem identified by would-be advertisers is that ad exchanges – which let them choose sites which claim they will put ads in front of humans most likely to be interested in them – do too little to keep out networks of dubious reputation.
In every school there are young, attractive teachers that all the girls and all the boys fancy: there was probably one in your school, there's at least one in your child's school, and there's probably one in my school in Manchester – but that would be telling.Everyone has fond memories of that poor object of forbidden excitement. The difference today is that you can follow that teacher on Twitter and Facebook."Staff must not use social networks to communicate with students" is the guidance given in my school's e-safety policy. Nor should they "have students classed as 'friends' or the equivalent". But this is just a guideline; there is no explicit rule preventing online teacher-pupil communication because no law exists to enforce it. Therefore if I were to become friends with that young teacher on Facebook, we would both merely be advised to cease contact on the grounds that it was inappropriate.Obviously, there are safeguarding issues that the guidance seeks to comply with – the scores of well-publicised sexual relationships between pupils and teachers are evidence enough to stigmatise this kind of 'online contact'. But teachers are having to adapt to new roles and expectations created by the internet, particularly with social networking.So, do teachers have a responsibility to tweet/post responsibly? In my school a picture of a drunken teacher found on a social media site would spread round the whole school in about an hour, everyone openly laughing at the hapless victim. (There is invaluable advice about this in the policy: teachers will "ensure all online activity, both in and out of school, will not bring their professional role into disrepute".)You don't have to search for long to find examples of how teachers can suffer from inappropriate online scrutiny:ratemyteachers.comis a favourite.  These comments may seem harmless to students (or parents for that matter) but the issue of cyber-bullying arguably affects teachers as much as it does pupils. I have heard stories of violent threats being made and worse.There is no way of creating 'safe' online spaces using Twitter. (Mario Anzuoni/Corbis)So teachers and schools must defend themselves; social networking and the thorny issues that come with it are not simply going to disappear. Forcing a child to delete an account or labelling some behaviour as "inappropriate" will only feed the curiosity, like when you tell a child not to go by the river because it's dangerous – they will anyway. So if they cannot prevent it, schools would do better to attempt to manage it in a smarter way.Teenagers know that schools are hopeless with social media – the fact email is the only way they can talk to teachers is the biggest clue. Ask any teenager how often they email and you will see. Besides, email is surely more dangerous; one-to-one conversations can become very personal, whereas open contact on a social media site is much more transparent. Facebook itself started in a university, designed to connect Harvard students. Perhaps a return to its educational roots wouldn't be a bad idea?Virtual learning environments or VLEs are all the rage in schools at the minute. They allow teachers and pupils to access class content, homework etc and some even have social spaces where they can interact through threaded discussions. Brilliant right? The only problem is the school splashes out all this money and no one uses it. Not even teachers. Because it's basically a more boring version of Facebook. Why then, shouldn't schools use Facebook for the same means? It's free, most pupils will go on it regularly anyway and would be far more popular – Facebook could be the world's biggest and best VLE.A teacher could post essay questions on the special 'Yr11 English' group, and the class could post ideas, debate or ask questions in an environment they're all familiar and comfortable with. The class learns, the school saves money and (unlike email) it is completely transparent.Of course, there will be those that emphasise the 'social' in social media – teachers are there in a professional capacity to teach, not to socialise. And Twitter is a very different story; it is much more difficult to monitor and contain, there is no way protecting tweets, nor is there the possibility of creating private online spaces.But by demonstrating that they can use social media – and more importantly, use it positively – schools will garner more respect from students. And in the internet age, with its blurred boundaries and hierarchies, this mutual respect toward social media could prove crucial.•Lizzie Deane lives in south Manchester and is currently in her final year of high school•This article was amended on 19 March 2013 to remove a quote from ratemyteachers.com.
Lego City is awash with crime. It's everywhere and no one is safe, and a lot of it is being perpetrated by people in clown suits. The only man who can restore peace and justice is a maverick cop who left town two years ago under a blocky cloud of disgrace.  That man is Chase McCain and for many enjoyably daft hours you will be in his plastic moulded shoes.The setup here is pretty straightforward: Grand Theft Lego. A series of missions will lead players into combat with arch villain Rex Fury, whose gangland  empire is responsible for the city's crime wave. But while you're operating undercover, infiltrating one ludicrous crime family after another, there is also a vast open environment to explore. Between narrative tasks, you're free to wander the streets, exploring this brightly coloured approximation of San Francisco, complete with its own offshore prison (Albatross Island), as well as recognisable landmarks like the Transworld Pyramid and the ridiculous winding thoroughfare, Lombard Street.A lot of the gameplay mechanics are lifted wholesale from the regular Lego adventures. Everywhere you go you pick up Lego studs, a currency that can be spent on unlocking extra characters and vehicles. Missions always involve exploring locations, smashing stuff up to reveal hidden items, and occasionally building objects that give you access to new areas. Once you've finished your objective, the location becomes available for free play, so you can go back and try it again whenever you like – and as every mission is packed with secret areas that can only be opened when you have unlocked the required power-ups, it's always worth going back for another snoop around. Fans of everything from Lego Star Wars to Lego Lord of the Rings will be right at home.But the lovely thing about Lego City Undercover is that, freed of any sort of licensing restrictions, the development team has been able to absolutely cram every location, task and cinematic plot sequence with irreverent, slapstick humour. Hugely inspired by the work of Jim Abrahams and the Zucker brothers, the whole game is a pastiche of cop show cliches and movie staples. Police Squad is there in the laughably incompetent cast of law enforcers and ludicrous criminals, but the game also has Airplane's scattergun approach to  comedy dialogue, chucking in puns, sketches and gags with abandon, referencing everything from Goodfellas and Shawshank Redemption to Die Hard and Super Mario Bros, without pause for genuflection. Everywhere you go and everything you do seems to be the set up to a vast visual or narrative prank, and the aftershock of every set-piece skit reverberates through the whole game, so each scene is filled with in-jokes and references. I laughed out loud more in the first hour of Lego City Undercover than I have done in any game since the Monkey Island series.Meanwhile, there is a solid adventure puzzler going on. From stealing a moon buggy at the local shuttle launch base to breaking hoodlums out of jail in order to curry favour with crime bosses, it's a compelling mix of logical conundrums and item retrieval. Often, you'll need to don different disguises to access specific abilities: only the robber can prise open doors with his crowbar, for example, while the spaceman outfit lets you use handy transporter pads. But  as you probably know, all this stuff has been reliably driving this series for years, most similarly in the recent Lego Batman 2, which provided the Dark Knight with a range of specially modified outfits for different tasks. Here, though, the GamePad adds an additional interface, acting as a map screen, communicator and scanner, allowing you to trace hidden objects, do some basic forensics and take photos of illicit criminal meetings. TT Fusion has got just about as much use out of this wacky peripheral as it could and it all feels natural and intuitive.Some have questioned just how interactive Lego City actually is as an open-world environment. True, unlike Liberty City this place isn't stuffed to the skyline with side-quests, mini-tasks and cousins asking you to go bowling. However, exploration rewards you with new disguises and special multicoloured bricks which can be worth up to 10,000 studs. There are also lots of special building projects littered around the map, allowing you to construct useful items like bridges and ramps.And there's a lot of pleasure to be had just driving around this place, interacting mischievously with its colourful inhabitants. Pressing on the left shoulder button of your GamePad blows Chase's whistle allowing him to flag down any nearby vehicle; you can then hit the road in a variety of jeeps, trucks and sports cars, smashing stuff up, plummeting into rivers and menacing other road users. The handling is pretty horrific most of the time, but then, how many of us build steering into our own Lego vehicles?It's impossible to excuse all the game's faults however. It could be a hardware issue, but scenery tends to pop up very late as you're driving along which is rather off-putting for a supposedly next-generation console. There are lots of graphical and environmental glitches too. When you target a new mission location, you can choose to follow a helpful line of green studs to your destination – but sometimes these just didn't appear for me, so navigation became rather difficult. I also managed to get stuck in the scenery a few times, and got caught in some frustrating death loops, my character re-spawning in the middle of a fatal fall, for example, making repeated plummeting expirations unavoidable until the code figured out what was happening and dropped me somewhere else. Plus, I wish the developers had been able to lever in a co-op mode because that was a key element from the other Lego titles. I understand that, structurally, this game is a very different proposition, but just a couple of little asynchronous two-player mini-games would have been fun.To be honest, though, once I'd got to the pitch perfect parody of the scene in Goodfellas where Henry is introduced to all the various hoodlums and their nicknames, I was sold. "This is Jimmy Spoilers," says my gangland guide in the game – Jimmy then whispers the solution to a later puzzle in my ear.Lego City Undercover is a joyous thing, filled with life and fun. It took me right back to my first go on the original Lego Star Wars – that pleasure of finding a favourite creative toy rendered so beautifully, faithfully and humorously into video game existence. Given the paucity of Wii U releases at the moment, it goes without saying that this is a required purchase for those who have ventured onto Nintendo's eccentric new platform; whether you are looking for an adventure that you can enjoy alone as a seasoned gamer or with children who will marvel at a Lego town brought to functioning, animated life, it will entertain for days.• Lego City Undercover is released on Wii U on 28 March
it's Tuesday.
A burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTransitioning from Google Reader to feedly &gt;&gt; Building FeedlyGoogle announced today that they will be shutting down Google Reader. This is something we have been expecting for some time: We have been working on a project called Normandy which is a feedly clone of the Google Reader API – running on Google App Engine. When Google Reader shuts down, feedly will seamlessly transition to the Normandy back end. So if you are a Google Reader user and using feedly, you are covered: the transition will be seamless.They say half a million have already shifted. Silver linings and all that. (Thanks @lollygagging for the link.)How Google+ could save RSS &gt;&gt; Colin WalkerEqually as ironic as social killing Reader, it could also be its saviour – Google+ in particular.The recent Google+ profile redesign gives us more control over how our information is viewed and compartmentalised. As well as our "links" and "contributor to" sections why not have an option for RSS feeds both for Profiles and Pages?Could happen. Might be a UI nightmare. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Let them pee: avoiding the sign-up/sign-in mobile antipattern &gt;&gt; Boxes and ArrowsGreg Nudelman:Anything that slows down customers or gets in their way after they download your app is a bad thing. That includes sign-up/sign-in forms that show up even before potential customers can figure out if the app is actually worth using.This antipattern seems to be going away more and more as companies are beginning to figure out the following simple UX equation:Long sign-up form before you can use the app = Delete appHowever, a fair number of apps still force customers to sign up, sign in, or perform some other useless action before they can use the app.The case study he then cites is priceless.Apple keeps warranty switch under wraps &gt;&gt; Sydney Morning HeraldApple has now changed this [warranty period] from 12 months to 24, which appears to bring it in line with Australian Consumer Law.The change was announced to Apple staff via email and to resellers on a web portal and first revealed publicly by Apple enthusiast website MacTalk.com.au.But it appears some high-up employees within Apple don't want the change talked about too widely.One email Fairfax Media has seen, which was circulated within an Australian Apple store, told staff not to talk to customers about the detail of Apple's new policy.Apple Australia media spokeswoman Fiona Martin had no comment about the changes.Samsung's Galaxy S IV will mark the beginning of the end of Samsung's smartphone dominance &gt;&gt; VentureBeatJohn Koestler:Others that I've talked to agree, but still see a role for Samsung's innovation."I agree that some of the software is buggy," Rocky Agrawal, an analyst and mobile consultant who also writes for VentureBeat, told me. "If they would stick to the non-core things that they're adding it could make sense … but to go in and mess up core stuff like keyboards and error correction, that's just innovation for the sake of innovation. You should differentiate on things that matter."We have seen this movie before, during the 90s and 2000s, in a different industry: the PC market. Much as Android is to iOS what Windows was to Macintosh, Android vendors are to each other what HP was to Dell was to Compaq was to every other faceless PC manufacturer: a clone trying to be an individual.And with every vendor trying to deliver unique value, a unique product, and a unique brand in a by-nature commoditized market, they get desperate. The result: software that adds a line item in the product comparison chart and a bullet point in the marketing blurb, but is really just crapware.That would make Samsung the equivalent of HP, but very much more profitable.Microsoft in the clear to add Google CalDAV support to Windows Phone &gt;&gt; ZDNetMary Jo Foley:At the end of January 2013,Microsoft and Google came to a last-minute agreementto extend Google's support of Google Sync, which is built on Microsoft's Exchange ActiveSync, until July 31 - instead of terminating it by the end of January, 2013, as previously announced. In the interim, Microsoft would build support into the Windows Phone operating system for CalDAV and CardDAV, the Google calendar and contacts sync protocols, the companies announced.Yesterday, however, Google announced CalDAV API support was being discontinued on September 16, 2013, with the Google Calendar API becoming the CalDAV replacement. However, according to Google's blog post on the topic, some unnamed "whitelisted" developers would be able to continue to use CalDAV.Google's CalDAV page already lists the API as being "deprecated." A note on the page adds "If you think you have a compelling use case and would like to be whitelisted for the new version of CalDAV API, please fill out this form."I asked Microsoft officials if the Windows Phone team was among the whitelisted developers. No word back so far.Perhaps Google could publish a list of those on the whitelist? That would be open and transparent. But how long before it drops support for CalDAV completely, à la Google Reader?How well do Microsoft's Xbox, Skype, Office, and SkyDrive work together? &gt;&gt; BusinessweekAshlee Vance:It took three Skype customer support people to conclude that what I wanted to do — use my Microsoft phone to access a Microsoft account to use a Microsoft service — was impossible.Similarly, only some of the movies I have purchased on my Xbox show up, as promised, on my other Microsoft devices like Microsoft's own Surface tablet. I'm not sure how Microsoft's services pick and choose what I get to watch, but they seem to have a real thing against cartoons.At the same time, life in Microsoft Land can also be quite wonderful. My young son is enthralled when he watches the interactive version of Sesame Street on the Xbox. Via the Kinect sensor, my son appears in the show and can jump around with Big Bird and punch letters and numbers. This is streaming, immersive television, and it really does feel as if it's from the future.BlackBerry chief lays out survival plan and says iPhone is old news &gt;&gt; Australian Financial ReviewSpeaking exclusively to The Australian Financial Review, ahead of the local launch of its make-or-break smartphones, Mr Heins said last week's launch of the Samsung S4, along with a wave of recent smartphone releases had reeled in the lead Apple used to hold in the market.He said BlackBerry was making early strides in encouraging users to switch from other mobile platforms to its own, that a follow up to its commercially unsuccessful PlayBook tablet was a long way off and that developers of big name apps like Instagram and Netflix were being won over by the reaction to its new BlackBerry 10 (BB10) operating system."Apple did a fantastic job in bringing touch devices to market ... They did a fantastic job with the user interface, they are a design icon. There is a reason why they were so successful, and we actually have to admit this and respect that," Mr Heins said."History repeats itself again I guess ... the rate of innovation is so high in our industry that if you don't innovate at that speed you can be replaced pretty quickly. The user interface on the iPhone, with all due respect for what this invention was all about is now five years old."Mr Heins said one area that the new BlackBerry phones had surpassed the iPhone was in the ability to multi-task - running multiple apps at once - meaning that users could work in the same fashion on their smartphone as they liked to on a laptop.We feel fairly sure that the iPhone interface is six years old, at least in its public incarnation.Hands-On With the Galaxy S 4: First Impressions &gt;&gt; WSJ.comSpencer Ante:a few of the camera functions seemed gimmicky, while others failed. One called "Beauty Face" was supposed to make you look better by doing things like slimming your face automatically. The feature didn't turn me into George Clooney; in fact I couldn't see any difference between the photos.Another one called "Drama Shot" sounded promising in theory, letting you create one integrated photo composed from several pictures. But when I tried the feature it simply didn't work. Samsung marketers shrugged and blamed the way we staged the photo shoot.…Another highly touted feature called "Air Gesture" is designed to let you manipulate the screen by moving your hand across, or up and down the screen. At first I couldn't get it to work. A Samsung rep gave me a quick tutorial, which helped, but it wasn't as responsive as I had hoped.Still, the universal remote function worked fine.Android China &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansTop 20 Android phones in China, on the basis of page views on Baidu. Samsung at the top (with about 30% total share), but lots of domestic brands in there too.Samsung phones in total make about 20% of page views for the top 20 here. Of course, phones accessing Baidu by definition have a data plan and/or Wi-Fi connection. Many millions of smartphones in China might not be used that way... yet.Thumbs and Ammo"Real tough guys don't need guns, they just need a positive, can-do attitude". Still from films with guns replaced by thumbs. Surreal, then thought-provoking. (Women not exempt.)SanDisk cops to malfunctioning Micro SDs in Galaxy S3s &gt;&gt; The RegisterCertain Samsung Galaxy S3 users will barely have noticed the rollout of the S4 uberphone , they've been too busy concentrating on the flash card problems in their current smartmobes. Flash-card shuffler SanDisk, meanwhile, has told El Reg that it has issued a fix.Isn't clear what the "fix" is, but one would have thought a simple replacement would make sense.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Video game giant Electronic Arts has announced that CEO John Riccitiello is to resign from the company. In a letter to chairman of the board Larry Probst, Riccitiello conceded that forthcoming quarterly results are likely to fall short of expectations and that he is "100 percent accountable". The industry veteran will step down on 30 March with Probst appointed as executive chairman until a permanent replacement is found.After taking over as CEO in February 2007, Riccitiello has overseen a turbulent period in the history of EA. Stock value plunged amid the global financial meltdown of 2008, and has never recovered to the 2005 peak when shares were worth $70 each. Like most publishers in this sector EA has suffered due to a decline in retail software sales but has fought to improve its digital business, investing in social gaming companies such as Playfish and Popcap and extending its reach into Facebook and smartphone titles."The progress EA has made on transitioning to digital games and services is something I'm extremely proud of," wrote Riccitiello in his resignation letter. "However, it currently looks like we will come in at the low end of, or slightly below, the financial guidance we issued in January, and we have fallen short of the internal operating plan we set one year ago. EA's shareholders and employees expect better and I am accountable for the miss."In a statement issued today, Probst praised Riccitiello, but accepted the resignation: "We thank John for his contributions to EA since he was appointed CEO in 2007, especially the passion, dedication, and energy he brought to the company every single day. John has worked hard to lead the company through challenging transitions in our industry, and was instrumental in driving our very significant growth in digital revenues. We appreciate John's leadership and the many important strategic initiatives he has driven for the company. We have mutually agreed that this is the right time for a leadership transition."Electronic Arts remains one of the major video game publishers, with titles like Battlefield, Fifa and Need For Speed, producing profitable annual iterations. However, the company has seen a series of public relations hiccups over the last year, many over charges for downloadable content on titles such as Mass Effect 3, as well as problems with its Origin game download service. Most recently, the release of the latest SimCity simulation has been marred by server failures and the instigation of an "always online" system which ensures purchasers cannot play the game if they don't have a web connection.Industry pundits are already touting current EA COO Peter Moore as a possible candidate for the vacant job. The Liverpool-born exec has been at EA since 2007 having served eventful stints at Microsoft and Sega.
Andrew Auernheimer, the online activist convicted of federal crimes for obtaining email addresses of iPad users from AT&amp;T's website, was sentenced to nearly three and a half years in prison on MondayAt a district court in Newark, New Jersey, Auernheimer, 27, was also ordered to pay over $73,000 in damages to AT&amp;T and to serve three years supervised probation after his release.In November, he was found guilty of one count of identify fraud and one of conspiracy to access a computer without authorisation.Three years ago, Auernheimer, whose online name is "weev", found a security breach in AT&amp;T's website, allowing him and his company, Goatse Security, to access thousands of email addresses of iPad users. He gave them to a Gawker journalist in what he said was an effort to expose the company's security flaws.Gawker posted redacted material online, writing that the material "exposed the most exclusive email list on the planet", including the addresses of Michael Bloomberg, the New York mayor, and then-White House chief of staff Rahm Emanuel. An FBI investigation followed.Auernheimer's prosecution, under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, was being closely watched by critics of the US government'sharsh line on hackers.His sentence on Monday comes after a massive outcry following the suicide of free information activist Aaron Swartz in January. Swartz's was facing multiple charges and a prosecution that his supporters said was excessive.Last week, federal prosecutors charged Matthew Keys, the deputy social media editor for Reuters, with helping the hacker group Anonymous attack the website of his former employer.Keys and Swartz were also charged under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Ac, which many have said is too broad. Critics of the prosecutions say they are being bought by over-zealous prosecutors using outdated and flawed statutes. One lawmaker has tabled an amendment to the CFAA called "Aaron's law" aimed at stopping such prosecutions.A lawyer for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital rights group, described Auernheimer's sentence as "excessive" and said they would support his appeal.Hanni Fakhouri, a staff attorney with the EFF, said: "It's excessive to say the least. The prosecution was excessive because he did not hack into anything. He obtained information from a public information website. It would be like me going into the Guardian website and copying information and emailing it to someone else."Fakhouri said the law was misinterpreted and said: "We hope on appeal to get the sentence thrown out."We don't believe authorised access was exceeded. By virtue of the fact that the information was publicly available and they were not breaking into anything, there wasn't anything to indicate he did not have authorised access."In an interview with the Guardian in January, Auernheimer said: "When you publish something, you don't have the right to whine and moan and cry: 'He's breaking and entering. That's what AT&amp;T and the federal government are claiming. It's a dishonest and seditious claim."He said the idea that what he did amounted to a felony was "ludicrous".In apre-sentence memo, Auernheimer's lawyers said he should only receive six months probation because AT&amp;T's security was to lax that no special skill was needed to collect ipad customer's email addresses. It also highlighted comments made by one AT&amp;T investigator who said that he "circumvented no security".US attorney Paul Fishman described Auenheimer's reasoning that he was trying to expose security flaws in AT&amp;T's website as a "fiction." Fishman said in a statement: "Andrew Auernheimer knew he was breaking the law when he and his partner hacked into AT&amp;T's servers and stole personal information from unsuspecting iPad users."When it became clear that he was in trouble, he concocted the fiction that he was trying to make the internet more secure, and that all he did was walk in through an unlocked door. The jury didn't buy it, and neither did the court in imposing sentence upon him today."David Velazquex, the FBI acting special agent in charge of the investigation, said Auernheimer's "self-serving cyber attack" was carried out to promote his business. He said his conviction and sentence signified the "continued and growing efforts of the US attorney's office and the FBI in investigating and prosecuting computer hacking and intellectual property crimes."Auernheimer's co-defendant, Daniel Spitler, 27, of San Francisco, California, previously pleaded guilty to the same charges and is awaiting sentencing.
Juliette Garside (Report, 16 March) suggests George Osborne could have got £3bn more than he did selling the 4G spectrum. Whatever the benefit to the public purse it was always a myth that the public would benefit from this sale since whatever was paid for 4G by the operators would be passed on to their customers in the form of higher bills. Using this revenue to keep petrol increases down would simply shift a Treasury revenue-raising impact from car drivers to smartphone users.Stephen BarkerNapton, Warwickshire• The 4G auction was never designed to maximise income. Ofcom's auction was structured to ensure strong competition and efficient use of mobile spectrum, and that is exactly what it has achieved. Five companies acquired spectrum for 4G services, which will deliver greater value to consumers, businesses and the economy than any short-term revenues.Graham LouthDirector of spectrum markets, Ofcom
Have you playedRidiculous Fishingyet? It's marvellous fun.Released for iOS last week by Dutch developer Vlambeer, it's a new mobile version of their 2010 web game Radical Fishing, and involves hauling fish up from the depths, flinging them into the air and then shooting them.It's ridiculous, but marvellous. It's also a paid game. You pay your £1.99 on the App Store – $2.99 in the US – and you get the whole shebang. "Buy the game, play the game," as Vlambeer puts it. "No additional costs, no hidden fees."This, it's fair to say, is proving a talking point. As are comments by the developerin a Reddit Ask Me Anything (AMA) interviewover the weekend, suggesting that developers "shouldn't be scared to charge $3 for a game" on mobile."A direct result of the whole race-to-the-bottom in prices is the prevalence of free-to-play on iOS - it seems to be a safer bet. But since its almost impossible to do free-to-play in a non-evil way and without sacrificing the elegance of your game design, we'll prefer to charge $3," they explained.(Vlambeer alsoclarified this point later on Twitter: "We do want to point out we say 'almost impossible' - games that do 'nice' IAP, like Gasketball, simply fail to make money.)The comments have been seized upon as part of a wider debate on free-to-play (F2P for short) that's currently raging within the games industry.It's a debate where many participants seem to have picked a side and drawn up battle-lines. A debate where F2P is "evil", or where F2P doubters are dinosaurs.  A debate that – like so many carried out mainly online – is in danger of being dominated by the more evangelical people who shout the loudest.If you're somewhere in the middle, it's intensely frustrating. And it's from that place that the following thoughts come, addressed to both sides.To the anti-F2P evangelists1. Games aren't evil.People who make games aren't evil. Gaming business models aren't evil. Watch the news tonight, get some perspective. There are plenty of much more awful things going on in the world than freemium games.The debate over the future health of marvellous games and games developers is really important, but that's why the language used for it is important too.2. Perhaps it's better to talk about mistakes.Free-to-play isn't a brand new gaming model, but on mobile in particular developers are still piling in and making lots of mistakes – over-aggressively "monetising"; slapping F2P mechanics onto games that don't really suit them (note, that's individual games, not game genres); trying things out that don't work.It's a great time to be learning lessons, in other words. Rather than suggest F2P itself is bad and wrong, it's a good time to be distinguishing and sharing the differences between bad and good F2P games, and getting a true understanding of what players like and don't like. Mistakes will be made, and marks overstepped. What can we all learn from them?3. There are some brilliant freemium games.Tiny Tower, Clash of Clans, Bejeweled Blitz, Words With Friends, Pocket Planes, Gasketball, Angry Birds (on Android, and lately on iOS), Temple Run, SongPop, Real Racing 3 (yep, not evil) are a few that I've loved.Candy Crush Saga, Kingdoms of Camelot, The Simpsons: Tapped Out, DragonVale, Poker by Zynga, CSR Racing, Puzzle &amp; Dragons… Smurfs' Village, even. Not so much my personal cup of tea, but hugely, genuinely popular.Lucrative, not because they're evil scam-machines screwing cash out of unwilling players, but because people – normal people, not hardcore gamers or games developers – are enjoying them and wanting to spend money in them.To the F2P evangelists1. There's a market for paid games.Minecraft, Football Manager Handheld, The Room, Ridiculous Fishing (did I mention it's marvellous?), the two Infinity Blade games, Angry Birds and Cut the Rope (when they're not freemium, Plants vs Zombies, Fruit Ninja, Doodle Jump, old Grand Theft Auto games and the paid versions of Words With Friends, SongPop etc.Suggesting that all developers should be thinking about F2P and how it might work with their new game ideas? Sensible. Suggesting that their only choice is to go freemium? Too far.Granted, increasingly few paid games appear in the App Store's 100 Top Grossing chart (and even fewer on Android's Google Play store), but brandishing that fact brings us onto…2. The 100 Top Grossing chart is no more a pointer to the future for all games than the Top 100 singles chart is for music.It's a clear indicator of where the most money is being made, but it's not proof that money can't be made elsewhere.A confession: I don't write this armed with a library full of proof that it can. I don't know. I just wouldn't discount the possibility that marvellous paid games can find an audience, spread through word of mouth and earn a decent, profitable income for their developers outside a bit lower down the long tail of the app stores.A bit too often, the F2P evangelist's assumption is that if developers could make more money from their game, they would – and that means going freemium.Vlambeer is just one example of a developer who thinks otherwise. The Room cost £60k to make and hasmade its developer well over £1mwithout constantly bothering the upper reaches of the Top Grossing chart. Indie bands who make beautiful music and earn enough from fanbases of a few thousand people aren't invalidated by not being Rihanna or Justin Bieber. That's the joy of creative industries.3. Bad freemium games are bad, and we need to talk more about that.We need to talk lots more about how F2P is used in children's games – something documented more fullyin this article earlier in the month.We need to talk about the risks of underwhelming gameplay with over-aggressive monetisation putting players off freemium as a whole, or damaging much-loved gaming brands – Sonic Dash being one game currently sparking a spirited debate on that score.And can we please chat again about this habit of calling your biggest fans "whales" rather than, say, your biggest fans? People to be delighted, not cash-cows to be milked. It's that point about language being important again.To both sidesTo boil this down into something that sounds clunkingly obvious: awesome games are awesome. Bad games are bad.Is a bad F2P game so aggressive with its demands for payment that you uninstall it after half an hour's play so much worse than a paid title that bilks you into paying 69p or more based on misleading screenshots?Is an awesome paid game that you just want to play and play and play some more, then tell all your friends about, so much purer than an awesome freemium game that you just want to play and play and play some more, maybe pay a little (or a lot) and then tell all your friends about?There are some massively important debates to be had about ensuring the best mobile games – indie or otherwise – get a fair crack at finding the players who'll love them. But it's a pricing debate, a publishing strategy debate, an app store evolution debate. It's not a religious war.Now if you'll excuse me, I have some more fish to catch.
A security researcher who exploited a flaw in AT&amp;T's security around iPad users to reveal details of 114,000 emails in 2010 has been sentenced to 41 months in prison, and ordered with a co-defendant to pay $73,000 (£48,000) compensation to the phone company.Andrew "Weev" Auernheimer, who ran Goatse Security with co-defendant Daniel Spitler, was found guilty in November of one charge of identity fraud and one of conspiracy to access a computer without authorisation. He had faced a maximum of five years in prison for each charge.The hack, carried out in June 2010 just two months after the iPad went on sale, exposed details of the then White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, as well as chief executives and military officials. Only email addresses were exposed. The exploit used the fact that AT&amp;T had allocated sim cards for 3G-enabled iPads with successive numbers and no security checks to prevent anyone accessing the details. A printout of the details was then sent to theGawker website.The night before his sentencing, Auernheimer took part in aReddit "Ask Me Anything" session. There he explained how he had carried out the hack: "In June of 2010 there was a public AT&amp;T webserver that had a URL for a public API with a number at the end of it. If you added one to this number you might see the next iPad 3G user email address. I aggregated a sample of this data and sent it to a journalist. I contend that I as an American have the right to profit from accessing a public webserver, adding one to a number and embarrassing a large corporation."Despite an email from AT&amp;T stating the data was 'published', 'no security was bypassed' and 'I don't think they [the feds] have a case', the feds [federal prosecutors] disagreed. In November of 2012 I was found guilty of violating the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, the same law used against Matthew Keys, Aaron Swartz and Stephen Watt."Speaking on the courthouse steps before his sentencing, Auernheimer said: "I'm going to jail for doing arithmetic".In describing the sentence, federal prosecutors referred three times to Auernheimer's Reddit AMA session,in one part of which he said:"My regret is being nice enough to give AT&amp;T a chance to patch [the flaw] before dropping the dataset to Gawker. I won't nearly be as nice [sic] next time."Ahead of his sentencing on Monday, Auernheimer had been bullish: "No matter what the outcome, I will not be broken,"he tweeted. "I am antifragile," he added – a reference tothe bookby the economist Nassim Nicholas Taleb about systems that are robust enough to cope with disaster.The two werecharged in January 2011. Their security company – which was also sometimes described as a hacker group – had previously pointed out flaws in the Mozilla Firefox and Apple Safari browsers.Spitler took a plea bargain in 2011.
Suspected Russian hackers last week postedprivate information apparently belonging to public figuressuch as Michelle Obama, Joe Biden, Kim Kardashian and LAPD chief Charlie Beck.Much of the media coverage concentrated on the details of the information published, but perhaps the more intriguing detail is that hackers chose to build their site with the domain suffix .su – the suffix for the former Soviet Union.The .su suffix – or country code Top-Level Domain (ccTLD) – has been around since 1990, when it was assigned by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA), the governing body which allocated global IP addresses and domain names to "countries, sovereign states or dependent territories".Despite the dissolution of the Soviet Union a mere 14 months after its ccTLD was allocated, .su has lived on and is administered by theRussian Institute for Public Networks(RIPN), the Russian organization that controls domain name registration with the .ru and .su suffixes.Russia was granted its own .ru domain in 1994. But "owners of '.su' sites stubbornly resisted switching, on commercial, political and patriotic grounds",according to this USA Today story from 2008. The fledgling RIPN was forced to compromise and agreed to stop issuing new .su sites, while existing ones were allowed to continue.In early 2012,abuse.ch, a Swiss cybersecurity blog, noted that increasing numbers of 'domain hacks' – ie unusual uses of a ccTLD – were popping up with the .su suffix, namely by hackers. This was to get around a 2011 crackdown by RIPN which began systematically shutting down suspected hacking sites.But .su is not the only curious nation-state domain name:.lyLibya's suffix proved to be popular before the Arab uprising that ousted Gaddaffi, because it was comparatively cheap. URL shortener Bitly started the .ly domain hack trend by registering bit.ly; inspiring others like brief.ly, adf.ly and ow.ly to follow suit.However, the Libyan domain name governing body (nic.ly) has very strict regulations, namely: "Domain names must not contain obscene, scandalous, indecent, or contrary to Libyan law or islamic morality words, phrases nor abbreviations." This policy has resulted in websites being shut down, such as Vb.ly a "sex-positive URL shortener,"seized by the Libyan government in 2010..aqThough Antartica has no permanent human residents, it does have a ccTLD. This is available to government organizations who are signatories of the Antarctic Treaty or others who have a physical presence south of latitude 60ºS. The Vatican also has its own ccTLD, .va, to serve its 832 residents..am, .fm and .tv.am is the official ccTLD for Armenia, but AM radio stations have encroached on this domain. According to Armenia's Network Information Chapter,  the local regulating body for .am domains, an .am suffix can be acquired for a mere $29.01 a year. Creative domain hacks have also been used by companies such as Instagram, which owns own instagr.am..fm is the Federated States of Micronesia's official suffix. But the domain is popular and clearly valuable to FM radio stations. Anyone can purchase an .fm suffix, for an annual fee – proceeds of which apparently go to the government and people of micronesia – though calls to Micronesia's IANA representative went unanswered.The Polynesian island of Tuvalu,  home to fewer than 11,000 people, was granted .tv. But given the suffix's popularity with television companies, it is in far wider use than the size of its population might suggest. The suffix. .tv was bought by American company Verisign in 2000,  with Tuvalu retaining a 20% stake. Tuvalu signed a 12-year leasing contract for .tv for a $50m payout..ehThis ccTLD has been the subject of a power struggle between Morocco and Western Sahara, a disputed territory. Both have laid claims to the domain, but the IANA has ruled to keep the domain inactive until "the two contesting applicants work together to find a mutual solution that will serve the needs of the local Internet community in the best possible fashion". An unlikely scenario, given the two parties have been fighting since Spain released Western Sahara as a colony in 1975..yuThe suffixes of countries that disappear from the map usually just expire. Yugoslavia's .yu was in use until 2010, but was ultimately retired when both Serbia and Montenegro were granted new domains.Similarly, Czechoslovakia's .cs, expired in 1993, leaving Slovakia to adopt .sk and the Czech Republic .cs. Zaire's .zr morphed into .cd for the Democratic Republic of Congo – not to be confused with .cg, for Congo-Brazzaville.The same goes for Netherlands Antilles, a Caribbean island and former constituent country of the Netherlands. Despite the country's recent dissolution, the .an suffix has been retained. East Germany put forth .dd, but reunification got in the way before that ever came to be in use..рфTwo domain suffixes apparently aren't enough for Russia. In 2009, they were granted their own Cyrillic script ccTLD. Only 21 other countries have alternative ccTLDs using letters in their country's native script..la, .lv, and .toLaos, Latvia and the Tonga are repeatedly domain hacked by North American cities, eager to stake a claim on the internet. Los Angeles businesses are attempting to reappropriate Laos's .la; Las Vegas courts Latvia's .lv and Tonga's .to finds itself affiliated with Toronto, Turin and Tokyo..cxChristmas Island, home to approximately 2,072 residents, has its own .cx domain suffix. This gained brief notoriety during the high-profile murder trial of Joji Obara, a Japanese man jailed for the rape and murder of British woman Lucie Blackman. During the trial, a mysterious website appeared with a .cx suffix, seemingly in support of Obara. The website detailed Obara's version of events, extracts from Blackman's diary, a selection from court transcripts as well as court documents signed by several key members of the case.Though it was forbidden to publish documents such as these without the court's permission while the case was active, those responsible for the site understood that hosting the site through Christmas Island guaranteed a lengthy legal process if prosecutors wanted to shut it down. Incidentally, no criminal case was ever mounted, according to Richard Loyd Parry in his book on the case, People Who Eat Darkness.
You've probably heard of Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, and Marc Andreessen, author of the first widely used web browser, Mosaic. And you might even know of Vint Cerf, who in the 1970s along with Robert (Bob) Kahn devised the internet protocol that lets everything from emails to real-time video travel over the internet.But what about Louis Pouzin?Along with the other four, Pouzin was honoured on Monday as one of five winners of the first £1m Queen Elizabeth prize for engineering, for their "seminal contributions to the protocols (or standards) that together make up the fundamental architecture of the internet".Pouzin, 82, from Nievre in France, is in fact an influencer who came before all the others: he developed an early communications network that used "packets" of data (meaning it did not require a constant connection between sender and receiver) which then influenced Cerf and Kahn, who developed the protocols for the internet, upon which Berners-Lee built the world wide web, which could be navigated via Andreessen's Mosaic browser.Accepting the shared prize, Cerf said: "This is like waking up from a really exciting dream and discovering the geeks are winning!"He said the prize would mean that "finally, engineering is taking as visible a place as the Nobel prizes give to other fields such as science. It's particularly appropriate that the UK is taking this step – maybe it will become as significant as Sweden has become with the Nobel."The15-strong judging team, which included the physicist Brian Cox and former engineering chief Lord Alec Broers, was looking for "a person or up to three people who is (or who are) personally and indisputably responsible for a ground-breaking innovation in engineering, of demonstrable global benefit to humanity".The judges said: "Today a third of the world's 7 billion population use the internet, and estimates are that it carries 330 Petabytes of data per year. This is enough to transfer every character ever written in every book ever published 20 times over."They added: "The internet and world wide web initiated a communications revolution which has changed the world."Nominations for the prize, which has funding from a number of companies, opened in February 2012 and closed in September.Cox said: "My dream scenario is that every time someone logs on to the internet and gets something – say just a little piece of information – that they associate that with engineers."
ST Ericsson, the mobile chip joint venture, is to close with the loss of 1,600 jobs in Sweden,  Germany, India and China, having been crushed by competition from Asian chipmakers and the collapse of Finnish phonemaker Nokia's smartphone business.The company, with 4,450 employees has never made a profit and had been offered for sale but no buyer could be found, said STMicro's chief executive Carlo Bozotti.The two companies that formed the business in 2008, French-Italian corporation STMicroelectronics and Sweden's Ericsson, will split it between them. Some facilities will be closed.About 100 British jobs at the Connectivity Solutions side of the business are affected, but a spokesperson was unable to say whether they will be absorbed back into one of the partners. The move may also affect 27 jobs in Daventry, Northamptonshire.STMicro shares rose about 5% after the news. Ericsson shares were up 2%.STMicro will keep making products for ST-Ericsson customers who want them, Bozotti said. Among those using its chips besides Nokia is Samsung, which has four phones -– though none of its flagships -– using them. The joint venture has looked vulnerable for months, with STMicro warning in December that it would pull out because the business was losing market share and showed no signs of breaking even. In January management warned of a "significant sequential decline" in sales during this first quarter because of the decline in smartphone shipments running the Symbian software from Nokia. Total sales in 2012 fell 19% to $1.35bn (£1.16bn), while losses eased slightly to $749m from $841m in 2011.Total revenues had fallen every year from 2009, while losses widened. In all the company generated $7.82bn in revenue and lost $2.72bn from the first quarter of 2009.Nokia is reckoned to have comprised about 30% of ST-Ericsson's sales, but the Symbian line is now effectively dead.Ericsson will take back about 1,800 of the staff, and will keep a loss-making business making a 4G chip used in smartphones. That is expected to lose about 500m Swedish krona (£52m) in the latest quarter, due to R&amp;D costs, but Ericsson chief executive Hans Vestberg said it aimed to make the product line a top-three global player."We obviously have the ambition of making this profitable … and with a slimmer organisation I believe we have a much greater chance of getting there," he said.But some analysts were sceptical. "I doubt that unit will be profitable," a Stockholm-based analyst who declined to be named told the Reuters news agency. "My understanding is that it has no sales today and just one design win. Either it is a success or it is not, and then you are stuck with all the losses."STMicro will keep a number of ST-Ericsson products, as well as certain assembly and test facilities. It will take about 950 employees, mostly in France and Italy.The rest will be shut down, losing between 500 and 700 jobs in Europe, with 400-600 in Sweden and 50-80 in Germany. No factories will be closed, STMicro said.STMicro expects the closures and restructuring to cost $350m to $450m, less than the $500m it predicted at the end of January.Ericsson made a provision of 3.3bn Swedish krona in 2012 to pay for the moves.
After three years of decline, the UK games industry has bucked economic trends and entered a period of growth according to a new report from trade body,Tiga.Based on a survey of developers conducted by Games Investor Consulting, the sector grew by four per cent in 2012, with the number of development studios rising from 329 to 448 between 2011 and 2012. The number of creative staff working directly on game development has increased as well, from 8,888 to 9,224. Tiga has calculated that the industry's annual contribution to UK Gross Domestic Product is now £947m, up from £912m two years ago."The increasing prevalence of mobile and tablet devices have created a growing market for games: studios are setting up to meet this demand," said Tiga CEO Richard Wilson. "The closure of big console-based studios has been followed by an explosion of small start-up companies."Wilson also believes that the government's decision to provide the sector with creative industry tax breaks is already having a positive effect on inward investment, despite the fact that developers are unable to apply until next month. Since the announcement, Activision Blizzard has founded a mobile studio, The Blast Furnace, in Leeds, while Japanese social gaming giant Gree has opened a UK office. Furthermore, Konami has set up PES Productions in London to work on its long-running football series, and Microsoft has started the digital-only studio Lift in London. "Jobs and investment in the games industry are set grow further once Games Tax Relief comes into effect from April 2013," said Wilson.Last year, the University of Abertay set up a prototype fund for start-up games studios, and director of business development Paul Durrant believes Tiga's findings are reflected in the level of interest he has received. "We've seen over 300 applications come in – not all of those are from different companies, but there has been a large number of studios applying to us. Out of those we've funded 63 so far. We've got an interesting situation where a lot very experienced staff who've worked for big name console developers have for various reasons gone into start ups and I'm sure that's swelling numbers. Many of those are chasing the Holy Grail of direct-to-consumer opportunities through social, mobile and casual games."Indeed, the British industry has seen a major shift in development behaviours as larger developers have closed, often spawning several smaller studios in their passing. When veteran Liverpool studio Bizarre Creations was shut by its publisher Activision in 2011, at least two studios – Hogrocket and Lucid Games – were formed by ex-staff: both of those started out with iOS projects. The closure of Black Rock in Brighton again spawned at least four new developers: Shortround Games, West Pier, Boss Alien and Roundcube, and again, a majority have concentrated on the iOS market.The big question is over how sustainable the growth is if it is reliant on the smartphone sector. New studios going in to Apple and Android development are entering an incredibly competitive market, where hundreds of new game titles are released every week. Only a tiny percentage will ever see the sort of financial rewards enjoyed by developers of titles like Angry Birds and Temple Run. The Tiga report concedes that 21% of the UK studios started up in 2010 have since gone under.Frank Arnot was the studio director at successful Dundee developer 4J Studios, before leaving last year to set upStormcloud Games. He recognises that, while the Tiga report is positive, it hints at an industry saturated with start-ups. "There are a lot of talented people deciding to get back to the simpler days of smaller teams and smaller projects," he says. "We're all vulnerable. Finding work-for-hire is a challenge because there are a lot of people doing great stuff. But we really wanted to explore our own IP and it's difficult to do that in the console space."Stormcloud's answer has been to seek out an unconventional licensing arrangement. The company's first project is Paper Zoo, an iOS game in which players craft cute origami animals and then care for them. Through enterprise agency Scottish Development International, the team managed to get in touch with Japanese origami expert, Fumiaki Shingu, and will release the game as Mr Shingu's Paper Zoo, reflecting the hugely successful Nintendo title, Dr Kawashima's Brain Training. "His website has 10 million visitors a year - we hope that will give us a bit of traction to get us started," says Arnot.Elsewhere, game development graduates who go on to set up their own studios are finding the transition into a business environment difficult. "As a gamer, the Tiga report has made me happier," says Sophia George, the creative director atSwallowtail Games, which won a Bafta for its debut iOS title Tick Tock Toys. "It's great that we've had some growth in the UK, it might mean more ambitious projects. But as an indie it doesn't mean that much to me."I'm talking to investors now and it's terrifying. We're speaking to people about contract work, about studio space... it's all a bit up in the air. I've been at university for four years and it was really focused on creativity and innovation, but we didn't learn that much about business – it's all really new to me. I'm worried about taking loans – if I can't pay it back, I'm screwed. I've got to be so careful. I know a lot of young studios in the same situation and we're just not sure who to turn to for advice."Both Tiga and fellow trade body UKIE are looking to set up programmes to help small studios. "Our top priority is to assist developers and digital publishers to build sustainable businesses and so we intend to provide events and best practice information on these vital commercial skills," says Wilson.However, in a crowded and highly competitive market, it's inevitable that many of these studios will fail. So is the optimism of Tiga's report misplaced? "I think there will be quite a lot of churn," says Durrant. "However, it's very similar to the classic innovation funnel: from a UK perspective, we need to have high numbers of start-ups to get a small number of successes. And if there are closures, I think that would be a temporary blip before those more successful studios began to grow and acquire staff."But yes, there's a huge fragility to a lot of these companies - a shortage of working capital is prevalent and everything depends on getting some success with their first IP. Some of the teams coming into this sector from console development have lived in a very different world, where the publisher picks up the marketing tab. They're having to learn by the seat of their pants."The Tiga report, 'Making Games in the UK Today. A Census of the UK Developer and Digital Publishing Sector', is due to be published in March.
Funding for widespread Wi-Fi and mobile access on trains is expected to be among George Osborne's budget giveaways this week – and it could boost train travel as a side effect.Passengers who prefer quiet carriages will have to grit their teeth: in a move intended to boost national productivity, the chancellor will offer help for commuters who want to use their train journeys to catch up on work.Of the 25 rail franchise operators, 12 still do not have an onboard Wi-Fi service, according to the Association of Train Operating Companies website. For example, the Heathrow Express offers Wi-Fi free to all passengers, while the Gatwick Express has none.The cash will be used to install special equipment on trains with no Wi-Fi service, according to industry sources. A spokeswoman for the Department of Culture, Media and Sport declined to comment.The metal shell of train carriages tends to absorb mobile phone signals, but connections can be improved by fixing antennae to carriage roofs which receive outside signals from mobile masts and replicate them through a series of repeaters in the train.Virgin Trains installed repeaters on its Voyager services in North Wales and on cross-country routes through a contract with Orange, and teamed up with Vodafone in 2008 to bring the technology to its high speed Pendolino trains between London and Glasgow.A handful of franchises offer free Wi-Fi to all passengers, but most charge those travelling in standard class while giving the service away to first class passengers.While many travellers resent having to listen to loud one-sided phone calls, internet connections are less disruptive and popular with passengers. National Express registered a threefold increase along its East Coast Line after offering free Wi-Fi, having taken over the line previously operated by Great North Eastern Railway, which charged £4.95 per hour for the service. When National Express removed the charge in January 2008, the number of passengers using the line rose from 30,000 to 100,000 for the month: regulators  said part of the increase was due to free Wi-Fi.More budget news ...Virgin Media wants half of the £150m government Urban Broadband fund for improving internet infrastructure in cities to be diverted to skills and training.BT and Virgin Media are concerned public money could be used to build networks which compete with their own. They have launched legal action against a European Commission decision to let Birmingham City council spend £10m from the Urban Broadband fund on installing fibre-optic cables in areas where they already serve customers.Neil Berkett, chief executive of Virgin Media, has written to chancellor George Osborne suggesting half of the fund be spent improving digital skills for small and medium-sized businesses, where only two-thirds have a website and just a third sell goods and services online.
PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (43)PC (2)22 (–)God Of War: Ascension(18+)PS3 (100)13 (–)Starcraft Ii: Heart Of The Swarm(16+)PC (100)14 (–)Sniper: Ghost Warrior 2(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (39)PC (6)15 (2)Simcity(7+)PC (100)26 (5)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (33)VITA (4)Wii (3)257 (8)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (39)PC (6)168 (6)Crysis 3(16+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (36)49 (7)Call Of Duty: Black Ops Ii(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (43)PC (2)Wii U (2)1810 (4)The Sims 3: University Life(12+)PC (100)211 (11)Assassin's Creed Iii(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (40)Wii U (3)2012 (14)Hitman Absolution(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (40)PC (2)1713 (13)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (36)Xbox 360 (30)PS3 (17)3DS (5)2214 (12)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (42)VITA (9)PC (1)2015 (19)Dead Space 3(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (41)PC (4)616 (10)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (72)PS3 (16)PC (12)6517 (16)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (35)PS3 (17)Wii (17)DS (14)3618 (18)Grand Theft Auto Iv(18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (36)4619 (9)Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance(18+)PS3 (59)Xbox 360 (41)420 (3)Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3(12+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)2UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Heartbreak weighs particularly heavy on the fragile teenage heart. The drama of those first experiences of love never seem that long ago, so all-consuming, and followed by a rejection that seems to define the world, until the next."I was 17, and going out with a girl I found out was cheating on me,"Chris Milkrecalls, leaning back on a black leather couch. "I ran home from her house so angry, and in the dark. By the time I got home the sun was coming up, but the sound of that running, and the feeling of going back to my house triggered the beginning of a concept ..."Filmmaker Chris Milk: "A project has to start form a human, emotional place - otherwise it is just a tech demo."Milkis a filmmaker, and latterly one seduced by the possibilities of the internet – a medium most filmmakers seem to shy away from. Approached by Google'sAaron Koblin, creative director of the data arts team, Milk had his interest piqued by some of theChrome experimentsbeing promoted by Google.Arcade Firehave an impressive roster of interactives on their discography, including several projects with Canadian Vincent Morisset;Neon Bible,Sprawl II, and thesynchronised artworkproject Morisset made for The Suburbs album.Milk started talking to Arcade Fire, who shared unfinished songs while working on the album The Suburbs and sent him We Used to Wait."I wish I could tell you there was some great piece of art that was the inspiration for it, but I basically listened to the song a thousand times to see what came to mind. In this case, it was a dreamscape from my own life, of footsteps, and the rhythm that sounded to me like running. I'd been exploring my own house recently on Street View and it reminded me of that moment with the girl I'd been seeing when I was 17, so I built on top of that."This became theWilderness Downtownproject, which set something of a high bar for the mainstream music video scene when it was released in 2010, given the poor state of both technology and imagination in most commercial music videos. Openness to experimenting with technology has an obstacle with adequate funding, despite an obvious creative curiosity in what is possible. "I knew a bit about the capabilities of HTML5 and have always had a preoccupation with technology. I wanted to delve deeper, to see what else it could do. The technology becomes the palette that you make the artwork with, your palette and your paint."But I was adamant the project had to tell a story or have an emotional core. It has to start with the human, emotional place, because if you start with the tech, you're basically building a tech demo. Music is a great catalyst for emotion because it gets to your core."Before Arcade Fire, Milk produced theJohnny Cash Project, aggregating single frames from thousands of fans to create one, mesmerising crowdsourced animation; again, a project built withHTML5.His latest project rolled out on 10 February, but Milk carried on tweaking it online for three weeks. The concept forBeck's cover of Sound and Visionstarted with the music – a deconstructed, reimagined interpretation of David Bowie's 1977 classic, with the help of 170 musicians, singers, a theremin and saw player, brass band and string orchestra, among others. Beck, with Milk, set the team up in a vast LA studio with 360-degree cameras, creating aFlash-based interactivethat lets the online viewer navigate around the studio – and the sound – accordingly. The viewer controls what they see by moving left, right, up and down in front of their webcam.Milk said that like many online projects, the iteration continues after release, tweaking and adding features including alternative lenses for the viewer's camera. "Web projects aren't done until I'm happy, or someone changes the password to the server.  A formal release does not stop me from working on it more."All this is a world away from theMTVmusic video days of the early nougthies; the station, which defined much of popular culture until the mainstream internet, played around eight hours of music videos a day in the year 2000, but by 2008 that had dropped to three. Much of the existing music video space seems unimaginative, battling a perceived problem returning that investment that has led to reduced budgets and crude product placement.For the film-maker with an open mind, the attraction is an equally open-ended medium, with no established construct. "There hasn't been an entirely new medium to make art in, a medium that is really fluid, and we have to find ways to challenge that medium," said Milk. It's a space that evolved so quickly that there are things he couldn't do with the Johnny Cash project, but could do six months later with Wilderness Downtown."That's really exciting as a person who wants to make work that speaks to people, because from a storytelling standpoint, we don't know what that construct will look like. Cinema has evolved to a three-act structure, music soundtracks, close ups and colour and abstracts – but that wasn't there at the beginning, so I'm interested to see how this medium evolves for storytelling."This is a point, he says, akin to the train coming through the cinema screen of the 1920's. "In 100 years, they will look at Facebook in the same way. 'Ofcourseit's a 12-act narrative structure with polygrams and line tags …' so the interactive space is a way to experiment with storytelling and portraying emotions."MTV, a one-directional feed for music videos, gave way to the interactivity of YouTube – yet most production still approaches the music video as if it is being broadcast and distributed through traditional TV, said Milk. It's the oft-referenced paradigm shift for yet another industry disrupted by web technology, but what if the filmmaker was to accept that the internet medium, and the two-way interaction, is dominant, and that music videos will never play out through TV again? He says the same is true for newspapers, which have an opportunity to reimagine and enhance their storytelling around a contextualised experience for the reader."It's then not only a conversation, but you can reference everything on the internet," explains Milk of the exquisite insight at the heart of Wilderness Downtown. "With Street View, you're curating a data set capable of incredible emotional resonance for the person interacting with it because everyone grew up somewhere. And if your house is in this dataset, that's going to provide some emotional context for you."It's the ubiquity and simplicity of Street View that made Wilderness Downtown work, suggesting part of the story, but letting the viewer's own memories do the rest. Much of the web's universal content, like Facebook photos, are too diverse to repeat the trick, with too little continuity to create a story around it.There are more ideas taking shape in the world of Chris Milk. He's looking for funding for the feature film Bitterroot, about a Montana rancher who sets out to avenge a telemarketing scheme that robs him of his savings. Nick Nolte is rumoured for the project, which manages to weave a very American rural nostalgia for a family business with revenge against bankers, Walmart and, finally, a reconciliation with his estranged son.He's also quietly nursing a curiousDuchamp-esque project known as theWilderness Machine. This physical extension of Wilderness Downtown invites viewers to write a message to their younger self, which a mechanical pen transcribes onto a real postcard embedded with birch seeds, ready to be planted in the real world.Perhaps if Wilderness Downtown keeps ticking over for a few more years, we might see those same birch trees on the verges inside Google Street View...Photo byselkovjron Flickr.Some rights reserved.
What will the next ten years look like? Trend forecasting agencyThe Future Laboratoryrecently revealed a number of buzzwords to&nbsp;reflect the state of tomorrow. Here are a choice few:• SharentsThose annoying adults who tweet their offspring's every utterance and can't go a day without uploading another "adorable" photo. As a result of such parental pride, it will become unusual for children to reach secondary school without an online history that can be traced back to the day they were born. Thanks, Mum.• Child Technology OfficersDoes your child know more than you do about your mobile phone? Have you sheepishly sought their advice on how to use Vine or Pinterest? The next 10 years will see the rise of Child Technology Officers – the pint-sized family authorities on everything digital.• ScreenagersWorried about your children watching too much TV? How quaint. Future Laboratory's research showed that today's under-10s see no difference between their on- and offline lives. "Child technology officers" will grow into "screenagers" whose realities are as much on screen as in classrooms and homes.•PretailWhere brands follow our online footprints to tell us what we want before we even know we want it. On one hand, this is simply a development of a truth that successful businesses have always known; on the other, it's an unnerving glimpse into an increasingly Orwellian future. SeeMindMeld, an app that "listens in" to your online conversations, then offers relevant products and services.•Space-vertisingAs passenger space travel becomes a reality (Virgin is set to launch its first flights soon), expect to see other big brands vying for a piece of the intergalactic action. Already, vodka brand Stolichnaya has sent a mixologist to shake a zero-gravity cocktail and Nestle has floated a KitKat in the stratosphere. Why? Why not?• Bio-factureResearchers at Scotland's Heriot-Watt University have discovered a 3D printing technique that uses embryonic stem cells to create human tissue while students at London's Central St Martins are looking into the possibility of a GM strawberry plant that can grow lace from its roots, thus combining food and textile production. The convergence of technology and biology should lead to a more sustainable future. Phew!
Oh, Monday again. How was your weekend? More Far Cry 3 for me. I spentagesplanning a subtle, stealthy raid on a pirate outpost and just as I was about to start, a pack of dingos ran into the enclosure – the pirates started throwing fire bombs, killing three of their own number in the process. I just walked in, switched the alarm off and finished the rest.
A burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGimmick watch: which Galaxy S4 features are actually useful? &gt;&gt; TechRadarBy their count, not that many. (Thanks @beardyweirdy666 for the link.)This man did all his work from a smartphone for one year - here's what he learned &gt;&gt; CITEworldIn an interview with CITEworld, [Benjamin] Robbins [cofounder of software consulting firm Palador] explained, "Humans are very much creatures of habit. I formed habits around mobility that I can't really imagine going away from. The first few weeks [of going mobile-only] were definitely tough, but everything's changing and moving at such a fast pace, the capabilities are expanding so fast, I can't imagine going back to a PC as my primary device."Most important, he became accustomed to getting results for his customers quickly, without ever having to make excuses. "I was never in a situation where I said 'I'll get back to you when I get back to office' .... That's gone from my lexicon."The early days were a challenge, though. For him, the hardest thing was getting used to the lack of an accessible file system. He advises anybody considering following his path to think really hard about where you're going to store files and how you're going to move big files around."I ended up relying heavily on Box and Dropbox," he said.He used a Samsung Galaxy Note. The "CITE" of CITEworld stands for "Consumerisation of IT in the Enterprise. (Thanks @rubbernuke for the pointer.)Samsung unveils new Galaxy S IV phone &gt;&gt; Yankee GroupCarl Howe:"If Samsung were Apple, it would have named this design the Galaxy S IIIS. While Samsung updated the internals and the software, the S IV is just another iteration on the Galaxy design to be slightly bigger, faster and with a few new apps."We fully expect the Galaxy S IV to be an excellent flagship phone for Samsung, but Yankee Group doesn't see the S IV allowing Samsung to gain ground against Apple in the crucial U.S. market. According to Yankee Group's 2013 U.S. Consumer Survey, March, only about 15% of consumers intend to buy a Samsung phone within the next six months, while 40% intend to buy Apple iPhones within that period.The brand called "Don't Know", meanwhile, has great brand recognition and is a likely next buy for many. And: just wait for Samsung to start an advertising blitz in the US.What else Google is shutting down &gt;&gt; inessential.comBrent Simmons (who wrote one of the great RSS readers, NetNewsWire):While the demise of Google Reader got all the attention, there are some other things going away in A second spring of cleaning. It's worth reading.One of the interesting ones: the CalDAV API will be removed for all but whitelisted developers. CalDAV builds on WebDAV and is an open standard. Instead you'd have to use the Google Calendar API.I wouldn't have noticed this except that I was out with two calendar developers last night: John Chaffee of BusyCal and Michael Simmons of Flexibits. I suspect they've got some coding to do.Google certainly has the right to shut things down — and I think they're right to do so, also. The company's been all over the place and should continue to work on focus.But I don't like when they turn off existing support for an open standard like CalDAV in favor of a Google-only API. Sure, they can — it's within their rights, obviously. But I don't like it.To those who think Google has a commitment to free and open source: get real. That only applies when it will commoditise a rival's paid-for products to zero price and so destroy them. (This change also, by the way, screws Windows Phone users, who already face challenges over the end of Exchange functionality from Gmail.)Prominent Weibo users paid to bash Apple? Introducing China's '820 Party' &gt;&gt; Tea Leaf NationYesterday, CCTV, China' state-run television network,ran an expose on Apple, generating to an outcry against the company on Weibo, a Chinese social media platform. News quickly broke, however, that CCTV had paid celebrities to post anti-Apple remarks. A slip up on the part of Peter Ho, a Taiwanese-American movie star and spokesperson for Samsung Galaxy, provided a glimpse behind the scenes. Heposted:#315isLive# Wow, Apple has so many tricks in its after-sales services. As an Apple fan, I'm hurt. You think this would be acceptable to Steve Jobs? Or to those young people who sold their kidneys [to buy iPads]? It's really true that big chains treat customers poorly.Post around 8:20.Ho was later updated his Weibo with a postclaiminghis phone had been stolen and that he hasn't posted the previous message, but Weibo users had already noticed that he failed to delete the last sentence of the offending tweet, his instructions.GoogleGraveyard (googlegraveyard) &gt;&gt; PinterestCollated by Frank Shaw, Microsoft's PR, this is nevertheless true. (We linked to it previously in July 2012.) The total is now 44 items - the latest to hit the dust being Google Reader. However, more are coming.What can be learned when sharing leads to failing &gt;&gt; PandoDailyAdam Berk with four very basic, but often overlooked, lessons for any tech startup - in fact, any business, but tech startups have a habit of trying to solve the wrong problems first ("what should our domain name be?").Apple's Galaxy challenge in three easy charts &gt;&gt; Barrons.com[Tavis] McCourt [of brokers Raymond James], who has an Outperform rating on Apple shares and a $600 price target, confines himself to the simple observation that "iPhone shipments since 2010 (when Samsung launched the Galaxy line) still dwarf Galaxy sales, but Samsung is closing the gap."McCourt thinks Apple's iPhone again outsold Galaxy this quarter, but that the positions will reverse next quarter.Here are three choice charts from the report.The charts make interesting viewing, though as Apple doesn't break down iPhone sales between the 4, 4S and 5 (and the period shown includes a time when it was selling the 3GS too) and Samsung simply doesn't give any accountable figures for smartphone sales, you might want to take them with some salt.The InternetFeds: Inside hacker Sabu's war room &gt;&gt; Reuters.comMatthew Keys, writing in March 2012:On December 20, 2010, a report by the PBS NewsHour exposed a document that contained dozens of government usernames and passwords. The document, which was published on the NewsHour website, was only known to InternetFeds. It became clear that someone among the ranks was a mole.Paranoia swept through the room [of elite Anonymous hackers]. There were discussions of who the mole might be. A hacker named Switch was a popular guess. Some people thought it was me. (Ilater saidI gave the documents to NewsHour.)Several other incidents took place that added to the paranoia. The website of New York's Green Party, which InternetFeds planned to attack in an "epic owning," was defaced without the approval of the room's members. An article on theLos Angeles Times' websitewas defaced by a hacker, again without collective approval.What's significant about this is that Keys, who seems to have had access to the chatroom, is accused of being the person who gave login details to the hacker who defaced the LA Times.Google Reader is dead, so we rebuilt it for you in Zite (in six hours) &gt;&gt; Zite's blogZite was able to pull this together so quickly because of how our backend works.Google Reader has always been part of Zite – users have always had the option of adding their Google Reader account to tell our personalization algorithms which sources they prefer and what types of stories they like to read.Zite ingests millions of articles each day from hundreds of thousands of sources.Zite has deep personalization technology that can analyze user reading habits and pick the best stories from their Google Reader instead of getting inundated with hundreds of articles.Note that this is a basic feed reading only.  There are definitely some limitations:Limitations schmitations.Mobile malcoders pay to (Google) Play &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityBrian Krebs:An explosion in malware targeting Android users is being fueled in part by a budding market for mobile malcode creation kits, as well as a brisk market for hijacked or fraudulent developer accounts at Google Play that can be used to disguise malware as legitimate apps for sale.I recently encountered an Android malware developer on a semi-private Underweb forum who was actively buying up verified developer accounts at Google Play for $100 apiece. Google charges just $25 for Android developers who wish to sell their applications through the Google Play marketplace, but it also requires the accounts to be approved and tied to a specific domain. The buyer in this case is offering $100 for sellers willing to part with an active, verified Play account that  is tied to a dedicated server.Unsurprisingly, this particular entrepreneur also sells an Android SMS malware package that targets customers of Citibank, HSBC and ING, as well as 66 other financial institutions in Australia, France, India, Italy, Germany, New Zealand, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland and Turkey (the complete list ishere). The targeted banks offer text messages as a form of multi-factor authentication, and this bot is designed to intercept all incoming SMS messages on infected Android phones.Grabbing SMSs stops you seeing two-factor authentication confirmations sent from your bank when a new transaction - by the malware - is initiated. (Look up Eurograbber: it's big business.)The Human impact of bugs &gt;&gt; Jury.meA three-act play with software. Starts out very sad. Improves. Morality lesson in the middle/end.Google Reader still drives far more traffic than Google+ &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedAccording to data from the BuzzFeed Network, a set of tracked partner sites that collectively have over 300 million users, Google Reader is still a significant source of traffic for news — and a much larger one than Google+. The above chart, created by BuzzFeed's data team, represents data collected from August 2012 to today. (Yesterday, Google announced that it would close Reader in July.)We should add that this data isn't complete. Google Reader traffic became much harder to measure last year when Google began defaulting users to SSL encryption in such a way that masked referral data. And this doesn't include data from apps that use Google Reader as a sync service, such as Reeder. In other words, it's likely that we're actually missing some Reader traffic here.From the graph, the ratio looks like roughly 70:1 for Reader:G+.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Age:First used on Twitter in August, 2007. So five&nbsp;and a half.Appearance:#likethisAnd what exactly is a hashtag?Anything preceded by a #.As in?As in #nothelpful.That's not helpful.Yes, exactly. #smugCan we stay on topic please?Sure. #hashtagsRight. So what are hashtags for?Everything and anything. They contextualise, categorise and colour. They annotate and amuse, unite and undermine. #alliterationBut mostly?Mostly they are a way of filing tweets by topic, enabling Twitter users to find everything that anyone anywhere has tweeted about any given subject.#everyopinionever#tediousSo they're just a Twitter thing?Not just a Twitter thing, no. They first appeared in online chat rooms before the microblogging site even existed, and have since made their way on to several other major social networking sites, including Pinterest, Instagram and Google+. They also tend to pop up on adverts and in TV shows. #pleasetweetaboutourproductAnd what are they doing now?Invading Facebook. According to a report in the Wall Street Journal, Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg's team plan to introduce the hashtag as a way of grouping users' conversations. #reportedlyWhy?As part of its battle with Twitter to become the best "personalised newspaper" in the world. Or, put another way: because they can and there's nothing Twitter can do to stop them. #socialnetworkwarSo how should us Facebook users prepare for this invasion?You might want to brush up on your hashtag skills. #hashtagpractice#I think I get it.You don't. #spacesareover#Don't I?Nope. A hashtag should be all one word. So that should have been #ithinkigetit. Which, as you may have spotted, is a bit of a jumbled mess.#sowhatdoidowheniwanttosaysomethingreallylong?Don't use a hashtag. Or, if you must, use capitals to make it easier to read. #LikeThis#DoesThatReallyHelp?Yep, see? It also averts PR disasters of the kind that struck Susan Boyle's album launch party last year. #susanalbumparty#embarrassinghashtags?#perfectDo say:"How did we ever live without them?"Don't say:"#ItWasActuallyFine"
Pricefrom £16,330MPG57.6Top speed111mphFor almost 40 years,Volkswagenhas been working on a single project: the creation of the perfect car. Not the fastest, not the most exciting, not even the most beautiful, but the one that is always just what you need it to be. It's the one that is cheaper than you'd expect and yet more luxurious than you'd hope. It's the one that feels small in the city, yet large in the country. It's the one that's a heavy-footed party in the fast lane, and a ballet dancer at the pumps… It's a car which, in less poetic terms, we call a Golf.With unwavering self-belief, the German carmaker takes Europe's bestselling car – a multi-award-winning vehicle that has sold almost 30m around the world and which flies out of showrooms so effortlessly you suspect car salesmen have to rope them to their forecourts – and redesigns it again and again. VW's pointyheads won't leave it be. So far they've done this seven times and each time they edge a little closer to their transcendental vision of an omnipotent car.Most of us would have stopped at Golf 2.0 or 5.0, but I suspect Golf 8.0 is already flickering into life in some secret bunker in Wolfsburg even as 7.0 makes its way on to our streets.Despite being rebuilt seven times, the car's essential DNA has hardly changed at all. But as the engineers at VW might say: "The divine is in the detail." The 30-page press pack which arrives with the car lists the many tiny changes. An insight into the minutiae of these fine tweaks can be glimpsed when you read lines like: "The space between the accelerator and brake pedals has been increased by 16mm"; and "The track width has been increased by 6mm at the rear and 8mm at the front."And yet when you put these infinitesimal changes together you get a whole new Golf which is slightly smoother and quieter and faster and safer and lighter and bigger and more fuel efficient and cleaner than the last one. It now has things like a clever 140bhp turbo petrol engine that can switch imperceptibly to two cylinders when the going is gentle, making the power unit more flexible and efficient. Later this year, a frugal-minded BlueMotion model will be added to the line-up that will deliver an astonishing 88.3 miles to the gallon.Volkswagen has cleverly tip-toed along the fine line between change and continuity.Walter de Silva, the head of design at Volkswagen, says: "There are only a handful of cars with a design that has been refined, tweaked and enhanced down the decades and thus become timeless." The Golf is one of them. And Walter knows what he is talking about. He also happens to be the head of design at Audi, Seat, Skoda, Bentley, Lamborghini and Bugatti. I&nbsp;burst out laughing as I typed that out. What a&nbsp;job. I wonder which one he drives to work in?Walter's right, a Golf really is timeless. I owned one more than 20 years ago. But driving this brand new one I felt instantly at home. Everything had changed and yet it felt as familiar and comfortable as sitting around my parents' kitchen table. It was only when I glimpsed my face in the rearview mirror, like an automotive Dorian Gray, that I&nbsp;realised just how much time had passed…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukSecond chance saloonThe UK's largest buyer of second-hand cars has revealed a few interesting things about the changing consumer behaviour of those of us who prefer to buy "pre-loved" motors.Webuyanycar.com, which began operating in 2006, has analysed data from more than 410,000 cars purchased. The current "average" car sold in Britain is a five-year-old Vauxhall Corsa with 57,000 miles on the clock. The five most popular after the Corsa were a Ford Fiesta, a Ford Focus, a Renault Clio and a VW Golf. The online car buyer also discovered that in 2012 for the first time, more women than men sold second hand cars. Analysis of gender behaviour also reveals that men hang on to their cars longer than women, with more than a 5,000 mile discrepancy. The average man sells his car at 73,231 miles while the average woman sells at 67,724 miles. The research breakdown also reveals the average mileage of second-hand cars. Volvos were sold, on average, accumulating more miles than any other manufacturer. In 2012 the average mileage for Volvos reached 97,005 miles, while French microcar marque Aixam had the lowest average mileage 12,229.Driverless carsIn the race to let our cars do the driving, some manufacturers are building a significant lead. But is it really a reality?Carloan4u.co.ukhas put together this infographic to explain how it all works:http://neomam.com/the-race-for-the-first-driverless-car-infographic/
Conservative MP Gavin Barwell thought he was exposing a particularly shameless piece of political moneyspinning when he clicked on a link tweeted by Labour and found a press release accompanied by an advert saying "date Arab girls".He wasted no time firing off a tweet to the party's press team and shadow schools minister Kevin Brennan, saying: "I know Labour are short of cash but having an invitation to 'date Arab girls' at top of your press release?"However, what seemed like an easy strike might have turned into a something of an own goal.The press team's reply began "oh dear", followed by a link to an explanation of how Google Adsense functions - that is, based on the preferences of a web user.The description on the Google website reads: "You may come across such ads when you're viewing a website, video, or app on Google's display network."In addition to seeing ads based on your interests, you may also see ads based on the types of sites you visit, whether you +1 something, and more."The story was running on the LabourList website, a blog devoted to centre-left issues, which claimed that when its writers accessed the same press release they were greeted by an advert for a Samsung mobile phone.The advert was posted alongside the line: "Oops…Barwell got a far more interesting advert than LabourList did."Barwell stayed silent as other Twitter users expressed their amusement at his misfiring attack.Jon Mundy wrote: "Oh - this is glorious, @GavinBarwellMP's browser history comes back to bite him."James O'Flynn was similarly entertained, observing: "This did make me chuckle."Be careful before you question how appropriate an advert on a webpage is."The original press release, posted on TwitLonger, was an attack on Michael Gove, claiming the education secretary was failing to provide enough school places for children.It included a quote from Brennan calling on the government to "address the crisis in school places they have created".Adverts featured above and below the short release, apparently tailored to the viewer's preferences.The original link was tweeted by @labourpress on March 14, with Barwell's jibe following the same day.The press team hit back the next day, with the MP for Croydon central staying unusually quiet.However, a dating advert appeared to be fixed below the advert  even when the page was accessed from different computers - though the enticement to date Arab girls was absent.While there is no evidence Barwell, the party's former chief operating officer, spends his spare time sifting through dating sites, he has previously revealed wide interests as a fan of rappers Public Enemy, author Joan Collins and soap opera Dynasty.He previously made headlines with a Twitter post after discovering that thieves had stripped metal from a memorial on his father's grave, writing that if he caught the culprits, they would "regret it".However, this time Barwell seemed content to walk away and has tweeted about other events - such as a visit by Caterham School students to Westminster Cathedral.
One of the wonders of the online world is theDownfallmeme on YouTube. (For those whose time is too valuable to be wasted watching video clips, I should explain that the parody is based on remixing a scene from Oliver Hirschbiegel's film,Der Untergang(Downfall), which chronicles Hitler's final days in his Berlin bunker.The clip takes the scene in which Hitler, memorably portrayed by Bruno Ganz, launches into a tirade upon finally realising that the war is truly lost and overlays it with subtitles about contemporary issues or events. ThusHitler rantsabout the inability of the iPad to do multitasking, that Sheffield United have been relegated or that Twitter has gone down again.What brings this to mind is thata new version of the meme appeared last week. In it, Hitler is told aboutGoogle's decision to "retire" (ie scrap) its Reader app. "WHAT THE FUCK ARE THEY THINKING??!!" he roars. "HOW CAN THEY DO THIS TO US?!! How dare they take away Google Reader. I have over 300 feeds in there!! Have they any idea how much effort I've put in? Of all Google products I spend 99% of my time with Reader. Why do they do this?" And so on.For the first – and I hope the only – time in my life, I find myself agreeing with the Führer. For I, too, am a dedicated user of Google Reader. The reason is that, like most people who have to keep a professional eye on a lot of websites, I rely onRSS,the syndication system that sends out a text summary every time content is added to a site that I monitor. In order to avoid being overwhelmed by the resulting torrent, I use a piece of software – an RSS reader – to impose order on the stream and Google's Reader is – or, more accurately, was – the one upon which I relied. Now I will have to use something else – and move all my RSS subscriptions to that new service.There are a couple of lessons here. The first is about Web 2.0, the much-vaunted version of the web as"small pieces, loosely joined", to use David Weinberger's phrase. In many ways, it's wonderful to have a system in which websites can connect to one another and exchange data that enable other people to provide novel and/or useful services. Think of the way hotels, say, can embed Google maps in their sites, rather than having to create maps themselves.Google has been particularly good at participating in the Web 2.0 world, mainly, no doubt, because doing so is good for its overall business. But there's a dangerous asymmetry implicit in all this for anyone building a business on the back of Web 2.0 links. If that business depends on the continuance of the service from a big outfit such as Google (or Amazon or Facebook) without an explicit contractual relationship, then the big boys can pull the plug on it any time it suits them. And all you'll be left with is a nice message like the one on the Google Blog saying: "While the product has a loyal following, over the years usage has declined. So, on July 1, 2013, we will retire Google Reader."But at least in this particular case users canexport their data, including their subscriptions, with Google Takeoutover the course of the next four months. Users of other Web 2.0 services will not always be so lucky and may find that they've entrusted their data to a "free" service that has suddenly disappeared or been withdrawn.The second lesson is about the wisdom or otherwise of trying to block internet memes. In April 2010, Constantin Films, the owners of the copyright onDownfall, decided that they'd had enough of people ripping off their intellectual property in order to amuse their mates and instituted legal action to have the parodies taken down. The first response, needless to say, was a parody in whichHitler ranted about his parodies being removed from YouTube.Six months later, sanity – or at any rate commercial sense – was restored. YouTube stopped blocking the parodies and instead starting running ads with them, presumably sharing the resulting revenues with Constantin Films. Collectively, theDownfallparodies must by now have accumulated many millions of views. As they used to way in the wild west, there's money in them there eyeballs.
Jaron Lanieris that rarest of rare birds – an uber-geek who is highly critical of the world created by the technology he helped to create. Now in his 50s, he first came to prominence in the 1980s as a pioneer in the field of "virtual reality" – the development of computer-generated environments in which real people could interact. Ever since then, he has attracted the label of "visionary", not always a compliment in the computer business, where it denotes, as theNew Yorkermemorablyput it, "a capacity for mercurial insight and a lack of practical job skills".In person, he looks like central casting's idea of a technology guru: vast bulk, informal attire, no socks, beard and dreadlocks. Yet he also has good people skills. He's friendly, witty, courteous and voluble. His high-pitched voice belies his physical bulk and he giggles a lot. He's a talented musician who is widely read and he writes accessible and sometimes eloquent prose. His latest book –Who Owns the Future?– is a sobering read for anyone who worries about what cultural criticNeil Postman called "technopoly"– the belief that the primary goal of human labour and thought is efficiency and that technical calculation is superior to human judgment.Lanier's been thinking along these lines for a while. An earlier book of his –You Are Not a Gadget: A Manifesto– argued that the internet was eroding human interaction, stifling creativity and changing us as people. Lanier was particularly scathing about remix culture, which he viewed as not only ethically dubious but also self-defeating in the long run. If we have a world in which original artists cannot earn a living from their work, ultimately we will run out of stuff to remix.His new book takes that point of view a good deal further by articulating three big ideas. The first is that the internet encouraged us to treat information frivolously in the spirit expressed by the trope "information wants to be free". So we treat it as if it were free and thereby make it increasingly difficult for certain types of worker to earn decent livings. But once we get to the point where the world really is run by software, that relaxed view is going to be economically unsustainable.The second idea is that the decisions we make in designing technology systems eventually come back to bite us. One of Lanier's heroes is Ted Nelson, the visionary who invented hypertext and foresaw a world in which everything ever written would be dynamically linked in such a way that humanity could be endlessly creative by combining ideas. But Nelson thought that the linking should be a two-way process and that it would also incorporate micro-payments, so that everyone would get paid whenever anyone used their stuff. In the end, we got a hypertext world in the form of the web, but with one-way linking only.Finally, he borrows a metaphor from Homer to highlight what's wrong with our current ecosystem. The web has gone from being what geeks call a client-server model to one dominated by what Lanier calls "siren servers" such as Facebook, which hold billions of internet users in thrall without sharing the wealth that they generate with the people who create that wealth in the first place. In theOdyssey, Circe warns Odysseus against the Sirens "who enchant all who come near them". If anyone unwarily draws in too close to them, she says, "his wife and children will never welcome him home again, for they sit in a green field and warble him to death with the sweetness of their song". Facebook addicts, please copy.John Naughton:Many commentators characterise you as a "contrarian" because you propose a narrative that runs counter to the conventional wisdom about our networked world. The problem with that characterisation, though, is that most of the other contrarians are not geeks, whereas you definitely are. You say that your technical colleagues tolerate your dissent from their narrative. That sounds to me as though they're taking a patronising attitude. It's as if they are saying: "Oh, that's just Jaron off on one of his rants again." And behind that is an unstated implication – that their faith in the narrative will not be dented&nbsp;by anything you say. Is that the way you see it?Jaron Lanier:I'm not the only technical person who thinks this way, but I'm the only one who also writes. I have a foot in both worlds. And there are some other figures who are worth mentioning. At the start ofYou Are Not a Gadget, for example, there's a list of people I regard as belonging to the humanistic computing tradition. And some of them write beautifully. But in the current batch of computer scientists I don't know if there's anyone else doing what I'm doing. That's what I worry about – the fact that there isn't more diversity of expression in the writing of computer scientists. It's not that I expect them to agree with me, but I expect&nbsp;more diversity than I see.JN:You're very good at explaining the way in which, once a technology becomes established, we become locked into it. It becomes so much part of the infrastructure of our lives that changing it becomes unthinkable. And yet you believe that unless we make some radical changes then we're heading for deep trouble. If you're right about "lock-in", doesn't that really mean that your campaign is essentially quixotic – that you are tilting at windmills?JL:In truth, I felt more quixotic in the period that spawned the current orthodoxy. What I was saying in the 1980swasutterly quixotic. Now I view myself as becoming ever more realistic and grounded. I get a lot of mail from people who agree with me, but are impatient and want to propose methods of moving to a better situation very quickly – with some kind of Ponzi scheme that people would buy into quickly, thereby causing things to change rapidly. I always respond to these people that what I'm actually advocating is a slower and more deliberative process. I'd rather take 20 or 30 years, because that's probably how long we have before the employment crisis from automation will become severe. What I prefer to advocate is not that we change as fast as possible, but to engage in a more deliberative political and longer-term dialogue, which is why I wrote a book rather than proposing a Ponzi scheme to spark a quick transition. Besides, our current arrangements might not give rise to lock-in because ultimately it's not sustainable.JN:You've said some harsh things about the mindset that celebrates our networked information ecosystem. Phrases such as "digital Maoism" and "hive mind" come to mind. But "Maoism" was an ideology that was responsible for the deaths of between 18 million and 40 million people. Were you using arresting imagery to shock people out of their complacency?JL:Funnily enough, my recollection is that "digital Maoism" was not my coinage. It was a title chosen by John Brockman for a piece I wrote. It's probably not something I'd say myself because it has a red-baiting or alarmist tone to it. And although I have used the term "hive mind" from time to time, it was coined not by me but by Kevin Kelly, I think.JN:One of the things that struck me forcibly in your writing is the thought that implicit in every technological choice there is some underlying philosophy or ideology. The internet that we use today, for example, has anonymity as one of its most important features, because the designers were not worried about being able to trust users of the system. But it's not the only kind of internet we could have&nbsp;had.Likewise, the world wide web as envisaged by Tim Berners-Lee could have had two-way linking embedded in it (which would have facilitated a reciprocal payment system), rather than the one-way linking incorporated in the original design. Part of your argument, as I understand it, is that some of those design decisions are coming back to haunt us.JL:I know Tim but have never had an occasion to ask him if he thought about two-way links. They're a pain in the butt and it would have been a nuisance to get them going. In the context in which he was working in a physics lab, it would have required a more complicated server structure at the start and a bit more work for everybody. But maybe he could have done it. I don't know.The thing to remember about HTML, though, is that Tim was not trying to redesign the world. He was trying to do a quick thing for a very particular context – a physics lab. The beauty of HTML was that one-way linking made it very simple to spread because you could put something up and take no responsibility whatsoever. And that creates a society in which people display no responsibility whatsoever. That's the problem.JN:One of the things that worries me is that somehow we've allowed ourselves to be hoodwinked by the dominant narrative about this technology…JL:That's what I think. Societies and cultures become locked on to ideas. The "open culture" idea – which was really just an experimental thought in the 1980s – has now become an orthodoxy with its cadres of adherents. I dearly wish I could make them realise how experimental it was and how we should not treat it as anything sacrosanct.It breaks my heart to argue [with open culture evangelists] because it would please me so much to say: "Oh yes, those old ideas we had when we were young were perfect and I'm so happy to have brought you this gift" and so on. It would be so comforting and lovely to say that. But it would be&nbsp;incorrect.JN:Is this partly about ageing – that we're getting older, that we've been around a long time?JL:It might be. In fact, I'm sure it is. Becoming a parent changed my perspective because I realised with my daughter that I have to think about the society in which she will grow up and that if she's growing up in a society that's hollowed out – that doesn't have a middle class any more – she'll live in a much less comfortable world than I would wish for her.Another factor for me was just watching what happened to the lives of flesh-and-blood musicians under the open culture regime. Also writers and photographers that I knew. I was one of the people who made up the give-away-your-music thing. The other day, a young editor was reciting to me the spiel about how you give away your music and then you get gigs and it's actually better and you're free from the tyranny of the labels and I was thinking: "You don't understand: I made that up; that's my old spiel." It's so strange to me to hear that stuff coming back at me.What really turned me around wasn't thought or theory, though – it was practice. I had been part of the recording industry – I was signed to Polygram and so on. At that time, I knew people who had middle-class jobs in the industry – studio musicians and what not – and after the decline of the music business we found that we were having to have constant fundraisers to help somebody afford some operation or deal with some other adverse circumstance.It became clear to me that we had actually destroyed lives and I don't want to become like Stalin and say that to make an omelette you have to break some eggs. You don't want to get into a situation where you think that the ideology is more important than people. If you see that it's not working for people you don't say: "Oh, well, those are just the people who don't get it, those are the ones who get left behind, those are the expendable ones, they don't matter." I think you have to say: "No, it's the ideology that needs to be improved. It's not working well enough." So it was really that experience that turned me around.Who Owns the Future? by Jaron  Lanieris published by Allen Lane, £20
Recently, 2D motocross trials games have become a thriving breed. For those unfamiliar with the form, if you imagine that you are navigating aSuper Mariolevel on a motorbike you'll not be too far wrong.Urban Trial Freestylebrings that experience to the PlayStation platforms, and like most of these games gives the player very basic controls. Granted the ability to accelerate, brake and move their bodyweight forward or back, the player must edge their way over numerous ramps, jumps and looping tracks.Urban Trial Freestyleand its apocalyptic city settings admittedly does little to innovate, but it is a solidly built game, well worth the download fee for fans or, indeed, newcomers to the genre.
Ragnarok Odysseyis part of the biggest cross-media franchise you have (probably) never heard of. Originating in Korea as a comic book series and then transplanted to Japan in animated form, this hack-and-slash role-playing game is just the latest outing in the series.Thankfully, however, no prior knowledge is required. After crafting your personal avatar from a sizable number of customisation options, you are dropped into the game world as a newly recruited mercenary. The story is mostly typical fantasy-style bobbins, though by planting its roots in Norse mythology,Ragnarokdoes feel at least slightly more original than its peers.While the monster-slaying, resource-gathering gameplay lends itself to comparison to Capcom'sMonster Hunter, the brevity of its quests and rapid sense of growth and character empowerment make it a top choice for portable play, while local and online multiplayer options add depth.
Ninjas are not supposed to be child-friendly. They're samurai-sword-wielding, medieval mercenaries and were once considered so unsuitable for consumption by youngsters that Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles became the rather less fearsome Hero Turtles when they first arrived on UK TV screens.Times have changed.Mini Ninjas(Square Enix, iOS, 69p), launched to critical praise on consoles in 2009, was a cartoon action adventure aimed at a young audience. The series has now arrived on the iPhone, but reinvented as an endless runner. With a tap on the left side of the screen you jump, a tap on the right triggers an attack, and the goal is to get as far as possible while collecting coins and ingredients that can be used for power-ups and enhancements to the characters. These can all be purchased for real money too – but the game can be enjoyed perfectly well without splashing any cash.The 2D animation has been carefully transferred to the small screen and looks superb, although the sheer level of detail in the foreground sometimes makes it awkward to spot an obstacle to be hurdled or an item to be collected. The controls are smooth and responsive and while it isn't reinventing the wheel, it's a perfectly good example of the genre.Toy Story: Smash It!(Walt Disney, 69p, Android) is more obviously aimed at children, featuring all the favourite characters from the Pixar films, but has a lot to recommend it. You control Buzz Lightyear as he flings balls at crudely constructed toy forts, the aim being to topple them and get to the aliens within. It's done so well, with precise controls and satisfyingly accurate destruction, thatSmash It!has to be one of the best games of its type released for some time.
Nigel Tufnel, the Christoper Guest character inThis Is Spinal Tap, would approve of the music system in this. The volume goes up to 63. That's 52 louder even than 11. Actually – and Nigel might not fully understand this – it isn't. This 63 isn't that loud at all. Not loud enough, I'd say, for a&nbsp;morning blast to blow away the cobwebs. A bit tinny, too. Certainly&nbsp;this man at the lights in a&nbsp;BMW that's throbbing with window-rattling bass is making me&nbsp;feel inadequate. If he's got a&nbsp;super woofer in the bag, I've got a&nbsp;bichon&nbsp;frisé.To be honest, the Toyota Verso isn't – and isn't meant to be – a very rock'n'roll vehicle.It's a family MPV, small enough to be parkable by all but total non-parkers, and manageable around town. But it's big enough – just – for three rows of seats. To be honest, I&nbsp;wouldn't want to go right back there myself; I wouldn't even want to put any offspring back there if they were bigger than, say, a cocker spaniel. Perhaps I'll use the third row for the pair of bichons frisés I've suddenly decided I'm going to get.And when you fold the third row flat – whoops, crêpes de bichon frisé, anyone? – there's a decent amount of luggage space. Or room for a pair of dobermans, perhaps, to replace the flattened BFs. Where did all these bloody dogs come from? Oh, yeah, the super woofer…The Verso is practical rather than a&nbsp;car that's going to steal your heart. This is what's known as midlife refreshing (God, I could do with  one of them), rather than a totally new model. On the outside it looks  a little sleeker, less boxy than before, and the nose has been reworked (maybe I'll get one of them for me, too).The two-litre diesel engine in this one has also been reworked. And it's actually very impressive, not super-powerful but gutsy enough, with plenty of low-end torque. (Ha, I've always wanted to write "plenty of low-end torque" in a car review, and now that I have, this is a career highlight.) To drive, it's comfy rather than sporty, not too bone-breaking over bumps, and quiet and relaxed on the&nbsp;motorway.This posher Excel model is nice inside, with a few extra toys and a&nbsp;lovely panoramic glass roof that you can open in stages: no sky, some sky, loads of sky. All of which I&nbsp;would happily exchange for a few more decibels on the sound system. I'd like to go up to 100, so I could say, "This goes to 100", inthe style of Nigel Tufnel. As well as having some serious presence and status at&nbsp;the traffic lights.WHO LET THE DOGS OUT? WOOF WOOF WOOF WOOF…Toyota Verso Excel 2.0 D4D 7-seatPrice£24,590Top speed115mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.3 secondsCombined fuel consumption53.3mpgGreen rating6/10Cool rating3/10
PC gamers missing the visceral thrills ofFar Cry 3will be overjoyed at the patch currently available for download, which adds an extra-hard difficulty level and lets you reset the game's enemy outposts. Although not part of the plot, the process of observing then quietly stalking each encampment was the highlight of the game, and their repopulation supplies a totally free extra few hours' jovial jungle gunnery. Also on current release isChain Story(iPhone, iPad), which is a digital re-imagining of the party game where you write part of a story then fold the paper over and pass it on, before reading back the accidental lunacy you've mutually created. Despite the odd non sequitur and a slight leaning towards American high school scenarios, it's a hugely addictive process and one that throws up way more than its fair share of silliness and hilarity.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe grotesquely muscular "human", Kratos, returns, armed with his usual array of razor-sharp blades to chop up hordes of semi-mythical monsters. Lurching between engagements in the game's near-constant combat, you'll get the odd simple lever-pulling or block-moving puzzle to create short breaks from killing. Using every button on the controller and relying on too many quick-time events (where you press buttons as they flash up on screen in order to eviscerate some tower block-sized beast), God of War: Ascension is very highly polished, even if its combat-only mantra sometimes feels more exhausting than invigorating. The new dodge and grab moves spice things up a little, and multiplayer is surprisingly great, bringing new rules and a genuinely interesting twist to the by now routine demigod-dicing action. This may be more of the same, but it looks and feels so good you can't help liking it.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewAlthough notionally about General Patton, the maximum number of units you command in History: Legends Of War is eight, a job Patton would have regarded with disdain if not active embarrassment. Lightly bending history to meet the demands of the game, you'll fight your way through France to Belgium, earning prestige points to recruit new units and upgrading Patton's skills as you go. Battles are fun if not especially involving, with the game loving a good tank ambush, while your troops utter grating vocal samples. Grenade arcs show a clear path to the enemy, while in fact deflecting off walls to injure your redoubtable yet idiotic troops; enemy soldiers survive direct hits from tank shells by crouching behind wooden fencing; and there are other head-shaking inconsistencies, but those not expecting Advance Wars will find some satisfaction in this second world war pastiche.
George Osborne's takings from the 4G mobile spectrum sale were nearly £3bn lighter than the top prices bid by operators.In a flourish similar to the classic Bullseye gameshow, in which the host showed losing contestants a car or luxury holiday with the catchphrase "and here's what you could have won", telecoms watchdog Ofcom has published data showing the theoretical maximum the Treasury could have raised.The figures show that the highest bids for 4G spectrum, which will be used for faster mobile internet services, came to £5.2bn.The total dwarfs the £2.3bn that will actually be paid into the public purse and tops the £3.5bn the chancellor had budgeted for in his autumn statement.However, Ofcom says the maximum bids were only theoretical. This is because the auction used a second price rule, in which winners only pay a little more than the sum offered by the second highest bidder. This supposedly made the auction harder to rig.Insiders and analysts countered that with different rules the amount would have been closer to Osborne's original estimate. "Ofcom over-engineered the auction and it neither raised the amount that the government was looking for nor did it ensure that spectrum found its way into the hands of everybody who wanted it," said a source at one bidder.The format is not unusual, with Ireland, the Netherlands and Denmark all having used it for their spectrum sales. One element that unarguably kept prices low was Ofcom's decision to set aside spectrum for Three, the smallest network, which only paid the reserve price for its slice of airwaves.Ofcom also imposed caps on the amount of more valuable low-frequency bands that Vodafone and O2 were allowed to buy, because they already owned significant amounts before the auction."We are entirely comfortable with the rules that we put in place on the caps and the reserved spectrum to ensure that there is effective competition in future to the benefit of UK consumers and businesses," said Ofcom.Vodafone, which emerged with more airwaves than other bidders having spent £790m, submitted a £2bn maximum bid, while Telefónica, owner of the O2 brand, was prepared to pay up to £1.2bn.Daniel Gleeson, telecoms analyst at research firm IHS, said the Treasury's loss should be the consumers' gain because winners would have enough spare change to invest in masts and equipment."The second price rule decreases the amount for the Treasury but operators also have an extra £2bn or £3bn to spend on building out the networks," said Gleeson. "The 3G auction worked out well for the Treasury in 2001 but it meant the operators were very slow in rolling out the networks because they burned so much cash. Ofcom wanted to be sure that didn't happen this time."
A fascinating concept to some an unworkable gimmick to others, the eye-tracking capabilities of the new Samsung Galaxy S4 have certainly garnered a lot of news coverage. The system, which uses the built-in camera to view and interpret eye movements, has been demonstrated doing two things: pausing a movie when the user looks away (Smart Pause), and scrolling the screen content when the user tilts and, erm, looks at it (Smart Scroll). But do these simple features suggest that we're about to enter an era of eye-controlled games?Well, it depends. I've not yet been able to find out from Samsung whether the technology will be made available to developers – that's obviously going to be important. The other question is how sensitive it will be. The current S4 implementations are rather binary: the user is either looking at the screen or they're not. This might offersomefunctionality to game designers: it could augment a standard control system (perhaps as a hands-free pause system) or it may be fine for very simple one-input titles, like endless runners. But for anything more complicated, the system will need to be able to accurately and speedily track eye movement across the screen.Nevertheless, game developers are keen to know more about Samsung's tech. "What would be interesting is if Samsung puts out APIs for an engine like Unity or Cocos2D so that we could retrofit this into games," says Ben Trewhella ofOpposable Games. "Much like motion and gesture tracking, these new features bring in a lot of innovation but it can be hard for a developer if they're not made seamless to integrate. You can spend 20-30 percent of your development budget on trying to implant a new interface feature, when it needs to be two or three percent of your time."Opposable is a small studio that specialises in multiplayer 'second screen' gaming – i.e. interactive experiences that use both a shared TV display and a tablet device for each participant. They're currently working on trading card and Advance Wars-style tactical titles, but also see the possibilities for impulsive multiplayer experiences. "Games that allow someone to just jump in and join a game are great - with eye tracking there's the potential to do a lot of very inclusive games where you may just walk past a screen, it recognises you're there, and suddenly you're in the game - it would mean that you could get four to eight player games very quickly on one screen - that's very interesting."Harvey Elliot was a producer at Electronic Arts but is now MD of cross-platform game technology companyMarmalade. He too sees the potential of eye-tracking – and the requirements for a sensitive system. "The possibilities will depend on how precise it can be in tracking position across the whole screen," he says. "There are clearly opportunities for games to evolve using this technology, perhaps delegating certain functions like reloading a gun in an FPS, steering with a flick of the eyes in a racing game or camera control in a 3D adventure."For younger players simple games like 'peekaboo' with characters, or reading eye movement to create feedback could be really rewarding. Perhaps more valuable is outside of gameplay - by tracking user line of sight in real–time we can make games more reactive to what the user is focusing on – and by relaying that information back to the development studios it would help inform future design decisions."Vitally too, the arrival of affordable, pervasive eye-tracking solutions could be great news to gamers with disabilities. "I've been predicting that gaze aware systems would go mainstream for ten years, and I'm glad it's started to happen," says Dr Mick Donegan, CEO of charitySpecialEffectwhich modifies gaming peripherals for disabled players. SpecialEffect has developed its own PC app, Alt Controller, which maps keyboard controls to different areas of the screen so that they can be read by eye-tracking systems. In this way, it's possible to play titles like racing sim Dirt 3 with eye movement alone. The cameras supported, though, are specialist products that cost upwards of £3000."From what I've seen of the Samsung system, I'm not sure how accurate it will be," he says. "The features I've seen rely on fairly large movement of the eyes, whereas to play a game, particularly on a device as small as a Samsung, it will need quite a high level of accuracy. But it's a very encouraging direction for things to move in, whether that's just to enhance enjoyment of games or to allow people with severe disabilities to use the technology."And obviously, Samsung isn't alone in exploring the consumer possibilities of eye tracking. Specialist technology companyTobii, which usually supplies its gaze interaction and eye control products in research and medical fields is working with Fujitsu onan eye-tracking tablet. It is also preparing to launch its first consumer product, theTobii Rex, which adheres to your monitor and allows you to use eye-tracking to control any compatible application – developers just need to integrate some dedicated code into their software. At last week's ceBit exhibition, the company worked with Intel to specifically showcase the gaming applications.Elsewhere, Donegan points toEye Tribea company set up by a group of PhD student from the University of Copenhagen. After securing a million euros in crowd funding, the group is now working on a low-cost eye-tracking controller for mobile devices, using just your inbuilt camera and no additional technology.Whatever Samsung intends for its own use of eye tracking in the Galaxy S4, this is another step toward mainstream physical controllers. From Kinect to Google Glass, the concepts of intuitive, highly accessible input are evolving. Gamers of course, always talk about how they'll always want joypads because of the precision of control offered: the huge decline in Kinect support has shown that neither developers or gamers were really impressed with the accuracy of the system.But as Elliot says, if we view this as augmentation rather than replacement of existing interfaces it gets interesting. Donegan talks about 'gaze awareness' - i.e. titles that simply know where you're looking – rather than 'gaze control', where your eyes become a controller. For example, in a first-person shooter, an enemy hiding behind an object may look out at the player, but then quickly get back in to cover when you glance at them. This has all sorts of creepy implications for survival horror titles.Today, it might just be about looking away from the screen to pause Temple Run, tomorrow it could be an augmented reality ghost hunting game, using eye-tracking to place spooks just at your peripheral vision. You have been warned.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch devices.The selection covers apps released for the first time in the last seven days, as opposed to updates to older apps. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases.Looking for Android? The weeklybest Android apps post was published earlier in the day. Read on for this week's iOS selection.Triptease (Free)A lot of people with iPads are spending evenings on the sofa browsing for holidays, whether making definite plans or just wishfully thinking. Triptease is the latest iPad app hoping to provide a few ideas, bringing together travel reviews from experts and holidaymakers alike in a stylish touchscreen interface.iPadRidiculous Fishing - A Tale of Redemption (£1.99)If you buy one iOS game this month, make it Ridiculous Fishing. The title doesn't lie: the game sees you fishing for a variety of sea creatures, and the array of power-ups – not to mention the way you chuck your catch into the sky and fill it full of bullets – is ridiculous. But it's also one of the most addictive games I've played this year. And for anyone chafing at the dominance of freemium games on the App Store, see this: "No IAP. Buy the game, play the game... Even the hats are IAP-free."iPhone / iPadMessageMe (Free)Is 2013 too late for a new messaging app to cause a stir? Seemingly not. MessageMe is getting similar buzz this week to WhatsApp in its early days. The app is a combination of one-to-one and group messaging, but throws in simple sharing of YouTube videos, iTunes songs and digitally scribbled-on photos. Facebook is an option to find friends, but BBM-style private PINs are also supported.iPhoneIntuit Pay (Free)From fishy business earlier on to... well, just business really. Intuit Pay is one of a number of apps aimed at independent retailers and merchants, offering them a way to accept card payments – with a Bluetooth chip &amp; PIN card reader, obviously. It's fully accredited for Visa, MasterCard and Maestro payments, and available in the UK.iPhone / iPadThe Great Brain Experiment (Free)This is a really interesting app-cum-experiment from University College London, working with the Wellcome Trust. It turns neuroscientific research into mini-games, with players' data being fed back to the University's lab for analysis: "research that could previously only be conducted on small groups of volunteers".iPhone / iPadField Trip (Free)Field Trip is one of Google's offshoots: an app that runs in the background on your iPhone and pings you when "you get close to something interesting", even reading the details to you over your earphones or Bluetooth headset. Better for London currently than other parts of the UK, but that will hopefully improve over time (assuming Google doesn't shut it down a la Google Reader, of course...)iPhoneLook and Find Elmo on Sesame Street (£0.69)There are plenty of hidden-object games on iOS, but only one of them stars Elmo, the furry red monster from Sesame Street. This official app offers six scenes for children to explore with their fingers, searching for "things that go HONK! and BOING! and CLANK!". The link above is for iPhone, but the iPad versioncan be found here.iPhone / iPadThe Croods (Free)The Croods is Rovio's latest non-Angry-Birds game – a partnership with Hollywood studio DreamWorks Animation based on the latter's new film. It sees you trapping and taming wild animals, building houses for them to live in and decorating your prehistoric village. It's freemium, with an in-app store selling virtual coins and crystals in amounts up to £39.99, so parents shouldlock down their IAP settingsbefore letting a child play.iPhone / iPadYouTube Capture (Free)Released last year for iPhone, YouTube's video-shooting'n'sharing app has now been made universal with a native iPad version. It makes it quick and easy to record videos, perform simple editing functions and then upload them to YouTube – as well as sharing the details to Google+, Facebook and Twitter.iPadThe Romans (£2.49)What did the Romans ever do for us? Here's an app hoping to explain. Launched by Cotswold District Council, it's based on the Corinium Museum in Cirencester, showing off its archaeological remains from the Roman age, as well as photographs, artists' impressions and information on the town's Roman history.iPadCBS (Free)This app is US-only, understandably since CBS is an American broadcaster. It's the network's attempt to get people watching shows on their iOS devices, with full streaming episodes of shows including NCIS, How I Met Your Mother and The Late Show with David Letterman. There are social feeds for each show, as well as information on casts and schedules.iPhone / iPadCalendars by Readdle (Free)Readdle is the latest developer making a bid to dislodge the default iOS calendar app from people's homescreens. Calendars syncs with that plus Google Calendar to manage and display upcoming events, with a nifty drag'n'drop interface and SMS reminders.iPhone / iPadWebMD Pregnancy (Free)Health website WebMD has spun off an iPhone app focusing purely on pregnancy, from conception through the three trimesters and onto the "Oh me, oh my, I can't wait to get this over with, buy me 10 pineapples and the hottest curry you can find" final stages. The app blends medical information with a pregnancy photojournal, to-do lists and a Kick Counter.iPhoneSlamjet Stadium (£1.99)If the iOS conversion of Speedball 2 failed to sate your future-sport appetite, Slamjet Stadium is a must-download. Loosely based on football, it sees you boshing a ball around a pitch while knocking over as many opponents as you can, with solo matches plus the opportunity to play a friend on the same iPad.iPadNightSky (£1.49)iOS and Android are getting a decent crop of beautifully-eerie physics puzzlers at the moment, with NightSky the latest. Based on a PC and DS game, it sees you manipulating a "mysterious crystal sphere" around the screen, with plenty of moody silhouettes and ambient electronics to accompany your efforts. It's rather marvellous.iPhone / iPadKids Vocab - MindSnacks (Free)MindSnacks is one of the children's app developers actually getting some traction on the app stores, with more than 6m downloads so far. Its latest app is aimed at 7-12 year-olds, teaching them vocabulary with entertaining mini-games over 25 lessons. One comes for free, and a single £2.99 in-app purchase unlocks the rest.iPhone / iPadLe Vamp (£1.49)There's something special about Le Vamp, a characterful iOS game based around a young vampire running through the forest. Yes, endless running, you could say – with sunlight, water and enemies to avoid along the way. Intuitive swipe controls and some lovely creative touches make this a treat.iPhone / iPadHurts Exile (Free)Musical duo Hurts have a new album called Exile out, which is being promoted by this eerie "binaural sound" iOS game. It sees you making your way through a mysterious plotline by listening rather than watching – controlling the action by speaking into the microphone. Music from the album filters in and out as you go. It's clearly influenced strongly by another audio game, Papa Sangre, which made waves on the App Store back in 2010.iPhone / iPadBaidu News (Free)Another US-only app (for now) with an interesting source: Chinese internet giant Baidu. It has localised the app from its home market. What is it? A news aggregation app, splitting news into topics and promising "all greatest news together". It looks slick, but can it compete with Flipboard, Pulse, Zite, News360 and the rest?iPhoneStargate SG-1: Unleashed Ep 1 (£2.99)Very exciting news for fervent fans of Stargate SG-1 (and there are plenty of those) – an official game based on the TV show, which aired for 10 seasons in its heyday. Cast members Richard Dean Anderson, Amanda Tapping and Michael Shanks are on board for voice duties in this adventure game, with the "Ep 1" indicating that more instalments may be on the way too.iPhone / iPadChord! (£2.99)This looks a really useful app for musicians, laying out chords and scales for guitar and other fretted instruments, searching its database or entering them on a virtual keyboard or guitar neck. It's all very impressively presented, with uses for novice musicians and experienced players alike.iPhoneSuper Stickman Golf 2 (£0.69)As someone who lost a fair few hours to the original Super Stickman Golf, I've been looking forward to its sequel. It offers 20 courses to stick-swing your way round and online multiplayer to test your skills against other players. It's a freemium game, with virtual currency and extra features sold from its in-game store.iPhone / iPadThe Particles (£1.99)This app styles itself as "the definitive interactive guide to subatomic particles and particle physics", which sounds slightly scary. Actually, though, this is a really accessible app with videos, images, definitions and physicist biographies to help you tell your Quarks from your Bosons, and a clever spinning-wheel navigation system to find your way through its content.iPadConcert Vault for iPad (Free)Don't get to as many gigs as you used to, but own an iPad? Concert Vault may be just the ticket. Released by music site Wolfgang's Vault, it's a collection of audio and video recordings of gigs from the 1950s to the 2010s, split into genres including rock, blues, country, folk and indie. You pay for unlimited access to the archives: a monthly subscription of £2.49 or an annual fee of £27.99.iPadPavlov Dog Monitor (£1.49)This app may be a niche, but it's a helluva good one. Pavlov Dog Monitor is exactly what it sounds like: an app for monitoring your dog's behaviour at home while you're away. The idea being that you record video messages: 'Good Dog' and 'Bad Dog'. Then leave the app running on an iOS device for the videos to play if the dog is noisy or quiet – monitoring the activity, and even posting updates to your Facebook page.iPhone / iPadHello Kitty Music Piano Play-Along Deluxe (£0.69)Hello Kitty continues to be enormously popular around the world, but now Sanrio's cartoon cat wants to teach children to play music. This app uses cutesy mini-games to get kids playing a virtual piano, with two difficulty modes, several instrument sounds and the option for them to record their own compositions and save them for posterity.iPadRepix – Remix &amp; Paint Photos (Free)For many smartphone owners, photo-editing doesn't go any further than applying an Instagram filter. Repix is for people who want to have a bit more fun with the idea: a way to "paint remixes from photos using magical Repix brushes". It's a fun-tactile way to spruce up your images, then share them on various social networks.iPhone / iPadIdentiKat (£0.69)More cute cats for kids, although this time children will be actually making the feline characters. IdentiKat is a wonderfully creative app that involves making mogs from (virtual) household junk – buttons, fabric and the like. Easy to use, and the cat creations look excellent.iPadCastle Champions (Free)The latest intriguing splice of several gameplay genres to hit the App Store, Castle Champions blends tower building with tower defence, as you train up an army inside your castle to repel a series of invaders. It's freemium, so expect in-app purchases for virtual gold and crystals to hove into view while playing.iPhone / iPadNumerosity: Play with Addition (£1.49)One final educational app for children this week, from developer ThoughtBox. It's a maths-based game for 6-8 year-olds to fine-tune their mathematical skills, and learn some new ones. Simple controls, well-tuned achievements and a sense of fun makes this well worth the download price.iPad
First of all: there'sno price announced, possibly because Samsung is still negotiating with carriers about wholesale pricing and subsidies. The phone is expected to go on sale in late April, and if past prices are any guide, then it will probably cost about the same as the iPhone 5, though there may be various encouragements - at Christmas Samsung ran a "get a phone, get a free tablet" promotion in some UK outlets.Richard Windsor, formerly technology analyst at Nomura, and now running his ownRadio Free Mobileconsultancy, feels it will sell in "substantial volumes" (nobody is taking a punt on quite what number - though as Samsung doesn't release precise sales figures for its smartphone shipments, they're unlikely to be contradicted). Noting Apple marketing chief Phil Schiller's attack on Android, Windsor says:"It is strange that Apple failed to highlight by far the biggest weakness of Android, which is the fact that it generates far less traffic than an equivalent priced device on iOS. Bottom line is that Apple is clearly on the back foot, feeling the need to defend its turf with sniping attacks. This also highlights what the Galaxy S4 really does: It makes the iPhone 5 look old and out of date especially when it comes to the screen."But Windsor notes some big challenges and broken promises:"Eye tracking is a feature that Samsung is going to focus on as an area of differentiation but it is going to have to make sure that it works well. I think Samsung still has a lot of work to do - the much-mooted scrolling feature does not seem to have been introduced and the hand tracking technology on its smart TVs is awful."Francisco Jeronimo, smartphones analyst at research company IDCthinks this could be a serious challenge:"Never before has a Samsung smartphone caught so much interest. This shows how strong the brand has become in recent years, but it also shows that Samsung is one of the most innovative phone makers. And end-users have already recognised it. On the other hand, all the media buzz is driven by a single question: will this device be able to challenge Apple and impact the market in an unprecedented way? I believe the Samsung Galaxy S4 may represent an important milestone for the Korean company as it may become the first smartphone to outsell an iPhone."The Galaxy S3 sold fewer units than the iPhone 5; Samsung's overall larger number comes from selling a huge portfolio of smartphones at all prices.Jermonimo likes the finish - mostly:"From the hardware perspective Samsung improved the body of the device, which now looks and feels better than the Galaxy S III. The body is covered with a metal band, which gives it a premium look and feel. At the same time the plastic backing, which was found on previous Galaxy devices, is still present. Needs improvement! Samsung clearly needs to innovate its device materials to keep up with the developments seen from HTC, Sony, or even Nokia."What really stands out is the range of software features that Samsung announced at the event. The company has utilised the device sensors, including new features like temperature and humidity, to gain an advantage by differentiating from its competitors."However Jan Dawson at the research consultancy Ovum isless thrilled, and sees fresh challenges:The Samsung Galaxy S4 is a worthy successor to earlier members of this line, and will doubtless sell well. But it highlights a couple of the key challenges Samsung faces. Firstly, having innovated rapidly over the last several years to vaunt itself into top spot in the world smartphone rankings, Samsung now faces essentially the same challenge as Apple: how to continue to improve its devices year on year when existing phones are already top of their class, and there aren't obvious shortcomings? And secondly, how to set Samsung's devices apart from other devices that share the Android operating system that provides so much of the functionality?HTC was notably quick toaccuse Samsung of spending money on marketing rather than innovation, and to point out that some of the features shown off (such as S-Transfer, for transferring files) are available on other Android handsets too, because they're part of Android. We're sure we've heard that song before, though used about a different company.Dawson however is more critical of Samsung's tendency to throw more and more features in to each successive handset:The improvements to eye tracking and the additions of S Translator and the hover feature and so on are good steps in this direction, but they can be seen as gimmicks rather than game changers. At this point, Samsung appears to be trying to kill the competition with sheer volume of new features – there should be something here for everyone, even if most of these new features won't be used by most users… Overall, there are lots of features, but based on past experience most people will never even find them on the device."And finally, there's some real anger directed not at the handset itself, but at the way that Samsung introduced it. Molly Wood, at CNet, was outraged by the "tone deaf and shockingly sexist" proceedings: "I don't get offended very often. But Samsung's long parade of '50s-era female stereotypes, in the midst of an entirely other long parade of bad stereotypes, just put me over the edge. Oh, they announced a phone? You'd barely know it."Part of the target of her ire - given that, in her view, all the participants seemed like stereotypes, including the "tow-headed kid" who trotted on stage - was that at a time when Yahoo is run by a woman and Facebook's second most senior person is also female, the women on stage were, well, ultra-stereotypical:it felt a little unnecessary for the tow-headed kid's mom to be a stage mom all the way. For example. And then, to her, our orange-faced actor emcee reeled off a mother-in-law joke worthy of the worst kind of sitcom laugh tracks. It went on and on.The Brazilian woman was hot (duh). A bride-to-be arrives on stage with a chirpy, "check out the ring!" The Air Gestures that let you control the phone without touching it are presented as a boon to giggly women with annoying voices whose nails are wet and who don't want to put down their drinks. The comically alcoholic one, DeeDee, then proceeds to demo how eye tracking can pause a video when you look away from the screen... as she looks away at a hunky gardener type who proceeds to take off his shirt."While the women are cooling down," says the emcee, "why don't you tell us about S Health?"Tim Bray, who works on Google Play at Google, tweeted in a personal capacity to back up Wood, andadded:"That product launch was inexcusable. It'll be a cold day in hell before I buy a product from those idiots."That product launch was inexcusable. It’ll be a cold day in hell before I buy a product from those idiots.&mdash; Tim Bray (@timbray)March 15, 2013Oh well. Can't win 'em all.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.The selection covers apps released for the first time in the last seven days, as opposed to updates to older apps. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases.The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day. For now, read on for this week's Android selection.Real Boxing (£2.99)Already a hit on iOS, punch 'em up Real Boxing has now mades its Android debut, initially as an exclusive for devices with Nvidia's Tegra 3 processor. It sees you battling through a 30-fight career mode against 20 beefy boxers, while training your fighter up in between matches.MessageMe (Free)Is 2013 too late for a new messaging app to cause a stir? Seemingly not. MessageMe is getting similar buzz this week to WhatsApp in its early days. The app is a combination of one-to-one and group messaging, but throws in simple sharing of YouTube videos, iTunes songs and digitally scribbled-on photos. Facebook is an option to find friends, but BBM-style private PINs are also supported.The Great Brain Experiment (Free)This is a really interesting app-cum-experiment from University College London, working with the Wellcome Trust. It turns neuroscientific research into mini-games, with players' data being fed back to the University's lab for analysis: "research that could previously only be conducted on small groups of volunteers".Artkive - Save Kids' Art (Free)There is a growing number of apps to help children create digital art, but Artkive is more concerned with their real paintings, drawings and collages. It's an app for parents to preserve their children's physical artwork and share it with friends and family – keeping everything in chronological order to flick through in the future. It appears to be US-only for now.Doro Experience (£40)40 quid! But Doro Experience is less an app, and more a software suite with bundled subscription service that lasts for two years. It's intended to be installed on an Android tablet being used by an elderly relative, making the device easier to use, with a range of apps designed for their common uses. It also helps relatives share photos with them and remotely-manage the device if necessary.Spacecraft 3D (Free)This app comes from NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory: an augmented reality app showcasing various spacecraft, from the Hubble telescope to the Curiosity Mars rover. To use the app, you print out a target and then point your device's camera at it.Romans (£2.50)Here's another educational app that deserves to find a healthy audience on Android. Launched by Cotswold District Council, it's based on the Corinium Museum in Cirencester, showing off its archaeological remains from the Roman age, as well as photographs, artists' impressions and information on the town's Roman history.ASUS Artist (Free)Presumably aimed at owners of Asus' range of Android devices – including the Nexus 7 – this is a virtual painting app with several brushes, pencil and crayon tools, as well as digital stickers and card templates to make your own virtual greetings cards. One for children, perhaps.Running Trax (Free)This music app is a partnership between Ministry of Sound and MusicQubed, offering a chart of songs aimed at joggers. Each week the app downloads the latest chart of 40 regular tracks and seven "Boost Tracks" (for those awkward moments where you're tempted to nip into a kebab shop). You pay £1 a week to subscribe to the updates.Instructables (Free)Now owned by graphics firm Autodesk, the Instructables website remains an excellent resource for recipes and do-it-yourself projects. Now there's an app for that, which not only enables you to browse the projects from the site – more than 100k in all – but also to create your own, with photos.Chaos Rings II (£10.99)A while after its iOS debut, Square Enix has finally ported its Chaos Rings II RPG to Android, keeping its bumper price intact. It's an impressive game though, as you explore the storyline of a hero saving the world from the nefarious "Destroyer".Super Stickman Golf 2 (Free)With more than 1m downloads, the original Super Stickman Golf has been a big hit with Android gamers. This sequel offers more fun, with 20 courses to stick-swing your way round and online multiplayer to test your skills against other players. It's a freemium game, with virtual currency and extra features sold from its in-game store.Epic Rap Battles (Free)The Epic Rap Battles of History YouTube channel is very entertaining, but now fans and newcomers alike can enjoy its charms on Android. The app, which is free, gathers all the ERB videos so far into a simple but efficient mobile-friendly interface.The Croods (Free)The Croods is Rovio's latest non-Angry-Birds game – a partnership with Hollywood studio DreamWorks Animation based on the latter's new film. It sees you trapping and taming wild animals, building houses for them to live in and decorating your prehistoric village. It's freemium, with an in-app store selling virtual coins and crystals – so parents should ensure their IAP settings are locked down before children play it.Swarmly (Free)"Real People in Real Time," is Swarmly's tagline: an app designed to help you see which bars, events, restaurants and other venues are popular right now, based on the social networking activity coming out of them. It promises to keep your data private, too – something users may want to check out for themselves.10000000 (£1.59)EightyEight Games' "dungeon crawling RPG matching game" was a critical hit on iOS, and it looks just as addictive on Android – when I last played, it took my battery from 60% down to zero. It combines match-three puzzling with retro platform levels, potion-brewing and castle-upgrading. Play it, but make sure you have a charger handy...Squids Wild West (£1.30)RPG game Squids has been picking up a healthy audience of gamers on iOS and Android. This latest game sets its action in the "underwater Wild West" – cue soggy cowboy hats – blending action-strategy elements with roleplaying mechanics as you build up an army of squids to take on the world. Aseparate HD version is also available.https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.thegamebakers.squidsww_pHDCatcha Catcha Aliens! (Free)UK developer Hotsauce's characterful endless runner has been ported from iOS to Android, as you chase after an array of colourful alien critters. Stephen Fry and Jonathan Ross make cameo appearances with their voices – Ross co-owns the developer's parent company, making him a mobile-game mogul (of sorts).WeVideo for Android (Free)Video-sharing apps? It's a crowded market, so WeVideo will have to show some smarts if it's to take off. The omens are good: it looks neat and simple to use, recording and editing videos together, adding in music and photos, then exporting the results to YouTube or Facebook as well as WeVideo's own service. The app is in beta for a few Samsung and Google devices at this point.The Conduit HD (Free)The second Tegra title this week is a first-person shooter with very impressive graphics, alien enemies that'll make you feel queasy, and lots of control options to suit different playing styles. The free download includes the first two levels, after which you pay to unlock the rest.NowThis News (Free)US website NowThis News focuses on video reports, and launched its iOS app in late 2012. Now it's on Android too, offering topical videos in categories including news, entertainment, politics and technology.Earn to Die (£0.80)A dystopian scene with zombies coming at you from every angle? That's the average app store in 2013, with no let-up in the enthusiasm of game developers for the undead. Earn to Die at least adopts a different genre: driving. Based on a series of online games, it sees you driving eight vehicles into zombies, with ragdoll physics ensuring they bounce off your bumper just so.Mini Ninjas (Free)Square Enix says the heroes of its latest game are "the smallest heroes taking on the biggest dangers", which is as neat a summary of the central gameplay as any. It's a fun action game where you choose one of four ninjas to play as, battling enemies and creating your own magic spells.Nose to Tail (£0.69)Developer Socket Software describes Nose to Tail as "the premier mobile app for learning more about cuts of meat". No horseburger jokes, please. It digs into more than 80 cuts with hand-drawn images of cows to show where they come from, with advice on which cuts work best for different kinds of meals.Cow Crusher (Free)Okay, NOW let loose with the horseburger jokes. Cow Crusher is the latest topical news game from Game the News, this time focused on the current meat controversy in the UK. It's a game that gets you crushing cows into burgers in a factory: "Don't hit the crush buttons when there is a horse in place or else you'll drop the meat quality very quickly and lose the game..."What Will I Be? (£1.99)This is the latest book-app for children from developer Digital Leaf, this time focusing on a child asking his father what he'll grow up to be in the future. Animations, interactivity, music and a mini-game add to the fun.Fresh Deck Poker (Free)Expect lots of real-money gambling games to be launched on smartphones and tablets this year, including from social games publishers who see gambling as their new frontier. Fresh Deck Poker is getting in early with this game, which integrates with its Facebook version for cross-platform play.Audioboo Two Beta (Free)As a service for sharing sounds, Audioboo gets less publicity these days than rival SoundCloud. It's still around though, with a brand new Android app (replacing its separate existing version) to help people listen to clips from the service, including The Guardian's audio edition.First TimesIf you, like me, pine (a bit) for the heyday of text adventures, you should definitely check out First Times. It's a horror text adventure that kicks off with you waking up in a morgue, and without giving the game away, it's genuinely creepy as you try to figure out what happened. If you're young enough to be baffled by the term "text adventures", ask your dad (but go north, open the door and hit the elf with the sword first).webcamaze (Free)"Amazing webcam images". The webcamaze's Google Play store listing has pretty much done my job for me. It's an app for browsing "thousands" of webcams and seeing their best images: "Sunrises and sunsets, good weather and bad weather, night and day images". It has the makings of a proper time-sucker.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
It's been a rough week for SimCity. The city-building simulator – which requires an always-on internet connection to play – was crippled for days after its release by overloaded servers. Players found themselves queueing for as long as 50 minutes, even to play solo, and in some cases had their cities deleted, losing hours of progress.The server issues seem to have cleared up, but now that we're finally able to build cities without worrying about being disconnected, we've discovered some other, more fundamental, problems with the game.At first it's fiendishly addictive. Watching your city grow is fascinating, as leafy suburbs are replaced by luxury apartments, and enormous skyscrapers spring up in your commercial districts. The GlassBox engine, developed especially for the game, cleverly mimics the effect of tilt-shift photography, and it looks beautiful. There's an incredible amount of detail when you drop to street level, down to individual pedestrians.You decide how your city grows. You can make your fortune by drilling for oil, or create a tourist trap that makes its money from gambling and sightseeing. Educated cities with a university can manufacture and sell high-tech goods. Or you can forget about money altogether and pick your own goals: increasing your population, making your citizens happier, or reducing air pollution.Then you run out of space. These are the smallest cities in the series to date, and you'll hit the edge of your plot of land in just a few hours. Your citizens will cry out for more houses, more jobs, and more places to shop, but you won't have anywhere to build them. Your only options are to bulldoze existing buildings to make space for new ones, which will only generate more problems, or start a new city.Your ability to be creative is also limited. As their density increases, your cities all end up looking basically the same; a perfect square of buildings sitting awkwardly in the middle of an empty expanse of countryside. Curved and circular roads are a welcome new feature, but when space is such a precious commodity, using them feels counterproductive.If there are unclaimed plots of land in your region, you can build additional cities and share resources between them. But if you're playing in a region with a lot of other people, chances are there won't be any more spaces to fill.Regions are part of why the game needs a constant internet connection. They're like self-contained servers that host multiple cities. You can join a public region with random players, or create a private one that's invite only. Building cities alongside friends is fun, and you can help them out by donating spare garbage trucks or selling them any excess power or water you generate, but this comes at a cost.The downside of this online infrastructure is that cities are stored on the cloud, not your hard drive, and there's no saving or loading. The days of triggering disasters just for the fun of it, then reloading to revert the damage, are over. All decisions, and mistakes, are permanent, and there's no way to back your cities up.These online headaches aren't the end of SimCity's problems. The simulation itself is flawed in a number of ways, most notably the traffic. If you have a wide, empty freeway, cars will ignore it in favour of a one-lane dirt road, just because it's a shorter route to their destination – even if it's jammed with traffic. Maxis have promised to fix this in a patch, but it's bewildering how it made it into the game in the first place.We loved SimCity for the first few hours, but the compulsion soon gave way to frustration.The simulation promises more than it delivers, and you feel perpetually boxed-in by the meagre city sizes. The social features are interesting, but we'd rather have the ability to save our game, play offline, and not have to worry about server downtime. The regional multiplayer really should be an optional aside to a standard single-player mode.There's fun to be had here, but it doesn't last. The low-level simulation looks impressive when you see hundreds of cars whizzing around your streets, but it's all an illusion. When they're returning from work, your sims will drive to the nearest empty house; the same AI process that controls sewage as it's sucked down your streets to the nearest outflow pipe.A game like this should provide hundreds of hours of gameplay, but it'll only take you a fraction of that to see what little that SimCity has to offer.
Around the world, thebees are dying due, it's thought, to modern insecticides, The irony is that bees are essential to agriculture and the wider ecosystem; the outcome of their decline will be far more onerous than the insect damage the treatment was supposed to prevent.Google is now in the unhappy position of emulating the pesticide-wielding farmers. It hasannounced that it is closing Google Reader, a service that aggregates updates from blogs, news services and any site that uses theRSS content syndication standard. Google Reader has been on a death watch for a while as its owners try to funnel readers to its Google+ social network for finding and sharing information of personal interest.It's hard to make money from RSS feeds, and they've always been something of a minority interest among internet users. "We know Reader has a devoted following who will be very sad to see it go. We're sad too.", said software engineer Alan Green in acompany blog post.And how, Normally taciturn insiders at Google HQ talk of the company being unprepared for quite how much sadness there'd be, inside and out, and how much anger. There's been "a very considerable internal hubbub about Reader's closure", one Googler told me, while a600-post thread of anger and dismay on highbrow forum Metafiltermirrors outrage across Facebook, Twitter and elsewhere.The corporate surprise adds to the decision itself to paint a picture of a company dangerously adrift from a real understanding of its audience, and the information ecosystem.Google Reader is more than just a news aggregator, and its users are more than factory-farmed data ruminators. While the usage figures may indeed be modest, the quality of that usage - and the users - is superb. Buzzfeedreportsthat the moribund Reader still drives vastly more traffic to sites than the pampered Google+. That's because of its excellence as a tool for people who are front line experts in sampling and using the raw information the internet generates, and the consequent interest in what they find worthwhile.It's easy to see the managerial reasons for killing Reader. Google is in the middle of a spring clean, trying to focus resources in fewer places. Even mature products with no apparent updates cost money to keep alive within Google's internal and constantly-morphing infrastructure. In October last year, Google removed Reader's own link-sharing system and replaced it with a Google+ 'like' button - a statement of intent that was very easy to follow.But those core Reader users are worth more to Google than any random million Google+ posters. They are the journalists, the producers, the specialist communicators, who need to absorb hundreds and thousands of the web's primary sources a day - and then share and act on the best. A radio programme maker told me that "it's a disaster. I completely rely on Reader so much for research, finding experts, and stayng current on the facts that rarely make it safely into the mass of the media." Perhaps that's why the Financial Times chose to put a report headlined "Twittersphere in meltdown over killing of Google Reader" prominently on the front page of theprint editionof its Companies and Markets section on Friday. Its audience is those specialist communicators. Presumably, they've indicated their upset too.There are other services that aggregate RSS, but many of them rely on Google Reader. Many others have been driven out of business by Reader's dominance, including most that synchronise across several devices - precisely the way that busy information VIPs work. These people are the apex pollinators of the web, the first responders and the most influential creators of quality across an internet that so desperately needs it. They find Reader mindful where Twitter is mindless; Reader organises and prioitises, it keeps information in sight, not rushes it away.Such people will find other ways to get their data - less easily, less reliably and less well integrated with how they work - but for now, they are angry and uncertain. "I feel betrayed," the radio programme maker said. "I used to recommend Google to everyone, but now I can't trust it. It's all very well putting all the books in the world online, but what's the point if you then shaft the readers?"Google exists, it says, to encourage everyone to use the internet. It isn't in the business of supporting small groups of specialists, except through general purpose tools. But by angering and disenfranchising the very people who keep the internet fruitful and productive, it is poisoning its own fields - and those of others. It betrays itself as not understanding that "social" isn't just about numbers, it's aboutpeople- people who might be hard to sell advertising to, but who create the conditions in which advertising can work.That level of ignorance is very dangerous to Google. It looks as if the company has stopped seeing the internet as something it should serve and enhance, choosing instead to treat it as something Google itself ties to its own internal reality. Google said it was shutting down Reader to "make a better user experience". Such hubris is, in the end, the death of companies.As Richard Feynman said in his report on the Challenger shuttle disaster: "For a successful technology, reality must take precedence over public relations, for nature cannot be fooled". It's a lesson that agribusiness and Google alike ignore at their, and our, peril.Rupert Goodwins is a freelance journalist (and Google Reader user)
Microsoft has only sold about 1m Surface RT tablets since itslaunch in October 2012and about 400,000 Surface Pros, which run the full version of Windows 8, since their release a month ago.The figures are cited in areport by Bloomberg, citing sources who know about the sales figures.That compares to about 89m PCs and 52.5m tablets sold worldwide during the fourth quarter, and the figures have almost doubled in the three months since – suggesting that the Surface tablet is making almost no impact on the market.While Microsoft has not released official sales figures, it has poured significant development effort into Windows RT, which runs a version of Windows 8 on chips with the ARM architecture, rather than the Intel architecture that more than a billion PCs – and the Surface Pro – use. On unveiling Windows RT in 2011, Microsoft suggested that it saw the ARM architecture as an increasingly important platform for low-power, long-life devices.But the poor reception for the Surface RT suggests that consumers and businesses have so far disagreed. Bloomberg says that Microsoft ordered about 3m Surface RTs in its initial planning, and analysts had forecast that it would sell millions in the three months to December.However, reports of slow salesemerged almost immediately. In November, supply chain sources suggested that Microsoft had halved its order from around to 4m by the end of 2012 to 2m.The Surface, in both forms, puts Microsoft into competition both with Apple's iPad and Google's Android partners, as well as its own OEM partners making Windows devices. But the story for Windows RT has been disappointing, with Samsung announcing recently that it would not be selling its Ativ RT PC anywhere except Asia, having apparently seen poor sales in Europe and the US.Finding success with Surface is important for Microsoft, which makes more than half its profits from Windows licences on PCs, and roughly the same from licences for Microsoft Office on those PCs. The shift to tablets is also depressing sales of PCs, which threatens its long-term revenues. Texas Instruments, which makes chips used in laptops, and Hewlett-Packard have warned of weak demand in the PC segment in the first three months of the year."The tide continues to go out on PC sales as consumers and emerging market users prefer tablets and smartphones to Windows based PCs," Rick Sherlund, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a report this week quoted by Bloomberg. "Windows 8 has failed to ebb the receding tide."
A Reuters web producer has been indicted in a California district court for allegedly conspiring with the hacker group Anonymous to access and alter a website of the Tribune Company, his former employer.Matthew Keys, 26, the deputy social media editor at the news agency,is accused of supplying Anonymouswith log-in credentials for a Tribune Company computer server. Keys was a former employee of Sacramento-based TV station KTXL FOX 40, a Tribune company.Keys could not be reached for comment. A Reuters spokeswoman said the company was reviewing the matter but pointed out that the alleged action occured more than a year before Keys joined.According to a federal indictmentfirst obtained by the Huffington Post, Keys used a chat site to pass information to Anonymous. Using the name AESCracked, Keys handed over the login credentials and told hackers to "go fuck some shit up", the indictment says.The hacker accessed at least one Los Angeles Times story and altered it, the charges say. Los Angeles Times web producer Morgan Little tweeteda screenshot of his employer's pagefrom the day of the hack Keys allegedly helped facilitate.The indictment reproduces long sections of a purported chat between Keys and an Anonymous member called "sharpie"."That was such a buzz having my edit on the LA Times," sharpie writes, according to the document.If convicted, Keys faces up to 10 years in prison, three years of supervised release and a fine of $250,000 for each count.Keys is charged with one count each of conspiracy to transmit information to damage a protected computer, transmitting information to damage a protected computer and attempted transmission of information to damage a protected computer.His work with Anonymous has been publicly documented before. He was identified as AESCracked in theJune 2012 book We Are Anonymous.A March 2011 Gawker articlealso notes Keys infiltration of Anonymous. And Sabu,the Anonymous collective member turned FBI informant, directly accused Keys of helping with the LA Times hack ina March 2011 tweet.In response to the Gawker article, Keysposted on his personal blogabout his involvement with Anonymous."I identified myself as a journalist during my interaction with the top-level Anonymous hackers and at no time did I offer said individuals any agreement of confidentiality. In fact, I asked several of them for their feelings should they be exposed. They seemed, by and large, indifferent."Keys referenced the infiltration of the "top-secret" InternetFeds chat room used by Sabu and other Anonymous collective members ina March 2012 postfor Reuters. In the it, he includes screen shots of the conversations and references the Los Angeles Times hack that he allegedly enabled.Keys said in the blog post that after InternetFeds was closed down he was contacted by Sabu. Keys said he told Sabu that he had screenshots of the InternetFed conversations. "Sabu was unhappy," Keys wrote.He said he would try to destroy the reputation of anyone who might expose him or ruin his reputation or that of Anonymous. He'd release personal information about any individual whom he considered his enemy or Anonymous' enemy. He'd steal their credit card information and charge hundreds of dollars in charitable donations. He'd invent stories so as to discredit any whistleblower or hacker-turned-informant.Keys friendErnie Smith, an editor at ShortFormBlog,made a statement on the site:"Matt's a good friend, and we've worked closely together for a couple of years, bouncing ideas off of one another and the whole bit. I talked to him three hours ago. We had no knowledge of this situation, and offer no other statement other than to hope that one of our favorite people is OK. Good luck, Matt."Keys has worked at Reuters just over a year. He has a widespread following on Twitter among journalists.The Obama administration has a track record of prosecuting hacking cases aggressively. The practice has come under sharp criticism since January, when internet activist Aaron Swartz killed himself as federal prosecutors built a hacking case against him.
Korea's Samsung turned to song and dance on Thursday as it took a shot at ousting Apple as king of the smartphone.In a packed Radio City Music Hall in Manhattan, Samsung unveiled the Galaxy S4, the latest iteration of its best-selling smartphone, and set out its challenge to Apple on the US giant's own turf.In a widely anticipated move, the company unveiled the most eye-catching feature of the new phone. It has pioneered the "smart scroll and smart pause" feature. The facing camera on the handset monitors users' eye movements and behaves accordingly. Tilting the phone while looking at it will scroll web pages and it can even pause a video if a user looks away.After weeks of teasing, Samsung unveiled a phone it is promoting as "moving beyond touch". With a simple wave of the hand, Minority Report-style, the phone will move a web page or a photograph.The handset can also translate nine languages, from text to speech and vice versa or just translate text. JK Shin, Samsung's head of mobile, said: "Think about being able to communicate with your friends around the world without language barriers." He called the device "a life companion for a richer, simpler life".Samsung said that from the end of next month the Galaxy S4 would be offered by 327 mobile operators in 125 countries.Samsung's Galaxy S4.Photograph: Andrew Gombert/EPAThe show-like unveiling featured tap-dancing children to illustrate the Galaxy's 13 megapixel camera, which can record the user as well as his or her subject. Other mobiles offer similar functions.Michael Gartenberg, analyst at Gartner, gave the handset a cautious welcome: "Features are impressive but a lot of them feel gratuitous. Also a lot of features available for other Android devices through 3rd party apps," he wrote on Twitter.While detailed reviews are yet to come, analysts said it was clear from the scale of Samsung's launch that the Korean firm has Apple firmly in its sights.Forrester analyst Charles Golvin said Samsung has no intention of playing Pepsi to Apple's Coca-Cola. "Companies like Pepsi and Avis to some extent played up being number two, it was a point of difference. Samsung wants to be number one. In fact, it's saying if you think Apple is number one, you are wrong."Golvin said Samsung still trailed Apple in the US smartphone market. "Apple has about 35% and Samsung around 16-17%," he said. But Samsung's overall share was far higher and the market is changing.Six years after Steve Jobs unveiled the first iPhone, smartphone makers are chasing two very different markets. "There's the upgrade market for those who already have one; those tend to be more well-heeled buyers. And there's new buyers – that tend to be more financially constrained," said Golvin.Samsung's new Galaxy is firmly aimed at the former and the company has a tight grip on the new, less moneyed buyers too. That strategy has presented Apple with its biggest challenge in smartphones yet.Carolina Milanesi, consumer devices analyst at Gartner, said: "We are at the point where the majority of sales in this segment come from replacement, not new users. In other words, the addressable market is starting to be saturated and now it is about keeping their refresh cycle short. The problem is, though, that technology innovation is slowing down and as we move to more innovation being delivered via software, the cycles are getting longer rather than shorter." She pointed to Nintendo's Wii U games console, launched last November. In January, Nintendo cut its sales forecast by 27%.Colin Gillis, technology analyst at BGC Partners, said the smartphone war was turning into a two-horse race. "These guys make 120% of the profits because everyone else is losing money," he said.But Gillis said that if Samsung was really going to beat Apple at its own game, it would need to keep innovating. "Generating buzz is a great thing to do provided your products are worthy of it. This market is exploding. They will sell 10m of these things out of the gate. But it's not a one player market, they will have to really deliver."Harry Wang, analyst at Parks Associates, said: "Samsung is trying to do one thing: knock Apple's status in the US. They want to show that they can excite the high-end smartphone adopters just as well as Apple."Wang said Samsung already had an advantage in the Far East where its brand is better known than Apple but it is now clearly after US consumers. "They are catching up. Samsung is now a formidable brand."He said the company had done a good job of distancing itself both from Apple and its Android competitors. Samsung spent $410m promoting Galaxy in the US last year, according to a report from Kantar Media, more than Apple, which spent $333m on iPhone ads in 2012.Samsung used a series of ads to mock iPhone buyers for waiting in long lines and to position Galaxy as a smarter, hipper alternative. But Apple edged Samsung out in sales at the end of 2012. The iPhone 5 was launched last September and was initially marred by backlash over the decision to drop Google Maps for Apple's own, flawed, maps programme. It went on to be the most popular phone in the US during the fourth quarter of 2012. Apple sold 17.7m smartphones during the quarter while Samsung sold 16.8m mobile phones, according to Strategy Analytics' Wireless Device Strategy report. The boost made Apple the US's number one mobile phone vendor for the first time ever, with a record 34% market share.
I have an Iomega network drive for backups, bought I think in2008, with what was then a princely capacity of 320GB. It worked finewith Windows XP, and I was expecting it would be usable for manyyears. I wanted to include a new Windows 8 machine in the network, butthis was not a success. I requested a Windows 8 installation programfrom Iomega, but they didn´t want to know, and disown such a decrepitpiece of hardware. (I enclose the record of an online chat I had withthem for your information.)I don´t suppose there is a solution to this, but you could maybe warnothers about Iomega's policy of discontinuing support for olderhardware.Name withheldIt's not nice when companies discontinue support for old hardware, butit's very common, and by no means unique to Iomega. Many consumer ITproducts are only on sale for about 12-24 months, and some surviveonly 6-12 months before they are revised. A five-year-old design likeyour network drive may be three or more generations behind the currentmodel (and predates Iomega's takeover by EMC). It's expensive tosupport a lot of previous generations, and the income from providingsupport is usually zero, so companies would much rather you bought areplacement.This can be excusable with IT products if the new model is much morepowerful and, or much cheaper than the old one, and, or includes newfeatures such as support for USB 3. It makes sense with hard disksbecause you can't guarantee they will last that long.My rule of thumb for budgeting hard drive purchases (amortisationcost, if you like) is to assume they will last for about five years,on average, unless you fill them up first. This is compatible withhard drive guarantees that last one to three years and rarely extendto five. Yes, I do have hard drives that are still going strong afterseven or eight years, but I've also seen them fail sooner than that.If your drive is five years old now, then you should be thinking aboutreplacing it anyway, especially as it's a back-up drive. It's easierand cheaper to replace a working drive than it is to retrieve anymissing data.Hard drive technology has moved on in the past five years, and todayyou'd be looking for a 2TB (terabyte) or larger hard drive to replaceyour old Iomega. Sizes from 1TB to 3TB are common, but 2TB drives areattractively priced and will give you about six times as much storagespace.Typical entry-level NAS (Network Attached Storage) products includethe Western Digital WD MyBook Live Personal Cloud Storage, SeagateFreeAgent GoFlex Wireless Home NAS, and Buffalo LinkStation Liveranges at around £100 to £150.Star qualitiesEntry-level products are a cheap form of NAS and tend to attract verymixed reviews on Amazon.co.uk. The number of one-star reviews mayalmost equal or surpass the five-star reviews, with not so manyratings in between. Either a NAS works and users think it's brilliantor it doesn't work easily and is therefore rubbish. However, I don'texpect you want to stump up the extra for something like aSynologyDS212J DiskStation NAS/DLNA/iTunes media serverwhich costs £160without any hard drives. You buy those separately for about £100 each.You don't mention which type of Iomega NAS you bought, but in youronline conversation, the very apologetic Iomega rep confirms that itdoesn't work with Windows 8. In other circumstances, it can be worthdisconnecting your PC from the internet and disabling its anti-virussoftware to see if this is interfering with the connection.Also, most NAS drives are enclosures with drive bays that hold fromone to four standard 3.5in hard disks, which you can remove andinstall in a different enclosure. With an aging 320GB drive, this isneither advisable nor worth the effort, in my opinion, but you couldinstall your 320GB disk in a suitable NAS enclosure alongside a largerdrive. Alternatively, you could wipe the drive and sell your NAS to anXP user on eBay for perhaps £15 to £25.I ran a few searches to get some idea of the prices of Iomega 320GBdrives and any particular problems with Windows 8. I found, amongother things, that Saverstore.com had cleared its stockof 320GBIomega 33814 Home Network Hard Drives, which was £108.09, at £0.66inc VAT. I expect they'd have fetched more on eBay, and yours isprobably a different model, but it's an indication that this type ofdrive is approaching the end of its life. It's time to think aboutmoving on …To make a general point about backing up data, this is not a one-offprocess. You can't just take a backup and forget about it. The filesmay stay the same but the physical media change all the time, so youneed to think about moving your data onto new media every five to 10years or so. The changes to removable storage media have been veryvisible: we've used 8in, 5.25in and 3.5in floppies in various formats,and optical media have progressed through CD-Rom and DVD to Blu-ray.Hard drives have also changed from SCSI through IDE and EIDE totoday's SATA. Nothing lasts forever.
