Apple has posted an apology on the iMac page of its online store, because it is apparently unable to supply products. It says:Apple has stopped taking orders for the current iMac as we begin the transition from the current iMac line to an all-new iMac line which will be announced and available in September.We planned to have our next generation iMac ready by the time the inventory of current iMacs runs out in the next few weeks, but our planning was obviously less than perfect.We apologize for any inconvenience to our customers."Reutershas the story.Comment:Of the iMac, Reuters says: "Other computer companies, such as IBM had nowhere near the success Apple did in the quirky all-in-one PC category." This is true. In fact, I can't even remember what IBM's quirky all-in-one PC was called.
"Affinity Engines claims that Google employee Orkut Buyukkokten secretly took the code from Affinity, where he once worked, and made a few changes before launching it as Orkut. Buyukkokten had promised not to develop a competing social-networking site and had assigned all rights for the code to Affinity, the suit alleges. Affinity filed the complaint May 25 in Santa Clara Superior Court, and seeks unspecified damages and royalties." reports the Mercury News."The claim, 68 pages, documents numerous cases where Orkut and Affinity have nearly identical text and Web-page layouts. It also points out nine software-code bugs Orkut and Affinity have in common, something Affinity says proves the two stem from identical code."David Krane, a spokesman for Google, dismissed the Affinity claims: 'We have repeatedly offered to allow a neutral expert to compare the code in the two programs and evaluate Affinity's claims, but Affinity has rejected that offer,' he wrote in a statement. 'We have investigated the claims made by Affinity Engines thoroughly and concluded that the allegations are without merit'."Read onhere...
Orange yesterday announced its first product for the UK market that uses 3G network technology and pledged to have the country's largest network to span existing technology and hi-tech broadband.From July 19, Orange will be offering business customers a card that plugs into a laptop to enable them to download files and access emails at seven times the speed of GPRS network technology. Orange reckons its 3G network will cover 66% of the UK population. "We are not just in London, but the regions where mobile really matters," said Orange's UK head John Allwood.Orange said yesterday that it has signed up handset makers LG and SonyEricsson to supply the first wave of 3G phones. Orange is also testing a range of laptop cards, which will connect with public broadband or wireless hotspots with a view to launching a service to be even faster than 3G this year.Orange has struck a deal in the UK with BT to use its 2,500 hotspots for the service. Its French business customers will be able to access fast broadband on their laptops through its parent France T&#233;l&#233;com's 3,400 sites.
Microsoft's top legal counsel said yesterday the software group needed further clarification from the European commission before it could comply with an order to remove Media Player from its Windows software.The clarification was needed "in terms of knowing what files we're to remove from Windows in order to comply", general counsel Brad Smith told reporters.Microsoft had 90 days to comply with the European commission's decision of March 24 which found that the firm had abused its dominance of computer operating systems.Shortly before that deadline expired, Microsoft appealed to the court of first instance in Luxembourg to suspend the commission's order until the case is completed. This could take years.The commission deferred enforcing the order until the presiding judge at the court of first instance decides.Microsoft has already paid the record &euro;497m (&#163;340m) fine the commission imposed along with its demand that the company change its business practices.
"According to Google's new policy, altered Monday, the Web search company prohibits Gmail subscribers from selling, trading or transferring the free e-mail accounts "for any unauthorized commercial purpose." It also bars people from setting up multiple accounts in violation of the policy." reportsCNet."The changes are designed to deter people from creating multiple e-mail accounts with the purpose of reselling or trading them, according to a source at the company. The policy alterations do not target people trying to barter Gmail invitations, which allow people to sign up for a new membership."
It is almost two years to the day that picture messaging was launched in the UK. Camera phones have since become a ubiquitous part of British life, spotted everywhere from the centre court at Wimbledon to raised above the heads of concert goers at last weekend's Glastonbury festival.Much less obvious is how successful the mobile operators have been at generating a market for picture messaging. Unlike other data services, the mobile industry has still to report precise figures about the success of the multimedia messaging services (MMS) used to send and receive images taken on camera phones.On Monday, the Mobile Data Association (MDA) released the first industry-wide assessment of picture messaging. It reported that more than 11m MMS active devices - nearly a quarter of all mobiles in the UK - have been registered for picture messaging on the four major UK networks (O2, Orange, T-Mobile and Vodafone). A quarter of all mobile users have sent at least one picture message in the past three months."We are 15% busier in the evening, with a real spike on Saturday night," explains Tasmin Linel, senior messaging product manager at Orange. "It's a very happy way of communicating. People use it to cement their peer group or cause a bit of mischief."All operators claim MMS is a success. Orange has announced it sends and receives 125,000 picture messages daily and that 700,000 customers send at least one picture message a month. O2 says it daily delivers 100,000 messages in the UK, Ireland and Germany. T-Mobile says customers sent 4.4m picture   messages last year and that the trend is up. Vodafone will reveal little, apart from its third-party deals to send Sky News bulletins as a picture message. While MMS is measured in millions, text messages are measured in billions.Prices of camera phones have dropped dramatically since the introduction in the UK of the Sony Ericsson T68i two years ago. You can pick up an MMS-enabled phone for as little as &#163;80, while high-end camera phones have become sophisticated. There are several 1.3 megapixel handsets, while two megapixel phones are available in Japan and South Korea. Expensive camera phones can even outperform cheap digital cameras.But it has not been all happy snappy. Interoperability - the ability to send picture messages between different networks and handsets - has been the biggest barrier for a mass uptake in MMS. Last week saw   the adoption of an industry steering group to try to iron out the problems of interoperability. Add to this the cost of the service (between 20p and 40p) and many users are seeking alternative ways of sending pictures."Usage in the majority of cases is not via MMS," says Carolina   Milanese, of Gartner. "People tend to use the phones as a temporary storage, using the pictures as screensavers or transferring the pictures to the PC using Bluetooth or infrared."Last month, Kodak announced a deal to install Picture Maker kiosks in Carphone Warehouse and Orange stores across Europe. Customers will be able to beam pictures to the kiosk   and order the prints for as little as 20p a pop. The kiosks could eventually be installed in public places.But many still believe MMS will find its way into the mass market. A number of third-party services have been launched in recent weeks. Hair dressing salon Tony &amp; Guy allows women customers to download images of hair styles from its websites to their mobile phones via MMS. The BBC and Guardian Unlimited have invited readers to send MMS messages to its websites. Sky News invites viewers to send in MMS to bulletins, while the BBC's new prime time Saturday night slot, the Johnny and Denise show, incorporates picture messaging.Corporate use of MMS has been more tentative but professions are experimenting with the medium (see below). "We are beginning to see a range of applications in areas like accident reporting for insurance purposes; scene of crime pictures being filed and ambulance workers sending pictures back to hospital with details of a patient's injury before arrival," says Mike Short, chair of the MDA.Text messaging took five years to take off, so it could still be early days for MMS. But the omens for picture messaging look less rosy. In Japan, where it launched in November 2000, picture messaging has generated a minuscule amount of data traffic compared with other services."I don't think we've seen the big uplift," says Dominic Stourbridge, T-Mobile's vice president of consumer marketing. "What you need is 25% of the user base enabled with the right devices before you see the big upturn, and we are very close to that point."Pictures in practiceArchitect Henry Squire, 31, has a practice in London. He initially used his Nokia 6600 as a mobile sketchbook, snapping architectural detail on his travels from site to site.He began incorporating picture messaging into his core business. Squire recently visited Freiberg and the manufacturers of the largest revolving doors in the world. His contractors were nervous about the acquisition, so he simply sent them a snap from his phone. He says it helped close the deal."Before we had to take a digital camera, a laptop and have access to the internet," he says. "It was laborious. Now I use my mobile. We can do things instantly and you don't have to lug heavy bits of kit with you. "In an ideal world anyone would want to have one piece of kit. Anything that expedites the flow of information is a benefit to our business."&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want  your email address published, please say so
The iPod may finally have a serious competitor. The company that brought us the Walkman is entering the hard disk music player arena now dominated by its trendsetting-rival Apple.Sony has unveiled its newest Walkman, a palm-sized, aluminium-encased player that can store up to 13,000 songs on its 20-gigabyte, 1.8cm-diameter hard drive, and promises 30 hours of playback on a rechargeable battery.Weighing 3.8 grams, the new Sony NW-HD1 is smaller and lighter than the iPod's 15-, 20- and 40-gigabyte models, and just slightly larger than the 4-gigabyte iPod Mini. Sony claims the portable player is the smallest of its class.The product will be available in mid-August for less than $400 (£220), Sony said."I'd call it an iPod challenger and one that will keep Apple on its toes," said Richard Doherty, an industry analyst with the digital media consultancy the Envisioneering Group.Apple was not the first company to introduce a high-capacity hard-disk portable music player, but its October 2001 launch of the iPod defined the market. The product's runaway success - with an estimated 3m units sold - has since drawn other rivals, including Dell and Samsung.Still, Apple leads with about a 60% share of the hard-disk drive player segment in the US and about 30% of all portable music players, according to Michael Goodman, an analyst at the Yankee Group market research firm.Sony's sleek new Walkman is a highly anticipated and belated entry but will likely be Apple's fiercest competitor yet, Mr Doherty predicts.Portable music is not new to Sony. It pioneered the category when it introduced the original Walkman in 1979. But in the past few years, analysts say, Sony lost some of its lustre as it aggressively pushed mini disc-based music players, and sales - except for in Japan - fell short of expectations."Apple's iPod came out, and it was so successful, it really forced Sony's hand," Mr Goodman said.
"Dell Inc is running a promotion that gives customers $100 off on some of its Dell Digital Jukebox music players if customers send in to the No 1 personal computer maker their old Apple iPods to be recycled, the company said on Wednesday," reportsReuters."The mail-in rebate offer applies to Dell's 15-gigabyte music player, which carries a regular price of $199, said the Round Rock, Texas, company. The player has a battery life of about 20 hours, about two times that of Apple Computer Inc.'s market-leading iPod, Dell said."Comment:Sounds like a publicity stunt, but Dell'sannouncementdoes not say they have to beworkingiPods.
Commtouch, an anti-spam company, says that in June, the US was the main source of global spam with 55.69%. However, China hosted 73.58% of the web sites referenced in spam messages. In the first six months of the year, the main topics were Drugs (29.53%), Mortgage/Refinance offers (9.68%) and Organ Enlargement (7.05%). "Viagra appeared in 14.1% of all spam messages -- with 9% of those messages advertising only Viagra and the remaining 5.1% selling Viagra in addition to another drug or several drugs." Only 5.77% of spam is not written in English. There's a press releasehere.
BT yesterday turned up the heat on its rivals as it reduced the price of its broadband internet access and announced that all but 100,000 households should be connected by next August to telephone exchanges that can deliver broadband.In order to make the price reductions the company has introduced limits on the amount of information that customers can download. Extremely heavy internet users will have to pay a premium to stay online all day long."What we have is a tiny minority of users who are using a disproportionate amount of our capacity," said Duncan Ingram, head of BTOpenworld, the telecoms group's internet service provider (ISP). BT is introducing its price cuts from today, but its new monthly capacity limits will not apply until the start of next year.Customers who breach those limits will be able to purchase an extra gigabyte of download capacity - roughly equivalent to 250 CD tracks - for about &#163;1.Mr Ingram said BT's new prices are designed to help meet its goal of having five million broadband customers by 2006.The company has more than one million customers using its ISP and a further 1.45m using its lines but accessing the internet through another ISP.Effective from today BT has cut its standard broadband package from &#163;27 to &#163;24.99 a month, while BT Yahoo! Broadband - which comes with applications including email - has dropped in price to &#163;26.99 from &#163;29.99.Up until now customers on either package have been able to download almost without limit, but from January they will be restricted to 15GB a month.BT's basic broadband package - which already has a monthly usage limit of 1GB - remains &#163;19.99 a month but the company has introduced additional features.The company reduced the price of its high-end broadband service, which allows customers to download up to 30GB of data a month, to &#163;29.99 from &#163;40.99.
Two years on from the launch of the Sky+ satellite decoder/hard disk recorder, there is finally an equivalent unit for digital terrestrial (Freeview) viewers.The Digifusion FVRT 100 Freeview decoder/hard disk video recorder uses its proprietary Multi Guide to deliver seven days worth of programme information to the screen. Users can browse through and earmark programmes for recording.Like Sky+, the FVRT 100 can store up to 40 hours of programming on its 40GB hard disk, pause, rewind, and forward live TV and let viewers watch one programme while recording another. However, the quality isn't quite as good as its rival.While it is fairly simple to use, the FVRT 100 lacks the simplicity of the Sky+ box, and especially its rival's remarkably intuitive remote control. Also, unlike its satellite equivalent, viewers can't play catch-up by watching a programme from the beginning while recording it. It is available for &#163;250.www.fusiondigitec.com
What price mud? As if the commercialisation of the Glastonbury festival had not gone far enough, yesterday the very goo through which the audience waded was put up for auction.At a starting price of 99p, a dollop of mud freshly scraped from the boots of a visitor to the three-day festival was on the internet for sale, complete with picture. For enticement, the seller specified where on Michael Eavis's farm in Somerset the earth was sourced - the front two rows of the Pyramid stage where Oasis, Morrissey and Muse had played.Just before noon yesterday, bids reached &#163;74 - which led the mud's owner to add a postscript: "Due to the huge amount of interest in this I have decided to donate 50% of the final auction price to the WaterAid charity."Whether driven by altruism, or by a need to present his credentials to the Glastonbury elite, the offer worked. Within minutes bids hit &#163;360. By 11pm the highest was &#163;510, with 16 hours left until the sale closed. WaterAid, which also provides sanitation to the developing world, said it never ceased to be amazed at the excitement that anything and every thing to do with Glastonbury created, adding: "We are delighed to be the charity chosen to benefit."But, as every follower of  today's profit-driven Glastonbury festival knows, where there is a market someone will undercut it. Within hours, wags were offering their own muck for brass for as little as a one penny a litre.However there was little interest shown. Other canny sellers offered incentives - wellington boots, trainers and shorts - but still to no avail. Some even offered the rarest of Glastonbury commodities following such a weekend - mud with green grass.&#183;The Guardian sponsors the Glastonbury festival.
Onimusha 3PS2, &#163;39.99 Capcom, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The latest instalment of Capcom's popular hack'n'slash feels more sophisticated than predecessors. Essentially, it combines dispatching demons with nifty swordfighting and puzzle-solving, but the addition of a character adds welcome depth to the gameplay. Action takes place in modern Paris and Japan in 1582.The new character, Jacques Blanc, is voiced by and visually modelled on Jean Reno, and his whip/lassoo mode of attack is reminiscent of Castlevania (he can use it to immobilise enemies or vault into apparently unreachable areas). Blanc finds himself in ancient Japan, while Samanosuke is in Paris.The ability to switch between the two characters, a device that works well, has much bearing on the puzzle-solving. The convoluted plot is bog-standard, but the graphics are excellent, and the gameplay benefits from a straightforward, responsive control system that has a few extras.Onimusha 3 is also easier to play than its obvious rival, Ninja Gaiden, although it is visually inferior. It should keep fans of Japanese-style action-adventure games happy.Steve BoxerSmash Court Pro Tennis 2PS2, &#163;29.99 Namco/Sony &#42;&#42;&#42;While you can understand the marketing decision - releasing a tennis videogame around Wimbledon - the timing is less important than it   seems. This is because tennis games, like golf games, are enjoyed by people who wouldn't go near a club. The reason? Simplicity and multiplayer.Smash Court Pro 2 offers these plus licensed courts, players and equipment. The main part sees you playing a Pro Tour, competing in tournaments and working your way up the ladder.Oddly, you play less than you would think. Instead, you jump in at key moments, attempting to complete a challenge such as scoring points using a small number of balls. Traditional play is found in the multiplayer mode, which works well. The players move around court convincingly, shots are relatively easily placed and skill soon replaces what seems at first to be a button-mashing exercise.On the surface, the graphics can't be faulted. The players are well animated and the licensed players are realistic. Unfortunately, the shadows and perspective make it hard to accurately judge the ball's position. While not as addictive as Sega's Virtua Tennis, Smash Court 2 is a decent game that holds its own in the rankings.Greg HowsonSpellForce: Breath of WinterPC, 19.99 Phenomic/JoWood, &#42;&#42;SpellForce was a daring but flawed attempt to combine two genres, and   for that reason, much was expected from this add-on pack. Unfortunately, once again we have a game with flashes of genius but the same random problems of the original.Fans will delight at another massive campaign and brilliantly detailed storyline. The combination of realtime strategy and dungeon master has been tried (Warcraft3) but SpellForce did it best and Breath of Winter continues that tradition.While your hero is winning battles and accumulating levels, your economy must be kept running, sometimes balancing the needs of from three to six races at once. Breath of Winter fine-tunes a fascinating formula that makes other Diablo-type games look prehistoric. Undoubtedly, others will copy it but, for now, this is RTS heaven with the bonus of a great dungeon hack on top.However, the stability of the program is questionable. Levels still take ridiculously long to load, sound occasionally disappears, and there's SpellForce's old habit of refusing to work with certain graphics cards or system specs. This time, I played for more than five hours before an irreversible crash, but PC owners have a right to expect it not to happen these days. The developer's past performance doesn't inspire confidence - hence what might seem a criminally low rating to those with the exact system spec to enjoy the game fully.Mike Anderiesz
Late last year, and a friend in charge of a large internal corporate network was incandescent. He'd caught someone with an open Wi-Fi access point on his desk, plugged into the office network, leaking unencrypted packets into the airwaves.The security implications were stark: any hacker could sniff the traffic within my friend's network, demolishing at a stroke his carefully architected firewall rules.He was filled with system administrator rage. The unspoken rule became a company-wide rule. No one was to use Wi-Fi within the building. Ever.Months later, I caught him packing a newly purchased Wi-Fi access point to take into work. He'd grown sick of having to plug in and unplug his laptop every   time he came back to his desk.What about his iron ruling? This is different, he said. He was the sysadmin. He knew how to make it secure. And anyway, the access point fitted perfectly between the partitions. No one would spot it.You can take this anecdote two ways. As an illustration of how it's one rule for the proles, and one rule for the Lan lords. More even-handedly, you can see it as an illustration of the one unbreakable rule of corporate security: the fixed equilibrium between safety and convenience. Try as you might to enforce policy, any extreme shift one way or the other leads back to the centre ground.Wi-Fi is just the latest battle in this long war. A decade ago, it was email accounts for individuals, then it was the web at work, then it was instant messaging. Conservative IT departments and rogue employees had a point. For every working life transformed by the new technologies, new nightmares arose for the IT department.But the most paranoid sysadmins paid the price. Banned email leads to Hotmail; banned web leads to covert dial-ups; and, as Yoda says, fear leads to suffering.Convenient, open Wi-Fi connectivity was enough to drive any administrator to paranoia, but banning wireless net access in the office can end up with just as uncontrollable a situation: creative employees finding ways to circumvent overly restrictive security policies, mostly to get work done.Eventually, though, equilibrium is reached. Last week, the standards body IEEE finally crossed the 't's on 802.11i, a protocol that provides reasonable security for   Wi-Fi networks. Most Wi-Fi systems sold in the past few years should be upgradeable to the new standard.It's not a thrilling advance, but the upgrade feels like a good compromise. It's still a little cumbersome to set up, compared with an open, unsecured access point. But the authentication system allows faster roaming than previous secure systems.Now, rather than locking them to their desk, and confiscating insecure access points, sysadmins can offer the carrot of seamless wireless net connectivity across the office in return for that slightly awkward, but far more secure logon. Rather less righteous anger, but perhaps a slightly more equable - and productive - work environment.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want  your email address published, please say so
Bad IT didn't kill Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells, Ian Huntley did. But Sir Michael Bichard's report into the failures that led up to the Soham murders exposes an endemic flaw in police IT systems throughout England and Wales. At the very least, this flaw wastes huge sums of taxpayers' money and police officers' time.TheBichard report, published last week, focuses on delays in setting up a national criminal intelligence database. However, it could have said the same about most police IT systems. Ten years into a national strategy to standardise police IT, a picture emerges of systems being implemented patchily and sometimes reluctantly by individual forces.   Not one of the national systems agreed under the national strategy has been installed by every police force in the UK."There was, and remains, no uniformity of approach," Bichard says. "Each of the 43 police forces has a variety of IT systems, which are used for a variety of different purposes. The interfaces between systems at local force-to-force level are almost non-existent. Even within forces, the interface between systems has been patchy at best."Installing standard systems is not enough. A rare example of a truly national system, the Police National Computer (which predates the current strategy) suffers because of variations in the enthusiasm with which different forces update it. Report after report has identified delays and shortcomings.Prodded by central government's   Criminal Justice IT initiative, work is in progress to connect court systems directly to the national computer so records are updated automatically with new convictions. But this will not happen until 2006. Not good enough, says Bichard.The problem is that with IT, police services are their own masters. There are good constitutional reasons for this independence, as well as practical advantages. North Wales has different priorities from Greater Manchester, and its investment in local systems should reflect that.National infrastructure is another matter. When a national system is agreed, Bichard points out, there is no reason why forces should buy it locally. Individual procurements waste resources, and give recalcitrant forces an excuse for delay and, aided and   abetted by IT suppliers, to add expensive local bells and whistles.We have a national police IT agency, the Police IT Organisation (Pito), based in London. It was set up in 1998 to identify priorities, specify what is needed and manage contracts with suppliers. Current projects include rolling out the Airwave digital communication system and procuring a long overdue national register of firearms. Pito also runs the police web portalwww.police.uk, though not its crucial links with forces' back-office.What Pito cannot do, as Bichard points out, is impose solutions on police forces. It should be given that power. Other parts of the public service - notably the NHS - are surrendering local autonomy in IT for a greater good. Local police services cannot continue to be allowed to obstruct justice.
A fair betWhile I always enjoy Aleks Krotoski's writings about female gaming, her reliance on the latest 3RD      Sense report to support her argument contradicts every other survey on online female gaming      (Second Sight, June 24). It is true that online gaming among females appears to be more popular      than console gaming, but the survey by 3RD Sense claiming that 62% of players on all gaming      websites are women is three times as high as every other survey that has been published.Both      academic research and market research have reported that around one in five women are online      gamers. Admittedly, this figure is rising all the time but it is unlikely to have increased threefold in      the space of a few months.Dr Mark GriffithsProfessor of gambling studiesNottingham Trent UniversityKit catchYour correspondents bleating about the relatively high cost of i-Tunes downloads here compared with      the US and Europe ignore the real financial barrier: the cost of a new computer/operating system      for all those thousands (or is it millions?) of cavepersons who, like me, use systems older than      Windows 2000.Some commercial IT users might have legitimate reasons for binning all their kit every couple of      years, but most domestic users - at whom a "service" such as i-Tunes is primarily aimed - would only      ever need to replace their computers if they burst into flames, were it not for the delib erate      exploitation of non-compatibility by an industry that represents capitalist cynicism at its finest.       Also, at-a-click downloads for scarcely more than the price of a packet of crisps mean daddy's      credit card is going to be taking an almighty hit for all those must-have/can't-stand-it impulse      purchases.Root CartwrightHertsOut of tuneTo Ashley Norris's article on music downloading services (Can iTunes keep rivals at bay?, June 24), I      would add that iTunes won't be keeping rivals at bay if its current service is anything to judge by.       The iTunes software didn't work for me on its first download. &#91;On the third attempt&#93; I thought I was      up and running until I logged on to the site and was greeted by the message: "You must upgrade to      the latest version of iTunes in order to use the iTunes Music Store." Not sure what iTunes is playing      at here since I downloaded the software less than 24 hours ago.       But, still trying to take advantage of the marvellous opportunities offered by a company dedicated      to making hardware and software that is incompatible with any machine not made by them, I clicked      the link to upgrade. Unfortunately, I was then informed: "Could not complete the music store      request. The store may be busy. Check your internet connection or try again later."Since my internet connection is fine, I tried again later. And then later. And then later still. But I'm      still unable to use the iTunes facility. Too bad. That's a few quid iTunes won't be adding to the costs      of overhauling its existing software. It is a pity because from my experience, they are certainly      going to need it.David BritlandStrike a chordThe iTunes download is 10MB, not 20MB. You state that a CD is playable on any device - what about      those that are encoded so they won't play on a PC? You also failed to mention that Apple's AirPort      Express with AirTunes will allow music to be streamed to an audio device.       Why not criticise music services that do not use the Advanced Audio Coding (AAC)?       I believe the huge back-catalogue led to VHS's success, since I can't see any interoperability      problem.Ron WarnerDisillusioned VirginRob Skinner (Feedback, June 24) is not alone in having difficulty convincing Virgin Net to take his      money from him. When I tried to register online for its broadband service, I was told my phone line      was not supplied by BT (it is). Several calls to Virgin Net and BT have resulted in each company      blaming the other and the unhelpful suggestion from Virgin Net that I should contact its premium      rate technical support line, at my expense, to resolve the deficiencies with its data and systems.Paul BerginSouthamptonContented VirginVirgin Net broadband was easy to install and is, in my experience, both reliable and (relatively)      cheap. I have found the technical support team, both telephone and online, to be extremely helpful      and unpatronising - notably, when I bought a new PC, the telephone support team went out of its way      to assist me with problems that were, as it turned out, due to a fault with the PC and were      unrelated to the internet connection. (I wasn't using a premium rate line!)       Virgin Net has also recently installed an effective anti-spam system, which cut spam overnight by      95%. I used Virgin Net dial-up for several years before switching to its broadband service, and      continue to recommend it to friends.Katy CooperLondon
Soap sudsDo you have the theme to EastEnders going round and round in your head? If so, you might enjoy the World of Soap Themes, where you can not only find themes for dozens of soap operas, but also find bonus segments, some scores and even a forum and chat room.www.wost.orgCount the petalsHey, July is Anti-Boredom Month! So don't be bored! Not helping? Sharpen your brain and your pencil with AnagramSite. Enter a word or phrase and AnagramSite will give you all the anagrams it can think of. Unfortunately, the only anagram for Web Watch is Watch Web. Still bored? Altoids (yes, the mint) has an arcade on its website. Try your luck with pinball, billiards and more. And if you're looking for something to really challenge your mind, ask yourself: "How many petals are around the rose?"www.anagramsite.comwww.altoids.comhttp://personal.baker.edu/web2Take a DiveFor underwater addicts, try the dive site directory. It offers pointers to diving all over the world, including six sites in the UK. Locations are divided   into wrecks and reefs; site information is thorough and, in some cases, includes reader photos and reviews.www.divesitedirectory.co.ukLegions of LegoAndrew Lipson either has plenty of free time or he just really, really likes Lego. His website shows some of the brilliant creations made using Lego, including Lego Hoberman Sphere, a machine for turning itself off, Rodin's Thinker and some Escher drawings rendered in Lego. Many have descriptions, discussions on how they were done and additional photographs. Don't miss the additional Lego links at the bottom of the first page.www.lipsons.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/lego.htmGame groovesDo you bop out to PS2 music even when you're not playing Dance Dance Revolution? For game music aficionados, visit Over-Clocked ReMix for remixed versions of your favourite video game tunes. Remixes has a forum for reviews, and there's an RSS feed so you can keep up with the latest additions.www.ocremix.orgMood swingsBusy writing in your weblog and want the world to know your state of mind? Register with Unkymoods, which has a selection of icon faces reflecting different moods - everything from Accomplished to Zen-Like. Paste the code into your weblog and the icon appears in your blog. Feeling good now?www.unkymoods.comDefective YetiPeople laugh at the funniest things. When you're reading Defective Yeti, which is an odd mix of board games, news about a newborn (known as The Squirrelly) and general musings on life, you may wonder how a posting about really large Cokes and XMen2 could be so funny. Topics include a rant about Outdoor Survival, purportedly one of the worst board games of all time ("It's like Hi-Ho Cherry-O, except, in the end, raccoons eat your desiccated corpse").www.defectiveyeti.comFeedBurnerHave an RSS feed? Wondering if people really use it? You can find out with FeedBurner, which tracks viewings of your RSS feed and counts the number of clickthroughs each item gets. It can automatically insert Amazon affiliate code into Amazon links, as well as reformat your feed so it is viewable in a browser. It is only in pre-alpha, so more is on the way, and it is free to use.www.feedburner.comNew &amp; notedeBay's Solutionshttp://solutions.ebay.comUsability Effectwww.usabilityeffect.comBlogorywww.findory.com/cgi-bin/blogory.cgiSix of the best:Unusual holidaysTalk Like a Pirate Daywww.talklikeapirate.comVinegar Daywww.vinegarman.comMen Make Dinner Daywww.menmakedinnerday.comSystem Administrator Appreciation Daywww.sysadminday.comWeb Holidayswww.web-holidays.comWorld Hello Daywww.worldhelloday.org
Just when the patient was supposed to be on the mend, a relapse. On Tuesday, the Cabinet Office said it had cancelled an &#163;83m contract for a secure data centre to host government websites, just 11 months after signature. It cited "breach of contract" as the reason, saying none of the services contracted for had been delivered or accepted.The e-envoy, Andrew Pinder, said cancellation was necessary "to protect vital public services".The contractor, IT services firm ITNET, denies the charge. "We are confident that we met continually revised milestones for this contract," a spokesman said.The data centre, known as True North after a code name for its secret location, is supposed to underpin several crucial e-government projects. They include government-wide web portals, as well as a content-management system for public sector sites and the Knowledge Network briefing system for civil servants.Cancellation is a public embarrassment for the Cabinet Office, which runs Britain's e-government programme, as well as ITNET. The firm says it will "pursue vigorously" reimbursement of &#163;25m it says it has invested. The fiasco will revive memories of IT failures - ironically, at a time when government is supposed to be improving its record. Later this month, a report by the National Audit Office is expected to show the government is getting better at procuring large IT systems.The True North contract, signed on July 23 last year, was negotiated in the light of hard-won experience in setting up government IT systems.   More than 100 companies expressed an interest in the project when it was advertised in February 2002; ITNET, a Birmingham-based firm originally spun out from Cadbury Schweppes' data processing department, was picked after two other contenders withdrew from the shortlist. Although the company is well established in running systems for local authorities, it was its first major project for central government. The contract was worth &#163;83m over five years.The project involved setting up a disaster-proof data centre at two secret locations more than 10 miles and less than 100 miles apart, as part of Britain's critical national infrastruc ture. The centres were supposed to host systems across government, beginning with three run by the Cabinet Office. These are:&#183;Knowledge Network, which provides consistent briefing information for 55,000 civil servants on the government's secure intranet.&#183;Government Gateway, a routing and authentication engine designed to enable businesses and citizens to transact securely with public bodies. Users include the agriculture department's seed certification service: companies and seed testing stations can apply and pay for certification online.&#183;DotP, a content management system for government websites. The   system, developed by the office of the e-envoy, is designed to create a consistent look and feel and to speed up searches for information. The first user apart from the Cabinet Office is the Department of Health.ITNET said that the first of the three contracted services, believed to be the Knowledge Network, "has been delivered subsequent to the commissioning of the datacentre in January 2004".However, the Cabinet Office said the project is "several months behind schedule and was forecast to be considerably over budget if continued". It says it is negotiating with alternative suppliers. "There will be   no impact to the existing services, or the users of them."This is the second time this year that the government has cancelled a high-profile IT project claiming it to be heading down the wrong track. In March, the NHS National Programme for IT cancelled a contract with EDS to create an NHS email system amid a row about missed deadlines. The NHS says that two companies are now shortlisted to supply a replacement and that it is in mediation with EDS over severance terms.The True North cancellation, in apparently similar circumstances, suggests a new get-tough approach by government. Pinder says the government will "deal resolutely with the early symptoms of problems".However, it will be hard to paint the cancellation as a success for resolute project management. ITNET hinted that it may take legal action. Oliver Whitehead, the company's chairman, said: "I and my board colleagues are committed to making full recovery of the costs we have incurred on this contract."Questions will also be raised about the wisdom of awarding a contract to a sole bidder, and whether the project was technically feasible in its timetable and budget.Nick Kalisperas, of the IT trade association Intellect, said a lot of work had been done to create a better understanding between government and IT contractors, "but it's taking time to feed through". He suggested the public sector still had much to learn. "The customer has got to get the specification right at the beginning, and that's the responsibility of the government."&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want  your email address published, please say so
'If you have a complaint, all you want to do is talk to someone," says Mark Boulding, senior analyst at Quocirca, a research company. It's a view shared by nearly everyone who picks up a phone to call customer services. All too often, the reality is automated queuing, long delays and call centre staff who might as well be working for another company when it comes to knowing or caring about you.But in the wake of thousands of jobs going overseas, the call centre industry is in the process of morphing into a "contact centre" industry. With what insiders call the multimedia contact centre, it plans to offer more ways of reaching customers, and to reduce costs by making call centre agents more productive. However, it is held back by legacy systems that make it difficult to move forward quickly.The promise is of fewer contact centre agents dealing with more enquiries because callers are able to use email and instant messaging to get help, as well as talking on the phone. It is also a recognition of the fact that call centres have to become information hubs, providing information however the customer wants it.Betdaq, the online betting service, says its business depends on such an approach. It has 40,000 customers globally, and has installed a system from Talisma that handles voice, email, instant chat, and self service via the web. It filters email to detect the language of the sender, then routes it to the appropriate call agent to ensure response within 15 minutes. It also aims for a 30-second response to instant chat requests. Betdaq says the service is particularly important in retaining customers in the Far East, who do not want the cost of making long-distance phone calls.Meanwhile, e-government initiatives that emphasise public access options have helped stimulate a multimedia approach in local government. Cardiff County Council's Mitel call centre serves 317,000 residents and is manned by 45 agents handling around 2,000 calls, web chats and emails per day. Two email addresses are available - one English, one Welsh - and emails get an instant response before being put in a queue for an agent to handle.The challenge is linking the new call centre to legacy IT systems. The council has begun giving agents direct access into eight of the 98 legacy applications in-house. For example, agents can schedule pick-up of heavy items, and look up schedules for lamppost repairs to give to callers.Rachel Power, an analyst at researchers Canalys, says customers are driving the need for multimedia support. "The interface with your customers is critical, and we are getting to the point where email response has to be provided, so some sort of integrated response is needed. The problem for many companies is proving that there is a return on investment."For some, it's more a question of reducing costs by using Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) to create virtual call centres. "The scope has changed enormously with voice and data convergence," says Gary Pruden, chief technology officer at integrators   European Technology Consultants. "Now you can easily create a flexible workforce across different sites. That is making firms look closely at traditional location costs."P&amp;O Ferries is a beneficiary of this virtual approach. It uses Avaya's IP-based Definity system to link contact centres in Dover, Calais and Rotterdam so that calls are routed depending on demand. This also allows calls to be routed according to language and information required. With its 450 agents sharing the same database, the company is confident of providing a service that appears relatively local, while also giving agents   the resources to "upsell" where possible through new multimedia terminals that give them access to more ticketing information.But as the no-frills airlines have proved, part of the battle is about taking a cafeteria approach to customers. Pruden says there is a trend toward pushing customers to automated options. "Self-service options such as websites are better now, and customers understand that they are likely to be directed to such services for low-level requests and to be dealt with personally where it is more complex or where there is an opportunity for the agent to upsell." He agrees we may be seeing the emergence of a two-tier industry, with basic call centre services done overseas and more skilled services in the UK.The need to hire and train more skilled agents is therefore a growing concern. "It's about empowering agents with the right information and how you develop and motivate them," says John van der Linde, director of convergent applications at Avaya.But despite all the talk of multimedia, research group Gartner estimates that such call centres only account for 8% of those installed. According to Stephanie Wilson, from call centre operator Convergys, much depends on the profile of callers. "We run a tech support programme in Newcastle that has a high degree of take-up for both email and web chat as they are popular with tech-savvy, early adopter customers. But contrast that with another programme in credit card financial services, where take-up of alternative channels has been much lower: those customers still want to talk to an agent over the phone. So, although multimedia is a growing trend, I think the bigger trend is around knowledge management and trying to harness what you know about a customer to serve them better."While many in the industry believe the real focus is on more closely monitoring agents, and that email is more of a hassle than a help, Nicola Millard, an expert in call centre technology at BT's research wing BT Exact, believes new technology is an essential part of new services. She predicts greater use of voice technology to "listen" for key words in speech and automatically display relevant information to agents. It could even detect emotions in customer's voices, so that irate callers are directed to more empathetic agents where necessary."There will be less talk of call centre sweatshops, and a growth in call centre agents who are more knowledgeable and have ample supplies of reassurance," says Millard.Well, we can dream.
Worm turnedA new Windows worm has been stopped by the closing of a Russian website at the hub of its activities. Scob or Download.Ject infects Microsoft web servers running IIS 5.0, if they have not been patched, and adds JavaScript code that redirects Internet Explorer browsers to the Russian site. The plan was to use the vulnerability to download a key-logger to record the user's key-presses, capturing security details. The worm exploited two security holes in the browser, one of which has not been patched. Security firms are therefore warning that copycat worms may be developed. Microsoft advises Internet Explorer users to update their security patches and increase browser security to High. Other alternatives include turning off JavaScript, and switching to a different browser such as Mozilla Firefox. IIS 6.0 and users running the beta version of Windows XP Service Pack 2 are not affected.http://www.microsoft.com/technetLinux in WonderlandProject Looking Glass, Sun's 3D desktop, is being aired at Sun Microsystems' annual gathering of Java developers, JavaOne, in San Francisco this week. The company is planning to make the Linux interface open source. Looking Glass uses 3D effects to enliven the static screens typified by Microsoft Windows and Apple Macintosh OS X. Sun may be pre-empting Microsoft's plans to introduce a 3D interface in the next version of Windows, codenamed Longhorn. Applications to be bundled with Looking Glass include Sun's Star Office, the Mozilla Web browser, and RealNetwork's RealPlayer.wwws.sun.com/software/looking_glass/details.htmlCE5 changesMicrosoft has changed the rules again with the launch of Windows CE5, the latest version of its operating system for electronic organisers, mobile and VoIP phones, set-top boxes and similar products. Microsoft made much of the source of CE version 4.2 available under its Shared Source Premium programme, allowing device manufacturers to modify the code. But companies had to release their  modifications back to Microsoft and the CE5 community, as is common with open source software. With CE5, however, Microsoft has removed this obligation. The feedback from companies using CE5 is that they place a higher value on being able to differentiate their products than on being able to share improvements made by rivals.http://www.microsoft.com/presspass
Is mobile entertainment stuck in a rut? You would think so looking at the latest mobile gaming chart compiled by the European Leisure Software Publishers Association (Elspa). For the second month, this new guide to the most regularly downloaded Java applications is dominated by conversions of ancient coin-operated games such as Space Invaders and Pac-Man. It seems the industry is unable - or unwilling - to challenge the nostalgic tastes of the average phone user.Fortunately, a few developers are trying to provide more up-to-date entertainment. Bluetooth two-player modes are an interesting example. Macrospace's excellent shooter Fatal Force and Kuju's well-timed Pat Cash Tennis allow owners of Nokia 6600 and 6230 handsets to play against each other over a distance of about 30 feet. Two more titles, Morpheme's crazy golf sim Micro Golf and Acclaim's street car racer Juiced, are due in the summer. July should also see an innovative GPRS multiplayer gaming platform developed by US company Kayak. The launch title - a new version of Iomo's best-selling Pub Pool - will allow gamers to challenge each other, wherever they are and whatever network they're on. Kayak is hatching plans for a massively multiplayer game along the lines of PC phenomenon Everquest.Java application producers are also branching out to provide a wider array of services. British developer Player X has launched a range of Java phrase guides in association with travel publisher Berlitz. Six European languages are offered and for each there are five themed guides covering subjects such as Eating Out and Chat-up Lines. Where's the entertainment value? The Series 60 version speaks many of the phrases for you, so just select what you want to say, then hold the phone up. With comments such as "show us your tan lines", this could provide hours of fun for the young Englishman - or woman - abroad. The guides will be rolled out this month through all the major operators and can be downloaded for around &#163;4.50 each.Social entertainment applications are also on the rise. Early last year, Saw-You, a small UK company, launched Weemee, an "avatar community" package allowing mobile phone and internet users to create mini-cartoon versions of themselves to accompany multimedia messaging (MMS) and instant messages.The service has quickly evolved - there are more than 2.5m users in the UK, and people use Weemee to identify preferred locations such as pubs and clubs. For example, if you   are in an unfamiliar town and want to know if a bar is any good, enter the name and location at Saw-You's wireless application protocol (Wap) site. If any members have "tagged" it as a favourite haunt, you will be able to instant message them for details.Your mobile phone could also soon be used as an instant dating tool. A German programmer, Jay Es, claims to be beta-testing an application for owners of Bluetooth handsets that lets them input details about themselves and their perfect partners, which are then permanently transmitted from their phones. Whenever two users with similar likes and dislikes wander within Bluetooth range of each other, their handsets swap contact details - and photos. It's essentially a more developed take on the Bluejacking craze. The varied and potentially messy privacy issues it raises, however, could prevent its appearance on major networks.The mobile entertainment industry may soon be forced to move away from the cash cow of classic arcade ports. Emame, a mobile version of the legendary Multi-Arcade Machine Emulator (Mame), has been converted for use on Series 60 phones by a coder, Staffan Ulfberg. It's not particularly reliable, and most of the thousand or so Mame ports are too slow to play, but the threat is there.The mobile entertainment industry must move on. Pac Man - once again - is history.www.morpheme.co.ukwww.kuju.comwww.kayakinteractive.comwww.saw-you.comwww.bluetoothflirt.de/www.harmonicode.com/EMame
HardwareRange of optionsGoodmans last week unveiled a massive selection of budget consumer electronics products ranging from the UK's cheapest 42in plasma screen TV, which retails for &#163;2,000, to DVD players with DivX play back. A possible highlight is the &#163;199 GPDR1, a personal media player with a 2.5in LCD screen, right, that can store up to two hours of MPeg4 video on its expandable 288MB built-in memory. The company also paraded desktop and notebook PCs that are due to go on sale next month, eight digital cameras, a Freeview-equipped 15in LCD TV and the GDVD300R, a &#163;200 DVD recorder.MobileConstant contactSmartner is to launch its Duality Always-on mail feature to smartphone-owning consumers across Europe in August. The system is similar to BlackBerry's wireless email solution, in that when a message reaches an ISP's server, it is automatically pushed to a phone's in box. All the actions of the system are duplicated on the user's main desktop PC, so, for example, if a user chooses to delete a message on their handset, it is also deleted on their computer. The system, which costs &euro;4 per month, is compatible with all Symbian and Windows Mobile smartphones. Versions of the Duality Always-on system are already available to business individuals and companies.www.smartner.comSea changeOrange customers on cross-channel ferries can now make voice calls and use GPRS data services all the way to France courtesy of the first continuous mobile service between the two countries. The company is rolling out the service exclusively on SeaFrance's ships, which operate on the Dover to Calais route. Orange has split the channel in two, with UK subscribers charged   standard UK call rates until the vessel reaches the mid-way point between the two countries. Then they are transferred to Orange France and pay higher international roaming tariffs.www.orange.co.ukSoftwareApple launchAt its Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco this week, Apple Computer has shown a preview of Tiger, the next version of its Unix-based Mac OS X operating system, "with more than 150 breakthrough new features". These include Spotlight, to search the user's hard drive, and Safari RSS, a new version of the OS X web browser. This doubles as a reader for the RSS (Really Simple Syndication) newsfeeds widely used by blogs and a growing number of news sites. Apple says OS X 10.4 will be available in the first half of next year for &#163;99. Apple has also added a Weblog Server (based on the open source Blojsom project) to the server version of OS X 10.4. Finally, Apple has redesigned its 20in and 23in LCD screens to give them an aluminium look, and will launch a 30in Cinema HD display (with 2560 x 1600 pixel resolution) in August. UK price is &#163;2,549 inc VAT.www.apple.comCamerasSnap happyPhilips has launched three casual cameras it reckons users can take anywhere. The biggest is the credit card-sized PocketCam (DSC 2000K), which has 2 megapixel resolution, a 2x zoom lens, an LCD viewing screen, and a dedicated docking station for &#163;99. It only has 8MB of memory but you can plug in an SD (Secure Digital) card. The &#163;39 FunCam (DMVC300K), above, is a VGA camera that comes with a cord so you can hang it round your neck. It also works as a key ring and a 15fps webcam. Finally,there's the &#163;89 ThumbCam (DMVC1300K), which takes 1.3 megapixel images. It has a built-in microphone so it can be used to grab up to 10 minutes of video, and it also works as a USB pen-drive for carrying around 128MB of data.
How important is the net?It isn't the revolution talked about six or seven years ago. There are products that are well delivered via the net - travel, financial services, entertainment. That is different from the idea that this is going to be a primary form of retailing, which it isn't. The net is the most effective form of classified advertising and it will gradually take over from local regional newspapers and the trade press. It's also a vast reference and library tool.More government online?There are two aspects; one is can you file your tax returns online, which will happen. The other - pure fantasy - is you create vast democracies online that change the nature of political activity.Do governments understand the net?No one really does _ people talk in general terms and are hard to pin down to specifics. In the short-term, things generally change less than you think and in the long-term, more.Were you an early adopter?As soon as IBM brought out its PCs, we economists understood it was going to win, whereas all the techies were disparaging. The paradox was that IBM would set the standard for the industry while destroying its existing market position. When IBM was defending an anti-trust suit, it explained that it wasn't really dominant because the distinction between what could be done by mainframes and by desktops was diminishing and would disappear.And the Microsoft anti-trust case?It's a story of disciplined pluralism being the mainstay of a market economy.   The idea that any firm - be it IBM or Microsoft - has a major influence over the development of a market is very worrying. It's inherently bad. That's why I'm on the side of the "Bash Microsoft" people. In my book, I use the PC industry as an example of disciplined pluralism. That's how this industry came into being - the company making the breakthrough was Xerox. It built the first functioning desktop and invented the graphical user interface. It had the key idea that for computers to take off, you had to have machines that did not require you to understand computers in order to use them. It made nothing from either of those ideas.Can websites keep books topical?Not yet but maybe one day. People want electronic devices that look and feel more and more like a book and, if that's the case, then the future lies in the same place as the past! What I keep   thinking is that the real future of this lies in things that are intermediate between books and television. When I was writing this book, I thought that if that format existed, you could see how you could start writing differently - more visual than a book yet weightier than a television programme.The digital divide?Villages in India want better water rather than net access. Economic development is a product of a co-evolution of technology with social, political and organisational innovations. The notion you can push people ahead simply by giving them a computer is the same fallacy as saying go into Iraq, give them a book on a market economy and all will be fine!Visit:www.johnkay.comandwww.thetruthaboutmarkets.com
The stereotype of the hero coder, staring at the screen until deep in the night, might fit the lone or hobbyist developer, but it's rare in companies of any size. Different people plan systems and develop them. There are also business analysts and architects, coders and user interface designers, testers and quality assurance teams, plus project managers handing out requirements and collecting information. Because they all have different jobs, they typically use different programs. Often, the only way to turn a list of deliverables from project management software into a list of tasks in an integrated development environment (IDE) has been to print them out and then type them all in again.To meet the needs of these development team workers, Microsoft last month announced Team System 2005 for Visual Studio.Net, an environment designed to help developers, project managers and testers share information about their code.Team System lets everyone carry on using the tools they're used to, but the tracking and reporting tools automatically pass on the information other people need. Developers carry on building programs but the list of what's ready to test automatically goes to the QA team, and code that passes the tests shows up in Microsoft Project as a completed task.Measuring programmer productivity is particularly hard - simplistic measures such as lines of code written or bugs found and fixed are meaningless because that doesn't tell you whether the finished code is any good, or where people are spending their time. But with Team Studio,   managers can see how many tests someone has completed, how much of the program those tests cover, and whether the latest tests are checking the latest code or code that was tested and fixed months ago.The Team Architect edition also includes tools that let system administrators list what is available on different servers and how they are locked down, so developers can make sure their programs run on the machines they're intended for.The software can collect and combine information from third-party tools and Microsoft programs.The technology that brings all this together is SharePoint, and the system isn't as new as it might seem. Microsoft has been using similar development environment to write its own programs for years.Microsoft isn't the only company rethinking its development tools to make collaboration easier. Sun will be launching its new Java development tool, Java Studio Creator, at this week's JavaOne event in San Francisco. This is Sun's response to the success of the IBM-led Eclipse open source development platform, and is targeted at developers familiar with the Microsoft way of doing things.Eclipse hasn't been standing still either, and last week the project launched version 3.0 of its IDE. Eclipse is designed to be customised for a developer's roles and experience - so an architect will have a different view of a project from a junior developer. This version adds test tools from the Hyades project: as with Team System, the idea is to have one environment for all the stages of developing software. Hyades 3.0 includes tools for logging and profil ing systems developed in Eclipse, as well as for working with data models, popular testing tools, and common operating and deployment environments.If none of the established tools suits you, take a look at BEA's Beehive project, which makes the Weblogic Workshop code available for open source development under the aegis of the Apache foundation. You can use this code to build your own DIY application lifecycle environment.Other open source tools can be added to a custom development platform, such as the popular Bugzilla defect-tracker. Bugzilla gives you everything you need for integration, from email APIs (applications programming interfaces) to XML and HTTP connections.Application life-cycle management tools that bring together many different development environments offer architects and developers a way of controlling the development of software that's going to run on multiple operating systems, from desktop PCs to mid-range servers to mainframes. Getting complex projects right is hard enough when everyone is in the same office, but development teams can be spread around the world. This is where web-based tools such as Serena's TeamTrack come in. Not only do they help people manage application development, but they help development teams keep in touch, no matter where they're based.If anyone other than you is going to test, support and use the programs you write, then you need tools that make developing as a team as natural as possible. But that's not for everyone.This week, at its Tech-Ed Europe    2004 conference in Amsterdam, Microsoft announced another new set of programming tools, aimed at hobbyists, students and individual developers. The Express languages are designed to make programming as easy as possible, and they are not cluttered up with features a solo   programmer is never going to need.Microsoft hopes developers will get hooked on its languages and graduate to its professional programming tools. However, Express could also prove popular with experienced developers who just want to knock up some code in a simple environment.
Ever wondered how often you narrowly miss bumping into a friend in the street or whether anyone you know is in the same cinema, park or airport as you? Finding out could soon be as simple as looking at the screen of your mobile phone thanks to Socialight, a phone-based social networking service.Once you've downloaded a small program, Socialight turns your mobile phone into a "friend radar", alerting you whenever anyone on your Socialight buddy list is nearby. A central Socialight server tracks the whereabouts of each user using location data provided by mobile phone carriers or from a global positioning system (GPS) module in the phone, updating users' mobile phones every few seconds.Socialight uses social networking ideas pioneered by websites such as Friendster, which encourage users to build a network of online friends they can contact by email. But Socialight takes this a step further: it takes advantage of the fact that in large cities such as New York or London, you are unlikely ever to be far from at least one person you know, so rather than browsing your network of friends online, you can   actually meet them, according to Dan Melinger, one of the founders of Socialight. "Most young people are urbanites," he says. "What's frustrating about living in a city is that we know we are near friends most of the time, but we simply don't know where they are. A friend radar will help bring people together."Socialight also allows users to annotate space by leaving an invisible electronic message - called a sticky shadow - in a particular spot, either for a specific person or for a group of people. When someone walks through the spot, the message appears on their mobile phone screen. After a meal in a restaurant, for example, you could leave a sticky shadow saying "the food's great here but the coffee's foul, and watch out for the stroppy waitress". "People are likely to trust these sorts of messages, as they come from someone within their social network, and by annotating a city in this way, it's possible to make it a far smaller and more intimate place for its inhabitants," Melinger says.Crucially, you have to be part of a Socialight network in order to leave or receive sticky shadows. That's to prevent people littering busy shopping streets with hundreds of spam messages containing special offers from local shops which would pop up on your phone screen as you pass by the store.The service also includes a pair of unusual mobile phone communications tools: the "tap" and the "tickle". Mobile phones are great for communicating speech or text messages, but not for the sorts of non-verbal messages that are often conveyed by a raised eyebrow or a kick under the table, Melinger explains. By pressing   a button on your phone, you can make someone else's phone vibrate once (a tap) or rhythmically (a tickle). Catch your partner flirting a little too outrageously at a party and you could send them a tap from the other side of the room just to let them know you've got your eye on them.Socialight is being tested in New York, and should be launched commercially around the world in the next 12 months. When it does, Melinger warns, it may also be used to help avoid people. "You could use the service to make sure you don't bump into your boss around town when you are meant to be off sick. That's what we call 'anti-social networking'."
Music downloads aren't just the preserve of Apple and Napster. Earlier this week, T-Mobile unveiled its Music Jukebox service, which enables subscribers to transfer the latest hits over the air to their mobile phones.T-Mobile follows O2, which has been offering music downloads of full tracks via mobile phones to its Digital Music Player (DMP) since the start of the year, and Orange, whose music services were announced last week.Initially, the 500 or so tracks available to T-Mobile customers will be two-minute versions of recent hits. Full versions of the songs will be available later in the year.However, to realise the potential of music downloads via phone, T-Mobile, along with Orange and O2, has several problems it will have to overcome quickly.T-Mobile's five music-playing handsets (including Nokia's 7600 and 6230 and Motorola's E398) are high-end models, which, unless they are heavily subsidised, may prove too expensive for the network's target market - the young.There is also confusion over standards. Some of the five handsets play AAC Plus files; others are only compatible with MP3s. Storage is a potential problem, as some phones only offer a limited amount of non-upgradeable memory built in. Users also won't be able to transfer the tracks to and from their PC either, and may end up losing their music if they lost their phone or storage card.Pricing is a key issue. Bizarrely, T-Mobile's subscribers in the UK pay &#163;1.50 per two-minute track, a third more than subscribers in the network's home German market, who will pay &euro;1.50, and much more than PC-based download services.Less of a worry, apparently, is piracy, with the record companies announcing they were very impressed with the network's digital rights management system.O2 has responded to T-Mobile's offering by announcing an August launch for its first handset with a player built in - the Siemens SX1. Previously, users had to download tracks to a separate music player using an infrared connection. The SX1 comes with a 128MB storage card - enough for 120 tracks.In the download arena, O2 is in the lead, offering 100,000 tracks from four of the five big record companies.The key for the networks is ensuring that users download tracks to the phone over the air, thereby creating revenue, rather than transferring them through a PC. With less than a quarter of Europeans able to access broadband connections and not able to download music quickly via a PC, T-Mobile and its rivals clearly have a significant market to shoot at.www.t-zones.co.uk/en/t_musicwww.o2.co.ukwww.orange.co.uk
The hotly contested price war between Britain's broadband suppliers sizzled up today as BT confirmed it was slashing prices by up to 25% in a bid to reverse falling market share.The former telecoms monopoly said it was cutting the prices of most of its tiered broadband offerings and dropping connection and modem charges for online purchases as it tried to stave off rising pressure from rivals.BT said it was reducing the price of its 512Kb service from £29.99 to £26.99 and its faster 1Mb connection from £40.99 to £26.99, but also said it was introducing a cap on the amount of material users could download.Users of its two 512Kb services will be restricted to downloading 15Gb a month, which BT says will still enable users to surf for 15 hours a day or download 250 music tracks and 180 minutes of video every week.The move comes as new research from Enders Analysis shows BT is losing broadband customers to rivals such as Wanadoo and Tiscali.      Two years ago BT Retail connected 58% of UK broadband customers - this year that has fallen to just 42%.As one of the few European telecoms companies without a mobile arm, BT is relying on broadband to boost its bottom line, which is coming under increasing pressure from rivals.Companies such as Carphone Warehouse, who are the sponsors of this year's Big Brother; Tesco Telecom; OneTel; Tele2 and the latest arrival US-backed ToucanTalk All-You-Can are all eating into BT's fixed line revenues.Recent figures suggest the company could be losing as many as 150,000 customers a month, attracted to promises of unlimited free talk or very low call rates. BT saw pretax profits before financial charges increase 10% to £2bn in the year to end of March.The chief executive of BT, Ben Verwaayen, has bet the farm on broadband, setting bullish targets of 5 million high speed internet customers by the end of 2006.Last month Mr Verwaayen claimed the company was "enabling broadband Britain.""We now have approaching 2.5 million connections, a 162% increase in a year. We aim to have over 99% of the UK broadband enabled within a year, putting the UK towards the top of the broadband league," he said.However BT's decision not to drop the price of its "no frills" entry-level broadband service means that it is still being outmanoeuvred by rivals.Wanadoo, for instance, offers a similar package for £17.99 a month, while Tiscali offers a "broadband lite" service from £15.99.Analysts predict the land grab for broadband customers will continue as rivals continue a strategy of tempting dial-up users to convert to cut price, lower speed broadband packages and then trying to "upsell" them to higher speed, higher cost and higher margin services.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
"Sun Microsystems finally received the seal of approval it has been seeking from a large private sector client for its Java Desktop System, with the announcement Tuesday that the Allied Irish Bank is migrating 7,500 users to the software," reportsZDNet (UK)."The bank's offices in Ireland, Northern Ireland and mainland Britain will move to JDS during 2005 as part of a wider move to a new branch banking platform. The bank said in a statement that it chose JDS, the server maker's version of Linux for desktop computers, because of its 'integrated environment based on open-source components and industry standards'."Robin Wilton [Sun's program manager for JDS in Europe, the Middle East and Africa] "said the bank's JDS installation would replace a Microsoft Windows 3.1 suite that the bank was writing off over 10 to 15 years -- another indication of the institution's thrifty approach to information technology."
"Performance artist Laurie Anderson thought the phone call was a prank. How would you like to be NASA's artist-in-residence?" reportsThe Washington Post."The offer was legit: The space agency was bestowing a $20,000 commission on the 57-year-old Anderson to produce a piece of work completely at her creative freedom."
"A divided Supreme Court on Tuesday barred the enforcement of a law intended to keep children away from Internet pornography, in a decision that reflected the difficulty of regulating the Web without violating free-speech rights," reportsUSA Today."The 5-4 decision, on the last day of rulings in the court's annual term, was another blow for Congress in its nearly decade-long effort to protect minors by restricting materials in cyberspace. The court's majority suggested the law is likely unconstitutional, and it suggested that perhaps parents, rather than lawmakers, should take the lead in screening kids' Web access."
"Apple Computer is predicting that rivals will mimic Mac OS X Tiger, but one developer says it's the new Mac operating system that is doing the copying. Arlo Rose is outraged at the similarity of Apple's Dashboard, previewed earlier Monday by Apple CEO Steve Jobs, to hisKonfabulator, a $25 Macintosh program. Both programs allow easy access to small programs called Widgets, which can perform a number of useful little tasks," reportsCNet."It is not the first time Mac OS X has stepped on what some see as other's turf. Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., previously expanded its Sherlock search tool to add features such as movie times and yellow pages in a format that closely paralleled a third-party tool called Watson."Update:There's now a better account of the kerfuffle at MacCentral:Konfabulator, Dashboard controversy flows out of WWDC.Comment:One of the more amusing things about this little spat is that Konfabulator was itself accused of being a bit of a rip-off of a very popularWindows programthat came out about three years earlier. In that case, Brad Wardell's real complaints were that (1) Mac programs get loads of publicity while similar or better PC programs like his are ignored; and (2) that he kept being attacked by outraged Mac fanatics "for copying their stuff" when his stuff was out years before. No surprises there.But while it's not hard to bury Konfabulator under two decades of "prior art," including Apple's [see below], it does seem that Apple is sending out a message: that if you support the Mac by creating popular software, Apple will have no compunction about invading the same market.Well, Steve Jobs may not have to care about trampling developers underfoot, but this is not the most tactful message to send to the audience at your Worldwide Developers Conference.Who really invented "widgets" is another matter -- that's a name that was ripped off from Unix. In the 1980s, we used to call things like that Desktop Accessories, and there's a plausible claim thatDesktop Ornamentswere thunk up in 1981 for the orginal Mac (though this doesn't explain why they appeared in the Apple Lisa before the Mac came out).Even way back then, however, it didn't seem to be a particularly novel idea: if you had an interface based on a desktop metaphor, why would you be surprised if it had desktop utilities such as a clock, a calculator, and a notepad? Later, the huge success ofBorland's Sidekickand similar DOS programs showed you didn't even need a desktop to find the idea useful.
The popularity of digital music services such as iTunes and Napster will be tracked with an official download chart from September, it was announced yesterday.The new chart will register the sale of tracks from websites run by HMV, Coca-Cola and Microsoft's MSN and will be broadcast on BBC Radio 1. Separately, mobile phone operator T-Mobile announced plans to turn handsets into personal stereos, downloading songs at about &#163;1.50 each.Peter Jamieson, chairman of music trade body the British Phonographic Industry, said the download chart confirmed that the revolution in online music had arrived. "There has been an incredible excitement over the past few weeks about the launch of new download services," he said. "With their choice and convenience these services are transforming the music buying experience."The Official Chart Company, which will compile the figures, released data showing that the number one online song last week was the Pixies' Bam Thwok. The single is also the most popular track on the iTunes site in the UK, which launched earlier this month and has sold 450,000 songs so far, compared with 500,000 CD singles over the period.Services such as iTunes are at the forefront of the music industry's attempt to reverse the tide of internet piracy that helped push down global sales by 7% last year. OCC will start the chart on September 1, with Coca-Cola as sponsor.T-Mobile yesterday became the latest mobile phone company to offer customers the ability to download, store and play music on their mobile phones. The operator unveiled five handsets - or ear phones as it calls them - which it will sell for as little as &#163;29.99 later this summer.T-Mobile also announced a tie-up with record companies Universal, Sony and Warner as well as independents including V2 who will offer tracks. Initially the service will be limited to a catalogue of 500 condensed versions of songs, lasting up to two minutes. The tracks will retail at about &#163;1.50 each.In time for the Christmas market, however, the company hopes to have a catalogue of 250,000 full-length tracks. Whether they will be more expensive than the "mobile mix" tracks has not yet been decided. T-Mobile hopes to have up to a dozen phones that can use the service available in time for the festive rush.The launch of T-Mobile's integrated phone and personal stereo follows a similar move by O2 in Germany where it has a Siemens phone that doubles as a personal stereo.
"For more than three years, a twentysomething Minnesota woman named Layne Johnson lured thousands of people to her Web site every day with a poignant and brutally honest diary of her life. She was witty, sexually adventurous and intimate with her readers, sharing photos of her travels and exchanging private e-mails and instant messages with fans. She posted messages to other people's Weblogs and created personal profiles at social networking sites. Many readers felt deeply connected to her," reports Michael Bazeley in theMercury News."Now the person behind Layne has come forward and admitted that it was all an elaborate hoax. Odin Soli -- a 35-year-old male entrepreneur and writer, married with two children and living near St. Paul, Minn. -- said he created Layne as an experiment in 'interactive fiction'."Comment:Seehttp://emitter.dreamhost.com/for Odin's story, "Layne and Acanit Tell All", andPlain Layne is Gone("The archive has been taken down and is unavailable"). Ryan Schultz's blog athttp://ryanschultz.net/blog/also has background info.
"Microsoft Corp. and Fujitsu Ltd are expanding an existing global systems integration alliance to work together on software and hardware for mission-critical systems, the two companies announced Monday. Under the alliance, the companies will collaborate on the development of Fujitsu servers based on Intel Corp.'s Itanium processors and Microsoft's Windows Server 2003 and next-generation operating system code-named Longhorn and work on improving interoperability between their respective software applications. Fujitsu will also place engineers in Microsoft's Redmond, Washington, campus and integrate .Net into its Triole software suite," reportsIDG News Servicein Tokyo."Fujitsu hopes to see worldwide revenue of ¥800 billion ($7.2 billion) by 2007 from sales of enterprise servers, software products and services as a result of the alliance, it said. Their existing alliance has already reported revenues of $2.2 billion in fiscal year 2002 and $2.3 billion in 2003, according to Fujitsu."Comment:Historically, Fujitsu has been the biggest supporter of Sun's Sparc processor, and as the story notes: "Announcement of the deal comes less than a month after Fujitsu committed to work more closely with Sun Microsystems Inc through merging their Sparc processor-based server product lines by 2006." Also, what used to be the UK government's "computer champion", ICL, has been subsumed into Fujitsu, so presumably it will be flogging Windows/Itanium "mission-critcal servers" to government bodies.
The razor-toothed piranhas of the genera Serrasalmus and Pygocentrus are the most ferocious freshwater fish in the world. In reality they seldom attack a human."Technology-obsessed Singapore may have claimed a fresh world record Monday for punching in the fastest mobile phone text message after a competition that demanded a flair for dexterity, and considerable geekiness.," reportsAP."Student Kimberly Yeo, 23, managed to type a fiendishly complicated 26-word message [above] on her phone in 43.66 seconds, organizer Singapore Telecommunications said in a statement Monday."
The European commission yesterday suspended an order requiring Microsoft to sell a version of its Windows operating system without media player software, just hours before the order would have taken effect.The temporary move will give a European Union judge breathing space to sort out Microsoft's request for a long-term suspension of EU-imposed changes to its business practices, which the commission demanded along with a record &euro;497m (&#163;330m) fine when it found the software company had broken competition law.Microsoft appealed against the commission's decision to the court of first instance in Luxembourg, the EU's lower court.On Friday the company asked for a suspension of the sanctions for as long as the case was before European courts - up to three years or more.The commission said it was wrong to enforce the remedies while the court was deciding what to do about them, but believes they are "reasonable, balanced and necessary to restore competition in the marketplace".There is "a strong public interest in favour of implementing them without waiting for the judgment on the substance of the case", the commission said.Had the commission not acted, court president Bo Vesterdorf could have issued a temporary suspension.The Microsoft associate general counsel for Europe, Horacio Gutierrez, said his company would be hurt by the remedies as would "many other software development companies and website developers who have built products for the Windows platform".The commission ruled in March that Microsoft had violated the law by using its dominant Windows operating system to compete unfairly against rivals.The commission gave Microsoft 90 days to separate Windows Media Player, which plays music and video over the internet, from its Windows operating system. The deadline was yesterday. Under the suspended sanction, it would have been up to computer makers to decide whether to ship Windows with Windows Media Player or with a rival product, such as RealNetworks' Real Player."Once Microsoft releases a degraded product without media functionality into the market you cannot pull the product back," Mr Gutierrez said.The commission also gave Microsoft 120 days to license interconnection software to ease the way for rivals to hook up their servers to Windows.
"Yes, the world's richest man may start his own blog, one of those online diaries that have been the rage among techies for the past three or four years. Bill's blog won't be all business, either. He's expected to share personal details such as tidbits from recent vacations, according to tech pundit Mary Jo Foley's Microsoft Watch newsletter. Citing unnamed sources, she reported yesterday that Gates is about to start blogging 'real soon now'," reportsThe Seattle Times."Gates has long had his own Web page (www.microsoft.com/billgates) where he posts speeches, and he periodically sends an e-mail newsletter to customers."
"Adult Web sites that have largely enjoyed freedom from government interference could be in for a unpleasant surprise as early as Monday, when the US Supreme Court is set to deliver a long-awaited ruling on pornography. The court is expected to decide early next week whether the Child Online Protection Act violates Americans' right to free expression on the Internet. The 1998 law, which restricts sexually explicit material deemed 'harmful to minors' that appears on commercial Web sites, includes civil fines and prison terms in its provisions. COPA has been on hold during the court proceedings," reportsCNet."'If it's upheld, there will be a shock wave,' said Ann Beeson, an attorney at the American Civil Liberties Union who argued the case before the high court. 'We've been assuming on the Internet that there aren't laws like this.'"
Making snippy comments about big brand names in online chat rooms is small beer compared with the lengths some consumers will go to in order to record their woes.After months of complaining to Mastercare, the Dixons aftercare service, about a broken TV, Marie Griffiths created a blog (online diary) about her experience.To make sure Dixons took notice, she invited others to commit themselves not to buy anything from it or Currys. According to the online news site The Register, the cost of the pledges soon reached &#163;35,186.It is impossible to know whether there was merit in her claims, but compared with the cost of a replacement television set, figures like these must be difficult for a brand to ignore.Leslie de Chernatony, professor of brand marketing at Birmingham University Business School, says that making a complaint online is different from sounding off at the pub: 'The customer immediately has a potential audience of thousands.'Today, brands are defined by more than their logo. A brand invariably embodies a set of ideals its makers hope customers will share. But when those ideals are at odds with a customer's experience or awareness of the company's conduct, reputations can be dented. Understandably, brands are at pains to avoid this.John Straw, chief executive of online brand positioning company Netrank, says it advises its clients to deal quickly with customer complaints that have become the source of online discussion.'It's better to spend some money on dealing with one person, than risk a complaint going viral and damaging the value of the brand in the long term,' he says.The viral effect of the web is what makes it the ultimate consumer empowerment tool; ideas and opinions can spread quickly via email and we links. Unlike letters to customer services, the web gives consumers a fighting chance of being heard.For example, before the withdrawal of Dasani, Coca-Cola's 'mineral-cum-tap water' product, the National   Consumer Council researched online consumer opinion - mostly disparaging - to help formulate its position. Once it had, it was soon getting calls from reporters in the US, where Dasani is still sold.As of February, Ms Griffiths has stopped posting updates onmastercare.blog spot.com, but some consumers have much more spleen to vent. Following United Airlines' (UAL) inability to satisfy Jeremy Cooperstock's complaints in 1996-97, he launchedwww.untied.com, widely acknowledged as the internet's first gripe site.Since then, it has received more than 5,000 letters from people like Jeremy and helped a group of flight attendants convince UAL to give ground in negotiations with their union. Untied. com has become the proverbial thorn in the side.A spokeswoman for United Airlines, a unit of UAL, said the airline preferred that customers with legitimate complaints contacted the customer service department. If a complaint was forwarded by a third party site, 'of course we would respond to it', she said.It's possible that some brands use 'info-cleansing' outfits, which, for the right fee, will scrub clean offending comments from chat rooms and newsgroups. But brands are increasingly, learning to listen first.Not all opinion is inflammatory; some is constructive. A leading car manufacturer became aware from the web that some women felt they had not been well served by predominantly male design teams and acted on that information.Making your voice heard online also helps other consumers. Shoppers increasingly use the web to research purchases in the high street. Your opinion may help others to make an informed choice.As the traditional sales maxim goes, if you have a good experience of a company you'll tell two or three others, but if you have a bad experience you'll tell 10. Thanks to the web you can potentially tell millions - and when brands listen, it can bring improvements that benefit everyone.
Following last week's introduction of new desktop PC systems, Intel is expected to drop the other shoe on Monday, with the launch of 64-bit x86 Xeon processors and support chips for workstations and servers, asInternetNewsreports. This is a bit of a climbdown for Intel, which is trying to move to a new 64-bit architecture with its Itanium range, co-developed with Hewlett Packard. However, the take-up of AMD's Opteron left it little choice....
Microsoft has posted and revised a security update,What You Should Know About Download.Ject, that makes the recent furore about Internet Explorer (below) sound a little overblown. It turns out that the vulnerability to Web servers had already been fixed by patch 835732 in Microsoft Security BulletinMS04-011. Most rational companies would already have installed this to block the Sasser worm. People running AutoUpdate in April would have got the patch.Home users can find out if their systems have been compromised by searching for the files Kk32.dll and Surf.datThe Russian Web site distributing the code was closed down on Friday so this particular exploit is no longer a threat. However, Microsoft recommends that home users increase IE's security setting to High. This will stop some sites from working. However, if you trust these sites, you can add them to the Trusted zone and retain the High setting for general use.XP users who have installed the SP2 Service Pack beta are not affected, which makes the delays to SP2 even more regrettable....
If you don't fancy swelling Mr Murdoch's coffers or forking out for cable you may soon have an alternative - TV and video on demand via an ADSL broadband line.If this sounds familiar you are spot on. The service,HomeChoice, was originally launched in 2000, delivering video on demand and internet access to homes in the London area.  While it was undoubtedly a pioneering service (video on demand via ADSL to a TV in 2000 was a world first) and worked reasonably well, there were some hiccups with the ADSL, and the quality of the video (MPEG1 standard) was awful.I subscribed to the service for a time, more out of curiosity than anything else. I enjoyed being able to peruse a vast library of movies and TV programmes and then, after one click, being able to watch them. In the days before Sky+, Home Choice's ability to pause the movie you were watching seemed revolutionary.Then after a year or so the service went quiet. Although it continued to cater for its existing subscribers, it didn't seem very interested in attracting new ones.Then, a couple of months ago HomeChoice announced that a completely revamped service was being rolled out across London."The new services are all down to local loop unbundling (LLU)", explains Roger Lynch, Chair and CEO of HomeChoice's parent company Video Networks."When HomeChoice first launched we had to buy wholesale ADSL packages from BT, which was very expensive. Since LLU we have been able to start putting our own equipment into local exchanges, which not only significantly improves the services we can offer, but means our operational costs are eighty per cent cheaper than when we worked with BT."Among those new services are broadcast TV: HomeChoice offers a similar set of channels to Freeview, plus fast internet access, with users receiving a 1Mbps service with its basic package, with a 2Mbps upgrade if they prefer.HomeChoice has also come up with some innovative features. For example subscribers can configure the HomeChoice box to lock out all its services bar its on-demand children's channel Scamp, which makes it ideal for parents hoping to enjoy a Saturday morning lie-in. Another neat feature is the way subscribers can create a playlist of their favourite music videos rather than having to view the channel's choice of music.A deal with the BBC means that subscribers can also view the previous week's editions of EastEnders, and many other programmes, whenever they want. And central to HomeChoice is its library of around 1,000 video-on-demand movies, which can be paused, rewound and fast forwarded.The biggest improvement of all is that the picture quality is now MPEG2, rather than MPEG1, and is similar to other digital TV services. The company is likely to upgrade to MPEG4 ("a world's first", says Lynch), at some point in the year, which offers even higher quality pictures at lower bandwidth."We are pretty unique in the world in offering video on demand over ADSL in this way", adds Roger Lynch. "And at present other services can't offer a similar system."Given how attractive movies and TV on demand are to consumers it does seem incredible that Sky and the cable companies aren't yet talking about adding video on demand via broadband to their portfolio of services."I suspect that the cable companies will start rolling out video on demand at some point in the next 12 months" says Roger Lynch. "However there are still parts of their network that will have to be upgraded before they can do this.""As for Sky, well it would have to work with BT to deliver video on demand and I don't think BT is ready yet. BT recently announced a four to five year plan to upgrade its network and I am sure Sky will be looking at what it will be able to offer in the future.""We are also looking at new ADSL technologies such as ADSL2 and ASDSL+ which will enable us to increase the bandwidth available to each home. So for example we could offer multiple channels streamed to different TVs or even high definition TV."So is HomeChoice the tortoise to Sky and the cable companies' hare?At present the service is only available to 1.4 million homes in London, but Lynch insists the whole of the capital will be able to access the service soon, and that other cities will follow next year.At £35 a month, which includes a 1MB broadband pipe plus a basic selection of channels, it is certainly competitive too. And there's no denying that movies and TV on demand is a compelling proposition.HomeChoice might have got the product right this time. Yet whether it has the marketing nous and deep enough pockets to take on its competitors remains to be seen.
Pretend you know all about: Esther FranklinFive years as Donatella Versace's right-hand lady teaches you a thing or two about glamour, as you would imagine. Put it this way: Esther Franklin is not exactly a sweatpants kinda girl.Talent-spotted at her St Martins graduate show, aged 23, Franklin was flown to Milan the following day to meet La Donatella. Within a week, she and her sketchpad were installed at Versace HQ; within a year, she was head designer of the Versus diffusion label. Her days in the   shadow of that My Little Pony mane of platinum hair came to an end when supermodels such as Carmen Kass and Karolina Kurkova started commissioning Franklin to make them copies of the handmade T-shirts she wore backstage at the shows, and agreed to pose in them for her first publicity pictures.Franklin's first collection, on sale now at Selfridges, marks her out as a name to watch: Versace meets Roland Mouret in a modern fashion cocktail of sex and elegance. Watch this space.Overheard: "Dolly llama"The Sienna Miller/Michael Kors-inspired girlie style of poncho-wearing. As in, "My new Topshop poncho is so dolly llama"Your guide to the summer sales:Your guide to the summer salesAgn&#232;s B:020-7565 1188, starts July 15Alexander McQueen:020-7355 0088, sale now onBally:020-7408 9878, sale now onBetty Jackson:020-7589 7884, sale now onBoyd:020-7730 3939, July 5Browns:020-7514 0000, July 3 (the sale extends to the website)Chanel:020-7493 5040, June 26Chloe:020-7823 5348, June 26Commes des Gar&#231;ons:020-7493 1258, June 26Diane von Furstenberg:020-7221 1120, July 7Diesel:020-7225 3225, July 1DKNY:020-7499 6238, sale now onEmporio Armani:020-7491 8080 sale now onFenwick:020-7629 9161, June 29Flannels:0161-832 5536, July 3Ghost:020-7229 1057, sale now onHarrods:020-7730 1234, June 28Harvey Nichols:020-7235 5000, sale now onHouse of Fraser:0870 160 7270, July 1H&amp;M:020-7323 2211, sale now onJaeger:020-7200 4554, July 8John Lewis:020-7629 7711, July 6Jones Bootmaker:0800 163 519, sale now onKurt Geiger:020-7546 1888, sale now onLiberty:020-7734 1234, sale now onMatches:020-7221 0255, sale now onMiss Sixty:0870 751 6040, July 2net-a-porter.com:sale now onOasis:01865 881986, July 1Pollyanna:01226 291 665, todayPrada:020-7235 0008, sale now onSelfridges:0870 837 7377, sale now onStella McCartney:020-7518 3100, June 26Strand:01132 438 164, sale now onVivienne Westwood:020-7439 1109, June 26Warehouse:0870 122 8813, sale now onYohji Yamamoto:020-7491 4129, sale now onYSL:020-7235 6706, sale now on
"Security researchers warned Web surfers on Thursday to be on guard after uncovering evidence that widespread Web server compromises have turned corporate home pages into points of digital infection. The researchers believe that online organized crime groups are breaking into Web servers and surreptitiously inserting code that takes advantage of two flaws in Internet Explorer that Microsoft has not yet fixed. Those flaws allow the Web server to install a program that takes control of the user's computer," reportsCNet."This time ... the flaws affect every user of Internet Explorer, because Microsoft has not yet released a patch. Moreover, the infectious Web sites are not just those of minor companies inhabiting the backwaters of the Web, but major companies, including some banks, said Brent Houlahan, chief technology officer of NetSec."When a victim browses the site, the code redirects them to one of two sites, most often to another server in Russia. That server uses the pair of Microsoft Internet Explorer vulnerabilities to upload and execute a remote access Trojan horse, RAT, to the victim's PC. The software records the victim's keystrokes and opens a back door in the system's security to allow the attacker to access the computer."The article says Symantec thinks the attack is being conducted by "organized crime groups from Russia". And the only defence for Windows users is not to use Internet Explorer.Comment: Not strictly true: another defence is to disable JavaScript. However, it doesn't hurt to have two browsers installed, andFirefoxis well worth a try.
America Online yesterday announced a $435m (&#163;240m) deal to acquire online marketing firmAdvertising.com, a resounding vote of confidence in the internet advertising market that many had until recently written off for good.The acquisition is the first significant one made by AOL since the ill-fated takeover of Time Warner in 2000.Advertising.com buys advertising space from websites and search engines and packages it up for clients wanting to reach certain demographics. The company then sells to advertisers on a performance basis, which means they pay only according to the volume of responses or leads.The online advertising market collapsed after the peak of the dotcom frenzy in 2000, leading many to question whether the advertising-based model was viable.The market has been showing signs of life as marketing managers begin to redirect cash towards online advertising. Media buyer Universal McCann recently forecast that internet advertising would grow by 20% this year to $6.8bn in the US, making it the fastest growing medium."Online advertising is back," said AOL chief executive Jonathan Miller. "Over the past two years we have seen a rebirth of online advertising. Major advertisers are coming more and more to the web and spending more and more of their marketing money online."In the first quarter of this year, AOL recorded advertising revenues of $214m. The figure was down 5% on the same quarter a year earlier, but AOL has now recorded two successive quarters of back-to-back growth. In the fourth quarter of 2003, it had revenues of $204m. The performance is still far from the peak of 2000 when AOL was posting advertising sales of $700m a quarter.The company is working through some of the deals signed by big name advertisers during the boom. It needs to sell a couple of hundred million dollars of advertising this year just to replace long-term contracts coming to an end.Mr Miller said the acquisition of a performance-based business added a third revenue stream to AOL's advertising operation. It already has revenues from conventional brand advertising and the rapidly growing area of search related advertising through a deal with Google, which provides search facilities to AOL.Advertising.com, founded six years ago, made an operating profit of $12m last year on revenues of $132m, an increase of 80%. It had filed for an initial public offering and was to list in New York later this year.AOL will offer clients Advertising.com as part of an expanded package of services. The company said response-based advertising was the "holy grail" for clients. AOL will also import some of the media planning and response measuring technology developed by Advertising.com.Advertising.com said it would still be run as a stand-alone business from its headquarters in Baltimore, working with its own third-party clients.AOL is struggling to rebuild its business in the face of the downturn in advertising and falling subscriber numbers as internet users desert dial-up for broadband connections.During the first quarter, the AOL service lost 237,000 users in the US, leaving it with 24 million subscribers. AOL in Europe has another 6.4 million.It has a broadband service that piggybacks on the cable or telephone company connections and has 3.5m customers spending $14.95m for access to an AOL portal.AOL remains under investigation for the accounting for advertising sales ahead of the Time Warner merger.
Microsoft is expected to ask the European court of first instance today for a suspension of remedies demanded by the European commission for abusing its dominance in the personal computer software market.In March the commission ordered Microsoft to "unbundle" its Windows Media Player from Windows PC operating software and offer a version without Media Player by the end of June.It also told the firm to share interfacing information with its rivals by the end of July so that their products can work with Microsoft server software.The demands, together with a &#163;350m fine, the largest in EU competition history, followed a five-year investigation by the commission.Microsoft is expected to argue that carrying out the commission's demands would cause it "irreparable harm". It wants these measures to be suspended until the outcome of its legal challenge to the commission's ruling is known. This is expected to take up to five years. But Microsoft's rivals fear that if the measures are not put in place now the company will have a stranglehold on the market by the time the final verdict is reached.Microsoft's case will be heard by a single judge, the court's president, Bo Vesterdorf.
"The Redmond, Washington, software giant on Tuesday received a US patent for a 'method and apparatus for transmitting power and data using the human body.' An application for the patent, No. 6,754, 472, was filed in 2000. It proposes linking portable devices such as watches, keyboards, displays and speakers using the conductivity of 'a body of a living creature', reportsIDG News Service."In the patent, Microsoft said it set out to address the proliferation of small handheld or wearable devices with redundant parts for input and output of data, such as separate speakers in a watch, a radio and a PDA (personal digital assistant). If all those devices were networked, they could all share one speaker, the company suggested. Personal wireless networks have potential problems involving power consumption, interference and security, and batteries add weight and are inconvenient to replace or recharge, it wrote."Comment:There has been a lot of work in this area, especially at MIT on the Things That Think project. The Microsoft patent cites earlier patents from MIT, IBM and NTT DoCoMo, among others. It also cites articles in, for example, Popular Mechanics. You can read it athere, though it's a reasonable bet that hardly anyone will bother.
Yesterday, Microsoft confirmed rumours that it will produce a high performance computing (HPC) version of Windows for parallel computing.Information Weekreports: "The software, due in the second half of 2005, represents a different approach to high-end computing than the company's currently available DataCenter edition of Windows. DataCenter is designed for use on symmetric multiprocessing servers, where a single version of Windows can run on up to 64 processors. Microsoft's in-development High-Performance Computing platform will split the workload across many smaller machines, each of which has its own imprint of Windows."Microsoft plans to aim Windows Server 2003, HPC edition, at companies in life sciences, engineering, finance, and other industries where highly scalable systems built with relatively low-cost hardware are being applied to demanding applications. 'Parallel-computing clusters are increasingly being seen in the enterprise,' Microsoft product manager Dennis Oldroyd says. 'It's been the domain of academia and research. Now, with low-cost standardized hardware, it's becoming less of a niche play.'"Microsoft has been working with the Cornell Theory Center on early approaches to parallel computing, and some customers have already deployed Windows in parallel clusters using software and hardware from other vendors. Microsoft plans to create a 'single simplified environment' for developing, deploying, and managing high-performance clusters."Comment:It would be nice if people could avoid misrepresenting what Microsoft is doing. It isnottargeting the traditional supercomputer market, which is "a niche play". It is targeting the market for "high performance computing" in companies that probably wouldn't buy a supercomputer, and it hopes there are enough of those to make the development worthwhile. See my column in Online, June 3,Microsoft opts for 'high performance computing'.
"Dozens of IBM workers and retirees who alleged that exposure to toxic chemicals caused them to develop cancer had their cases settled and dismissed, the company announced Wednesday. The cases hinged on whether workers developed cancer after years of work at IBM's disk drive plant in San Jose. Settlement terms were not disclosed," reportsAP."In February, a California jury ruled unanimously that two retired workers, Alida Hernandez and James Moore, did not develop systemic chemical poisoning at IBM, despite workplace exposure to trichloroethylene, cadmium, toluene, benzene, arsenic and other toxins. Jurors also ruled that Big Blue did not lie to the workers about the safety of the San Jose factory."The plaintiffs, who were diagnosed with cancer in the 1990s, were seeking millions of dollars in damages. IBM doctors knew that an alarming number of workers in its semiconductor 'fabs' were dying from rare cancers in their 30s, 40s and 50s, plaintiffs argued, but executives misled workers and tried to hide a 'corporate mortality file' that documented the deaths."
Apple's iTunes grabbed the headlines last week, but legitimate music downloads have been available in the UK for some time. Peter Gabriel's OD2 group launched last year, and a few weeks ago saw the UK arrival of Napster.There's more to come, with Sony's Connect service slated to arrive at the end of the month and groups such as Wal-Mart, owner of Asda stores, eyeing a European launch for its downloads.Here's our verdict on the download services that have launched in the UK.Napsterwww.napster.co.ukThe legitimate version of the service that kickstarted music downloads has more than 500,000 tracks to stream or download in the Windows Media Audio (WMA) format.It is available in two forms. For serious music fans, there's a subscription of &#163;9.95 per month. Users can stream or download to a PC as many tracks as they want. They can then export the tunes to a CD player or a WMA-equipped music player (Creative/Rio players are compatible and Philips models will be soon) for a further 99p or more per track.The alternative is Napster Light. Just download tunes at a rather pricey &#163;1.09 a throw. Albums can be a ripoff though, with some selling for over &#163;20!The interface, which is fairly straightforward, perhaps as a nod to its pioneering pirate days, is reminiscent of peer-to-peer service KaZaA. Overall, the service is simple to use and the choice of compatible players is a bonus.Moz watch:The only service to offer Morrissey's new album You Are the Quarry. Shame it costs &#163;19.90.Sonic Selector (MSN)www.sonicselector.comRecently revamped, Sonic Selector is available via a host of companies including MSN, Tiscali, Packard Bell and MTV. The MSN version boasts a fairly large library of 350,000 tracks and, as it is European in origin (the service is hosted by OD2), there's a strong bias towards British artists.Users can hear a snippet of a track free or pay around 75p to download it to their PC. They can also stream any track for a very reasonable 1p a shot.The software downloads quickly and meshes neatly with Windows Media player version 9. A recommendation system tracks your choices and then makes suggestions as to what you might like next. Not quite sure how it got Mariah Carey for me, though.The tracks are downloaded in WMA and are compatible with many   digital audio players. The most annoying part is the high price of albums. Unlike iTunes, where whole CDs can be bought for under &#163;10, albums with 15 or more tracks can work out costing the best part of &#163;20.Moz watch:A good selection of the great man's albums, though sadly not his new one. His debut, Viva Hate, costs &#163;19.80 to download.iTuneswww.apple.com/ukIt might be Europe's biggest music download service, with more than 700,000 tracks just a click away, but from a UK perspective, iTunes isn't necessarily the most comprehensive. That's because the group representing smaller labels, and artists such as the White Stripes, Dizzee Rascal and hundreds of other cutting-edge acts, have yet to sign on the dotted line. Still, if you like your music mainstream and largely American, iTunes fits the bill. It is also the only one that works with Apple Macs.Tracks are competitively priced - 79p per song and from &#163;7.99 per album (not much less than you'll pay an online retailer for a CD). However, Apple hasn't been too generous with streaming options. There's no free or cheap streaming. Instead, you can only hear a 30-second snippet.The tracks are in the good quality Advanced Acoustic Coding (AAC) format and are easily stored on a Mac/PC and transferred to an iPod (they aren't compatible with other players). There is, however, a good chance that other music players, and even Nokia phones, will soon be able to accommodate AAC downloads.Weaknesses include the fact that   iTunes is a 20MB file, which will take some time to download if you are on slower connection. The interface is quite clunky compared with some rivals, too.While it isn't the service for everyone, iTunes looks certain to be the frontrunner in UK music downloads.Moz watch:Morrissey who? Only a couple of Smiths albums.MyCokeMusicwww.mycokemusic.comWith its funky, in-your-face graphics, MyCokeMusic is aimed at a younger audience. This is reflected in an even stronger emphasis on individual tracks, rather than albums, and the higher profile of dance music on its website.As with MSN (both are operated by OD2), it costs 1p to stream a track and 80p on average per download. Like other OD2 sites, downloading music involves buying credits that are debited each time you stream/download. Users can also pay via SMS, with the cost added to their phone bill.Moz watch:see SonicSelectorWippitwww.wippit.comThe underdog of the UK download market, Wippit has just 60,000 tracks from around 200 record labels (though it does include a few biggies in EMI and BMG).There are plenty of ways to buy, ranging from one-off payments, usually around 80p, to a yearly unlimited download deal for a competitive &#163;50.Tracks are mainly available in WMA, although there are still a few MP3s lurking.Overall, it is an easy-to-use service and the yearly download deal is incredible value. It needs more record companies on board and a higher profile to be a real contender, though.Moz watch:A solid selection of the Mancunian bard's back catalogue.Sony Connect  &lt;A HREF="http://www.connect.com""&gt;www.connect.comLaunched in the US a few months ago and scheduled to arrive in Europe any day, Sony's service will feature 300,000 tracks from the big five plus a healthy selection of indie labels.Tracks, which sell for 79p, will have excellent sound as they will be encoded in Sony's proprietary Atrac 3 format at 132Kbps. The downside is they can only be ported on to Atrac 3 devices manufactured by Sony.The US version of the site has been criticised for lacking community features, such as seeing what other people are buying.Caveat emptorYou might be tempted to go on a shopping spree, but a mess of incompatible technologies could give you more than you bargained for. When you buy a CD you know your music is playable on any device. But in the online world, where files can be copied with ease, the record companies have insisted on strong anti-piracy technology.Known as Digital Rights Management (DRM), the technology restricts how you listen to your music. Tracks purchased from Apple's iTunes store, use the company's FairPlay DRM. It gives you the right to play your music on up to five computers and burn the same playlist to a CD seven times. According to critics, however, it's a technical solution to the wrong problem, preventing sharing when labels should only really be concerned with making sure artists are paid.DRM is also being used to lock customers into proprietary hardware and software. Tracks downloaded from iTunes cannot be played on portable players other than the iPod. Apple argues this is no big deal as the iPod is, by far, the most popular portable player. But the company has made no effort to allow the iPod to play music purchased from rival music stores. Apple's chief executive has made it clear he won't change while rivals fall short of 50% market share. Rivals typically use Windows Media DRM, which Microsoft openly licenses. The result is that music purchased from Napster and stores    using Peter Gabriel's OD2 service (mycokemusic.com, HMV, Virgin etc) can be played on more than 60 portable devices - except the iPod."The iTunes store in the States is the market leader," says Michael Gartenberg of Jupiter Research, because "there's no portable player using Microsoft DRM that's anywhere near as good as the iPod."Sony's Connect service will only be compatible with its MiniDisc players. The lack of a common standard is prompting calls for a standards revolution. Leonardo Chiariglione, founder of the MPeg video standard, believes the IT industry has much to learn from the world of consumer electronics."The battle between Apple and Microsoft is no different from the VHS versus Betamax one," he says. "The experience there taught us that what prevails is a technology that provides interoperability for consumers." The Internet Streaming Media Alliance (ISMA) - of which Apple is a part - has developed a blueprint for an open-standards DRM. But, according to Michael Gartenberg: "As long as the iPod is as successful as it is, there's little incentive for Apple to adopt standards."It's clear we're going to have to live with incompatible DRM technologies. So before you start building a massive collection of songs, consider exactly how and where you're going to be able to listen to them - years down the line.Graham Stewart
