It's always hard to know what's wrong with you, but at least there's somewhere it should be safe to look.Search Medica, now in beta, is a specialised search engine aimed at doctors. In other words, people who are more likely to search for gastroenteritis or even cholera morbus, if only for historical purposes. The point is that, unlike Google, Search Medica doesn't throw up information about retro-gaming websites, a Danish rock group of that name, or a blank page for Collywobbles, the puppet film by Ian Helm (coming soon!).More importantly, Search Medica excludes the vast penumbra of anecdotal commentary and pseudo-scientific mumbo-jumbo that surrounds most medical topics, some of it dangerously wrong. There's plenty of information about alternative remedies on the web, and it's not always easy to separate the quacks from the qualified. And with medical searches, this can be a matter of life and death.Search Medica offers three options: you can restrict your search either to "medical sites chosen by GPs" or to "NHS sites only", or you can search the whole web. Search Medica is backed by Pulse, a weekly newspaper for doctors, and is setting up a "board of experts" to advise on what sites to include.Once you've done a search, you can refine it. For example, you can tick a box marked "UK content only" or pick a category. Search for cancer, for example, and you can pick from a number of related categories, including patient support, and education. These clustered results are shown down the left of the screen, not just in the drop-down box. You can also pick from a list of Related Concepts including cervical cancer, lung tumour and breast cancer screening.As with any search engine, the results are mixed. Search Medica is tackling this problem by putting a "Was this helpful?" note next to every result. Users can click the link and select Yes or No in a pop-up box, and add a comment. This should help improve results over time.There are, of course, other authoritative sources of medical information on the web, including MedHunt (hon.ch/MedHunt), a not-for-profit foundation that operates from Switzerland, the US government's Medline Plus (medlineplus.gov), and WebMD (webmd.com). Search Medica won't replace any of these, but by focusing closely on its target market, could do an indispensable job for British GPs.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
HTC, which dominates the market for Windows Mobile smartphones, has announced four new devices, which carriers will be supplying in the fourth quarter.The S620 is a light (130g) slimline model with a qwerty keyboard, like a BlackBerry. The P3600 is a PDA/3G cameraphone that looks a bit more stylish than previous HTC models, The S310 is a simple messaging phone aimed at consumers. The P3300 is a PDA with GPS built in for use with services such as TomTom.T-Mobile will launch a cusomised verison of the P3300 as the MDA Compact III.See thepress releasefor more info.
Digg is finally going to do something about the "circle jerk" problem where around 30 top users digg each others stories to get them onto the front page. In a post headedDigg Friends, founder Kevin Rose says that an "algorithm update will look at the unique digging diversity of the individuals digging the story. Users that follow a gaming pattern will have less promotion weight. This doesn't mean that the story won't be promoted, it just means that a more diverse pool of individuals will be need to deem the story homepage-worthy."There will also be changes to the "top diggers" list, which "will also be sorted by how diverse the digger is - meaning if they digg stories from lots of different people and their stories become popular, they'll rank highly."The response has probably been in development for several months, but follows a couple of posts at JP's Domain. The first,Digg the rigged?, pointed out that Digg wasn't actually as democratic as it looks, and that the hit parade is basically controlled by a very small number of enthusiastic diggers.Obviously this has been pointed out before, andas I noted here, Forever Geek did it in April withDigg Army: Right in LineandDigg Corrupted: Editor's Playground, not User-Driven Website. Indded, for a brief history of the Digg controversy, seeA Brief History of Digg Controversy.Nobody would care very much, but Digg has become a poster child for the Web 2.0 bubble, and Kevin Rose was featured on a sillyBusiness Week cover: "How this kid made $60 Million in 18 Months".At the moment, the Digg site says: "Digg will be down for a brief period, while we make some changes."Obviously other sites will try to benefit. Netscape has already beenconverted into a Digg clone, and there's a beta ofSearch N Snifflooking for defecting diggers. Currently,3spots lists 89 digg-style applications.
Over at Wired News, Lore Sjöberg has compiled a list of ultimate perfect blog entries for particular blogs. The first three give the flavour, but check the resthere.Boing Boing:Crocheted replica of subway map cracks DRM on collection of old video games.FARK:Drunk frat boy in Florida has sex with underage donkey, sues Strong Bad for negligence. Still no cure for overused in-jokes.Slashdot:AMD, SCO patent MP3 over TCP/IP, sue ATI, EA. Microsoft probably responsible somehow.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Ninety-Nine Nights, Dead Rising and Spy Hunter: Nowhere to Run arethe reviewsthis week. The first two herald the start of a hugely promising Q4 release list for the 360. I've spent a few hours on some of this list - Test Drive Unlimited and Lego Star Wars 2 - and TDU in particular looks very impressive. Once more people can actually buy the game - it's out tomorrow - the online element should take off, but the handling and sheer scope of the thing suggests that Test Drive Unlimited is a winner. Yup, Atari in great game shocker.Lego Star Wars 2 is as enjoyable - and easy - as you'd expect. Not sure it will last long, but the urge to see the next cut-scene is likely to spur you on. And at least the save system seems to work - unlike the reviewed games, N3 and Dead Rising. Ibloggedabout this earlier in the week, and I totally agree with some ofthe comments- developers need to recognise that their sudience has got older and design accordingly. Kids who played on their Speccy's and C64's are now in their 30s. Maybe it's time for a Games4Dads manifesto? You know, include things like needing to save anywhere or the ability to play at low, keep-baby-sleeping volumes. And maybe pressurise the hardware manufacturers to invent a forcefield around the pad/console to stop prying fingers. Any others?
This is the most important, most wondrous map ever produced by humankind." Thus said President Bill Clinton as he welcomed the unveiling of the draft sequence of the human genome - the decoding of the three billion "letters" of DNA in our cells - in March 2000.It was a day for rousing rhetoric and extravagant claims, and the president was not afraid to bask in the hype. "Humankind is on the verge of gaining immense new power to heal," he said. "Genome science ... will revolutionise the diagnosis, prevention and treatment of most, if not all, human diseases."Six years on, plenty of companies out there are willing to help you join the revolution. Type "genetic testing" into a search engine and you'll see an array of paid adverts along the sides of the page, offering screening tests, DNA tests, paternity tests and genealogy tests. It's a thriving business. What's not as clear in the adverts is that the foundations of the business could best be called shallow.As Clinton said, sequencing the human genome was a spectacular achievement. But many commentators then glossed over the difficulties in transferring that information into useful medical advances. So far, despite an explosion of research into how our genetic makeup puts us at risk of disease and affects our reaction to drugs or environmental toxins, there have been few concrete changes in the way doctors administer healthcare.Money for nothing?But companies looking to cash in by analysing your DNA don't have the same caution. Do your genes make you metabolise coffee and alcohol more quickly than most people? Are you prone to osteoporosis and Alzheimer's in old age? Do you have the potential for sporting greatness? Plenty are willing to answer, if you are prepared to pay.But are their answers correct? Gail Javitt, at the Genetics and Public Policy Centre, an independent thinktank in Washington, says the human genome project has spawned reams of data on links between genes and disease. We can test for many genes in anyone's DNA. "But the question is really whether the tests are ready for prime time. Do we know enough to say, 'yes this test will predict accurately your future risk' of whatever?"A number of companies say they will. But Javitt responds: "The answer to the question of whether they are snake oil or not is that there is no way to know ... There's no process that most genetic tests have to go through so that an independent evaluator can say, 'yes there is data here to support the claims being made'."But supporters of "direct to consumer" genetic testing - that is, tests unmediated by doctors who might seek to interpret them or hedge the results with caveats - say making genetic information available directly to the public is good for us."It's really putting you as an individual first," says Fred Ledley of Bentley College near Boston, who founded the genetic testing company mygenome.com. He thinks the future lies in "empowering individuals with access to genetic tests, together with the information and support required to make effective and ethical decisions about how such tests might impact their personal lives."For example, he says, people who discover they are more prone to a debilitating disease could use that information to decide to buy extra life insurance or opt for early retirement.There's just one problem: the genetic testing services available at present can't give you that power - though they might aspire to, or insist they can.Their fallibility was impressively uncovered by a US Government Accountability Office investigation released in July (http://tinyurl.com/gzxur). Over nearly a year, the GAO's investigators anonymously approached four online companies for testing services. They posed as 14 different would-be consumers with a variety of profiles such as age, weight, smoking and exercise habits. In reality, they sent samples of DNA provided from just two people - a 48-year-old man and a nine-month-old girl.The GAO's damning report shows that the companies - which charged between $89 (&pound;47) and $395 for the tests - provided inconsistent results and offered vague and misleading advice to their spoof clients. One offered supposedly tailored nutritional supplements costing up to $1200 per year; they turned out to be run-of-the-mill multivitamin tablets one could buy from a corner shop for $35 a year.Failing the testThe GAO was scathing, saying unproven predictions made by the companies "may needlessly alarm consumers into thinking that they have an illness or that they need to buy a costly supplement in order to prevent an illness. Perhaps even more troubling, the test results may falsely assure consumers that they are healthy when this may not be the case."The report's authors were unremitting. "Despite the implication that these predictions are based on the DNA submitted, none ... contained scientific support to assist the consumer in evaluating their credibility." Genetics experts told the GAO that none of the sites' predictions about links between genes and health - with osteoporosis, heart disease, diabetes, cancer, or cholesterol and toxin metabolism - could be medically proven at present.Furthermore, one nutritionist flagged the levels of vitamin B6 in some recommended products as "disturbing", while another felt there were high levels of vitamin A and that one site's supplements contained excessive iron, which could remain in the blood and become toxic.The companies to whom the samples were sent - Suracell from Montclair, Sciona Inc of Boulder, Genaissance Pharmaceuticals of Newton, Massachusetts, and Genox and Genelex Corp of Seattle - all denied any impropriety.However Thomas Hamilton, director of the survey and certification group at the US government's Centre for Medicaid and State Operations, told the science journal Nature that the tests were tantamount to "genetic horoscopes".The reality is that the labs were never likely to succeed. Even if a particular genetic test has a valid scientific basis, there are other pitfalls, according to Adam Hedgecoe, senior lecturer at the department of sociology at the University of Sussex, and author of The Politics of Personalised Medicine. Even assuming that the lab is competent to detect key DNA variations, the results are never clearcut."Any test, even if you run it absolutely correctly, will not give you 100% detection of all positives. There will always be false positives and false negatives," Hedgecoe says. Those vital caveats are rarely explained in the customer's results.But if the science is so uncertain, why are the tests available? Currently, the law surrounding genetic testing services is a "regulatory nightmare", says Stuart Hogarth at the department of Public Health and Primary Care at Cambridge University. In Europe the in-vitro diagnostics directive covers home testing kits such pregnancy tests, but companies are free to set up testing services that involve the consumer sending away a genetic sample for analysis elsewhere."It's not a question of let's ban everything, but what's the correct regulatory way forward?" Hogarth notes. Interestingly, one of the companies tested by the GAO had ceased offering services in the UK in 2003 following negative reviews by the Human Genetics Commission and Genewatch UK. But even if testing might be, for now, a dead end, the wealth of genome data has opened a new front in medicine: pharmacogenetics. This aims to understand how our genetic makeup affects our reaction to specific drugs. For one person, their genetic makeup - their genotype - might mean a drug is a cure; for another, it could cause a dangerous allergic reaction.Pharmacogenetics looks like a good thing. With it, doctors could match treatments to patients to speed up cures and minimise negative reactions to medication. Old drugs abandoned because of adverse effects in some test patients could be revived, if the effects' genetic basis can be understood. Ultimately, say evangelists for personalised medicine, your treatment will be tailored to your own genetic makeup. We would see a plethora of individualised panaceas."From a scientific and treatment perspective, there's huge potential here," says Javitt. "If you can provide safer and more effective therapies for patients, that's big."But so far, things aren't panning out that way. After all, a pharmaceutical company has no incentive to develop a genetic test that, while making a drug more effective, might cut its market in half."Big pharmaceutical companies are very wary of that kind of retro-fitting of pharmacogenetic tests for drugs they market," Hedgecoe notes. Yet most drug companies now collect genetic data from subjects during the development of new drugs. While this might prevent some problems down the line, it also lets the companies focus on the most potentially lucrative drugs. Ironically, suggests Hedgecoe, rather than using genetic knowledge to consign mass-market blockbuster drugs to history, pharmaceutical companies are using it to shore up the blockbuster's future.For example, the early stage of drug development across the industry now includes tests to see how a prospective new drug is metabolised by a family of enzymes in the liver called the cyp450 genes, which break down drugs and toxins.The cyp450 genes exist in different forms in different people, so if the new drug is destroyed very quickly by one of these forms, it will probably not be much use in people who carry the gene for that type of enzyme. That means lower potential profits, so the company stops developing the drug early."They are using it to ensure that they only develop drugs which will work for a large population," says Hedgecoe.But it is not all bad, he points out. A handful of drugs tailored to the patient's phenotype are on the market already: the anti-cancer treatment herceptin, which works differently depending on which genes are expressed in the tumour, is in the vanguard, and drugs for psychiatric conditions are also likely to receive the pharmacogenetic treatment.Allen Roses, a senior vice-president and head of pharmacogenetics at Glaxo SmithKilne, says: "Pharmacogenetics can help to tell us in which genetically defined populations we should then conduct larger, more expensive studies with greater chance of success."He cites the experimental Alzheimer's drug rosiglitazone, currently in the final stages of clinical trials. When tested on a whole population sample, it does not appear to help patients; but when targeted at specific genetic subgroups it does seem to be effective. "Pharmacogenetics will help patients and help investors by enabling us to find good uses for drugs that might otherwise be dropped during development," says Dr Roses. The industry argues that we should not expect major changes yet because it takes a decade or more to bring new drugs to to market."I don't buy into all the stuff about pharmacogenetics transforming our lives in 10 years time, but I do think it is going to enter healthcare," says Hedgecoe. "It is going to be patchy. It's not going to roll out across the whole of medicine." The genome may be a wondrous map, but we have yet to explore its territories.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I've seen lots of articles on our search history at Google. Is there a simple way of deleting it so it can't be saved? Adam YipThere is no way to stop Google from recording anyone's search history. However, what you can do is stop Google from compiling a search history for a particular PC, or for an identifiable user. This is the key point, because half a dozen random searches may not reveal much about you, but a record of months or decades of searches certainly will.Google identifies a searcher by putting a text "cookie" on the hard drive, in the Cookies folder. This includes information about your preference settings and a 16-digit GUID (Google user identity number). You can disrupt Google's tracking by deleting this cookie. Google will replace it the next time you go to the site, but it will be a completely different ID number.You can delete Google cookies manually after searching for them. However, several people have developed utilities to help. G-Zapper (dummysoftware.com/gzapper.html) can delete Google's cookie and can also stop it from installing another. G-Zapper is free, but you can also buy G-Zapper Professional Edition ($19.95), which can also deal with similar cookies from Yahoo, MSN, Ask and any other website. G-Zapper works with Internet Explorer and Firefox, but Firefox already lets you deny cookies on a site-by-site basis.Another alternative is GoogleAnon (imilly.com/google-cookie.htm), which provides a bookmarklet you can add to your browser's bookmarks or favourites.However, bear in mind that Google also records your IP (Internet Protocol) address. If you are permanently connected via broadband, your IP address doesn't change, so it would be very easy for Google to link a string of GUIDs to a single IP address.To have any real chance of maintaining some privacy, you would have to search via an anonymous proxy. Basically this means redirecting your search via a third party, so the site only sees the proxy address, not your real IP address.There's a list of anonymisers at http://tinyurl.com/gepgk. In previous answers, I've suggested sites such as Megaproxy (www.megaproxy.com), ID Zap (www.idzap.com) and The Cloak (www.the-cloak.com). I notice that Google is a "forbidden site" in the free version of IDzap, but Megaproxy and The Cloak work fine. Alternatively, do your searches via the IXquick metasearch engine (ixquick.com). This gets results from Google and several other search engines, but says it does not record data.It is particularly important to use an anonymiser for "ego surfing" and searches that include personal data. If you enter searches that include your real name, street address, postcode, phone number and similar information then it's going to be pretty easy to identify you if the search data is ever released.Also, if you are concerned about privacy, you should avoid using a search engine where you also have an email account, calendar, address book, web site, backup files or whatever. This would make it extremely easy to connect your searches to your real identity. You should also avoid using your internet service provider's search engine page: it already knows who you are.
I have installed a digital decoder. Using an indoor digi-aerial (from Argos), I can receive most but not quite all of the signals advertised. Is there a unit that gives a better signal? Andrew HealyThe Freeview site saysbluntly: "To receive the best possible reception, we do recommend your digital box or digital TV is connected to a rooftop aerial. Therefore we do advise against using an indoor aerial to receive Freeview." Signal strength varies greatly according to where you live, but if you do use an indoor aerial, you are very unlikely to get the best results.Still, there are a few ways you can improve your chances. For example: use a powered aerial that boosts the signal; position it high up and as close as you can to a window; point it in the direction of the nearest transmitteror swivel it round until you get the best signal. Also, keep the aerial away from large bits of metal, computer equipment and household appliances, if you can.Argos offers aTotal Control Freeview Indoor Aerialfor £14.99, which I guess is the one you have.You could try swapping it for one of the other options from Argos, or have a look atMaplin.co.ukfor a good range of alternatives. I suspect most of these aerials give very similar performance, but would be interested to hear if anyone has found one that works unusually well.Backchat: A DTI spokesman says: "Recent independent research prepared for the Department of Trade and Industry by Ricability (a national research charity) has identified three aerials - the Telecam TCE2000 and TCE2001, and the Philips 45dB SDV4240/05 - as giving the best chance of good digital TV reception. Costs range from £9.99 to £26.98. Full results and further advice are available atwww.ricability-digitaltv.org.uk."Simon Watkins tested several Maplins aerials using Elgato EyeTV software and reports that "the One For All amplified aerials worked very well, but their flat panel aerials were more susceptible to interference - particularly motorbikes passing outside." He says the One For All amplified loop products are "at a reduced price at Currys Digital stores".
I have been recommended to download and run Spybot. Is this safe to do? Anne BarryI have recommended SpyBot Search &amp; Destroy many times in this column, but for maximum safety, you should download it from the official site atsafer-networking.org/en/, which does include a hyphen. (There have been several lookalike sites and Spybot has also had its code misused.)Spybot and Lavasoft's Ad-Aware were developed to tackle spyware and malware that anti-virus programs were ignoring, because they weren't viruses. I think Ewido (fromewido.net) now does a better job, though the free trial version only lasts 30 days. Either way, it's worth running Ewido's online scan, and also the free online scan atTrend Micro's Housecall.
As expected, the stock market reacted sharply to Sony's PS3 announcement, the company's share value dropping 2.38 percent to 4,930yen. The price has already started rising again, though, and now stands at 4.970yen (watch it all happeninghere).As Gamesindustry.bizreports, the delay has had a knock-on effect with several videogame publishers, including EA, suffering slight dips in share value.It seems there has been no reverse effect on the value of Sony's rivals: Nintendo shares actually dropped in value too by just over one percent while Microsoft stood solid at USD25.61. It seems the stock market has interpreted the PS3 delay as bad news for the whole industry. But notthatbad... This is why I don't work for a financial analysis company.
I meant to post something about this yesterday but got sidetracked by a certain product announcement... Long-time Sega composer Richard Jacques will be performing a selection of classic game tunes at Nottingham's GameCity event in October. You'll be able to hear the likes of "Sonic the Hedgehog Medley", "Shenmue Improvisations" and "Outrun" in the unlikely but wonderful setting of St Mary's Church in the city's Lace Market area. It is about time the similar worlds of Sega and religion were converged.Jacques has previously performed his works at theVideo Games Liveevent in LA, backed by the Los Angeles Philharmonic orchestra. You'll also know that Square Enix arranges regularlive performancesof its Final Fantasy soundtracks, while Konami's Michiru Yamane, composer of several Castlevania soundtracks, appeared at this year'sSymphonic Game Music Concert, which takes place annually as part of the Leipzig Games Convention.The Sega concert will take place at 2pm on Saturday 28th October. Tickets are available from Monday. More details of GameCity can be foundhere.
Rockstar's game Bully has already garneredprotestsfrom concerned media, parents and other groups and to be honest, they deserve it. Regardless of what the game's plot eventually turns out to be, the boys from the North have courted controversy, loving every bleeding minute of the attention. Why not? It's certain to turn a few sales.However, there are rumours that they may have bowed to the pressures ofEuropean opponents.Eurogamerhas reported that the name has been changed in these territories to Canis Canem Edit, or "Dog Eat Dog". Doesn't exactly roll off the tongue, now, does it?Check out theirfirst impressions. Best line: "Yes there are bullies, and yes they do nasty things to people, but if you can watch an episode of Grange Hill without bursting into tears then you can happily live with this."Morehere.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Genetic medics build high hopesSince the human genome went public, a raft of websites have offered to analyse our DNA - for a price. But, asks James Randerson, at what cost to our health?Why hasn't the UK built superfast trains?The Tories have embraced the world's quickest and safest rail system, but questions remain over cost.Free Our Data:Land Registry blocks plan for property websiteFor at least three years, it has been official government policy to help entrepreneurs create new digital channels to public information. The policy works fine - until an entrepreneur comes up with an idea. Almost always, it then runs into a wall of obstacles.Gamesblog:Mother of God! Icons are making virtual visitsAleks Krotoski: In the 21st century, the place to make a personal appearance is cyberspace. And, proving she's as hip as Gorillaz, Duran Duran and the governor of Virginia, the Virgin Mary has joined in the party.GamesN3: Ninety-Nine Nights | Dead Rising | Spy Hunter: Nowhere to RunNewly Asked Questions:Have I got the collywobbles?It's always hard to know what's wrong with you, but at least there's somewhere it should be safe to look. Search Medica, now in beta, is a specialised search engine aimed at doctors.Can a TechGuy fix my Dixons Freetalk phone?Probably not, though he might fix your Vonage phone - because that's what Freetalk now belongs to.The answer is just a text message awayVictor Keegan: Thanks to amazing search engines such as Google, we can get answers to almost any question for nothing. The irony is that one of the fastest growing industries at the moment involves paying for questions to be answered through text messages.TechnobileWendy M Grossman: Hang those who sell cute TV scheduling software that doesn't work and crashes computers.'I'm an investor in a company working in this area ...'Esther Dyson is the editor-at-large of CNet, and has a long history as an investor in technology startups.Catching the power of the seaUniversity researchers are seeking commercial backers for a renewable energy scheme using tidal stream generators.Dip your mobile into the fast-flowing river of newsJack Schofield: Dave Winer's "river of news" finally looks like catching on - at least on mobile phones and other portable devices. In fact, it was Winer getting a BlackBerry that kicked off the latest round of enthusiasm.MP3 patents' clean sweepWhy would a maker of MP3 players not display anything at a consumer electronics trade fair? Because, in the case of SanDisk, which removed its digital music players from stands at the IFA show in Berlin this week, it's entangled in a patent licensing dispute.Ask Jack: This week's questions and answers. Send your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post townNewsbytesArt of Zen | MySpace in shorts | Skype via DECT | Skype via DECT too | Blu-ray coming | A quiet August | Google tops European chart
Delaying the launch of the next-generation PlayStation is a huge setback for the Sony boss, Sir Howard Stringer.Sir Howard was already one of the most closely scrutinised business people in Japan, not just because he is chairman and chief executive of one of the country's biggest brands but because he is its first non-Japanese boss.Last March the Welsh-born dual British and US citizen was placed at the helm with a mission to revive Sony's fortunes. Having been squeezed in its core consumer electronics markets by cheap Chinese manufacturers, Sony had shocked Japan's financial community two years previously by admitting it had plunged into the red.The company slashed 20,000 jobs, but the losses continued and Sir Howard, then in charge of Sony's media business, was called on to rescue it. His plan: more job losses and a cull of the loss-making manufacturing business, while looking more to its film, music and TV assets for growth. He announced plans to close one in six production facilities and trim back the huge number of products, putting greater focus on Sony's media activities, including its gaming business.Since laying out his strategic vision, Sir Howard has tried to simplify some of the company's labyrinthine bureaucracy, giving engineers a greater role in product development and weeding out the middle management.The first shoots of recovery have started to appear, with Sony reporting a &pound;147m profit in the second quarter, compared with a loss in the same period in 2005. Sales increased 11% and the electronics operation returned to profitability. The media arm was boosted by the worldwide success of the film of Dan Brown's bestseller The Da Vinci Code.
If you were hopin gto buy a PS3 in Europe this year, tough: Sony has decided to ship your machine to the US instead. "Wedbush Morgan analyst Michael Pachter has toldGamesIndustry.bizthat he believes the European PS3 delay proves Sony is out to win North American consumers over first and foremost," says the paper."The allocation to the US - 80 per cent of initial shipments - is shocking, and it is clear that they intend to ship as many PS3s here till they crush Toshiba," Pachter said."I really think it's unfortunate for European consumers, but the delay makes clear that Sony intends to fight the Blu-Ray - HD-DVD battle on US soil."Comment: It's no secret that Microsoft's biggest success has been in the US market, and its most abysmal failure in Japan. If Michael Pachter's numbers are correct, it looks as though Sony has decided it can't afford to give Microsoft another walkover in the Christmas market in the US. By contrast, the Japanese have bought so few Xboxes that Sony doesn't have to care. (Anyway, the delay will give Japanese buyers more time to have to have their homes enlarged: the Xbox 360 was too big for Japanese homes, they said, and the PlayStation 3 is substantially bigger.)Also, the Blu-ray launch in the US turned into a debacle, with Sony being too late with hardware to make its own launch, and reviewers finding thatHD-DVD movies were better than Blu-ray versions. Sony needs PS3 sales in the US to create a potential market for copies of The Fifth Element at $28.95 and The Benchwarmers at $38.95 (or $12 new and sealed, from Amazon Marketplace).
N3: Ninety-Nine NightsXbox 360, &pound;49.99, Microsoft3/5 starsN3, the supposed homegrown saviour of the Xbox 360 in Japan, has arrived in Europe at last. Good news for game-starved 360 owners, bad news for reviewers. Why? Well, there is a load wrong with N3 - repetitive hack and slash gameplay, pathetic AI, frustrating save structure, character names that lack vowels - and yet it has something that keeps you playing. It could be the satisfying thud as you plough through reams of assailants, or maybe just the pull of gamerpoints. Unfortunately, the spiteful save structure - having to restart a level after getting killed 40 minutes in is an awful retro-tinged design decision - and aforementioned AI issues that see your docile troops surround an enemy but not attack, do wear you down. Tread carefully, but N3 is worth a look.GHDead RisingXbox 360, &pound;44.99, Capcom5/5 starsCapcom, which is also responsible for the Resident Evil franchise, is the acknowledged master of the zombie game. And Dead Rising gives the impression that the company has been rubbing its hands in anticipation of the high-tech opportunities and sheer power offered by the next-gen consoles. Like Resident Evil, Dead Rising belongs to the third-person survival horror genre, but in contrast to the former, the latter is much more open and unstructured. You play photojournalist Frank West, flown onto the roof of a giant mall in a Hicksville USA town overrun by zombies and salivating at the prospect of a Pulitzer Prize. Overrun is the operative word - you are surrounded by thousands of the lurching ex-humans. They're the most intelligent zombies ever, too. Good job, then, that you can arm yourself with anything you find, the lawnmower being our personal favourite. A decent storyline underpins the game, which takes place over a 36-hour period - but the more zombies you cull, the greater the rewards. And it's laugh-out-loud funny all the way through - you can dress Frank in women's clothes or a teddy-bear costume, for example. A must-buy if you're over 18 and own an Xbox 360.SBSpy Hunter: Nowhere to RunPS2, &pound;29.993/5 starsThis is an interesting twist among sequels - take a B-list arcade franchise from the 80s and suddenly inject A-list Hollywood talent. With the voice and likeness of The Rock, Spy Hunter has switched from being a car-racing game to a third person action adventure. Thankfully, there are still chases to be had, but the emphasis is now clearly on The Rock and how many skulls he can crack. A range of special fighting moves (many familiar to WWF fans) are at your disposal, along with weapons, bullet-time, one-liners and, rest assured, the Interceptor bike/car/boat hybrid makes regular appearances. If you love The Rock's blend of simplistic, shallow fun, there's plenty to be had here. Could this be the first "actor" better suited to videogames than to movies?MA&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thanks to amazing search engines such as Google, we can get answers to almost any question for nothing. As they move into news, blogs, videos and books you would think that no company would dare to charge any more. The irony is that one of the fastest growing industries at the moment involves paying for questions to be answered through text messages. The two main companies in the UK have already received 4m questions and say the market is roughly trebling in size every year.You write your question as a text of not more than 160 characters and send it as a &pound;1 premium text to a company that employs experts who claim to text an answer back within five or 10 minutes. This is too long for a pub quiz, but there is clearly a big market out there for people wanting questions answered.The Guardian caught on years ago with its Notes and Queries column (inspired by a 19th century magazine that still exists in print and online) which gets fellow readers to answer questions for nothing. Yahoo runs a version launched this week in which members answer each others questions online. Google has a paid-for service involving experts who try to answer within 24 hours, for "as little as" US$2.50 (&pound;1.31), and there are others such as askmenow.com, which gives automated answers free or charges 49c (25p) for a premium service.But Britain seems to be leading with premium text messaging. Sarah McVittie, CEO of 82ASK (which corresponds to the keys 82275 on a mobile keyboard), reckons it has answered a million questions since 2003 and is expanding at 20% a month largely by word of mouth. It employs 120 "textperts" including PhD students who get paid &pound;6 to &pound;10 an hour, or by the answer. She admits the information may not be worth a pound, but says that the situation you are in might make it so. It is about the "instant gratification of getting right answers immediately" in a way that is easier than opening a mobile browser. Since mobile page impressions have been static for years, she thinks they have a window of opportunity to change the way people get information.Even bigger is AQA (issuebits.co.uk, shortcode 63336), which launched in April 2004 and claims to have answered 3m questions and now deals with 10,000 a day. It has 550 researchers, all working from home, who are paid 30p a question, with the rest divvied up among operator, government and the company. Paul Cocerton, one of three ex-Psion people behind it, claims they often take less than a minute to answer. Like 82ASK, they have access to a bank of past questions (those are the quick ones) as well as mainstream sources. He claims his researchers don't use Google much because it just takes too long. The slowness of search engines, he adds, is one of the reasons for AQA's existence, and that 85% of queries are answered in five minutes. Questions range from getting pink shoes in Bath to personal relationships. One obsessive asked 20 questions on car headlights.I tested them both by asking how many people were alive compared with all who had ever lived. 82ASK came back within five minutes stating that an estimated 106.4bn people have lived since humans appeared, so 5.8% of all people ever born are alive today. AQA came back with a similar answer after 22 minutes. On Monday morning - real query this one - I asked both to find me a hotel in Ireland within half an hour of Rosslare en route to Westmeath. Both gave me two hotels with embedded telephone numbers within 15 minutes but 82ASK was two minutes quicker and gave prices as well.None of this is any threat to Google, but it is interesting how automated technologies can breed paid-for labour-intensive alternatives. Maybe London cabbies' facility with The Knowledge will keep sat-nav systems at bay. Appropriate technology is the name of the game.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
When I was seven, a group of kids in Medjugorje, Bosnia-Herzegovina, claimed that they were being visited by the Virgin Mary. I loved a good paranormal tale. I read everything I could on the subject and wondered why the Mother of God wasn't appearing to me. After all, I ate all my vegetables. I kept the backtalk to a minimum. I didn't covet my neighbour's wife. I didn't even know what that meant.Despite falling from my Catholic pulpit, I've remained fascinated by the world of Marian apparitions. But things have changed. Medjugorje, once a quiet mountain town, is now chokka with hostelries and relic-sellers. Czestochowa in Poland, the site of a tearful painting of the Black Madonna, is in the Rough Guide as a destination for gap year students. And if you need vials of holy water, may I recommend a trip to Lourdes?All this commercial fallout appears to have deterred the holy family from including the physical plane in their recent holiday plans. Apart from a few sightings of Jesus on loaves of bread, the apparition scene has been quiet. But it seems the celestial deities were just trying to figure out how best to position themselves in this new, modern world.In the 21st century, the place to make a personal appearance is cyberspace. And, proving she's as hip as Gorillaz, Duran Duran and the governor of Virginia, the Virgin Mary has joined in the party. Last week, she turned up on a piece of virtual wood "rezzed" (created, if you're not up with the lingo) by Resident Kalie Saluko in online community Second Life."... my religious beliefs (or lack thereof) changed drastically today while building a pre-fab in S[econd] L[ife]," explains Saluko in the description of the digital icon on the classifieds site SLExchange. "Upon rezzing a standard cube, suddenly and to my astonishment, what appeared to be the image of the Virgin Mary appeared on side 0! Clear as day on a .5x.5x.5 cube you can see the mother of Jesus!"And she's right. If you stare at the computer-generated grains, you can see the holy mother clear as day. Better still, Saluko is willing to give you this piece of religious idolatry for only $100 of real money. It truly is a small price to pay.As far as I can tell, from over two minutes of searching, no major religious figure has ever made a binary appearance before. News of this miraculous event has ripped through the internet, and based upon this success, I anticipate many more religious icons will follow. I'm keeping my eyes peeled: 31 years of brussels sprouts consumption will not have been in vain.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Like many schoolchildren, Stephen Turnock knows what happens if you run an electric motor backwards. The senior lecturer in ship science at the University of Southamptoncan tell you: rotating an electric motor's shaft turns it into a generator. That was how he recently found a new use for an electric thruster more commonly used to power small uncrewed underwater vehicles.Developed by Turnock and electromechanical engineering colleague Suleiman Abu-Sharkh, the thrusters are used by the offshore oil and gas industry. Curiosity about trying out his thruster as a generator led Turnock to perform the back-to-school experiment. "Running an electric motor backwards will always generate power," says Turnock. "It was an obvious thing to do."He gave the task to his students, who fixed a 25cm diameter electric thruster to a moving carriage in a test tank 60m long. Towing the thruster at different speeds through the water generated enough power to run a domestic lightbulb.Channelled flowAlthough a few watts from a laboratory test rig isn't going to change the world, Turnock is thinking big. He'd like to scale up the device, offering the possibility of generating significant amounts of electricity in coastal tidal flows or rivers. Its edge over other turbines lies in the compact rim-driven design. The magnets are placed in the tips of the propeller blades, the coils in the ducted housing which also helps channel the water flow and the bearings are water lubricated."This is a compact design that does away with many of the moving parts found in current marine turbines. It's a new take on tidal energy generation," says Turnock, who likes to make everything sound simple."Just drop it into flowing water and it will start generating electricity. It will work best in fast-flowing, shallow water."As the thruster's propeller was designed to be driven by the electric motor in both directions, it already suits tidal changes. Turnock is now engaged in mathematical work - computational fluid dynamics - that will enhance its performance as an electricity generator."You change the pitch of the blade so it better matches the operating conditions," explains Turnock, who studied fluid engineering at Cambridge, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Southampton University. But will a scaled-up version - he talks about a huge 5m diameter - compare with existing marine turbines?"It should be competitive, especially with offshore wind turbines. I'm pretty hopeful that we'll get some generators built," says Turnock. "We're the only group - as far as I know - that's looked at using a rim-driven concept."Taking a new design - even a small prototype - into rough unforgiving seas is a big step. But it's a route Mike Yuratich, managing director of TSL Technology in Hampshire knows well. He gave up life as a university lecturer to work in the offshore oil and gas industry.It was his company which engineered the marine thruster prototype into reliable commercial production, and he maintains close links with the Southampton University researchers. "We've been talking about upscaling the thruster concept into something that's optimal for generation," he says.Size really does matter here. Yuratich's back-of-the-envelope calculations show that a 1m diameter device might generate eight kilowatts; a 5m wide generator would be needed to generate hundreds of kilowatts. But use is important too For best performance, forget slow-flowing inland rivers and think about powerful tides instead.Ask energy expert Professor Ian Fells about suitable tidal streams and he immediately mentions Scotland, where the tide rushes through narrow sounds around Islay and Jura. As a former chairman of the New and Renewable Energy Centre in Blyth, his deep enthusiasm for alternatives is encouraging, yet he's quick to see thedifficulties."Tidal stream electricity generation is a very interesting possibility with enormous potential. Having the scientific idea is easy. The really difficult part is the engineering," says Fells. "A device like this - scaled up - would be very interesting to test."While he acknowledges that the turbine is a simple design, he points out that the sea is a hostile environment: seaweed or barnacles could clog or foul the propeller or other parts. The biggest headache for the developers will be finding the cash. Fells reckons that &pound;10m might be needed to build full-scale prototypes and operate offshore trials for a year."There are a number of other very attractive looking tidal stream systems, but they have largely been starved of support by government," says Fells.Most investors, he adds, need to see good results from a year's offshore operation before risking their capital. Even one-tenth scale testing in tanks - such as the three huge dry docks at the New and Renewable Energy Centre - is not cheap.Turnock believes that, like early wind turbines, there's always room for new or different designs, although Fells is more sceptical. "It's one of a number of attractive potential ideas, but it's a long way from the marketplace. They've got to be really dedicated," says Fells. "I encourage the government to take tidal stream systems seriously. Until now, most of the money has gone to wind power."Looking for fundingTurnock says he is actively seeking funding for development: "The principal step is to build a suitable consortium of industrial/academic expertise to develop a larger scale prototype suitable for in-situ river current testing."He faces a big hurdle with money, as competition is fierce for grants from the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) - although the Wave Hub project in Cornwall, which will connect four innovative wave energy devices to the national grid, was recently awarded &pound;4.5m.A DTI spokesman notes that it has already providedmore than &pound;25m to UK wave and tidal developers, leading to the construction of a number of full scale prototypes, and that the Marine Renewables Deployment Fund will give a further &pound;50m to support "the continued development of this industry".Several projects are working hard to harness the power of the sea, hoping to make a contribution towards ambitious 20% government targets for future clean energy by 2020. The designs vary widely. For example, SMD Hydrovision has a floating, tethered tidal stream generator, Marine Current Turbines uses seabed-mounted 11m rotors, while WaveGen prefers an oscillating water column driving air through a turbine. If all goes well with finding the right backers, the underwater vehicle thruster-turned-tidal generator will probably join them.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Dave Winer's "river of news" finally looks like catching on - at least on mobile phones and other portable devices. In fact, it was Winer getting a BlackBerry that kicked off the latest round of enthusiasm. On his blog, Winer noted that he "reached nirvana" on the San Francisco light railway."I was able to read a few stories from the Sunday New York Times," he reported, "and I knew this was it, this is going to be huge, these devices work for reading news. Now the question is how to promote it so that all the people who can benefit from it hear about it." (http://tinyurl.com/kyvv8)Winer was using some RSS news feeds that he set up himself, at nytimesriver .com, which he accepts the New York Times could stop, but hopes they won't. Winer also set up bbcriver.com using BBC feeds, plus some rivers for particular blogs.As the name suggests, it's a simple idea. Each news item arrives in plain text and consists of a date and time, a headline, and usually one sentence, such as: "Hitler's desk 'may sell for $1m'. A desk and chair from Adolf Hitler's private apartment in Munich is expected to be sold for $1m."New items arrive when they are posted, and old ones are automatically deleted to make room. You can dip into the river whenever you like, and click on any headline to get the full story from the original site (seenewsriver.org/about).This is roughly what journalists and "copy tasters" have been doing since Reuters and other "wire services" started. Now hundreds of millions of people with mobile phones can do it too.Of course, there are many other ways to read news on the road, with AvantGo being a popular example. Many other people have also been working with RSS news feeds, such as feedcombine.co.uk and feedblendr.com and the FreeNews aggregator from freerangeinc.com. So naturally lots of people got annoyed about this Winer guy "reinventing the wheel".As Winer commented on his blog: "Predictable backlash from people who say that reading news on a BlackBerry is nothing new, they've been doing it for years. I'm sure they have, and people were listening to MP3s on Macs and PCs before podcasting, but that doesn't mean it wasn't a turning point for audio on the internet."Winer also pointed out that, as a pioneer of RSS, he'd been doing "river of news" aggregators since 1999, and ease of use made a difference. "NYTimesRiver is good because it requires no setup, one size fits all, and it delivers consistent value."It's also an idea that publishers could welcome. Repurposing stuff to make it "mobile friendly" often involves work. Sometimes people do it badly, or do it late, or forget to do it, and readers get annoyed. River of news is different, because it's an RSS hack. Many publications and most blogs already generate RSS feeds without any human intervention. Once you've set up a river of news, there's nothing more to do.Not everyone wants to read a river of news. Many people prefer someone (or some thing) to decide which stories are important and display them in a hierarchical format. Perhaps they only want the top 10 stories, and often those don't change much throughout the day. That's fine. Plenty of services do that. River of news is another option, not compulsory.Many people would perhaps like a river of news but only for one or two narrow topics: they want football news but not rugby and other sports, or whatever. There are thousands of mini- and micromarkets waiting to be served.That process has already started. To mention just one example, Ewan MacLeod and Adrian McEwen have set up News Dribbles, which uses BBC feeds to provide "river of news" feeds for Premiership football clubs. Each address uses the club's initials plus FC, such as mufc.newsrivers.com (Manchester United FC) and WAfcriver.com (Wigan Athletic FC). There's a list athttp://newsrivers.com/?p=4.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Why would a maker of MP3 players not display anything at a consumer electronics trade fair? Because, in the case of SanDisk, which removed its digital music players from stands at the IFA show in Berlin this week, it's entangled in a patent licensing dispute.As the market for players grows, patent holders are knocking on doors demanding payment for their intellectual property. It may only be 60c or 75c per player, but every one adds up in a brutally competitive, cut-throat market.Creative's "Zen" patent, for onscreen menu-based navigation, will reportedly earn it $100m (&pound;53m) in licensing fees from Apple alone (though some is refundable if Creative extracts payments from other companies). Microsoft has the patent on the file storage method used by any player that connects to a PC - a historic benefit from conquering the world with MS-DOS during the 1980s. Apple patented the iPod's nifty touch-sensitive wheel, and doesn't license that patent; rival players must use different methods to control their music-pumping beauties.Then there's the music. Two organisations lay claim to patents for the encoding system s MPEG-1 Audio Layer 3 - MP3. One is Fraunhofer/Thompson; the other is an Italian company, Sisvel, which looks after the "essential" patents of a few European companies that created the standard.Anyone making a product decoding MP3s should pay, the holders argue - though no European court has tested the patents' validity. Having signed agreements with 600 companies worldwide, including Apple, Sisvel is currently suing SanDisk in the US, UK, Netherlands and Germany, claiming SanDisk has not licensed the MP3 format. SanDisk disputes this and is countersuing Sisvel in the UK High Court.In Germany, Sisvel got an injunction from the public prosecutor in Berlin, arguing SanDisk's lack of a licence put licensees at a commercial disadvantage. SanDisk took its MP3 players from its IFA stand, replacing them with photographs.Sisvel didn't have to go after SanDisk's players at IFA; it could have pursued them at the Far Eastern factory where they are made. But such approaches are unproductive in countries such as China, where factories vie to be the lowest-cost supplier. Demanding patent fees would up those costs. Catching the devices as they enter countries with more rigorous intellectual property laws is preferred. Another option is to wait a few years: the Fraunhofer patent expires in 2010. Unless, that is, the 20-year life of patents is extended in the meantime.&#183;Simon Perry is publisher of Digital Lifestyles (digital-lifestyles.info)&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Google privacyI've seen lots of articles on our search history at Google. Is there a simple way of deleting it so it can't be saved?Adam YipJack Schofield replies:There is no way to stop Google from recording anyone's search history. However, what you can do is stop Google from compiling a search history for a particular PC, or for an identifiable user. This is the key point, because half a dozen random searches may not reveal much about you, but a record of months or decades of searches certainly will.Google identifies a searcher by putting a text "cookie" on the hard drive, in the Cookies folder. This includes information about your preference settings and a 16-digit GUID (Google user identity number). You can disrupt Google's tracking by deleting this cookie. Google will replace it the next time you go to the site, but it will be a completely different ID number.You can delete Google cookies manually after searching for them. However, several people have developed utilities to help. G-Zapper (dummysoftware.com/gzapper.html) can delete Google's cookie and can also stop it from installing another. G-Zapper is free, but you can also buy G-Zapper Professional Edition ($19.95), which can also deal with similar cookies from Yahoo, MSN, Ask and any other website. G-Zapper works with Internet Explorer and Firefox, but Firefox already lets you deny cookies on a site-by-site basis.Another alternative is GoogleAnon (imilly.com/google-cookie.htm), which provides a bookmarklet you can add to your browser's bookmarks or favourites.However, bear in mind that Google also records your IP (Internet Protocol) address. If you are permanently connected via broadband, your IP address doesn't change, so it would be very easy for Google to link a string of GUIDs to a single IP address.To have any real chance of maintaining some privacy, you would have to search via an anonymous proxy. Basically this means redirecting your search via a third party, so the site only sees the proxy address, not your real IP address.There's a list of anonymisers athttp://tinyurl.com/gepgk. In previous answers, I've suggested sites such as Megaproxy (www.megaproxy.com), ID Zap (www.idzap.com) and The Cloak (www.the-cloak.com). I notice that Google is a "forbidden site" in the free version of IDzap, but Megaproxy and The Cloak work fine. Alternatively, do your searches via the IXquick metasearch engine (ixquick.com). This gets results from Google and several other search engines, but says it does not record data.It is particularly important to use an anonymiser for "ego surfing" and searches that include personal data. If you enter searches that include your real name, street address, postcode, phone number and similar information then it's going to be pretty easy to identify you if the search data is ever released.Also, if you are concerned about privacy, you should avoid using a search engine where you also have an email account, calendar, address book, web site, backup files or whatever. This would make it extremely easy to connect your searches to your real identity. You should also avoid using your internet service provider's search engine page: it already knows who you are.TV on a PCI have installed a digital decoder. Using an indoor digi-aerial (from Argos), I can receive most but not quite all of the signals advertised. Is there a unit that gives a better signal?Andrew HealyJS:The Freeview site says bluntly: "To receive the best possible reception, we do recommend your digital box or digital TV is connected to a rooftop aerial. Therefore we do advise against using an indoor aerial to receive Freeview." (http://tinyurl.com/f5cah) Signal strength varies greatly according to where you live, but if you do use an indoor aerial, you are very unlikely to get the best results.Still, there are a few ways you can improve your chances. For example: use a powered aerial that boosts the signal; position it high up and as close as you can to a window; point it in the direction of the nearest transmitteror swivel it round until you get the best signal. Also, keep the aerial away from large bits of metal, computer equipment and household appliances, if you can.Argos offers a Total Control Freeview Indoor Aerial for &pound;14.99, which I guess is the one you have.You could try swapping it for one of the other options from Argos, or have a look at Maplin.co.uk for a good range of alternatives. I suspect most of these aerials give very similar performance, but would be interested to hear if anyone has found one that works unusually well.SpybotI have been recommended to download and run Spybot. Is this safe to do?Anne BarryJS:I have recommended SpyBot Search &amp; Destroy many times in this column, but for maximum safety, you should download it from the official site at safer-networking.org/en, which does include a hyphen. (There have been several lookalike sites and Spybot has also had its code misused.) Spybot and Lavasoft's Ad-Aware were developed to tackle spyware and malware that anti-virus programs were ignoring, because they weren't viruses. I think Ewido (fromewido.net) now does a better job, though the free trial version only lasts 30 days. Either way, it's worth running Ewido's online scan, and also the free online scan at Trend Micro's Housecall (http://tinyurl.com/cj4kd)Backchat&middot;Liz McCafferty asked about options for running CDs using Windows XP's AutoPlay feature. James Turner says: "Open Windows Explorer, right-click the drive letter (D:\ or whatever), select Properties, then click the AutoPlay tab and configure away!"&middot;Peter Kewley says: "Further to your story about being able to re-start an iPod by formatting its disk: some time ago I got the message from my iPod that its file structure was corrupted. Not wanting to start from scratch with reloading, I dredged the old DOS command chkdsk /f from my memory and it worked."&middot;On making the web easier to read, David Goldstein adds: "Vision Australia, the UK equivalent is RNIB, has a publication called Computer Adjustments in Microsoft Windows to assist people who are vision impaired in accessing their computer. It's available from its website athttp://tinyurl.com/ehd87."
Technology Guardian: With the rise of Web 2.0, we're seeing huge growth in the number of startup companies and funding available. But what do you do when a company like Google squashes your business before it's started?Esther Dyson:Really, the big question is, is Google the end of history? And the answer is that it's not, because the problem is that Google doesn't understand meaning: all it does is index text on the web - it knows nothing. For example, Time Warner acquiring AOL means something very different from AOL acquiring Time Warner - but Google couldn't understand the difference.So the next big technology will be pattern recognition, which helps us understand what's going on and allows us to understand meaning. Right now a search engine is just a database; it isn't able to connect the dots. That could change if we had better natural language understanding, and Reuters, for example, is already pretty good at some of this. As we move further into TV and photography online, it's going to get more important. I'm an investor in a company, Powerset, which is working in this area.TG: The vision of the semantic web proposed by Tim Berners-Lee covers a lot of this too. But if this is the future for search, or for information itself, when are we going to see it?ED:Oh, it's already here. It's like William Gibson said: the future's here, but it's not evenly distributed. Right now you're in a dark room and there are things that you want to know. Pattern recognition can help you. Is this the semantic web? I'm not sure - I think that's something which is built a few pebbles at a time.TG: It seems with social networking and online environments, what's developing is much closer to Gibson's vision of cyberspace than the web was in the 1990s. You're also an investor in several social networking technologies - is that going in the same direction?ED:I was one of the early investors in eTribes [a British startup that provides identity management and community services] and my version of what they do is that you have this base underneath, which is identity management for people you already know. In one direction you have things like Friendster and MySpace, which are social networks. But eTribes is about managing your social life rather than connecting with people you don't know: it's not about dating, although if you do want to meet somebody, you could. The goal is to minimise the effort of managing your life.TG: One of the big topics at the moment is net neutrality. It's not likely to be a situation that ever arises in Britain because of the way our network is built, but it clearly has implications for the net as a whole. Where do you stand?ED:The problem with all of this is that it costs money to distribute rich media. When you have things like this, then either advertisers or consumers have to pay for it. In the dispute over net neutrality, actually, I have a problem with both sides. Really what we need is a Federal Communications Commission that's good at enforcing non-discriminatory action. But when you legislate things you just force people to spend time finding loopholes.TG: Do you think China's technological ability to control the internet helped precipitate the arguments around net neutrality?ED:I think it would have come up anyway. If you have money involved, it's going to become an issue.TG: The hullaballoo around China has been one of the big stories for the media, but you've started investing time and money in India.ED:India doesn't have the same kind of hypocrisy as China - it's a democracy. Of course, there are still problems like corruption, but there is freedom of speech as well. Most of the discussion around India - and around Poland in the UK, for that matter - centres on people "stealing" our jobs. In fact, what's really going on is that people in these countries are becoming better educated and more productive and, as they get employed, they are becoming consumers - markets for both developed and developing economies. What do these people do with their salaries? They buy stuff!TG: So, if most of the public discourse revolves around outsourcing, what kind of opportunities are being missed?ED:India is not just a producer. It's also a huge market - potentially many times the size of the developed economies - for all kinds of products and services. All the problems I could list with the Indian economy - too much paperwork, lack of products, lack of services, lack of training - with the right attitude, these are all business opportunities, because you can earn money by fixing them.For example, I've got an investment that does payroll outsourcing in Eastern Europe, where the laws and regulations governing wages are complex and change frequently.TG: So you have a top layer of companies that are able to dominate globally, while the middle layer are tryingto fight for the developed markets. Does that mean there is a chance for smaller companies and startups to actually sidestep all of it and move into developing markets?ED:Well, Microsoft can't afford not to be everywhere, but right now Google is only really using India as an R&amp;D centre. The opportunities are there, but you have to invest in the capability of the management. There's a lot more opportunity, I think, selling productivityenhancing services or new cell phones to millions of Indians, than trying to persuade a small number of Brits or Americans to upgrade their TV sets or PCs or phones one more time.It's a lot more fun investing where your work makes a difference. Not everyone can be lucky enough to find Google, but market-changing opportunities are much easier to find in places such as India, South Africa and Eastern Europe.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Present incorrectWikipedia and other online encyclopedias may have inaccuracies (Top of the Heap, August 31), but these can be corrected easily and quickly. Meanwhile, the print version of Grove's Dictionary of Music and Musicians at my local library will be telling people that Nigel Kennedy was a member of The Fall for the next 100 years or so (one of two or three mistakes in an entry of maybe 200 words).Stephen ParkinLondon&middot;People's dependence on and confidence in the information they gather from a short search on Google is becoming increasingly misleading. In my own experience, I recently proposed to another company that their product would work wonders in conjunction with my own. I requested a meeting to disclose more information, as my company is currently in stealth mode.Two days later the company returned, saying it would be great for us to work together as they had lots of ideas about how my company could work with theirs. This didn't make sense, as there is no information available on my company. I wrote to the company and asked how they knew what my company did and they replied, "We Googled you."I explained they wouldn't be able to find accurate information on Google. The relationship has been halted. In my opinion it's because they don't know who to believe.Thomas HillardChief executive, Ekaweeka, Los Angeles&middot;This is the problem that many of us librarians face when delivering information skills training to students. As I stand in front of 400 new medical students on the 2nd of October, my main message will be, "Don't click the first result!" I will use exercises and problem based learning to teach them to find good quality information on the web.brumproject.blogspot.com&#183;I remember when I was at university and using the web for research when I would go 30-50 pages deep into the results to find what I wanted!one-dollar-a-day.com&#183;The moral is, perhaps, if you need to succeed online make sure it's not based on getting traffic from Google, as it'll cost you to be top of the pile.enn.ie/blogSpeed at the coreBoth Charles Arthur (Fear not, Steve, your secrets really aren't worth stealing, August 24) and Russell Caplan (Letters and blogs, August 31) are right that computer companies tend to favour OS glitz over speed and efficiency, but Apple are far from being the worst offenders.I recently installed Panther (OS X 10.3) on a six-year-old PowerMac G4 to use as a home office/Web browsing machine. While it can't match my more recent kit for handling graphics and video, Firefox, Thunderbird and office apps go like the clappers, and all on a 400MHz processor. I don't think many six-year-old PCs would be as happy with Windows XP.Nigel CursonNorwichQuality control?Please can you stop the downward slide of this formerly excellent supplement into tedious discussions about civil liberties, freeing our data and which mobile phone your columnist has just received to test. The edition on August 24 was blindingly dull - a main story about data sharing, another on data sharing from councils and Victor Keegan numbing my mind again about testing mobile phones. Who finds this interesting and why is the data campaign in Technology when it belongs in the Society section?You used to have lots of stories about games - which, by the way, are going through a renaissance. Now your games coverage has been reduced to a "what I did at the weekend" blog and three reviews. You have good games journalists but appear loath to use them. Technobile began as mildly interesting but surely has run out steam - a rant about buttons on mobile phones? Gosh, are they too small to use? How predictable.The newly asked questions section is a pale imitation of what you used to run in the joint IT/Science section, which I mourn for its lost diversity, consistently interesting stories and lively discussions. I used to buy the paper especially on a Thursday just for that supplement. Now I rarely bother.Rick GibsonLondon
For at least three years, it has been official government policy to help entrepreneurs create new digital channels to public information. The policy works fine - until an entrepreneur comes up with an idea. Almost always, it then runs into a wall of obstacles.The latest to discover the difficulties of creating a business based on public sector information is John Yardley. He accuses a government-owned trading fund of being "contradictory and obstructive" over a proposal to set up an online property business relying on official data.Yardley, a former government scientist set up his own software company, JPY (of which he is managing director), in 1982. Two years ago he came up with an idea for a property trading website. A crucial element would be real-time information on property sales from the Land Register of England and Wales. This is maintained by Land Registry, a trading fund (charging fees from customers to cover costs, yet owned solely by the government) since 1993. Its programme to computerise the world's largest property database and put it online is regarded in the civil service as an outstanding e-government success.In November 2004, Yardley took his business plan to the registry. The initial reaction, he says, was favourable. However in April 2005, an email arrived rejecting his proposal, citing two reasons. First, that the Land Registry could not give him an exclusive data feed. Secondly, it had already thought of the idea."I was absolutely furious," Yardley says. He said he told the registry he was prepared to waive exclusivity and fund the costs of implementing the data feed. He was allegedly told that before any further meetings he would have to sign an agreement waiving all rights to commercial confidentiality. He was unwilling; his proposal foundered. "After 18 months of wasted negotiations, I realised the Land Registry had no interest in assisting us in this venture," Yardley says.His experience illustrates several issues raised by Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign. We argue that government data, apart from that identifying individuals, should be made freely available to boost the knowledge economy. However, this requires a willingness to respond to proposals like Yardley's, transparency about pricing and access to data, and some assurance that public sector monopolies will not enter new markets with competing "value added" services themselves. The last point applies particularly to trading funds, which have to fund themselves from their own activities rather than general taxation.Land Registry says that commercial confidentiality prevents it discussing details of Yardley's case. However, it showed the Guardian a standard letter, drafted in July 2006, which it now sends to anyone submitting commercial proposals.Worryingly, the letter contains two clauses that could be used to knock any proposal on the head. One says: "While we do look to develop new services, our primary requirement is to deliver the statutory functions and services of Land Registry... We therefore have extremely limited resource [sic] to undertake such developments and already have a full development programme in this area." The other says: "We must also ensure that any suggestion put before us does not prevent or otherwise inhibit the development of our future services..."Yardley's verdict: "In my opinion, they were obstructive, arrogant and unprofessional."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Probably not, though he might fix your Vonage phone - because that's what Freetalk now belongs to. DSG International, the company that owns Dixons, Currys and PC World, started the week well, with a spray of positive headlines for its plans to move into commercial IT support with its new TechGuys service.The arrival of the TechGuys will see around 2,000 experts employed as a national IT helpdesk - one which will be contactable by phone, in existing stores and potentially in DSG shops too. With an estimated &pound;1bn a year up for grabs in high street tech support, the stock market greeted the idea with glee.But just as Dixons was marching proudly into one new technology area, it was spotted quietly sneaking out of another. Just under a year after launching Freetalk, its attempt to bring internet telephony to the general public, the company decided to make a sharp U-turn and close the service down. Customers were sent an email explaining the move and were told they will be shifted over to Vonage, an American-based voice over internet protocol (VoIP) rival.So why is DSG getting into selling support and out of selling this technology? When Freetalk launched last year, BT was quick to cut prices on its VoIP offering, and other mainstream brands such as Tesco launched their own VoIP products.But Dixons executives this week said the uptake had been slower than expected, and that they would concentrate on retailing because "providing telecoms services is not part of our strategy". (Just ignore how the innovative free-to-join phone-based Freeserve service boosted the Dixons image in the 1990s.)"The VoIP market in the UK has been slower to take off than we envisaged," said John Clare, the chief executive of DSG International. "We still believe VoIP is coming, but it is going to come more slowly."That experience doesn't ring true for rivals, however. Skype - the biggest name in VoIP - remains strong (claiming nearly 7m users online on Tuesday), and a Tesco spokeswoman said the supermarket was "in it for the long term"."We're delighted with the way it's gone, and we've exceeded expectations," she said. "We've got customers in over 40 countries already - but then we have got a really good record of going into complicated markets and making it more simple."So what could have gone wrong with Freetalk? Victor Keegan, writing in these pages last year, said the service was "rather disappointing", noting that "the attraction is not the technology itself, but the claim it will cut your phone bill". However the &pound;79.99 annual subscription meant "you would have to be a pretty heavy user to make it worthwhile".So if your Freetalk box breaks down, feel free to give the TechGuys a ring. Disgruntled customers, though, might wonder if the latest bright idea will last as long as the on-hold music. We'll give it a year.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Art of ZenCreative has launched two new media players, a Zen Vision:M with a 60GB hard drive, and a new Zen Vision:W with a 16:9 format widescreen display. The Vision:W also has a CompactFlash card slot with adaptors for other cards, plus built in microphone and FM radio.MySpace in shortsTired &amp; Tested, which launched today, says it's "the first social networking site for sport players and fans".www.tiredandtested.comSkype via DECTPhilips says it will introduce the world's first cordless DECT digital cordless phone that can make Skype internet calls without being connected to a personal computer. The VOIP841 should be out for Christmas.Skype via DECT tooUSR Robotics has also developed a cordless Skype phone that works via DECT, and the base station connects either to a phone line or a USB port on a PC. The USR9630 should be out this month.Blu-ray comingSony Pictures says it will release "a broad mix" of titles on Blu-ray discs in the UK on October 16, including Exorcism of Emily Rose, SWAT, Tears of the Sun and Hostel. This will "coincide with the first availability of Blu-ray hardware" in Europe.A quiet AugustRussian anti-virus company Kaspersky Lab says there wasn't the usual August virus panic that brought Windows users Welchia in 2003, Sasser in 2004 and Mytob in 2005. Instead, "phishing emails were rife".Google tops European chartGoogle is now the top European site, according to comScore World Metrix. Google sites had 156m visitors in July, giving it the lead in nine countries, whereas Microsoft sites had 144m visitors and led in six.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Insanity is running the same software and expecting different results. Something like three years ago, I acquired a Hauppauge TV capture card. It came with scheduling software, so I had the bright idea of trying it out, and set it to record something - anything. And I watched as, 15 minutes later, the computer went CRASH. That was about three years ago.More recently I took the updated version of the same capture card, installed it in a newer PC with Windows XP Pro instead of Windows 2000 Pro, downloaded the latest version of the schedule software, and set it to record something - anything. And there we CRASH again.Guys? Have you learned nothing in three years?The need to actually go out for a day during Wimbledon drove me this year to try a Pinnacle PCTV USB box; it comes with software that looks simple and pretty - big buttons to press to make things happen. Tried the scheduler. Came back to find... nothing. Well, nothing recorded, anyway. And, since the computer had completely hung, nothing much on its screen, either.I still can't find out what went wrong there. Did it hang trying to record? Or did it hang just for fun? Was I supposed to leave the TV software on or off? I can't actually find out because, entertainingly, the "documentation" (a PDF file that congratulates itself on being printed on unbleached, recycled paper) concentrates its attention on telling you how to hook up the device and where to plug in an antenna.Apparently Pinnacle thinks its software is so easy to use that no explanation is necessary. The only TV software I've ever met that can honestly say that is TiVo's, and if I were running things I'd have TiVo get out there and sell its software to computer users (and, come to think of it, cable companies such as Telewest, whose current setups I've lambasted before).I know. You're going to say, "Get a Mac and EyeTV, you dizzy broad." Quite apart from your inner death wish, that's not the point. The point is that these products are supposed to work, but don't, and that's just stupid and wrong. Besides, I have two perfectly good, willing, and able PCs eager to do the job.Some hints to the TV tuner card people. Selling software that crashes computers is rude. TV is supposed to be easy, even if computers are hard. Easy doesn't mean 3D buttons or cute little icons that revolve when you hold the mouse over them. It means predictable, reliable, and robust. It means never having to say, "I'll Google for something better." It also means customers don't wish you dead and write mean things about you in national newspapers.That's what "easy" means.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
We get more letters - sent to tech@guardian.co.uk, almost entirely - than we have space to print.But on the web, and the blog, space is unlimited, right?So here, in full, are the letters from which tomorrow's Technology section's Letters&amp;Blogs section have been chosen. Read and please comment if you like; or email us. As you'll notice, we don't publish email addresses (apart from our own), so have no fear of spam if you've got an opinion.--PRESENT INCORRECTWikipedia and other online encyclopaedias may have inaccuracies (Top of the Heap, 31/8/06), but these can be corrected fairly easily and quickly. Meanwhile, the print version of Grove's Dictionary of Music and Musicians at my local library will be telling people that Nigel Kennedy was once a member of The Fall for the next hundred years or so (one of two or three mistakes in an entry of maybe 200 words). Stephen Parkin, LondonPeople's dependence and confidence in the information they gather from a short search on Google is becoming increasingly misleading. In my own experience I recently proposed to another company that their product would work wonders in conjunction with my own. I requested a meeting to disclose more information as my company is currently in stealth mode. Two days later the company returned, saying it would be great for us to work together they had "lots of ideas about how my company could work with theirs". This didn't make sense though as there is no information available on my company. Lo and behold, the company in question had searched Google for the name of my company and my name. According to Google there was plenty of information about myself and my company as my company had been indexed on thousands of link farms as a result of a short adwords campaign on a former business plan for a different business. Realizing this I wrote to the company and asked how they knew what my company did and they replied "we Googled you". I explained they wouldn't be able to find accurate information on Google. The relationship has been halted. In my opinion it's because they don't know who to believe. I hope you can shed more light on this problem down the road. Thomas Hillard, CEO, Ekaweeka, Los Angeles&gt;&gt; This is the problem that many of us librarians face when delivering information skills training to students. As I stand in front of 400 new medical students on the 2nd of October my main message will be "Don't click the first result!!". I will be using exercises and problem based learning to teach them how to find good quality information on the web.brumproject.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; I remember the days when I was at university and using the web for research when I would go 30-50 pages deep into the results to find what I wanted!one-dollar-a-day.com/&gt;&gt; The moral is, perhaps, if you need to succeed online make sure it's not based on a stretegy of getting traffic from Google as it'll cost you to be top of the pile.enn.ie/blog/ENERGY SAVING TRUST The DTI's Low Carbon Buildings Programme is managed on behalf of the government by the Energy Saving Trust. It offers grants for solar photovoltaic panels as well as other microgeneration technologies, such as wind turbines, small-scale hydro, solar thermal hot water, ground source heat pumps and bio-energy. Grants totalling £4,371,742 have yet to be allocated. The application process is very straightforward, via an online grant application system which offers an instant response to grant requests. For solar photovoltaic panels, the Low Carbon Buildings Programme offers a grant of a maximum £3,000 per kWp (kilowatt peak) installed, up to a maximum of £15,000 subject to an overall 50% limit of the installed cost (exclusive of VAT). For the average domestic system, costs are approximately £7,000 per kWp installed, with most domestic systems usually between 1.5 and 2 kWp in size. Solar tiles cost more than conventional solar panels as they are integrated into a roof; however, they do provide for a more aesthetic appearance. Since the funding is provided in support of delivering Low Carbon Buildings, the conditions attached to the grant are aimed at ensuring that cost-effective energy efficiency measures are implemented alongside any microgeneration technologies. Such measures include; low energy light bulbs, central heating system controls, loft and cavity wall insulation – all of which are required under the current building regulations. For more information please visit the DTI's Low Carbon Buildings Programme website: www.lowcarbonbuildings.org.uk Kirk Archibald Programme Development Manager Energy Saving TrustSPEED AT THE CORE Both Charles Arthur and Russell Caplan are right that computer companies tend to favour OS glitz over speed and efficiency, but Apple are far from being the worst offenders. I recently installed Panther (OS X 10.3) on a six-year-old PowerMac G4 to use as a home office/Web browsing machine. While it can't match my more recent kit for handling graphics and video, Firefox, Thunderbird and office apps go like the clappers, and all on a 400MHz processor. I don't think many six-year-old PCs would be as happy with Windows XP. Nigel Curson, NorwichPHONE PAINS Well, I thought I was alone in this frustration with Vodafone! I tried 191 to get an upgrade from a SE-V800 media phone to a QTEK-9100 (HTC Wizard) win5 handset. (Vic Keegan, 31st Aug 2006) I was quoted £250 and remain on my £30pm tariff. tried again in the Vodafone store - was quoted £150 and a tariff of £35pm. Ridiculous, so I tried twice getting a Q9100 from eXpansys - and they were twice turned down by Vodafone. I strolled into my local O2 store and not only did they have 2 XDA-minis in stock, but I could have them for £35pm with 750 mins &amp; 150 txts per handset and no money down. (18months contract). Needless to say I jumped at the offer as this amounted to a cost per handset of only £90. We love the wi-fi, media player and sliding keyboard and they're a great substitute for our aging Handspring Visors! David Paul Morgan, CardiffQUALITY CONTROL? Please can you stop the downward slide of this formerly excellent supplement into tedious discussions about civil liberties, freeing our data and which mobile phone your columnist has just received to test. The edition on 24/08/06 was blindingly dull – a main story about data sharing, another on data sharing from councils and Victor Keegan numbing my mind again about testing mobile phones. Who finds this interesting and why is the data campaign in Technology when it belongs in the Society section? What may feel like an interesting crusade on a little-covered theme is actually an exercise in poorly written, criminally bland hand-wringing that simply speeds up the supplement's progress towards my recycling bin. You used to have lots of stories about games which by the way are currently going through a renaissance – now your games coverage has been reduced to a "what I did at the weekend" blog and three reviews. You have good games journalists but appear loath to use them. The most interesting news you cover in 1 sentence newsbytes. Technobile began as mildly interesting but surely has run out steam – a rant about small buttons on mobile phones? Gosh, are they too small to use? How utterly predictable. You're a Technology section – why can't you write about new technology? You used to before you went broadsheet. There's almost no news about new technology or product launches beyond Mr Keegan's uninspired repetitious waffle. The only interesting stories on technology (memory and spinning skin) were buried at the back. The newly asked questions section is a pale imitation of what you used to run in the joint IT/Science section, which I mourn for its lost diversity, consistently interesting stories and lively discussions. I used to buy the paper especially on a Thursday just for that supplement. Now I rarely bother. Rick Gibson, LondonFLASH DRIVE I'd question David Williams' methodology when he came to the conclusion that flash drive trumped all other synonyms for a thumbdrive (Letters, August 31) with 134 milion mentions on Google. By not putting in any quotation marks, he caught all the mentions of flash and all for drive. If you look for "flash drive", the answer is 15.3m; "pen drive" gets 5.7m; "USB drive" 7.9m; "thumb drive" 995,000; and "memory stick" triumphs with 26.3m - however, memory stick is a Sony SD card competitor so probably shouldn't even be in his list, so flash drive (or "USB flash drive" as about two third of sites put it) does indeed win. David Fox, London
I was driving from home a short holiday this morning when I heard thePS3 newson the radio. Radio 5 actually covered the sorry situation fairly accurately, especially when the presenter mentioned how "happy" Microsoft must be feeling right now. Happy? I'd imagine staff at Microsoft Europe are probably still jumping around their offices like 5 year-olds overdosed on Tango. Christmas 2006 is sewn up and Sony are suffering a PR crisis. And there are a pile of a tasty looking goodies - Gears of War, Just Cause - due out on the 360 in the coming months. A point only confirmed by Lego Star Wars 2 and Test Drive Unlimited waiting for me on my mat when I arrived home.Could the next few months be the high point for the 360? Unchallenged in the "hardcore" console market - Nintendo's Wii is likely to appeal to a different, or at least complementary, audience - and with the first real next-gen stuff coming through. Sony is likely to regain market leadership at some point in the next cycle - PlayStation is such a powerful brand - but likeBlair, Sony's time at the top is under threat.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Hysterical times on the Facebook social site for students, where the Facebook blog has been swamped with complaints about anew feeds feature.InFacebook's Giant Blunder, Scott Kidder writes: "Facebookers are not happy. There are dozens of groups bashing the feature, the largest of which has over 20,000 members -- in under 12 hours."On the Facebook blog, CEOMark Zuckerberghas responded withCalm down. Breathe. We hear you.But the text suggests he still needs beating with a clue stick.Look, Mark, this was an incredibly arrogant thing to do. Turn it off now and make it an option.Rishi Kaitancomments:We all know that a big reason why social networks are big is because people enjoy seeing what's going on in other people's lives. But there's a big difference between looking and stalking.The News Feed feature turns social networking into social stalking and that's just creepy.I think Facebook really needs to re-evaluate how the system works.Whether it's justified or not, being dubbed Stalkerbook is not going to help Facebook make many friends.Update: There's a Wall Street Journal story,New Facebook Features Have Members in an Uproar.
Sony may taketh with one hand, but at least it giveth with the other. Kind of. Apparently, Izumi Kawanishi, the head of platform development at Sony Japan, has confirmed to a Japanese newspaper that the company plans a retro gaming service for PSP, allowing users to download classic PSone titles via PC or PlayStation3. The service is due to launch in Japan in November and may also feature movie downloads - sensible as the UMD format has floundered. As for a European launch? In the words of many a daytime debate show guest, 'don't go there, girl...'.So to briefly take your minds off the whole PS3 issue, which PlayStation titles would you most like to revist on your PSP? Sony hasn't announced any candidates yet, but here's my Top Five wishlist...Super Puzzle Fighter IITimeless puzzling action.Resident Evil 2I never finished it! Oh the shame.Vib RibbonI'd like to give it another chance.Vandal HeartsKonami's lovely tactical RPG.Oddworld: Abe's ExoddusI loved this game: "Hello" "hello" "Come with me" "okay"...ViaArstechnica
I've been putting off writing this one. Not because it's a difficult or awkward subject - quite the reverse: because it's too pleasurable and feels as though I'm just boring on about a hobby-horse. I think of it as "my paean to the fixed-gear bike" - a cycling topic that has to date seemed perhaps one click too arcane. But now I think it is no longer an indulgent fancy on my part, but an idea whose time has come.What is a "fixed gear", you ask. It is a bicycle pared to its essence: there are no gears but one, which means that there is just one chainring fitted to the cranks, just one sprocket at the back, and a single loop of chain tensioned between. Neither is there a freewheel mechanism, so you can't stop pedalling while the bicycle is in motion, because the momentum of the bike causes the pedals to rotate (independently of your force on the pedals making the bike go forward). Track bikes are still made this way, but once upon a time (circa 1900) all bicycles had a fixed gear.If you have never experienced riding a "fixie", it's hard to communicate adequately the almost transcendental pleasure of the sensation. Initiates of the art grow lyrical, even mystical, on the subject. On a fixed, you feel far more intimately "connected" to your bike. Your pedalling develops a silky smoothness; your legs benefit from greater "souplesse", as the French say. And let me not even get started on the joys of performing "track stands" - that is, balancing stationary on the bike (a relatively simple skill on a fixed) ... you begin to see why I've kept quiet till now. But perhaps I just wanted to keep it all to myself.The only disadvantage is when you hit an incline. Still, a fixed is better than you would think on the hills - the way the bike's momentum pushes the pedals helps you over all but the most horribly steep with relative ease. And then there is the fact that a fixed-gear bike has so few moving parts there's almost nothing to go wrong. Little to clean, little to wear out - it's the nearest you can get to a zero- maintenance bicycle.Which explains its appeal to couriers. But the fixed has gone way beyond that subculture now. I see more and more commuters riding fixed-gear bikes (or their vanilla cousin, the single speed with freewheel). And at the peripatetic Bicycle Film Festival, which opens for its second annual outing in London this week, there is a screening of MASH, a 20-minute film all about the fixed-gear riders of San Francisco - a city whose hills, until now, have been more familiar in movies featuring car chases.The fixed: practical, pleasurable, beautiful in its simplicity - and, as it happens, the last word in urban cool. What's not to like?&#183;SeeBicyclefilmfestival.comfor further detailsBike doctorAll your cycling questions answeredDear Matt,
I am a 65-year-old male training for a
trans-America ride. I use a racing bike
with narrow tyres, inflated to 125psi.
The result is a hard, bumpy ride on our
appalling English roads. After some
recent 50-mile rides, I now have greyish-
red lines in my vision. An optician
has diagnosed damaged blood vessels
in the back of my eyes.At the time I did
not consider cycling had been a factor.
But if this could be the cause, I assume
the obvious correction would be to use
softer, more absorbent tyres.Gregory Carol, via emailI have never heard of road shock
causing vision problems, but nerve
damage to hands is documented, so
it sounds possible.
In any case, your tyres don't need to
be so hard: 100psi is plenty unless you
are 85kg or more. It's a fallacy that hard
equals fast; some compliance improves
smooth rolling and traction. Second,
an aluminium frame might explain the
harshness. If you can, try a carbon frame
- much better at absorbing road shock.
Other, less costly, technical fixes would
include gel-padded bar tape, and a
Specialized seatpost with "Zertz" insert.&#183;Email your bike-related queries tobike.doctor@guardian.co.uk
ModelLegend 3.5i VTEC V6Pricefrom &pound;36,000Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62mph in 7.3 secsConsumption23.7 mpg (combined)EmissionsC02 282 g/kmAt the wheelGraham PollThey'd rather walkDarrell HairOn the stereoSnow PatrolEn route forBicesterThe Legend, they say? That's a bit previous, isn't it? Beware the phenomenon of the self-reviewing car. One bridled in a similar fashion when Skoda released the Superb. We will be the judge of that, thank you.Not bad, though, the Superb. And pretty fine, too, the Legend, although it is the reviewer's duty at least to intimate, in the interests of perspective, that this upgraded version of the Japanese saloon car may, in time, come to hold a less certain place in the culture than, say, Robin Hood or King Arthur and the knights of the round table.It represents a significant plot development in the Honda story, however. People tend to think of the company, most of all, as the producer of really good, innovative, high turn-over small cars, such as the Civic. A Honda saloon car, though (the same budget technology, but on a bigger frame) has always seemed a bit infra dig. The time when you were most likely to come across one was 15-20 minutes after phoning for a mini-cab.The new Legend, however, is emphatically a prestige item - built, fitted and, above all, priced as such. It has its eyes on, not the humble sales rep with his box of samples and his shiny-trousered suit, but the top-tier executive with a designated parking space and access to the boss-men's washroom.Accordingly, the Legend is picking a fight for the white-collar heart with such status-confirming chariots as the Audi A6, the BMW 5 series and the Lexus GS. Indeed, in some literature relating to the car, Honda goes so far as to contrast the "warm engineering" of this new saloon with "the cold, impersonal approach of the Teutonic car makers" - an assertion as openly combative as it is cliched. (Coldness has its advantages, let's not forget. When people say German cars are "impersonal", they tend to mean that they lack such endearing, personal quirks as a tendency to break down a lot.)In the case of the Legend, the fighting talk is backed up with a significant commitment to cosmetic luxury. There is so much wood in the interior, for instance, that, in visual terms, it narrows to a whole new degree the distinction between a dashboard and a fallen tree.More significantly, the car is also packing an entire arsenal of leading-edge driving systems, the most potent of which is called Super Handling All-Wheel Drive - SH-AWD, to you and me. Thanks to this cunning piece of technology - a world first - power is variably shifted between the front and rear wheels, and, simultaneously, between the rear wheels individually. As a result the car not only accelerates with balletic ease, it also handles so easily that it corners like a wagon on a rollercoaster.Indeed, it hardly seems fair to call it "handling" any more, so little does going round a bend in a Legend involve anything that might be regarded as physical on the part of the driver. Even on those more troublesome corners, such as the ones with the big black-and-white arrow signs wrapped around them, one is tempted simply to enjoy the moment and put one's hands behind one's head, although this is not, in fact, recommended.The Legend is also carrying a Lane Keeping Assist System (LKAS), which monitors road markings on either side of the car and emits a beeping alarm noise when you start to drift across them without indicating. All well and good, although given that the most common explanation for lane-drift is some level of sleepiness in the driver, an electric shock, delivered via the steering wheel, and a recording of someone shrieking, "Wake up, saphead!" might be more appropriate.And how about this Collision Mitigation Braking System (CMBS)? Herein a radar sensor in the front grille keeps an eye out for large objects from which your distance is rapidly diminishing - such as, for instance, trees, cows or oncoming cars. And then, on the assumption that you haven't noticed the aforementioned tree/cow/ oncoming car, the system starts to get a bit of braking under way on your behalf and thoughtfully pre-tensions your seatbelt.Now, obviously, the presence of CMBS in your Legend by no means completely absolves you of the duty to remain alert for large, nearing objects as you drive, any more than the Lane Keeping Assist System is to be regarded as a handy surrogate for rails. Even so, one eerily glimpses, in both these amazingly sophisticated driver aids, a future, not so far ahead now, in which what we currently regard as driving is delegated in its entirety to the car.Meantime, there is this suave, forward-looking saloon from Honda - a legend in its own service intervals. Who'd have thought?
We cynics and pessimists knew a near-simultaneous launch for the PlayStation 3 wouldn't happen, but until the announcement yesterday, we had hoped Sony would forget its past record and accidentally fulfil its promise to get their next generation hardware out in European territories within weeks of the machine's release in North America and Japan. But - in a story that's become all too familliar - they're having a hard time mass-producing one of the components, and we're getting left out of the lurch.From the official press release:Sony Computer Entertainment Europe (SCEE) today announced that it would revise the launch date of its PLAYSTATION® 3 computer entertainment system in the PAL territories of Europe, Russia, Middle East, Africa and Australasia from 17th November 2006, as previously announced to March 2007.Launch dates for Japan and North America will remain the same, which are November 11th and November 17th respectively.The revision of the launch date in the SCEE territories is caused by the delay in the mass production schedule of the blue laser diode within the Sony Group, thus affecting the timely procurement of key components to be utilised in PLAYSTATION 3.The previously announced PLAYSTATION 3 shipment forecast of 6 million units globally within the fiscal year ending 2007 is not changed.It doesn't feel good to be the lowest priority. Unfortunately (because I'm feeling spiteful), this announcement (and our hurt feelings) probably won't dramatically change their sales figures. Only hardcore gamers will be miffed by this news, as I expect the mass market won't realise anything's changed.However, losing out on holiday sales may indeed serve a blow to the PlayStation's bottom line. The Xbox 360, with an announced price drop taking effect before the holiday rush and the Nintendo Wii (potentially) on the shelves may damage the Sony console's reputation in the consumer glut. Let's see them try this stunt in North America, eh?Will this do more damage than their hefty price tag or will the brand live to see another generation?I'm off to go lick my wounds. Sniff.
The PlayStation 3 was supposed to be outlastMarch, six months ago, notnextMarch, so it's already six months late. In the UK and the rest of Europe, the PS3 will now be two Christmases behind the Xbox 360.Sony will also have failed in its attempt to copy Microsoft and pull off a global launch for the PS3. However, it is now dangling the carrot marked "only another six months to wait" in front of UK users for a third time, and this may annoy a few.Of course, component shortages are always a risk when you're making items by the million, and Microsoft had problems with the Xbox 360. Sony could afford to be pretty smug about this after its many decades as a global consumer electronics manufacturer. Sony invented things and Sony manufactured things and Sony controlled its own destiny, it wasn't just some newbie software house in Seattle.But if Sony can't get enough Sony Blu-ray drives and Sony Cell processors to ship Sony PlayStation 3 consoles, who is it going to blame?(Charles Arthur writes: just to remind you of Jack's foresight on this, reread the August 3 cover from Technology:Is Sony fighting a losing battle?I think you'd now have to answer "yes".)
News has just come through that Sony is delaying the European launch of the PlayStation 3 from this November until next March. That'sfour full monthsbehind schedule.In fact, it's not just Europe:Sony Computer Entertainment Europe (SCEE) today announced that it would revise the launch date of its PLAYSTATION® 3 computer entertainment system in the PAL territories of Europe, Russia, Middle East, Africa and Australasia from 17th November 2006, as previously announced to March 2007.America and Japan aren't affected by this change, so at the moment PS3 will still hit them in November this year.Why? Sony's confirmed that it's because manufacturers in Taiwan arestruggling to fulfil the company's demands for blue diodes.I'm sure we'll be following up soon.
Star Wars creator George Lucas has become the latest Hollywood mogul to truly explore the possibilities of convergence between games and cinema.LucasArts, already a well-regarded developer for its Star Wars-themed titles and adventures like theSam and Maxseries andGrim Fandango, will be producing a game that tells the story of what happened in the decade between the third and fourth instalments of the enormously popular Star Wars films.According to theAssociated Press, Lucas has no interest in doing any more celluloid screen versions, but will expand on the property through more resilient and more interactive avenues. The game will serve as a new entry in the library of books, games and other media (including a forthcoming kids' TV show) that fill out the Star Wars, er, galaxy.Not only could this convergence drive more people to computer gaming, but it, like other projects (thinkThe Lost Experience,Enter the Matrix,James Cameron's MMOG project,GoldenEye 64), represents the best interaction between one medium's treatment of a story and another's, exploiting the unique assets of each to propel the events and characters forward.From a purely marketing point of view, it's a great way to keep the public's interest in an ageing franchise.
In one of the least plausible developer start-up stories yet seen, comic book creator Todd McFarlane has teamed up with baseball star Curt Schilling and fantasy author R.A. Salvatore to create a new studio, Green Monster Games. As severalnewssourceshave pointed out this week, the celebrity-studded outfit is promising to turn the videogame industry on its head with a radical new publishing model and innovative projects......although no details have been revealed. (How's that for a lousy cliffhanger?)The rag-tag collective is not quite as bizarre as it first seems. McFarlane, of course, has form in the videogame sector, working on characters for Soul Calibur II and several Spawn adaptations. Schilling, meanwhile, is a big MMORPG fan who also apparently owns a small war game company. Salvatore's elf character, Drizzt Do'Urden, has appeared in the Balder's Gate games. Sounds like some kind of fantasy-based online RPG with edgy, flawed heroes might be in order. Vive la revolution, eh?Actually, this is not even the first celebrity venture into the videogame business. Vin Diesel famously foundedTigon Studiosback in 2002, while Steven Spielberg now has anoffice at EAwhere he's beavering away on three game projects.
The long-running saga of the iPod phone seems to be entering, well, the end of the beginning.Apple Insideris citing an American Technology Research note, which says:Our research indicates that an Apple-designed smart phone has moved from concept to prototype and recently has progressed to near completion as a production unit," analyst Shaw Wu told clients in a research note on Tuesday. "We believe this smart phone has been in development for over 12 months and has overcome substantial challenges including design, interference, battery life and other technical glitches."And later:"Clearly, we would like to share more detail as we have conducted extensive work on the product pipeline, but for now, here is what we will convey," Wu wrote. "The design will be an iPod nano-like candy bar form factor and come in three colors (we are not certain of the exact colors but we suspect black, white and platinum, similar to Apple's current color scheme of iPods and Macs)."Details will appear well before the launch when the phone is submitted to the FCC for approval.
A couple of weeks ago I posted a short item aboutSocialMeter, which gives your site a score based on the number of links it finds at Google, Delicious, Digg, Reddit, Furl, etc. Well, if you liked it, do you want to buy it?The site has just gone up oneBaywith a starting price of $425. The sales pitch says:I had a lot of fun making the site, but I'm moving on to other projects now so I want to sell Socialmeter to a person or company who can expand and develop it, possibly as a complimentary service to their existing website(s).(Yes, Brian, that should be "complementary".)
Apple owners have been complaining (my, they'recomplaining) aboutrandom shutdowns of the new Intel-based MacBooks.Now, a German article (translated and summarised here) suggests that it's because a cable to the heat sensor comes into contact with the processor's heat sink, melting the insulation and causing a short circuit - leading to a shutdown. Let the heat sink cool, and it doesn't touch the cable, and you can boot up. Get too hot and...The implication is that things are so (a) tight and (b) hot inside the MacBook that even slight waywardness is going to cause a problem. However, judging by the comments to the posting (ignore the one claiming to come from "Apple insider" btw - so obviously fake) the machines show this random turnoff behaviour even when starting from cold.The mystery remains; but one can be sure that by the end of the day a legion of MacBook owners will have taken the casings off to gaze at their heatsinks and any sensor cables within. We don't recommend it as you might void your guarantee. Let someone else do it - the photos will be on Flickr in a flash.
It's always good to see mainstream media sources attempting to crack the wizened nut that is videogame culture. This week, two newspapers have waded into different but equally ancient gaming debates: 'why don't more girls play games?' and 'are games art?'. If you've allowed yourself to fall out of date with current thinking in these areas you'll be relieved to discover that nothing much seems to have changed in the last few years...First up, the New York Times declares that'The Game Is on to Woo the Elusive Female Player'.This starts out as just another fawning piece about UbiSoft's Frag Dolls - the girl gaming clan that has now been franchised across the globe (there are groups in France, UK and the States). Then, a shock revelation:"...things are starting to change in the gaming industry, where developers and engineers are typically guys with a penchant for creating action heroes and buxom female sidekicks. Today's producers are starting to lay down their weapons and talk about the importance of video play infused with depth and emotion."The piece then ticks off all the required 'girl gaming' topics - E3's threatened fines for semi-clad booth babes, The Sims, the 'fact' that women like stories and characters and aren't so keen on shooting stuff (a point only slightly undermined by the looming presence of those Frag Dolls - who, quite noticeably,aren'tcalled the Story Girls or the Emotion Ladies). The piece also runs the mandatory quote from a girl gamer claiming that what women want is more realistic physical role models in games - you mean just like the realistic physical role models that inhabit womens magazines?The article ends with a brief paragraph on Alive Ubisoft's forthcoming disaster game set after an earthquake, in which characters, 'rely on their instincts and each other' to survive. But is this new form of touchy-feely-'em-up an example of trying to reach out to the female audience or just a natural evolution of the action game as we move into the next generation?Videogames as art - part 3692At last, the Sydney Morning Herald has entered the videogame art debate, with it's provocative header,"Good game but is it art?". Again, all the familiar examples crop up, including Roger Ebert's rash declaration that videogames cannot be art because they're interactive and therefore completely lack authorial control (he's obviously never played a Medal of Honor game - they're almost Kubrick-esque in their didactic linearity). And of course, the Kandinsky-inspired Rez crops up - seemingly the only videogameeverto have had one eye on traditional art. Erm, Okami anyone?We also hear about how videogames borrow certain technical traditions from films, and that this is a young industry comparable to the early days of cinema. Ho hum.I always read these articles expecting to find some nugget of perceptive brilliance - a piece of wonderful thinking that could only come from a writer operating outside the videogame fraternity and its conventions of thought and language. I'm always disappointed. Cultural critics are merely treading water, unwilling and unable to keep up to date with an alien industry inhabited by, 'scruffy koalas intent on their work,' as the writer of this piece puts it.Look, the industry isn't young anymore and comparisons with the likes of D. W. Griffith and the Lumiere brothers are redundant. Games are the product of an accelerated digital culture - they have caught up with mainstream film-making in most quantifiable areas. There is a debate to be had here, but it is light years beyond the idle summing up of old arguments and isolated arty games.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
File under 'storm in teacup, not many hurt'. Following ourprevious post, which pointed to uncomplimentary articles about Browzar (a small executable wrapper for Internet Explorer, which sends you to its own home page so you can be shown ads for money), there's been more action.Most of it though hasn't been very useful. For the roundup, readthis ArsTechnica article(see, sometimes we do like their stuff):In the style of the "telephone" game that is news reporting on the Internet, this statement turned into a warning that Browzar contained "adware," which then later morphed into "malware."We're shocked -shocked- at the idea that online news reporting might be anything but rigorously fact-checked at each iteration.So what's the real deal? Browzar's search engine portal does indeed display sponsored links from the search engine company Overture (now part of Yahoo), but they are clearly marked as such. ... Does this qualify as "adware"? If it does, the definition must be meaningless, because it would apply equally to Google and almost every other site on the Internet.And:A more legitimate criticism of Browzar is that it is providing a "solution" for a problem that is already addressed by all modern browsers. Every browser allows the user to delete cached files, browsing history, and cookies, merely by going into the appropriate Internet Settings dialog box. ...[and] the Macintosh-only browser Safari has a "Browse privately" menu option, and the cross-platform browser Opera has a single "Delete private data" menu item.Our conclusion: Browzar is still best avoided, not because it's malware (it's not) but because it doesn't do anything you can't already do better elsewhere.Opera, for example, is free and doesn't get attacked like Internet Explorer.
Aaron Swartz has done some computer analysis of the database and answers the question:Who writes Wikipedia?But the answer won't come as a surprise unless you know what Wikipedia-founder Jimbo Wales thinks....Also, Aaron wants to be elected to the Wikimedia Foundation's Board of Directors.
Uwe Bollis the guy gamers love to hate. He's become the poster child for everything that's wrong in the relationship between interactive entertainment and cinema. As the frequent director of under-performing movie representations of deeply involving gaming properties, fromAlone in the DarktoResident EvilBlood Rayne, Boll has made legions of enemies upset by his slap-dash treatment of sone of the most popular games in the world. Never mind that most of the digital versions have had nary a plot between them.Unfortunately, Boll has been typecast by Hollywood bigwigs, and almost every popular game adaptation lands on his agent's desk. Hey, he's a working director; can he say no to a wadge of cash? I think not.However,he's sick of gamer upstarts vilifying him on the Internet and shouting epithets at him in the street. He's challenged his fiercest opponents to a (physical) knock out match in Vancouver on 23rd September, which will be filmed for his forthcoming project,Postal. There are still a few places left, so if you fancy giving Uwe what-for, find out more about "Raging Boll" and sign up!viagamepolitics
After a slow start, the latest Gamesblog Battlefield session finally kicked into gear at around 8.20pm last night. We ended up with a full server again after spending ages waiting for enough players to start - where were you all?It was another competitive sesh with both sides making full use of the Commander feature - mostly by ordering in airstrikes on enemy bases and then rushing them with ground troops. I had my usual series of vehicular mis-haps - I drove a jeep off a cliff in a moment of slight disorientation, then attempted to pilot a boat off the top of a weir. This can look amazing when you get it right, zooming off the ramp and floating down to the river below. I got stuck, however, and plopped off the edge, crushing two of my teammates in the process.Next week, it's Xbox 360 time. There have been some shouts for Call of Duty, but I don't have that yet, so it'll be Ghost Recon for now. More details to follow.
