Limits of censorshipSeveral points have been missed in the recent coverage of BT blocking on child porn sites.Cleanfeed, by its own admission bans anonymous proxies, glamour and intimate apparel (so you can buy these on the high street but not the net?), as well as usenet sites, violence and weapons, and hacking sites. This censorship goes a long way beyond child porn and to have BT or other ISPs imposing it on users should be abhorrent to anyone. There are nearly 25m websites on the banned list and of these, how many are listed under pornography? A massive 18. There are 6,500 glamour and intimate apparel websites! Does this include legitimate sites such as Victoria's Secret or Ann Summers?Child pornography is vile but any websites carrying it will no doubt have been found and closed down by organisations such as the Internet Watch Foundation. Those that haven't been found probably are not going to be stopped by this filtering. Saying that this censorship is about stopping child pornography is stretching the truth.What will happen, as has been seen in the US, is that many legitimate sites will be censored. And no matter how much people may dislike sites about weapons, glamour clothing or hacking, those websites are not illegal and should not be censored. Cleanfeed has a category for Hate Sites. Does this include political parties such as the BNP or extreme Muslim sites for example?Many would argue the BNP is a hate organisation but it's also a   legitimate political party. If you are against this type of censorship, just write to your ISP and tell them that if it imposes Cleanfeed on you, you will switch to one that doesn't have it.David BoltonLondonSuper omissionThere are wonderful constants in life. Gravity, chocolate and Jack Schofield are three that spring to mind. InInside IT (June 3)Jack has a little puff piece about Windows in the super-computing world. Towards the end of the piece there is the line: "By that time, of course, there should also be a cheap 'Linux supercomputer in a box' and maybe even a Mac option."What he seems to forget is that the third fastest supercomputer in the world (confirmed by the link at the top of the page to top500.org) is a Mac cluster at Virginia Tech. Not only is it fast, but it has what is believed to be by a significant margin, the best price/power ratio in the top 500.I find it staggering that his shameless promotion of Windows and, latterly, Linux, is allowed with out a health warning.Oliver ClarkThe end resultLast week's air traffic control system crash saw airports such as Heathrow and Gatwick incur severe delays and talks of possible closures. All of which meant a major loss of revenue and thousands of stranded, unhappy travellers, not to mention a safety risk.An IT upgrade or, in this case, the testing phase of an IT upgrade, should never have resulted in such chaos. The problem, common to many IT projects, does not so much lie in the fact that the test was being carried out in a "live" environment since this is nothing new but, rather, it shows that testing should not have happened at the end of the upgrade but as an integral part of it.By incorporating testing into the overall process, bugs and weaknesses, such as air traffic controllers reporting "ghost" data, could have   been identified much earlier.The lesson for the National Air Traffic Services is clear: take the risk out of IT changes by testing earlier and more regularly.Neil GoodallLondonHeld to ransomSo BT's spokesman "admits that, despite the consensus view that a worldwide standard for broadband over UHF is desirable, the US could still push ahead with services using the TV spectrum". He says BT will advance the case for such services "if the business case is there".Now, call me naive, but I pay taxes that pay for schools, which I don't use, nuclear weapons I don't use, occupation forces I don't use, roads I rarely use, olympic stadia I'm unlikely to use, and an e-envoy and associated committees, non-executive directors and other associated helpers that I wouldn't even recommend anyone else to use, and yet no one has offered me the opportunity to opt out of paying for any of these unless a business case was made for them. So why is a government committed to e-enabling its population, depending upon a "business case" being made by a PLC?Gus ScottNot so smartA word of advice for readers who are thinking of buying a smartphone or mobile email device such as a Black-Berry. Think twice before investing in a Handspring Treo 600. I got my first one of these from Orange in February. I am already on my fourth handset, the other three having all developed serious faults. I know two others who have returned this model because of faults. I asked Orange to provide me with a different model of phone, but they refused on the grounds that they only replace like with like.Brian HillLondon
British "cybercops" are to join other law enforcers around the world which are patrolling internet chatrooms to try to protect children from paedophiles.Assistant chief constable Jim Gamble, of the national crime squad, said the move was one of several measures to clamp down on adults using computers to view child pornography and "groom" children in order to abuse them. The Virtual Global Taskforce, which includes the NCS, the FBI, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, the Australian Federal Police, and Interpol, will nominate officers to monitor the net round the clock.This will not entail undercover police posing as children to lure paedophiles but will involve a virtual version of "reassurance policing": there will be an icon, flashing in the corner of the screen, to let chatroom participants know an officer is monitoring the online messages. The officer will be able to intervene to warn those engaging in suspect conversations."We're already policing the internet covertly, now we'll be doing it overtly as well. It's about shining a light into a dark corner," Mr Gamble said.Children's charities applauded the move but critics suggested it would be impossible to police a significant percentage of the millions using chatrooms.However, Mr Gamble said the operation would be intelligence-led, and involve a small number of officers working with the internet service providers.Police are also examining the possibility of a credit-card blacklist identifying those who have used credit cards to pay for child pornography on the net.
Online musiciTunes on its wayThe iTunes Music Store, which revolutionised online music sales in the US after its launch last year, is expected to arrive in Europe next week. Invitations to a press conference for Tuesday promised that "the biggest story in music is about to get even bigger". Unconfirmed reports suggest the new store will serve the UK, France and Germany initially, although there is no indication of the size of the catalogue, or of pricing. In the US, tracks typically cost 99 cents. Napster, which launched in the UK last month, has increased its selection to 700,000 songs.Digital bridgeApple has unveiled its "Airport Express" - a wireless digital bridge between Macs and PCs running iTunes, and hi-fis around the home. The device, which works using the 802.11g standard, plugs into a power socket and features analogue and digital audio out sockets. Users can plug hi-fis or powered speakers into the device, and then stream music from their computers to their hi-fis wirelessly, via a new option built into the latest version of the iTunes music software. It can also act as a portable wireless base station for travellers who want to turn wired hotel broadband connections into wireless ones, or as a hub for printers that can connect using the built-in USB socket. It is priced at &#163;99, including VAT, and should be available from Apple's UK web store from next month.www.apple.com/airportexpress60GB iPod comingThe next generation of Apple iPod music players will feature a 60GB hard disk. At the announcement of its 1.8in 60GB hard drive for personal audio players at the Computex 2004 exhibition in Taipei, Cindy Lee, deputy manager of Toshiba Digital Media Network Taiwan Corp, acknowledged that one of the first customers was Apple. The drives could feature on a new Apple player later in the year. Apple's largest capacity iPod is its &#163;398.99 40GB model. Rivals Creative offers a 60GB model (Nomad Jukebox Zen) while Iclef recently unveiled an 80GB player.www.toshiba.co.ukBroadbandSky-high costBT has opened commercial sales of its two-way satellite broadband service covering all the UK, although at a high price compared with ADSL broadband services available to 90% of the population. The cheapest service, aimed at single office users, costs &#163;59.99 a month for a download speed of 512kbps and an upload speed of 128kbps, with installation, a dish and other equipment costing from &#163;1,149. BT says the higher latency of satellite   connections - the longer delay between sending and receiving data - can make them unsuitable for peer-to-peer applications.HardwareBranching outBritish start-up DigiFusion is branching out into personal music players. Due in September is the &#163;199.99 Portable Audio player - one of the first 20GB hard disk models to retail for under &#163;200. Slightly larger, and significantly heavier, than the Apple iPod, the player is compatible with MP3 and Windows Media Audio files, connects to a PC via USB 2.0 and is capa ble of around 10 hours playback from its integrated rechargeable battery. It can also be used as a voice recorder.www.fusiondigitec.comCue the iPodApple may not yet have manufactured a personal video player, but rivals have displayed personal video players (PVPs) that take their design cues from the iPod. At the Computex 2004 exhibition, TwinMOS unveiled the X-Frame 2, a device with a large 7in LCD screen (most PVPs are either 3.5in or 4in) and a 20GB hard disk finished in a white casing. The device can play back MPeg4, DivX, QuickTime and Windows Media video files as well as MP3 and WMA audio. PQI also unveiled the mPack, a PVP that, in addition to playing a host of audio and video files, can also store and play back Java games. In the UK, Peripheral Corner is now selling its &#163;325 MPeg4 video player. The handheld device features a 20GB hard disk, 3.5in LCD screen and compatibility with MPeg4 and MP3 files.www.twinmos.comwww.pqi.comwww.peripheralcorner.co.ukCreative finishAfter a series of grey rectangular players, the latest digital audio personal player from Creative is finished in white, not unlike its chief competitor, the iPod. The Zen Touch, however, which is due in September and is expected to retail for around &#163;250-&#163;300, offers 24 hours of battery life - three times that of the iPod and more than similar players. The 20GB player is compatible with MP3 and WMA files, and features a touch pad for fast access to tracks and a USB 2.0   interface. Versions with more storage are expected later in the year.www.creative.comBlending inIn a bid to make PCs that blend in with living rooms, ECS has delivered a computer that's a dead ringer for a hi-fi system. Finished in an aluminium case, the EZ-Bundle 2 combines a fully specified Windows XP PC with a remote control that can instantly access music, video and image stored on the computer without it being booted up. The computer includes a digital TV card, DVD player/rewriter and hard disk video recording functionality. It comes with a pair of speakers, a wireless remote control, a 17in LCD monitor and is available in different specifications, with a 200GB hard disk, 3.2GHz processor and 512MB of memory version retailing for around &#163;1,350.www.ecs.uk.comSmartphonesOh so smallOrange is to launch what it is billing as the smallest smartphone so far. Due in the summer, the SPV C500 weighs 100 grams and has frame measurements of 108mm x 46mm x 18mm. It runs Microsoft's Windows Mobile 2003 2nd edition software delivering applications such as Pocket Outlook (email, calendar, contacts), Pocket Internet Explorer and Windows Media Player. Other features include a 64K colour screen, integrated VGA camera, Bluetooth and an external SD card slot. It includes an integrated hands free speaker, and comes with polyphonic ringtones and access to a host of Orange applications.www.orange.co.uk
Retailers and their suppliers are facing up to an uncomfortable truth: their ability to track products throughout the sales cycle is in desperate need of an overhaul. The main problem is that most products have a large amount of information attached to them - what some in the industry refer to as "fat data".Product information can include up to 150 attributes, some of it changing over time - most notably, pricing. With around 20,000 products being launched globally each year, the task of cataloguing, tracking and sharing that information is complex.The industry's solution - five years in planning - is to bring all this data together in regional pooled databases under what it calls Global Data Synchronisation (GDS), all linked to a global registry, the prototype of which will be launched this summer. But such synchronisation requires product information to be submitted in an agreed specified format - something that requires considerable planning and coordination.The rewards are potentially huge. Researchers from Capgemini say that global standards are likely to generate savings of 1%-3% for retailers and   manufacturers, which will contribute to increased profits of 10% to 15%. Long term, it predicts it will improve product availability, product assortment and customer service. Food safety could also be enhanced through better product tracking.But according to some, GDS could be derailed because many manufacturers have not organised their in-house product information so it is available and consistent. Typically, stock details reside on a mix of legacy systems that don't talk to each other."Most organisations in the supply chain have yet to get the consistency necessary in their own data to make GDS practical and beneficial. Until each organisation puts its house in order, GDS will remain a distant dream," says Steward Holness, chief executive of Reqio, a product information management company.Holness believes that manufacturers in particular need to invest in Product Information Management (PIM) systems that track products internally through manufacture, storage and shipping. He maintains that large Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) solutions from leading software vendors are part of the problem. "They don't talk to each other very well, and it's not going to   happen any day soon." A PIM system manages data flow through a firm's IT systems and stores validated information in a repository.Capgemini confirms the view that firms are far from ready. A recent study found that more than half of the items in company systems contained incorrect data such as wrong values and duplicate or obsolete entries. It says the reason is that most product data is still handled manually and thus prone to error.Microsoft's European retail technology manager Sandana Kitchenane says GDS is a major industry topic. "PIM is key but it's also about the less sexy aspects like interoperability - how databases are shared. It's not   rocket science but it needs standards to make it transparent to retailers."Kitchenane believes the recent push towards electronic tagging and new laws on traceability, which require sellers to be able to specify the source of a product, are helping to focus the need to deliver more effective data management.The key to GDS lies in the creation of the Global Register, a kind of telephone directory of retailing being created by UCCnet. This is the software arm of the Uniform Code Council (UCC), the global body that administers the bar code system. It aims to provide a database of all products but with a simplified five-attribute product description.Any search on the database will link to in-depth information on the localised databases, known as datapools, around the world. About a dozen exist. However, due to the lack of a certification programme, none has been ratified to work with the registry, and most have developed proprietary structures for organising their data.The driving forces behind standards are the Global Commerce Initiative, a body made up of retailers and manufacturers, and the retail standards bodies EAN International and the UCC, which publish recommendations for GDS standards.Dr Wolf Wagner, a principal at consultancy Kurt Salmon Associates, which works closely with many leading retailers, says the problem is political and technical. "There will definitely be global standards for sharing data, it's just a question of when. Historically, retailers are not centralised, so it makes it difficult to implement standard process and technology templates in different regions. In addition, it's about the relationship between suppliers and retailers - who pays what and who benefits?"In the UK, E.centre helps promote the activities of UCCnet. Harshall Gore, project manager for GDS at E.centre, says the biggest difficulty is getting agreement on pricing data. "Price is always a showstopper in standards meetings. There is natural unease about disclosing such information, but we get round that by allowing some data to be mandatory. The Global Registry will be launched in July, so it's a matter of it being able to prove its value."According to the leading data integration firm Sterling Commerce, the drive towards GDS will give rise to both national and niche datapools. A niche service could be a database serving wine growers in France, while a national service could be the in-house system of one of the world's largest retailers. This will allow large retailers such as Wal-Mart to maintain direct links with leading partners, while allowing niche communities to maintain databases with product attributes unique to them.
It is a wonder that Margaret Langhorn hasn't become paranoid. When she opens her fridge, a computer is watching. So, too, when she sits in her chair, gets into bed, has a bath, leaves the house, or even goes to the toilet. And what's more, if the computer thinks something is amiss, then it will call a central control room and report her.It sounds like some Orwellian nightmare, but the 73 year old volunteered to be on the scheme. It is called Telecare and is Liverpool Council's latest initiative for the elderly. It aims to give pensioners the freedom to stay at home, while offering the sort of 24/7 monitoring that might previously only have been available within residential care.Langhorn's house has been fitted with a wireless network of sensors that monitor her as she opens doors and windows and moves from room to room. There are also sensors on some household appliances such as the fridge. They each report back to a PC that sits under the stairs and learns her daily routine. If the PC detects something out of character, such as her not getting out of bed, it triggers an automated phone message to ask her if she is alright. If she is, she dials 1 on the keypad and that's the end of it. But if she fails to answer or doesn't dial 1, then the PC uses its broadband connection to alert an operator, who uses a secure web browser to examine the conditions on Langhorn's PC that triggered the alarm, and decides the appropriate response.Liverpool has six homes on the scheme and four are to be added. Barbara Frost, an occupational therapist, explains how Langhorn qualified to be in the first wave. "The client has to have a relative or close friend living nearby who can be sent round when the computer generates an alert. The client also can't have certain types of radio equipment. And they can't have a big dog!" (A dog would throw the sensors.)Langhorn's daughter Margi gets contacted when the computer generates an alert. "I live at the end of the road," she says. "It's great for my peace of mind. I have to care for my   tetraplegic husband, full-time, but I know mum is being monitored even when I can't be there." Margi sings the praises of the system and it appears she appreciates it more than her mother, who appears oblivious to it.Thankfully, there haven't been any emergencies, but every now and again, an alert is triggered. "I got a phone call the other day," says Margi, "telling me they couldn't detect any movement from within my mum's house. But it was a nice day and I knew she would be in the garden. I went round to check and she was."The system is still in the pilot stage but, if successful, it will represent an epiphany in elderly care provision. Paul Garner, at BT Exact Research Laboratories, where the system was developed, believes it represents the tip of the iceberg. "At the moment, the system is acting as a safety prompt to the client. It uses logic and some behavioural modelling, based on Bayesian techniques, to look for unusual actions or alert them if they have done something such as gone to bed and left a downstairs window open," he says.But all this is reactionary. The next generation of Telecare will be able to pre-empt health problems before they occur. "We are looking at more exotic sensors that will enable us to determine if the wellbeing of an individual is improving, declining or staying the same," says Garner. "For instance, information from walking patterns can indicate problems to come. We can gather information on step length, symmetry, cadence and velocity using an ultrasound sensor and use that to gain an insight into a client's wellbeing. If we detect variability in the gait pattern, that can be a key indication that someone is likely to have a fall."Dr Andrew Sixsmith, of the Department of Primary Care at Liverpool University, has also been working with the team at BT Exact to define what is meant by "wellbeing" and how to assess it. "I am particularly interested in people with dementia and trying to monitor if they are having a good life. One way might be to consider how often they smile. There is facial recognition technology that can detect smiles but, at the   moment, it is not robust enough to use in an everyday environment."But some things are easier to monitor. "We can monitor simple things such as how often a person gets visitors and how often they leave the house. Social networks tend to break down if the elderly live alone, so we are looking at how to monitor that."We are also looking at monitoring the ability of people to perform everyday tasks. Simple things like making a cup of tea. A person with dementia might forget to turn the kettle on and make tea with cold water. In-home sensors could potentially pick that up. And I am also interested in whether we can pick up any signs of depression. For example, changes in sleeping pattern can be indicative of depression."But now we are getting into the realms of Big Brother. Are people ready for this kind of invasion of privacy? Langhorn admits that knowing she is being monitored all the time has made her less inclined to get up in the night for a cup of coffee - and her sensors are only checking her for movement around the house. What would she be like if her facial expressions and sleeping patterns were monitored?Sixsmith acknowledges the point. "If a person gets feedback about their behaviour, there is the possibility they   might alter their behaviour," he says. "We hope it will affect them in a positive way but it might affect them in a negative way. We have to watch out for this ... but as people become more familiar with Telecare-type systems, there will be less negativity associated with them."Garner knew he had to be sensitive to issues of privacy when designing the system. "We won't use certain types of sensor," he says. "This includes video surveillance. The client can also turn off all or part of the system when they want. And we have designed it in such a way that no information leaves the hub other than the alarm messages. It is not possible for someone to watch what you are doing from a remote location."But Langhorn doesn't seem concerned with privacy issues. When I visit, I point out that there is a sensor in her toilet. "Is there?" she replies. I get the impression that she only sees the positive side of the system: her family worry less about her; she will be able to remain in her home for much longer; and she has the peace of mind of knowing that if she does have a fall and can't get up, then help will not be long coming. "I wouldn't like it if it made a noise," she says.Early indications are that the experiment is a success. Teething problems have been limited to one sensor   not working properly, and some elderly people trying to have conversations with the automated voice.However, there is one more possible beneficiary. Local authorities in England pay all or part of the residential care costs for more than 163,000 people over 65. The average cost is &#163;15,000 per year. BT estimates that the average cost of a Telecare system is around &#163;4,000 per year - a potential annual saving to local authorities of &#163;70m. If you also factor in that over the next 20 years, the number of pensioners is scheduled to increase from 20% to 30% of the population, then the appeal of Telecare is obvious. Liverpool Council says that if successful, its ambition is to make Telecare available to anyone who wants it.&#183;Mark Beaumont is a journalist and IT security consultant to Liverpool City Council.
Pay riseThe salary gap between local authority information and communications technology (ICT) staff and those in the private sector is closing, according to a survey conducted for the Society of IT Management (SocITM) by Computer Economics. The gap is smallest at the senior management level, where ICT directors earn 86% of their private sector equivalents. In previous surveys, this was 60%. Notable salary increases were recorded in the police and fire sectors, where ICT salaries increased by 6.8% and 10.2% respectively. Staff retention is also improving, with 17% of the 140 local authorities reporting problems compared with 25% last year.www.socitm.gov.uk/Public/surveys/Salary+Survey.htmPocket Wi-FiDell is launching the slimline Axim X30 handheld computer, which is the first to use Intel's latest Wi-Fi-enabled chip. The Axim is also available without Wi-Fi (802.11b), but with the Intel Xscale PXA270 processor, the integrated networking can be used to access the internet and email through access points or hotspots. Bluetooth is also available for connecting wirelessly to local printers and other peripherals. Within the X30 range, chip speeds range from 312MHz to 624MHz, and the units run the second edition of Microsoft's Windows Mobile 2003 operating system. Pocket PC versions of Microsoft's Word, Excel, Outlook and Internet Explorer are included in the prices, which range from &#163;129 to &#163;229.www1.euro.dell.com/content/products/compare.aspx/axim_x30Off their trolleysVirtual shopping carts on UK websites appear to reflect their real world counterparts. A survey of 51 sites conducted by SciVisum found that 80% performed unsatisfactorily. One in five carts were out of action for 12 or more hours a month, while others left the customer at the checkout with an empty trolley. Worst performers included a leading high street mobile phone store, a well-known music/DVD retailer and a leading DIY chain. The best performers included John Lewis, Waitrose Direct Wines, Orange, and WH Smith.www.scivisum.co.uk/report/ecommercePinning hopesIntel will launch five Pentium 4 processors when it releases its PCI Express chipsets on June 21. The processors will use Intel's new numbering system with the low end being the Pentium 4 Series 520 (2.8GHz) rising to the Series 560 (3.6GHz). The chips and the two chipsets, code-named Grantsdale and   Alderwood, will connect to the motherboard through a 775-pin Land Grid Array socket, compared to the current processors with 478 pins. In October, Intel is planning to debut three chips that will run 64-bit applications based on extensions to the current 32-bit instruction set. These will offer an Intel alternative to 64-bit Itanium chips, which use an incompatible instruction set.www.xbitlabs.comStrokes and mirrorsIBM is showcasing a projection system that can turn any surface into a virtual touch screen. The Everywhere Display combines an LCD projector with movable mirrors to throw an image on to a flat surface such as a wall or fridge door. The image is typically comprised of an array of squares offering options. When a customer touches a square, a camera mounted with the projector detects this and the information display is changed to display the choice. The system is on show at the Metro Group Future Store showroom in Rheinberg, Germany.www.research.ibm.com/edwww.future-store.orgComplete deleteComputer Aid International, a charity that recycles computer hardware to aid developing countries, is routinely wiping disks clean before export. The move coincides with an announcement from security firm Pointsec Mobile Technologies that its agents bought a laptop containing sensitive data on eBay for &#163;5. Current access codes and administration rights to the secure intranet of one of Europe's largest financial services firms were retrievable from the hard drive despite it having been "deleted". To ensure this type of error does not occur, Computer Aid is using equipment and techniques supplied by Blancco, a data erasure company, to obliterate data before passing hardware on.www.computer-aid.orgwww.pointsec.co.ukwww.blancco.comBye bye BIOSThe BIOS or Basic Input-Output System is one thing that survives from the IBM PC launched in 1981, but many people would like something better. Intel is trying to get its system, code-named Tiano, accepted and has joined with CollabNet to release it as open source code under the Common Public License. American Megatrends and Insyde Software are already shipping products based on Tiano technology and Intel's Extensible Firmware Interface (EFI) standard. Microsoft says it is "continuing its commitment to open industry standards by adding EFI boot support to all versions of the Longhorn generation of Windows products" and will participate in the effort. It has also been working with Phoenix Technologies, the largest BIOS manufacturer, on cME ("see me"), its Core Management Engine. Phoenix has said it will support EFI when it becomes an industry standard, but it seems likely the two will co-exist for several years.
'Let's dance," screams the DJ from his fake speedboat. Britney blasts out and the scantily clad crowd goes wild. Every weekend, Baja Beach Club in Barcelona is filled with bare flesh, much of it courtesy of their topless barmen and bikinied waitresses. But it is what's under the skin that's causing a fuss.Two months ago, Baja announced it would be the first nightclub in the world to offer their VIPs something more than a gold-plated entry card. Those who wanted it could have a microchip implanted under their skin. The chip not only guarantees entry but provides access to a debit account from which they can pay for drinks."One of our owners wanted to do something special for our new VIP section," says Steve van Soest, spokesman for the club. "He'd read about the chip in newspapers, so we started to see if it was possible and legal here in Spain. It was." Since its launch, 25 people have had the chip injected into their upper arm by a registered doctor at the club, which also plans to use the technology in its sister club in Rotterdam.The chip was unveiled at a Paris technology conference in November. Potential applications are, according to its Florida-based manufacturer Advanced Digital Solutions (ADS), "a variety of security, defence and secure-access applications, such as government and private sector facilities."The chip is about the size of a grain of rice, doesn't set off airport scanners and contains no power supply. It sits dormant under your skin until a scanner is passed over it, sending out a low-range radio frequency. The   chip responds to the signal and supplies the scanner with its unique ID number. How that number is used depends on the database the scanner is hooked up to: in the case of Baja Beach Club, it's the balance on the person's bar account. The chip's useful lifespan is around 20 years.All this probably sounds familiar to pet owners. The technology was   developed 15 years ago by Digital Angel, a subsidiary of ADS, for tracking pets and livestock. The VeriChip is essentially the same radio frequency identification (RFID) microchip "with additional safeguards added for human use", according to its spokesman, Andrea Fulcher."Before I got the chip, they injected me with a local anaesthetic," says   Antoine Hazelaar, a club promoter based in Barcelona. "It didn't hurt at all. And now I'm not even sure where on my arm it is."If VeriChip becomes a success in other locations, Hazelaar won't need to have others implanted - it would merely be a matter of his unique ID number being transferred to their databases."If the government offered this as a choice, saying you can put your ID card, your social security card and your credit card away and just have this, I'd sign immediately," he says. "I wouldn't have to carry around my wallet. If I need to go to hospital, even if I'm unconscious, they could just scan and get my records."However, not everyone is so keen. "We are totally against the implanting of RFID chips into humans," says Chris McDermott, of the anti-RFID group Notags, which was formed to protest against companies that trace their products through electronic tagging. "As with many projects, they always start out being fairly innocuous but never stay that way for long. The chip contains your name and ID number, and as this could be read remotely without your knowledge, that is already too much information."Andrea Fulcher, of ADS, says she doesn't understand why people may be afraid of having the chip. "It is strictly voluntary and, in the future, we see many benefits for users." She also points out that the chip is easy to remove if you change your mind. The company is working on evolutionary developments, including chips that contain GPS trackers.Sinister or not, its use at Baja Beach Club seems in keeping with the surroundings. "It's very suitable for this kind of place, because it's so body-aware," says Ren&#233; L&#246;nngren, who runs the Barcelona e-magazine Le cool. "In an atmosphere where it is all muscles/tits/bodies, people are attracted by the superficiality. And these kinds of people will be interested in having a chip inside them, paying special attention to their bodies."
In the 18th century, long before modern political reporting came into being, it was illegal to report directly from parliament. The closest you could get was something like the fictional Debates in the Senate of Lilliput, written by Dr Samuel Johnson. The debates, embellished from crude notes with fictitious rhetoric, were very popular and led, indirectly, to the opening up of parliament to journalists.Today, 260 years later, every parliamentary debate is painstakingly recorded and published by Her Majesty's Stationary Office in the form of Hansard. Since 1997, the contents of Hansard have been shovelled on to the internet. The trouble is, Hansard can be very difficult to use.  But now, the work of a group of volunteers is opening up the workings of parliament in the way Johnson's writings once did.Theyworkforyou.comis a simple idea. Over the past nine months, a dozen or so programmers, operating on a &#163;3,000 grant, have built an open source software tool that "scrapes" the contents of Hansard's website shortly after it comes online every weekday morning at 8am.The tool reduces Hansard's long, text-heavy pages into digestible short passages and - crucially - allows them to be annotated by members of the public.What Theyworkforyou.com does that the online Hansard doesn't is shine new light on the political process. For example, it takes a short passage from a debate, such as a question asked by your local MP, and tallies it against his or her record. And if, say, an MP has a registration of interest with the Countryside Alliance, and is speaking about the ban on air rifles, the public can now annotate the parliamentary debate with a reminder - next to the entry - that the MP receives a &#163;15,000 salary from that group. It also means parliamentary debates can be linked with greater accuracy to relevant sites."We would hope that MPs, in particular, would see that there are potentially huge benefits from making Hansard more accessible and from allowing people to engage directly with what they say," explains Tom Loosemore, one of the team behind the new website. "We just want to show what you can do with the web and what that can do to the democratic institutions of this country."The site is in its test phase and has been developed without the assistance - or permission - of Hansard. And, for the moment, Her Majesty's Stationary Office is remaining tight-lipped about the new site. A spokesperson for the House of   Commons said: "A decision regarding copyright permission will be made in due course."But elsewhere, early reaction to the site has been positive. Science-fiction writer Cory Doctorow - who co-edits the influential Boing Boing weblog - called it "the most amazing, subversive piece of political webware I've ever seen". Within hours of its launch, the group of volunteers had been approached by people in Australia, New Zealand, Ireland and the US hoping to build similar political tools."It looks like good news, something like this that opens up the procedures of parliament," says Virginia Gibbons, of the Hansard Society, a registered charity that promotes effective parliamentary democracy. "Most interested citizens ... are often put off by a facade of secrecy and privacy and websites like this make a large step in the right direction."07.06.04: Hansard remixed for the net generation
"According to new research into chemical residue found in the dust collecting on computers and other electronics devices, the PC that you're using to read this story could pose a long-term threat to your health," reportsCNet."In a report published by Clean Production Action and the Computer TakeBack Campaign, two groups studying environmental and health issues related to computers, researchers contend that potentially dangerous elements of brominated fire retardants are turning up in dust samples swiped from computers. The research indicates that the most commonly found example of these substances, widely used fire prevention compounds known as polybrominated diphenyl ethers, or PBDEs, have been found to cause health problems in lab animals."
"Apple Computer Inc today announced three new dual-processor Power Mac G5 configurations, with the fastest model topping out at 2.5 GHz and using a new liquid cooling system. The new high-end systems miss the 3 GHz mark that Apple CEO Steve Jobs said the company would achieve at last year's Worldwide Developers Conference, but Tom Boger, Apple's director of Power Mac product marketing, said it came down to a technology challenge that was bigger than expected," reportsMacCentral."Boger also said today that users shouldn't expect to see a PowerBook G5 before the end of the year because of the challenges of putting the G5 in a small enclosure."
Thousands of unseen exhibits from three of the UK's leading museums will today be made available by the launch of a new science website.For the first time, more than 30,000 objects from the collections of the Science museum, the National Museum of Photography, Film and Television and the National Railway museum will be accessible atwww.ingenious.org.uk.Until now, the three museums, which together form the National Museum of Science and Industry (NMSI), have only been able to exhibit between 5% and 7% of their vast 300,000-piece collection at any one time.However, through the digitisation of images of key objects and records, the new site aims to provide access to many items that have been stored away for months or years, unseen by the even the most frequent of museum visitors.It features detailed, interactive guides to the objects, offering what the NMSI describes as an "unprecedented insight" into the stories behind practically every modern invention."We are offering millions of virtual visitors the chance to see thousands of iconic objects that will help improve the understanding of the contribution of science,  technology and invention to the material world around us and how they have changed our lives," Lindsay  Sharp, the director of NMSI, said."As you'd expect from one of the world's leading science museums, we've exploited the potential of new technology to make sure the experience for visitors is rich and exciting."A second site,www.makingthemodernworld.org.uk, based around the Science Museum gallery of the same name, is also being launched today.Focusing on more than 100 objects, ranging from Stephenson's Rocket locomotive to the Apollo 10 mooncraft, it is more targeted at teachers and students, offering 72 learning modules to complement the A-level curriculum.
Microsoft, the world's largest software company, has taken the first step to overturn a ruling by the European commission that would force the firm to strip Media Player out of its Windows PC operating systems and pay a fine of nearly &#163;350m.The Seattle-based company said yesterday it had lodged an appeal on Monday at the EU's court of first instance against the commission's decision in March that said Microsoft had "abused its near monopoly in the PC operating market".The commission ordered the company to strip Windows Media Player out of its Windows PC operating systems and to give its competitors information to allow non-Windows products to work with Windows operating systems. It also levied a fine of nearly &#163;350m, the largest penalty the commission has ever imposed in an anti-trust case.Microsoft's general counsel for Europe, Horacio Gutierrez, said: "Consumers and the industry benefit from product innovation and competition. The commission's decision undermines the innovative efforts of successful companies."Microsoft is expected to file another appeal in the coming weeks asking the court to suspend the commission's sanctions until the outcome of the appeals procedure, which could take five years.Analysts believe the court's decision on this issue will be crucial because Microsoft would be able to reinforce its dominance on the market for network group server operating systems and media players until the final decision, a situation which, once established, would be very hard to reverse.European competition commissioner Mario Monti said: "We are confident our decision is solid and balanced, which is good for competition and consumers and that the court of first instance will confirm it."Thomas Vinje, a lawyer working for the Computer and Communications Industries Association, which represents many of Microsoft's competitors including Sun Microsystems, Verizon, Nokia and Yahoo!, predicted that Microsoft would not win the appeal. "Commissioner Monti's confidence is entirely well-placed. Microsoft is the richest company in the world but it simply does not have the law on its side in this case," he argued.Lodging the appeal is only the first step. After the court of first instance has given its opinion, whoever loses is expected to challenge the new decision in the European court of justice.
A Londoner has attempted to sell his or her vote for tomorrow's elections on eBay, it has emerged.The Electoral Commission confirmed that an advert had been placed on the auction website by a person apparently offering to vote according to the highest bidder's instructions.The offer, which has now been removed from the website, was condemned by the commission and the Department for Constitutional Affairs (DCA).A spokeswoman for the commission said that she had seen the advert on the website yesterday.The offer related to votes for the mayor of London, the London assembly and the European elections."We were alerted to the fact that it was there, so we had a look and it was on the website," said the spokeswoman."The person had effectively put their ballot paper on the website and was offering to sell their vote to the highest bidder."The starting bid was 99p and there had been no bids at the time of checking, the spokeswoman added.The commission believes it would be unlawful to buy or sell a vote in this way under section 113 of the Representation of the Peoples Act.A DCA spokesman said: "I think putting your vote up for sale is against the spirit of democracy and we condemn it."No one from eBay was available for comment.
"The Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights filed suit accusing AT&amp;T Wireless Services Inc, T-Mobile USA Inc and Cingular Wireless, of using software in their handsets that prevents them from being used on a competitors' network," reportsAP."The phone companies defend their policy, saying they routinely subsidize handset cost. Companies would lose money if they allowed customers to then use those phones with another carrier."Comment: OK, here's a silly idea, but it just might work. How about charging a fair (but profitable) price for handsets and a fair (but profitable) price for making mobile phone calls. That way, consumers could buy the handset they want and use it on the network they like, instead of having to try to figure out the best balance of subsidised handset and overpriced call charges from a plethora of confusing options. Or is the cellphone industry just not ready for a bit of open competition?
Gizmodoreports that Samsung is distributing cards to Olympic torchbearers that read: "If approached by media, please remember the following message: 'I am honoured to have been given the opportunity by Samsung to be a torchbearer for the Samsung Athens 2004 Olympic Torch Relay.'"As the site notes, dryly: "Just makes you want to go out and buy a 46" LCD TV screen from Samsung, inspired by their spirit of international athletic brotherhood, don't it?"
The record industry today claimed that its strong-arm approach to illegal filesharing is paying off, with online piracy down by 25% in the past year after court action against more than 200 individuals across Europe.The International Federation of Phonographic Industries, the trade body that represents record labels around the world, started legal action on this side of the Atlantic earlier this year following earlier high profile attempts in America to prosecute users of filesharing services such as Kazaa.Record labels have blamed a calamitous collapse in global sales over the past three years on a rise in internet piracy, as well as an increase in physical CD copying.But today the IFPI claimed that the corner was being turned through a combination of legal action and increased awareness of the law - as well as the availability of legal alternatives such as the newly-relaunched Napster and the sites operated by OD2, the digital music company co-founded by Peter Gabriel.It revealed that legal cases had been concluded in Germany and Denmark, with 17 Danish filesharers agreeing to pay compensation to record companies averaging several thousand euros. A further 23 are negotiating levels of compensation and cases against 24 more are pending.In Germany, a 23-year-old with 6,000 illegal MP3 files on his computer has agreed to pay 8,000 euros in compensation and further action is planned. Thirty individuals in Italy have also been charged.The IFPI has been keen to avoid a repeat of the negative publicity in the US, when the heavy-handed approach of the Recording Industry Association of America resulted in the prosecution of a 12-year-old girl.No legal action has yet been taken against filesharers in the UK, but British Phonographic Industry chairman Peter Jamieson said in March that it would have "no choice" but to follow the lead of the US and other European countries.A survey released today by the IFPI showed that awareness that filesharing was illegal had risen to seven in 10 in the UK and across Europe. It also showed that half of all those questioned in the UK supported legal action against filesharers, compared to 27% against."This survey shows that our message is getting through. Unauthorised filesharing is illegal. People using so-called filesharing networks need to understand that if they do not stop they face legal action," said Mr Jamieson.Peer to peer filesharing networks such as Kazaa allow computer users to swap tracks with one another in the equivalent of a huge global library.Because the files are scattered between millions of computers worldwide they are hard to track without the assistance of internet service providers, which up to now have been loathe to implicate themselves by getting involved.But Mr Jamieson said that the BPI's actions to date, including sending 175,000 instant messages to UK users of Kazaa warning them that their activity was illegal, was starting to pay off."Nobody tempted to use these networks should claim ignorance of the law. Unauthorised filesharing is illegal. British music fans now have compelling legal alternatives to stealing. Sales of legal downloads this year hit 500,000 last week, and I expect 2004 to be a breakthrough year for legitimate music services," he said.Further impetus is likely to be given to the growing popularity of legal downloads with next week's European launch of Apple's iTunes online music store, which will give owners of its iPod music player access to a library of hundreds of thousands of tracks for a predicted 89p each.But despite the optimism of the record industry, some claim that its surveys are skewed. Recent research from the US suggested that filesharing was actually helping increase sales, while a recent survey among NME readers also claimed that those who downloaded tracks were likely to buy more CDs.Advocates of downloading claim that the decline in record sales can be put down to other factors such as the disposable nature of the singles chart, a lack of vision and flexibility from record companies and competition from other sectors such as mobile phones, computer games and DVDs.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The Fiat Idea is what is known as a mini-MPV. In fact, it is probably more of a supermini-MPV. If you suspect that I am resorting to marketing jargon because I don't quite know what I am talking about, then you suspect right. I don't really get the Idea.So let's talk jargon. The mini-MPV, as I understand it, is an odd but surprisingly popular automobile sector, pioneered by the Renault Scenic, into which most manufacturers have now waded. The old-school MPV, or multi-purpose vehicle (or people-mover to you and me), had as its principal attraction the ability to seat seven people. When you take an MPV and shrink it down until it seats just five, or in the case of the Idea, four people and one homunculus, you get a mini-MPV, or what used to be called a car.To be fair, certain key features of the people-mover do survive the miniaturisation process. The Idea is just as unprepossessing from the outside as its full-size cousins. There is the slightly elevated seating position, the snub bonnet, the expanse of glass and the general sensation that you are cruising down the motorway atop a giant, transparent egg. Whether this makes you feel powerful or intensely vulnerable is, I suppose, a matter of one's psychological make-up, but the Idea manages to recreate the MPV experience fairly effectively, albeit on a much smaller scale. From the driver's seat you can't see the bonnet at all. In fact, you can't see any of the exterior from the interior; no bad thing if you ordered it in metallic batik orange.Such has been the reclamation of space that the inside of the Idea actually seems bigger than the area described by its outside. This Tardis-like quality can be disorientating. It feels as if you are parking a minibus; only when you step out do you wonder why you made such a meal of it. Some of the space has been used rather ingeniously - the dials and displays are in the centre of the dashboard, the driver's seat is tall and comfortable. There's also a surprising amount of headroom, a decidedly less practical consideration. Do cars really need high ceilings, like drawing rooms? I suppose it might buy you a few extra minutes of life if you accidentally drove into a lake. On the other hand, the pedals are very small and too close together. Perhaps they wanted to make them seem really far away.So what is the Idea? Is it a family car? I managed to cram in a family of five, plus a dog in the boot, but our youngest child will not be of homuncular proportions for ever (fingers crossed) and the dog was not at all enthusiastic about her allotted cubic feet. The engine - perky enough when you're alone - is decidedly sluggish when you've got bums on all the seats. While no one actually complained about the lack of space, I think we all realised that the novelty of weaving through Dorset in what looks like a shiny copper kettle was the only thing keeping us civil. The interior-hugging exterior is not without its obvious advantages: to drive through Dorset at this time of year is to constitute a material disruption to the free pursuit of agriculture. When a tractor bears down on you, it's nice to be able to become flush with the hedge.What a car like the Idea is meant to offer is flexibility: you can fold down the homunculus seat to make a central armrest with its own cup-holder. You can fold away all the back seats and slide them forward to give you something like a usable boot. The front seats can become little tables. You can deploy a "couchette" arrangement which allows two people to lie flat. In fact there are an alleged 32 distinct seat configurations, and the interior boasts no less than 24 diverse storage compartments to house all your notions and oddments. The brochure shows people loading their Ideas with surfboards and large abstract oil paintings.It's true that the Idea gives you many choices, but most of them are tough choices. You can carry passengers or their luggage, but not both. You can make a table for your laptop, but somebody will have to stand outside while you work. It's a cup-holder or an ashtray. You must decide.Essentially, this seems to be a car for people who don't know what they want. This is undoubtedly a growing demographic, but it's one that by definition has trouble making up its mind. Fiat's first ever mini-MPV has come to market rather late in the game. There is a lot of competition out there, and a general feeling that the whole genre may be rather short-lived, what with tiny scaled-down SUVs destined to be the next small thing. Knowing all this, it's hard not to feel a little bit sorry for the Idea while you're driving it, though it handles well and can, with a little imagination, be temporarily configured into a small independent production company office. I have an urge to defend it, to roll down the window and shout "It's really much roomier than it looks!" or "You can't even tell it's orange from inside!" I don't know. It must have seemed like a good Idea at the time.The lowdownFiat Idea 1.4Price:&#163;9,995Top speed:109mphAcceleration:0-62mph in 11.5 secsConsumption:42.8mpgAt the wheel:Father of (literally) 2.4 childrenOn the stereo:Test Match SpecialEn route for:Homebase (second trip of the day)
Microsoft today said it had filed an appeal in a landmark antitrust battle after the EU fined the software giant a record &euro;497.2m (332.2m) and ordered it to change its business practices.The appeal said the ruling would undermine innovation and growth and asked the European Court of First Instance to annul the European commission's decision in March."On Monday, June 7, we filed our appeal against the European commission's decision with the EU's Court of First Instance, based in Luxembourg," Horacio Gutierrez, Microsoft's associate general counsel, said in a statement.In March, the commission, the EU's executive arm, ruled that Microsoft had illegally "bundled" its Windows Media Player audiovisual software with its Windows operating system and used its monopoly in personal computers to illegally muscle its way into the market for software for more powerful computers called servers.The commission said in its 302-page ruling that Microsoft's tying of Windows Media Player to the operating system "interferes with the normal competitive process which would benefit users in terms of quicker cycles of innovation due to unfettered competition on the merits".The commission gave the software giant 90 days to separate Windows Media Player, which plays music and video over the internet, from its operating system, which has more than 90% of the PC market.It would be up to computer makers to decide whether to ship Windows with the Windows Media Player or with a rival product, such as RealNetworks' Real Player. The commission also gave Microsoft 120 days to licence interconnection software to ease the way for rivals to hook up their servers to Windows as easily as Microsoft does.The commission said Microsoft once provided the information to makers of network software - used to print documents in offices and to share files - but pulled back when Microsoft began making its own competing products.Meanwhile, Germany's SAP, the world's biggest maker of business software, today said it was not for sale, a day after it confirmed it had held merger talks with Microsoft."I can clearly state that SAP is not for sale," a spokesman said. "We have a very comfortable strategy, we are very pleased with our position in the market. What should we worry about?"Microsoft and SAP yesterday disclosed they had held discussions about a potential merger but scrapped them because of the complexity of any deal and the subsequent integration of the companies.     The firms went public with the discussions because they expected the information to come out in the course of a US justice department lawsuit to block a hostile takeover by Oracle, the data base software company, of rival PeopleSoft.
GPs are opposing government proposals for details of  every consultation to be included in a new electronic patient record which will be shared between the NHS and social services  -  without first gaining  patient consent.They claim much of the detail will be irrelevant to other agencies, and are demanding that patient consent should be given before any information is shared.The chairman of the British Medical Association's  IT committee for GPs, Dr Paul Cundy, said: "I am not opposing the principle of  an electronic patient record - what I am talking about is the appropriate sharing of an appropriate electronic record."He said the government's decision not to opt for patient consent before information is shared was based on the results of a survey of just 2,000 patients.He said: "I think we need to find out what the public wants. We shouldn't decide what to do with a system which will cost 6bn and cover 50 million patient records on the basis of interviews with 2,000 people."GPs at their annual BMA conference next week will call on the profession to oppose the electronic patient record unless the government changes its mind about patient consent.If the motion  is passed, Dr Cundy said the BMA would go back to the government to insist that it consults the public before pushing ahead with the planned record which is due to be introduced by 2010.The electronic shared patient record, part of 6bn national programme for IT in the NHS, is fundamental to the government's reforms for joint working between health and social care services.A spokesman for the programme, which is part of the NHS, said: "The sharing of key clinical records beyond the local GP practice will enable improved patient safety, as clinicians involved in the subsequent care of that patient will have access to key health information important for the diagnosis and care of the patient."He said "summary information" from the GP consultation would automatically be extracted and transferred to the  national record.
Macworldhas some detail on how the new device works. No sign of it on Apple's UK website yet, though...Meanwhile,Apple Insiderhas some interesting stuff from the Wall Street Journal's All Things Digital conference."Apple CEO Steve Jobs made a number of interesting statements. Most notably, Jobs confirmed that Apple had designed its own PDA device, but canned the project just prior to bringing it to market.Unfashionably, I suspect, I think that was a damned sensible move...
Born at the height of the dotcom boom, Britain's e-university is currently being buried with as much decorum as the education establishment can muster. Next week the board of the Higher Education Funding Council for England (Hefce) will be discussing what can be salvaged from the wreck of the &#163;62m project as more damning evidence comes to light about the policies and management of UKeU, the company running the scheme.The episode is not just an embarrassment for the government, which hoped to emulate Labour's earlier achievement of the Open University through online education on a global scale, but raises questions as to why the funding council failed to act sooner. For Education Guardian has learned that two years ago, a senior UKeU executive warned that the company was running into trouble in its efforts to build a "world-beating" platform for online study. "Whilst the current offering may beat most worlds, Earth is not included," wrote Professor John Slater, who had been interim director of the e-university project.His cogent warning in May 2002 that the universities were "restless" about the shortcomings of the platform being developed with Sun Microsystems and urging a change of strategy to use an off-the-shelf platform, did nothing to change the company's direction and would not have been seen by the Hefce board or its officials. But should the funding council not have picked up on the restlessness among the universities and intervened at an earlier stage?The idea of an e-university to bring the best of British higher education to students around the world was proclaimed by David Blunkett, then education secretary, in a speech at Greenwich in February 2000, but it went through various permutations before being put into practice. At first, universities - or consortia of higher education institutions - were invited to bid to host the proposed institution.An enthusiastic supporter like Professor Tim O'Shea, now principal of Edinburgh University, predicted that the e-university could become the biggest in the world, with millions of   students. It would need proper funding - of about &#163;120m - but he assumed much of the money would come from the private sector.In the event, the e-university, atwww.ukeuniversitiesworldwide.com, had signed up only 900 students by the time Hefce pulled the plug, and it never attracted any private money.After more than a year of debate, Hefce decided to set up a company - UKeU - to market online degrees from any British university and to sort out the technology involved. The company was overseen by a board chaired by Sir Anthony Cleaver and a holding company board chaired by Sir Brian Fender, former head of Hefce and vice-chancellor of Keele.In March 2002 John Beaumont joined as chief executive. He had been a professor at Stirling and Bath, but he talked the language of business - "end users" rather than students. Installed in a comfortable office near Buckingham Palace, he spoke enthusiastically about the project. "The whole idea should be 'win-win' for UK universities and ourselves - it has to be a real partnership." he told Education Guardian in April that year.The company's strategy was to come up with an integrated service that would help universities develop online courses, to provide the technology to run and deliver e-learning to students around the world, and to market the courses abroad. To do this, Beaumont was convinced it needed a "world-beating" platform, developed with Sun Microsystems.Developing a platform from scratch means it is custom built, but is inherently riskier and more expensive - especially as constant updating and improvement is needed to keep up with the competition. That continuous development depends on having a   reasonably sized customer base generating income; it would be no good having a single university, however brilliant, using the platform.At first it looked as though the Open University and London University's external degree programme, which would bring in 100,000 students between them, would use the new platform, but they soon drew back from involvement. At this point Slater, a former professor of computer studies at Kent, with considerable experience of large computer systems, urged a change of course to use an off-the-shelf system such as Blackboard or WebCT of the kind which universities were already using, or at least to prepare a back-up if, as turned out to be the case, Sun could not deliver a fully functioning platform in time."The idea of us having to pay a lot of money for a minimal system with holes is unappealing. We need to sort this out and this may take time and we mustn't be railroaded as has happened in the past," he wrote in an internal memo."There is little sense in which the proposed system can be described as world-beating," he added before listing a series of functions so far omitted, ranging from chatrooms to "almost all assessment including the bits that matter" and "non-rudimentary" content development. "The system will look very poor when compared with Blackboard or Nathan Bodington."Slater noted that Northumbria University, which had been touted as a major customer by Sun, had decided to go with Blackboard, which had "a new (rather good) release, a new aggressive modified approach to pricing and a growing market share. Blackboard now runs fairly well on Sun hardware and has acquired many of the features that we defined as worldbeating."Including Blackboard as a fallback for the January 2003 launch of the first courses would make most of the universities very happy, he judged. "The proposed launch spec is unattractive and the HEIs &#91;higher education institutions&#93; are restless. To be able to say that Blackboard is a fallback will make negotiations much easier in the next couple of months," said Slater.He was not advocating giving up the Sun development at this stage, but UKeU needed urgently to put a plausi ble fallback in place. Slater's advice was ignored and within a couple of months he had resigned.In January 2003 UKeU announced that it would be recruiting more home students, as well as pursuing overseas markets. By this time the dotcom crash had been mirrored in the academic world, where several universities in the US got their fingers burnt financially. Beaumont remained sanguine   about the risks of his venture. "E-learning has deservedly had a poor reputation. It has been poor in structural design and service support. We're going to sort this out," he said at the time. However, the first three courses were not launched until September 2003.Staff at the company were well aware that what universities wanted was sales and marketing help to break into overseas markets. However more than   &#163;20m, a third of the total funds, was ploughed into developing the platform. "Most universities didn't want that because they already had their own provision," said one. He judged UKeU could have bought an existing platform off the shelf for "a few hundred thousand".Staff who talked to the Guardian felt universities had been left in the lurch, but still believed the concept of the e-university would have been viable if it had been better managed. "With properly structured marketing, there was enough money to keep it going for 10 years," said a former employee. Staff complained of the lack of focus in the company's marketing efforts - a criticism endorsed by the consultants called in at the end of last year. Staff also complained of the chief executive's "autocratic" management style.The failure to recruit more than 900 online students by the second year, as against a target of over 5,000, did not prevent Beaumont earning a &#163;45,000 bonus on top of his &#163;180,000 salary - but it did prompt Hefce to send in consultants. The report by PA Consulting Group in December 2003 was damning about the "lack of focus" in management and about marketing based "more on optimism than market-led judgments".The report said the attempt to develop a complete e-learning chain was "very challenging", and in effect questioned the point of Beaumont's strategy. "UKeU are probably right in claiming that no other provider offers the full range of e-learning services in this way. But it is not clear how they are generating and exploiting competitive advantages from this capability."We have not seen evidence that customers recognise benefits from access to a one-stop service provider, and our discussions with UK universities have suggested that they regard the eU &#91;e-university&#93; as primarily a marketing vehicle."The consultants added: "We have concerns that the broad spread of UKeU's business proposition, and the related market opportunities, has led to a lack of focus in their planning and management activities."This concern is accentuated by the lack of a documented business strategy for the eU, that shows what business(es) and markets it aims to be in, what it aims to achieve in those areas, the strategies it has considered for realising those aims, and the reasoning and justifications for the approaches adopted. In short, where and how will the eU make money?" The consultants doubted whether UKeU could become self-sustaining by 2008 as it planned.Sir Anthony Cleaver then wrote to Sir Howard Newby, chief executive of Hefce, praising UKeU's "considerable achievement" and denying there was any sensible alternative to the approach UKeU had adopted in developing an integrated service."While individual universities have had different initial objectives in working with us, it is clear that our whole strategy is necessarily dependent on our ability to provide a total solution from student enrolment through course development to interactive delivery to students around the world."Some universities, particularly   those who have already developed courses on their own platforms, are additionally looking for marketing support, but then are committed to transferring to our platform, both because of its function and because of its scalability."Others have not previously developed e-learning courses and are using our platform from the beginning. All those involved with the specification of our platform were in agreement that there were no alternatives available which addressed all the areas that we have to support in order to meet our given objective 'to deliver the best of UK higher education online across the world' ."In fact, according to staff at UKeU, only 215 of the 900 students recruited were actually using the platform - the others stayed with the systems, used by their universities.Cleaver accepted the costs were high but stated: "We must repeat that we believe there was no alternative to developing an integrated platform if we were to meet the government's objective in creating UKeU." He defended the company's marketing and said decisions on which countries to target were constantly revised "as we develop our market intelligence". Thailand had not looked promising initially, for instance, but was now in their sights and Vietnam could be a big long-term opportunity.Far from accepting criticism, Cleaver then asked Hefce for an additional &#163;15m and told Newby: "We look forward to your continuing support."Newby offered the support of the noose to the condemned man. The action of the funding council when it came was robust and decisive. In March the Hefce board announced that UKeU would be scrapped in its present form while discussions took place about how to salvage parts of the enterprise, such as an e-learning research centre and the successful eChina initiative, under which the two countries share information about the use of the net. Next week's board meeting is expected to name which universities will take over these activitites.Neither Beaumont nor Cleaver were available for comment last week; since March all press inquiries have been channelled through Hefce.Sun Microsystems declined to comment ahead of next week's board meeting, which will also discuss the sale of the platform it developed. A Hefce spokesman said there had been expressions of interest and bids would be invited.In a statement to the Guardian, Hefce said: "The intention in creating a new e-learning platform was to provide a facility which would be tailored to meet the specific needs of the UK HE community. Feedback from the sector showed there wasn't a platform available at the time that could fully meet these needs. Hefce had planned to review the project from the outset and it did this by commissioning an independent review in December 2003."The dream of taking the best of British higher education to the world has ended in an embarrassing closing down sale.
Computer group Apple is expected to launch the long-awaited European version of its popular US digital download service iTunes next week.The technology has been credited with kick-starting the record industry's fightback against piracy and falling sales. Industry sources believe iTunes will launch in Britain on June 15.Music downloading could be the salvation of the outdated Top of the Pops and other chart shows that rely on sales of singles, or a combination of sales and radio airplay, to gauge tracks' popularity.An official download chart is expected to start in autumn, a possible precursor to digital tracks being included in the official UK Top 40. Record chiefs hope the move will revive the troubled singles chart.Apple, notoriously secretive when it comes to announcing new products and services, has   called a press conference for that date, claiming that "the biggest story in music is about to get even bigger".In the US, iTunes has sold more than 70m tracks in a year after Apple chief executive Steve Jobs called on record firms to license more of their catalogue for digital download. He intervened to ensure fans could buy Hotel California by The Eagles, his favourite band, through the online store.Its clear pricing structure, with all tracks costing 99 cents, and extensive catalogue have been credited with helping to wean customers from free peer-to-peer download services such as Kazaa.The record industry has blamed illegal downloading and physical piracy for a calamitous drop in global sales.Apple's iTunes Europe will have to contend with more competition than when it launched in the US since the relaunched Napster has beaten it to market.
Microsoft, the world's largest software company, yesterday revealed that it held merger talks with German software rival SAP in what would have been the US group's biggest ever acquisition.SAP, which is two places below Microsoft in the global software rankings, has a market capitalisation of about &#163;28bn. This is about the same amount as Microsoft's cash pile of $50bn (&#163;27bn).A deal would have reshaped the software market by dramatically increasing Microsoft's interest in corporate software.The Seattle-based software group and SAP broke with long-standing policies of not commenting on any merger or acquisition talks yesterday to pre-empt revelations at a court hearing in the US.Rival Oracle, which is fight ing an attempt by the US department of justice to block a hostile bid for one of its other competitors, Peoplesoft, had obtained information about the Microsoft/SAP merger talks as part of its pre-trial discovery. It is expected to argue that such a merger would overturn its own dominant market position.The department of justice, which brought the trial, has argued that Oracle's proposed acquisition would stifle com petition in the market for corporate software, which is dominated by Oracle, SAP and Peoplesoft.In a statement released yesterday, Microsoft revealed that it had initiated preliminary discussions with SAP "late last year". It ended these discussions a few months ago "due to the complexity of the potential transaction and subsequent integration".Instead, the two agreed to deeper integration in an an nouncement last month in which they formed a joint development partnership for internet services and reached a pact on cross-licensing patents.Microsoft said yesterday that it had no intention of resuming the takeover talks.Though the talks broke down in the spring without getting beyond a preliminary stage, relations between the two remain cordial.At a recent press briefing SAP's chief executive, Henning Kagermann, said his group and Microsoft were "very good partners and will be in the future".Mr Kagermann sought to play down the disclosure last night. "SAP, like all publicly held corporations, routinely evaluates potential opportunities to strengthen its leading position in the enterprise software market and the disclosure ... should be interpreted in this way."Wall Street analysts were unsurprised that the talks had taken place. Nathan Schneiderman, analyst at Webush Morgan Securities, said: "Companies in the software industry, they all talk to each other all the time."Torsten Schellscheidt, software analyst at WestLB, believed the companies had done the right thing in ending the talks. "For SAP it would have made little sense."Integrating the technology would have been very complicated."The bid talks are part of Microsoft's strategy to lessen its dependence on its Windows operating system and increase its exposure to selling software to small and medium-sized firms, particularly in Europe.SAP, which was founded by five former IBM executives in 1972, employs more than 29,000 people in 50 countries and is quoted on the Frankfurt and New York stock markets.
"The effort is believed to be the biggest scheme of its kind by an Internet service provider (ISP) to bar its customers from child porn sites. It comes as law enforcement officials around the globe step up pleas to the industry for help. BT announced it would be installing an elaborate software filter to block access to a list of suspected child porn sites. The 'block list' will be compiled by watchdog group Internet Watch Foundation and vetted by the Home Office," reportsReuters."The scheme, known as Cleanfeed, began as a trial on Monday and will be made available to BT's base of one million retail customers in the coming weeks, the company said."
And suddenly, Apple started making interesting announcements again - two in one day! This time, it's a new wireless gadget that appears to be the much needed, long-awaited digital bridge between iTunes and your hi-fi, as well as a handy portable wireless hub for... ahem... yourhotel room? (Maybe someone should tell Apple execs that few us get to stay in hotel rooms big enough to require WiFi...). Anyway - from the press release:"Apple today unveiled AirPort Express, the world's first 802.11g mobile base station that can be plugged directly into the wall for wireless Internet connections and USB printing, or thrown into a laptop bag to bring wireless freedom to hotel rooms with broadband connections. AirPort Express also features analog and digital audio outputs that can be connected to a stereo and  AirTunes music networking software which works seamlessly with iTunes,  giving users a simple and inexpensive way to wirelessly stream iTunes music on their Mac or PC to any room in the house. AirPort Express features a single piece ultra-compact design weighing just 6.7 ounces, and will be available to Mac and PC users starting in July for just 99 (inc VAT).'AirPort Express isn't just the world's first mobile 802.11g base stationwith the addition of AirTunes users can now play their iTunes music on any stereo in their home - all without wires,' said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO. 'This innovative Apple product will appeal to both notebook users who want wireless freedom in their hotel rooms and to music lovers who want to listen to their iTunes music library on a stereo located anywhere in their home.'"Mmm. Yes please.
Reutersreports that Apple seems ready to launch the iTunes music store (iTMS) in Europe next Tuesday. The company has issued invites for a press conference that day in London, hinting only that "the biggest story in music is about to get even bigger".It'll certainly be interesting to see what happens to iTunes on this side of the pond. While it pretty much had the US market to itself when it launched, over here there is substantially more competition  partly because it's taken so long for iTMS to cross the Atlantic.The Reuters piece over-states the threat posed by the OD2 services that are, IMHO, no match for iTMS because of their limited catalogues and often cruddy user interfaces. More of a threat is the superbNapsterservice, which offers a better choice of downloads than the OD2 services and - here's the clincher - a subscription model for desk jockeys looking for a soundtrack while they work, plus a bunch of unique playlist-sharing functions.Unless Apple does something radical, iTMS won't offer that when it arrives here. Will its incredibly strong brand - an exclusive compatibility with the iPod - be enough to make it top dog?
Children are confused about the dangers posed by using the internet with some believing it puts them at risk of catching HIV or being abducted by aliens, according to research published today.Schools should do more to address such false and exaggerated fears about the internet, which may prevent some children from exploiting its benefits, said researchers from the University of London's institute of education (IoE).Scare stories about children meeting murderers and paedophiles online may lead parents to curtail internet access, which deprives children of its educational opportunities and prevents them from learning how to deal with common problems, such as false online advertising, said the IoE's director, Andrew Burn.Some children confused paedophiles with hackers or thought they sent viruses via "spam" or junk emails, the IoE's centre for the study of children, youth and media found.Teaching children to think critically and behave responsibly when using the internet enabled them to gauge what risks the technology really poses, and how to handle those problems, said the researchers.They compared what six classes of pupils aged eight to 18 at a primary and secondary school considered to be the dangers they face online before and after completing a programme on safe and responsible internet use already used elsewhere in the European Union (EU).Before taking the lessons, the children reported that the internet could put them at risk from bomb-making, blackmail, HIV, asylum seekers, aliens and blindness. But afterwards, they demonstrated a more "sophisticated" understanding of the dangers, from hidden costs when shopping to paedophilia and computer viruses.Mr Burn said: "The risks of the internet are often exaggerated to the detriment of the opportunities."We teach children to be critically appreciative of films, newspapers and computer games. This same media literacy needs to apply when they go online."The IoE called for UK schools to teach the EU education programme, known as Educaunet, which is used in Belgium, France, Austria, Portugal, Denmark and Greece. The researchers concluded that the programme helped pupils to develop "a more rational and better conceptual understanding of risks on the internet".Liz Butterfield, director of New Zealand's NetSafe group, which works with the country's government to provide "cybersafety" education to the whole population, said children need to know about responsible internet use before they go to school."We're working with the New Zealand ministry of education on early years education. We're hearing of two-year-olds using the internet on their own," she said.Ms Butterfield, who has advised UK education, law enforcement and children protection agencies, said children often did not report problems they encountered online due to fears that their parents would withdraw access to the technology.She said: "It's hard for many adults to understand what an integral part of kids' social lives the internet and mobile phones are. We know of children owning two mobile phones so they can do simultaneous texting. One kid told me he sends 3,000 texts a month."Children don't report concerns about bullying via text and email because they're worried that the technology will be taken away from them. So we need to get safety messages across to the children and the adults in their lives."
A new website that allows voters to search and annotate the text of parliamentary debates has been launched by a team of volunteer programmers.The site, calledTheyworkforyou.com, was unveiled at yesterday's NotCon conference in London, and is the fruit of nine months' work by a loose group of e-democracy activists.The group says its aim is to breathe new life into Hansard - the 200-year-old daily public record of debates in parliament that has, so far, been required reading for political journalists and university researchers but precious few else.The new site aims to bring more information to voters who may not even know the name of their MP, or their constituency, "let alone what their MP does or says in their name".It does this by "scraping" the content of the official Hansard website shortly after it comes online every weekday morning at 8am, allowing short passages to be accessed almost instantly, and interlinking those speeches and questions to be tallied against the records of individual MPs. Users can also annotate each speech, question or answer with their comments.In a statement on the site, organisers say they "aim to help bridge this growing democratic disconnect, in the belief that there is little wrong with parliament that a healthy mixture of transparency and public engagement won't fix".Theyworkforyou.com lists short biographies of all 659 MPs and shows their interests, voting records and other performance data pulled from a variety of websites, including Guardian Unlimited. But it is the way that users can search all parliamentary debates and written answers that is the site's main innovation.The project has been funded by a 3,000 grant from the charity UK Citizens Online Democracy, and thousands of programming hours donated by the volunteers in their free time. The site is "open source" - meaning that the software architecture has also been made available for other programmers to adapt and annotate.The list of volunteers reads like a who's who of Britain's nascent e-democracy scene. Tom  Loosemore is part of the team behind the successfulFaxYourMPsite. Other members of the group have produced a roll call of e-democracy and "social software" sites such asUpMyStreet.com, thePublic Whipand the recentDowning Street Says, which allows users to read summaries briefings and add comments to the lobby briefings given twice daily by the prime minister's official spokesman."It's taken nine months, but we think we've fixed it," says Loosemore, who unveiled the new site yesterday.  "It is a small effort to reconnect parliament and Westminster with their electorate, but an incredibly important one.""There is a lot that's right about our democracy," says Loosemore. "But what's wrong with it is that it doesn't always move fast enough. It is the job of people like us to build tools that show - and not just say - what you can do with the web."We hope that there is a desire to engage more meaningfully with the parliamentary process and we hope the site will allow all the wonderful tools that have emerged via blogging over the last few years to really bring the syndication of parliament to life."We hope that the site will also allow a whole raft of new people to be able to syndicate what is a vital public record much more widely throughout the UK."The group hopes to avoid problems over copyright on the contents of Hansard, claiming that the site "scrapes" the contents of the record in just the same way that commercial search engines such as Google routinely "cache" data from third party websites to make them easier and quicker to search.But Loosemore admitted that the site - which has enjoys neither assistance nor permission from Hansard - could yet prove controversial. "We are moving towards legality," he said.An electronic version of Hansard has been online since 1997, but critics - many of whom collaborated on the project - have said that it proved a less valuable resource because many of its entries are so long. A typical Hansard page often runs to tens of thousands of words, making it is difficult for the online community to link to specific passages within the debate without sending their readers to huge, and often mostly irrelevant, web pages.
Most of us are aware of the threat from terrorists, but how many are ready for a cyber-attack that could eliminate our worldly wealth?There are many ways this could happen, including:&#183;destruction of all electronic records;&#183;electrical and telecommunications wipeout;&#183;localised hacking or data destruction and tampering.It is not inconceivable that unless you have your own up-to-date records, a cyber-terrorist attack could, at best, seriously inconvenience you, or at worst, permanently gobble up your cash.Imagine after such an attack you have urgent need for a couple of hundred pounds. You cannot get any cash out of an automatic teller machine because the   network has been wiped out and there is no record of you having a bank account, let alone whether you have anything in it.You have no paper proof because you've thrown all your statements away and even if you have a CD or a tape with all your records scanned in, you cannot get to it because the electricity supply is off and the four-hour battery on your laptop has long since gone flat.Your protestations that you have just paid off your mortgage or, just before the attack, electronically transferred a lump sum from your current account into your individual savings account falls on deaf ears.Financial institutions could find themselves, in the case of prolonged or permanent loss of records, presented with hordes of people who claim to have been multimillionaires.Without your own personal records, proving you should have &#163;10,000 in the bank rather than &#163;100, will be near impossible.The White House takes the threat seriously. It has already said Osama bin Laden's cohorts are interested in cyber-warfare and have expertise in the area.But the Tory Shadow Minister for Economic Affairs, Michael Fabricant, who believes Britain is a 'prime target' for cyberterrorism, says the UK government does not take the threat seriously enough and is 'inviting trouble'.He says it is all very well banks mirroring their databases, but a cyber-attack could wipe out the backups as well or prevent them from being accessed, even if for a short time.The Home Office insists it is addressing the issue and formed the National Infrastructure Security Co-ordination Centre (NISCC) in 1999 as a single point of contact on electronic attack.But a Home Office spokesman admits: 'The US has put more money into this issue but this reflects the greater dependence that the US has on interconnected systems. It is for companies to take responsibility for IT protection and security issues themselves.'Financial Services Authority (FSA) regulations require banks to have robust continuity plans in place and the Treasury has established a 'Memorandum of Understanding' with the Bank of England and the FSA providing a framework for co-operation in the area of financial stability.Anthony Foy, group managing director of disaster recovery specialist and data centre provider Interxion, claims financial institutions are 'streets ahead' of other industries in protecting and planning for cyberterrorist attacks.But Simon Hills, a director in the risk and regulation team at the British Bankers' Association, says: 'Realistically, it is impossible to know what might happen in the event of a major cyber-attack on Britain. Banks recognise that they are highly dependent on information technology and communication systems and are constantly   testing them to ensure resilience.'He believes the likelihood of a bank permanently losing a customer's details are 'small', but emphasises it is good practice for individuals to maintain proper records of all their financial assets and hold them in a safe place or with a solicitor.Not everyone is good at maintaining their own records. Norwich Union, for example, says about 25 per cent of customers misplace important documents.Michael Wolf, marketing director of IT Global Services Group, a specialist network security PR company, agrees that people rely too much on financial institutions keeping records for them. Foy says banks are implementing online data backup-and-restore systems which transmit data across the internet in 'real time' and house it in secure off-  site locations. 'This means a terrorist attack in one country will not result in total data loss for the organisation,' he says.But Mark Ellery, business operations director of Hitachi Data Systems, which provides data storage solutions to banks, says even though electronic copies of bank statements may be held at various sites across the globe 'it is possible for sophisticated cyber-attacks to spread like wildfire across an organisation's entire computer system. Anything that's linked up could be affected'.Julian Dean, managing director of Thinking SAFE, a company specialising in computer backup and storage, says the public need to ask the question: 'If I had to lose all my credit cards tomorrow how would I cope for a week? Do I have cash available as a buffer for a few days?'Details to keep safe&#183;Bank/building society branch, sort code and account numbers&#183;Lender, branch and reference numbers for any loans including mortgages, HP agreements&#183;Pension provider and policy number&#183;Insurance providers and policy numbers&#183;Tax and National Insurance reference numbers&#183;Numbers of premium savings bonds and national savings certificates or accounts&#183;Company, holding and registrars of any shares held&#183;Details of any other financial or business interests, including tax payments&#183;Cash till and paying-in receipts&#183;Cheque book stubs, savings books, TV licence&#183;Policy bonus notices and share dividend records&#183;Bank and credit card statements&#183;Property transactions, rent payment receipts, rent books, correspondence&#183;Account passwords and Pins (separate from each other)&#183;Keep copies in a sealed envelope with someone you trust
British Telecom has taken the unprecedented step of blocking all illegal child pornography websites in a crackdown on abuse online. The decision by Britain's largest high-speed internet provider will lead to the first mass censorship of the web attempted in a Western democracy.The move, previously thought to be at the limits of technical possibilities of the internet and prohibitively expensive, was given the personal backing of BT chairman Sir Christopher Bland at a board meeting last month after intense pressure from children's charities.Known as Cleanfeed, the project has been developed in consultation with the Home Office and will go live by the end of the month, The Observer can reveal. Other major players in the internet market, such as Energis and Thus, which owns rival Demon Internet, are said to be preparing to block banned sites.Subscribers to British Telecom's internet services such as BTYahoo and BTInternet who attempt to access illegal sites will receive an error message as if the page was unavailable. BT will register the number of attempts but will not be able to record details of those accessing the sites.A list of illegal sites compiled by the Internet Watch Foundation, the industry's watchdog, has been available for some time, but until now there has been no way to prevent people accessing them because most are based outside the UK.The initiative would not have been possible a year ago, but improvements in computer processing speeds means that the company is now able to block websites, offensive pages and even individual images of abuse.The move is the brainchild of John Carr, internet adviser to children's charity NCH, who wrote to Home Office Minister Paul Goggins last July urging action on paedophile websites after a successful campaign to block internet newsgroups (electronic message boards which paedophiles used to share images of children). Goggins approached internet providers last September to ask them to investigate if it would be possible. At first they were resistant, but BT came back to the Home Office last month to announce early tests of Cleanfeed had been successful.Blocking websites is highly controversial and until now has been associated only with   oppressive regimes such as Saudi Arabia and China, which have censored sites associated with dissidents. But many in the field of child protection believe that the explosion of paedophile sites justifies the crackdown.'British Telecom deserve to be congratulated on this bold move,' Carr said. 'I expect every other service provider will now look at what they are doing to see if they can achieve a similar result.'Pierre Danon, chief executive of BT Retail, added: 'You are always caught between the desire to tackle child pornography and freedom of information. But I was fed up with not acting on this and always being told that it was techically impossible.'
On Friday,The New York Times[free reg req'd] claimed that Sun was going to make its Solaris (Unix) operating system open source, following "the same free distribution strategy promoted by the developers of Linux." The technical term for this is "horse manure". However,E-Commerce Timesprobably got closest to the truth:"The strange goings-on within Sun began during its quarterly update meeting in Shanghai on Wednesday. Sun executive vice president of software John Loiacono and newly appointed COO Jonathan Schwartz seemed to confirm the eagerly awaited announcement that Sun would open source its license for Solaris, its highly touted operating system.After first denying it, the company later issued this statement: "At SunNetwork Shanghai, Jonathan Schwartz and John Loiacono discussed Sun's intentions to create a rich, open environment around its enterprise-class Solaris Operating System. At this time, Sun is in the process of soliciting customer feedback in refining various aspects of the project and is not discussing additional information, such as launch timing, licensing models or other details."In other words, Sun is trying to find a way to get the open source community to support Solaris without actually making it open source, and especially not by making it open source like Linux, ie by releasing the code under the GPL. The most likely model is Java, which also is not open source.There's nothing wrong with that as a strategy, of course. But Sun should already know that it is not going to get away with talkiing the talk if it doesn't also walk the walk.
"A rocket ship financed by Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen is expected to attempt reaching suborbital space on June 21 in Mojave, Calif. If successful, it would be the first private spaceship to leave the earth's atmosphere," reports theSeattle Times."The rocket, called SpaceShipOne, was designed and built by Scaled Composites, a Mojave company founded by Burt Rutan. Rutan, the team leader for the project, became famous for building a privately funded airplane that in 1986 made the first flight around the world without refueling."
Back in February, at the annual mobile phone industry shindig 3GSM World Congress in Cannes, a representative from Motorola told me that in January and February the fastest selling mobile phone in the UK was the Motorola A835 3G handset.I took this with a huge pinch of salt. I knew the A835 to be a bulky, rather industrial-looking handset sold exclusively through 3G network Three. Sure, there were signs of a mini revival of interest in 3G handsets. But the A835 outselling Nokia and Sharp seemed highly improbable.Earlier this week Charles Dunstone CEO of the Carphone Warehouse released figures which showed that the man from Motorola might not have been embellishing the facts as much as I'd thought.In reporting a pre-tax profit of 76m, up 33.8 per cent, for the year ended 27 March 2004, Dunstone cited "the rapid increase in the volume of our 3G connections since the start of 2004" as a major boost to the retailer. He added that 3G connections and handsets currently make up 25 per cent of Carphone Warehouse post-pay sales, a massive increase from just five per cent in January.With such positive signs coming from the UK's leading phone retailer you would have thought that the next company expected to launch its 3G services in the UK, Vodafone, would be desperate to gets it handsets to the stores.Yet, strangely, while Vodafone has announced its consumer 3G services in Germany, Spain, Portugal and Italy, it has kept rather quiet about its plans for the UK. 
The awful irony for Vodafone, and indeed rivals Orange, T-Mobile and O2, is that when it does launch consumer 3G in the UK, it could have its work cut out competing with Three.Let's not be under any illusions. So far Three's empire has been built on its ultra competitive pricing strategy for its voice calls - not on consumer demand for its advanced 3G applications.It would be a huge gamble for Vodafone, or its rivals, to offer similar prices on its 3G services bearing in mind the backlash it will face from customers who will most likely be paying more on GPRS.So if competing on price is a non-starter, surely Vodafone with its worldwide network, can deliver the most desirable 3G handsets.Not so. In its other European territories Vodafone's hero 3G handset is the Samsung Z105. Compared with the Beckham-approved GX30 mega pixel camera phone it looks like a relic from a previous era. It isn't a bad phone yet it is still much larger and less well featured than its rivals from Three.And while Three's early handsets were notoriously large, unreliable and battery hungry, now its portfolio of phones looks quite impressive. Carphone Warehouse was reported to have been selling in the region of 10,000 of Nokia's 3G handsets - the unusual tear-shaped 7600 - per week. Newer models from NEC have been well received while the latest handset, LG's 8110, is the first 3G mobile that's around the same size as a standard GPRS phone.Vodafone also can't compete with Three in terms of its network. Earlier in the year it promised 60% coverage of the UK population by autumn. But just like Three, that network is almost certainly going to take a year or so to start functioning in a way that consumer would expect it too.As many who have used Vodafone's 3G card for laptops have discovered, its 3G network works well when it works, but a 3G signal isn't always available in even in places where it should be strong such as central London.So that leaves content as Vodafone's last potential trump card. Optimists in the industry have talked excitedly about a re-branding of its Vodafone Live! service complete with added video applications. But does anyone really know what sort of 3G content users actually want anyway?Vodafone's best bet has to be to tap into the football fan market, where it has wrapped up the right to stream Premiership goals to handsets minutes after they have scored.Yet while this could draw a number of both hardcore and armchair supporters, the downside for Vodafone is that Three has inked a similar deal and is likely to offer an identical service.Another possibility for Vodafone in the UK would be to follow its Italian sister network and offer clips from TV programmes. Yet, judging by Three's experience in its video download/streaming service, there doesn't seem to be a huge demand for this type of feature. Besides, Three could quite easily offer a similar service if it thought it were a real money-spinner.Vodafone has also tied up a deal with Sony to offer music video and enhanced ringtones. But it has so far not committed to offering downloading of music tracks over the air direct to mobile phones like its rival O2.That pretty much leaves person-to-person video calling as its supposed killer application for 3G. Yet, other than grandparents anxious to have raspberries blown at them by their offspring's toddlers, demand for video calling seems pretty much non-existent.In short, unless the company has some amazing rabbit to pull out of its hat, it seems that Vodafone has no really compelling reasons to present to consumers to upgrade to 3G.Its only card appears to be the brand itself. The subliminal message has to be that "while an upstart network (Three) offered you limited 3G services, only a trusted established network like us (Vodafone) can deliver it properly."The trouble is if Vodafone does botch the launch its brand may take a knock.Perhaps Vodafone is going to take a low-key approach and wait until next year when its network is fully formed and all its glitches ironed out before it really takes Three. Then again, that was the reason phone industry analysts gave for the cancellation of its planned 3G launch for summer 2003.Although Three has enjoyed a strong start to 2004, it is still way off spending the enormous sums of money Hutchison invested in Three in the first place. It is a sign of how the company is still perceived that last week - when rumours flooded the business community that Hutchison were going to sell the business - the news was not only take seriously, but forced a strongly-worded denial of the rumours from the company's chief executive.I am sure in the long run 3G services will establish themselves. The handsets will become more desirable, the networks more efficient and someone will come up with a killer application (maybe push-to-talk?) for 3G.Until then, selling 3G to consumers without the carrot of cheap voice calls could be a real struggle.
Stelios Haji-Ioannou has put the leading branch of his internet cafes up for sale, and said that other sites will follow over the next five years.The EasyJet founder is selling the lease of the Oxford Street outlet of the EasyInternetcaf&#233; chain, having been advised it could make "a sizeable premium", understood to be about &#163;100,000 a year.The 5,700sq ft building, which has 20 years remaining of its 25-year lease, is thought to cost &#163;425,000 in rent.The company said it would review its four other London "megastores" - including one on Trafalgar Square - "from time to time as the property market hots up".The business, which has about 70 stores in nine countries, will increase its focus on concessions inside high street retailers, including Burger King, McDonald's, Sainsbury's and post offices.Since its creation five years ago, EasyInternetcaf&#233; has made losses of about &#163;100m. The increase in households and offices subscribing to broadband internet access has hit demand.
Tech luminary Brewster Kahle, pictured, is one of the big draws at this weekend'sNotConin London. The conference, organised by those lovely folks behind things likeNTKandMySocietyis intended as "some sort of answer to all those cutting-edge technological get-togethers they're always having in the USA". It's at theImperial College Union, 11am - 7pm on Sunday.They've certainly got a good lineup, and if it's anything like thelast timethere was something like this in town it should be a scream. Apart from Brewster - founder of the remarkableInternet Archive- there's author andCreative Commonsactivist Cory Doctorow, who's worth the entrance money alone (it's 4, 3 if you're a concession). Ian Clarke, architect of theFreenetpeer-to-peer community will be speaking, and there's the unveiling of a new "e-democracy" project from the people behindFaxyourmp.com.Dave Green, who's helping organise the event, also advises that there will be "wireless internet access, and a bar, and the kind of people who actually ask for them in that order".Can't wait. See y'all there?
"Online porn sites get about three times more visits than the top Web search engines, including market leader Google, a research firm said Thursday. Visits to the top three Web search engines  which virtually dominate their sector  accounted for 5.5% of all Internet visits by U.S. users during the week ending May 29, said Hitwise, a California-based company that tracks such activity."During that time, Google garnered 2.7% of all Web visits while Yahoo Search and MSN Search received 1.7% and 1.1% respectively, Bill Tancer, vice president of research at Hitwise, toldReuters."
"Sony this week said it will stop developing and selling new handheld digital assistants in the United States this year, leaving a declining market and striking a blow to PalmSource, whose software powers the devices," reportsReuters."The move will likely shrink the number of new handhelds that need the Palm operating system made by PalmSource, which counts Sony as its second biggest licensee after palmOne."Comment: Just to be clear, Sony told the FT that: "Sony is taking this time to examine the conventional PDA business and how it will transition into the future. Product development and sales continue for the Japanese market only." The story is currently available atThe New York Timessite.
MP3 playersiRiver adds colourIt appears that the new must-have feature in hard disk-based music players this summer is a colour screen. iRiver has joined Sony and Archos in unveiling a player with a 2in colour LCD that can be used for displaying digital images. The HD300 series players, which will be available in 20GB(H320 &#163;300) and 40GB (H340 &#163;350) versions, allow users to port images to the player's hard drive from a PC via USB. The players are compatible with a range of music formats including MP3, WMA and Ogg Vorbis. They also feature an integrated FM radio and can double as a voice recorder. Battery life is rated at around 16 hours. Both are scheduled to launch in the UK within the month.www.iriver.comLonger life iPodIf the battery on your Apple iPod needs replacing and you are out of the warranty period you now have a choice of where to send it for an upgrade. British Apple specialist Plug Store is offering to fit a new battery for iPod generation one and two models for &#163;75 (inc VAT), &#163;10 less than Apple charges for its service. The company also promises to turn around the repair in under 24 hours - quicker than the five to10 days offered by Apple. The iPod is returned to its owner via registered post. Newly installed batteries come with a 90-day warranty.www.plugstore.netGetting smallerSamsung is to bring the world's smallest MP3 player (below)to the UK in August. Slightly larger than an AA battery, the YP-T5, which is 5.4cm tall and weighs 24g, will be available in two versions: with 128MB (&#163;100) or 256MB (&#163;150) of storage. The YP-T5 features Windows Media Audio (WMA) playback and can record from external sources, such as a CD player, directly encoding audio as MP3s on the player. It can also moonlight as a voice recorder. In spite of its size, the YP-T5 sports a small LED screen that offers information such as track ID and file navigation.www.samsung.co.ukSoftwarePalm on messageResearch In Motion (RIM) is continuing the rollout of its innovative BlackBerry messaging software across a range of mobile devices. Following agreements with Sony Ericsson and Nokia, the latest company to licence the software - which automatically pushes email to the device - is PalmSource. It is expected to make the Palm OS Mail Client that supports BlackBerry Connect available to Palm OS licensees, which include PalmOne PDAs and smartphones from Samsung and Orange, in the second half of 2004. Owners of top-end PalmOne PDAs, such as the Tungsten T3 and Zire 72, may soon be able to access the internet wirelessly via Wi-Fi. The PDA maker is rumoured to be making an SD/IO Wi-Fi card ready for release in the next few months.www.rim.netwww.palmsource.comwww.palmone.com/ukHome cinemaGetting biggerSamsung is to bring its flagship 80in plasma screen to the UK by the end of the year. Unveiled in January at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, the PS80Y4H was, until the recent unveiling of an 84in screen by Chinese company Skyworth, the largest plasma screen in the world. The screen delivers high-definition images from 2.07m pixels (1,920 x 1,080 progressive scan) - a resolution Samsung claims is twice the clarity of other models on the market today. The screen also features Samsung's proprietary Digital Natural Image engine, which the company claims optimises picture reproduction.www.samsung.co.ukInternetReadin g matterPerformances by artists including the White Stripes and the Darkness at this August's Reading Festival will be available live and archived online - subject to rights clearances - but only for AOL customers. The ISP has bought exclusive audiovisual online rights to the sold-out event, and will be webcasting from both the main stage and a new backstage arena for interviews and acoustic performances. Broadband subscribers will have access to extra tracks. Fans who do not wish to move to AOL will be happy to hear that BBC Radio 1 will broadcast live from the festival for the first time.&lt;A HREF="http://www.aol.com""&gt;www.aol.comCable cutCable company Telewest is offering 256kbps internet access for &#163;12.99 a month for the first year with free installation, if ordered at the same time as its Talk Unlimited voice call service. The internet access price - cheaper than many unlimited use dial-up services, including Telewest's - is only for new customers in Telewest cabled areas, and will rise to &#163;17.99 a month after a year. Talk Unlimited costs &#163;26 a month inclusive of phone line rental and all local and national calls (numbers starting with 01 or 02). The offer closes on June 30, and includes a further discount if ordered online.www.telewest.co.uk/html/internet/blueyonder256.htmStat of the week:UK's internet use growsNielsen NetRating's stats on "active" net users - people who have logged on in a month - finds Switzerland growing strongly in April. The US lost 1.3m users, while the UK gained 351,606 to hit a total of 21m.
SingstarPlayStation2, &#163;39.99, Sony&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Following the success of last year's EyeToy - the ingenious webcam that allows players to appear on TV and in the game - the same developers have brought us Singstar, a karaoke-style game with two microphones. If you have ever sung with a hairbrush, then this is for you. The premise is simple: players sing along to one of 30 tunes with points scored by hitting the right pitch and holding notes for long enough.Crucially the choice of tunes is inspired, with current pop hits mixed in with eclectic classics from Elvis, Motorhead and er, Rick Astley. There's also a single player game of sorts. Budding popsters have to sing for their supper, working their way from club anonymity to stadium giant status. Unfortunately, with only 30 tracks it won't be long before the vocal cords get jaded. Singstar is a polished product. The minimalist presentation oozes class while the mics are weighty and substantial. Like most pop idols, Singstar won't last forever, but it is entertaining.Greg HowsonPerimeterPC, &#163;34.99, KD-Labs/Codemasters&#42;&#42;&#42;Codemasters' reinvention from a purveyor of cheap and nasty Spectrum games in the mid 80s to a respected label continues. And at first glance, Perimeter seems intent on continuing a tradition of busting stale genres wide open; in this case, the moribund   real-time strategy scene. You still have to mine resources and build up armies, but the armies consist of only three types of soldier - which can be combined to form other units. Battles now become guessing games, in which picking the right moment to change form can make a huge difference. Meanwhile, resources are used to maintain your Perimeter - a powerful forcefield that surrounds each generator. Build more generators and your sphere of influence slowly expands across the map. Run out of juice, however, and you're a sitting duck. As a multiplayer concept, it has huge potential. Which is just as well, because the single player game is frustrating. Easy missions are followed by rock-hard ones, introducing new features that don't obey the game's own logic (try figuring out why enemy digger units seem to be deadlier than yours). Perimeter is a genuine attempt at something new, but the single player game feels short of playtesting.Mike AnderieszGalleonXbox, &#163;39.99, Confounding Factor/SCi&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;It has been in the region of six years since Toby Gard - Lara Croft's original creator - left Core Design to pursue a new project: Galleon. In the intervening period, Galleon has gone through several publishers so its high   quality and playability are a surprise - games don't take that long to make unless they are seriously troubled. But Galleon is something of a triumph. It is, of course, an action-adventure game. You play Captain Rhama Sabrier, a seafarer who is handy with his fists and full of gymnastic moves but who is rather squeaky-clean. He embarks on a heavily storylined quest involving leaping, climbing, fighting, puzzle-solving and swimming - all bog-standard (particularly when you consider that, like Tomb Raider, Galleon is single-player only) except that the control system is very clever.Rhama, for example, follows the camera and, as long as you keep him moving slowly, he is guaranteed not to fall off planks or tightropes. Graphically, the cartoon-style characters could have stepped out of Disney, but then, Galleon is designed to appeal to a young audience. The fighting system is nicely judged - you can build up combos with carefully timed button-stabs, but the process never becomes overcomplicated. The environments are superb - underwater areas, for example, are full of sea life, including stinging jellyfish that must be avoided. And the game throws up beguiling touches, such as flat boulders that, when placed over geysers, turn into lifts, and vertical poles which swing authentically when Rhama jumps onto them. Can't wait for your next Lara Croft fix? Be assured, Galleon will keep you from going cold turkey.Steve Boxer
We get all kinds of tedious PR bumf here at Online Towers, but among the dull snaps of newly-appointed Vice Presidents (Procurement) at tech companies you've never heard of, there are some images you really don't mind clogging up your inbox.It's the new "Baby Gaggia" domestic coffee machine, updated and remixed for the digital age. That means, alongside the chrome and steam and stuff, there's "an advanced innovative dosing system" that means all you need to do to brew up is "press the 'Coffee' button and your 'Baby-D' will memorize how to make your favourite cup of coffee." Oh happy day. Let's just hope this isn't the first coffee machine capable of crashing: I'm not sure I could face that before my first cup in the morning.One other problem: I suspect strongly that, even on a web broswer not out the stone age (I'm at work, so it's IE5 on Mac OS 8.2, kids) theirwebsiteis an utter mess. Given geeks and coffee go together like... well, two things that go together very well, maybe they should give some thought to building a half-decent site.After coffee, of course.
It being Thursday, a new edition ofOnlineis out - don't miss Matthew Wall's look at the new old world oforganised crime on the web. Meanwhile, Azeem Azhar iswritingabout the neat economic experiment thrown up by Gmail, Google's email service, and is offering one lucky reader their own Gmail address (value on eBay = around 40).
You can't have failed to notice reports of a major internet crime wave: phishing. This means, as Mike Anderiesz succinctly put it in Online back in January, duping consumers into divulging financial information using spoof websites.Every internet user in Britain must have received a phish by now. You know the form: hello, this is Barclays (or Citibank, or Paypal, or whoever) and we're just checking (or testing, or upgrading...) our security system, so please click on this link and enter your username and password (or card number and PIN...).The link is, of course, not to the bank but to the fraudsters' website. Once the customer enters their details, the fraudsters whisk them away for their own use: this use generally being to loot the bank account as quickly as possible. If the fraudsters send out 10m "Citibank" emails, and 1% of the hapless recipients are Citibank customers, and 1% of them are fooled, the fraudster could gain access to 100 Citibank accounts. It works. Lloyds TSB, NatWest and Barclays have all admitted that accounts have been accessed and money stolen.What is to be done? Phishing is possible because authentication of online services is so weak, consisting of nothing more than basic password authentication. It's just impossible to stop this sort of attack (as in the case of so many   other internet attacks) without better authentication. As Bill Gates said back in 2000 (and I've been saying for the last decade), the industry needs to move to smart cards. At last, it might finally be on the horizon.Banks are spending hundreds of millions of pounds on smart cards for "chip and PIN". As the advertisements ("Security in Numbers") have made clear, chip and PIN is targeted at shops in the real world. But suppose it could be used with your PC, TV or phone as well? And suppose it could be used without having to have a smart card reader in your PC, TV or phone?As it happens, the banks have been developing the specifications for such a solution: it goes by the name of "token authentication". The idea is that your bank would   give you a small device, a bit like a pocket calculator. When you want to connect to your bank online you put your bank card into the calculator and punch in your PIN. The device will generate and display a code number which you then enter into the website or tell the person on the phone. From this number, the bank knows that you had a real card and entered the right PIN. Since you have to have both the card and the PIN, this is known as a "two factor" authentication (as opposed to the "one factor" password).A simple, feasible solution. If industry starts to use the smart cards that are already being deployed, the phishers really will have had their chips.&#183;Dave Birch is a director of Consult Hyperion.
The invisible mobile phone that cost &#163;435The grand idea behind mobile phones was that we should be in contact with the world at any time and any place. Curiously, the only people seemingly unable to grasp this marvellous fact are the mobile phone companies themselves, at least when it comes to their customers. So long as the money keeps rolling in, they appear oblivious to our pleas for a human voice when things go wrong, as they so often seem to. Perhaps in Steve Sanders' case there was a reason since he never got the handset he had paid for.Anxious to benefit from a special offer, he had ordered a phone from T-Mobile, but on the first two occasions that he went to the shop to collect it there was a difficulty and on the third he found it had been given to someone else and there were no more such models available. Eventually he managed to find a T-Mobile branch that would deliver the phone. This store got as far as activating his contract so that direct debits began vanishing from his account to pay for the &#163;75-a-month line rental, but disappointingly, it never got round to supplying the handset.Next, debt collectors began to harass him for unpaid charges when the direct debits bounced. After weeks of fruitless telephone calls, T-Mobile refunded the &#163;485 to which it had helped itself over the past year, but the compensation Sanders said he was promised never arrived, the bank charges incurred when the company had emptied his account were not refunded, and nor did he receive the three months' cashback that was one of the allures of the contract. To this date he has yet to receive the handset he paid so dearly for.T-Mobile's attitude is a strange one. "There is no case of the customer receiving bad customer services," it says blithely, and blames the problems on the non-payment of bills. Yet, it admits that it had to refund Sanders &#163;485, restore his credit rating and get the debt-collection wolves off his back. It didn't, it protests, realise that the handset hadn't arrived, which is why it continued to help itself to Sanders' cash. Sanders is now being told that the &#163;485 was "compensation" rather than a straight refund and that there is nothing more to investigate. The battle continues.When a woman's phone is a man's phoneVivienne Windle of Redbourn, Herts also enjoys cosy relations with T-Mobile's customer service which, it seems, has not yet learned to recognise women as individual citizens. In happier days she had a pay-as-you-go phone with Orange, but, wanting itemised bills so that she could claim   for business calls, she visited Carphone Warehouse (CPW) for advice.The store sold her a new handset, and recommended she sign up to T-Mobile and, since she wanted to keep her old phone number, she was given a code number to make the switch. Alas, when she tried to do this, T-Mobile told her that she was not allowed to since the handset was registered in her husband's name. The shop was blamed, and Windle had to drive back there to sort it out, but the sales assistant could not persuade T-Mobile to amend its details. In any case, Carphone Warehouse had never had any dealings with Windle's husband and, when she checked the computer entry, all her details had been noted correctly.Somehow, T-Mobile had added her new phone to an account her husband had opened via the Link several months before. T-Mobile are refusing to cancel Windle's account even though it is now no use to her since all her bills, and the receipts for the monthly line rental, are sent to her husband.T-Mobile insists that the error must have occurred when Carphone Warehouse called Telereg to process Windle's connection. Since Windle's surname and postcode are the same as her husband's, his account would have flashed up on the database when the company ran a check on her details. Following Consumer's call, Windle has now been reinstated as an independent female.The handset lost in the systemA seductive offer by Vodafone tempted E Pritchard of Swindon to purchase a handset online, and she was told to expect delivery the following day. Impressive efficiency. Only the phone never turned up, so she was given another delivery date. The next two days were spent trying vainly to penetrate Vodafone's answer system, and she eventually ascertained that her phone was lost, although no one had thought to inform her of this. The solution seemed easy enough - a replacement handset - but Vodafone was having none of it.If Pritchard wanted to receive her dues she would have to cancel her   order and start all over again, even though a direct debit had already been set up. The system, she was told, would not allow otherwise. Pritchard then discovered that the delivery fee had already been taken from her account, and that it could not be refunded until Vodafone had traced the missing phone. Presumably its sleuthing has been unsuccessful, since she is still out of pocket.Vodafone's system must forbid old-fashioned correspondence since Pritchard's three letters of complaint went unacknowledged. However, one call to the press office has a marvellous effect. It blames the saga on a "mix-up" and has now sent Pritchard a handset and compensation.The customer with a prima fascia caseWhen Andrew Spencer's mobile stopped ringing while still under warranty he returned it to CPW for repair and was given a temporary (and inferior) replacement. Four weeks later, there was still no sign of his handset, so CPW offered to give him a new one if it wasn't back from the repair shop the following day. It wasn't, but when Spencer asked for the promised replacement he was told that he wasn't entitled to one.His old phone did eventually arrive but minus the keypad, so it was unusable. Since CPW no longer stocked the relevant fascia it offered a second-hand one from a nearby store to tide him over, but the numbers and letters faded after a week. With welcome contrition, CPW credited his account with &#163;90 worth of vouchers which Spencer reckoned was fair compensation for his inconvenience, but then snatched back &#163;30 and deducted the cost of the replacement fascia from the rest.When Spencer asked for the money to be issued as a cheque so he could buy his own fascia, he was told that couldn't be done. The store eventually sourced a new fascia itself and delivered it in a damaged box and after a week this keypad also began fading.CPW denies that the first replacement fascia was second-hand, and says that the &#163;30 was deducted from his compensation payment to enable Spencer to upgrade his phone. It's more than happy to issue the remainder of Spencer's goodwill money as a cheque so he can buy his own keypad (even though he's already had to pay for the faulty one supplied by CPW), and is simply awaiting a call from him before it releases the money.
Ian Watmore does not take up his post as the government's chief information officer until September, but he has already spent at least one day at his new office. He didn't need to ask directions. As managing director of Accenture UK, one of the government's biggest IT contractors, he knows Whitehall.Watmore, 45, was named last week as Britain's first head of e-government. The Cabinet Office created the post to replace that of e-envoy, the official responsible for chivvying Britain to use the internet. His job involves planning the government's IT programme, ensuring the security of information systems and heading the IT profession in government.Watmore's salary will be in a band ranging from &#163;90,867 to &#163;192,424. But even the top of this range would be a substantial cut from his managing director's pay packet.Watmore's new fiefdom is the Cabinet Office e-Government Unit, formally created yesterday from the rump of the Office of the e-Envoy, less some functions that are transferring to the Treasury's Office of Government Commerce. Douglas Alexander, the Cabinet Office minister responsible, says the change "represents a development from the original e-envoy's task of getting the UK online, to ensuring that the government capitalises on the potential of ICT to both transform service delivery and achieve a step change in operational efficiency across the public sector".The current e-envoy, Andrew Pinder, 57, was due to leave in April but will run the new office until September.Government is a big source of business to Accenture, known as Andersen Consulting before an acrimonious   divorce from the Andersen accountancy partnership. Last year, it won two NHS contracts adding up to &#163;2.033bn, making it the health service's largest IT contractor after BT. It will be responsible for installing electronic health records in the east and northeast of England. The firm is also a big player in e-democracy: its subsidiary Accenture e-Democracy Services last year helped run one of the world's largest experiments in e-voting, in the local elections in Sheffield.However, the company doesn't always get its way. Last December, it unexpectedly failed in a bid to renew its largest contract with central government when the Inland Revenue picked rivals Cap Gemini and Fujitsu for the &#163;3bn Aspire contract to run tax systems.Accenture had been responsible for systems handling national insurance contributions under a giant contract dating from 1995. That system, NIRS2 (national insurance recording system), was briefly notorious as an example of government incompetence in IT projects. In 1999, Watmore was quizzed by the House of Commons Public Accounts Committee about delays to the project, which he ran for four years. His cool performance in front of the committee, and his record in steering NIRS2 through the controversy, will have been noted by his new civil service boss, Cabinet Secretary Sir Andrew Turnbull.Watmore has also been responsible for major IT systems at the Stock Exchange and the supermarket firm J Sainsbury.The IT industry welcomed his appointment as a sign that government is getting a grip on the management of large IT projects. "It's always useful to have one of our own at the top," said Nick Kalisperas of the IT suppli ers' association Intellect. "There are a lot of big projects going on and we need to have an overall vision."Local authorities, which run most e-government services, are more cautious about the idea of an IT tsar. Christ Guest, president of SocITM, the IT managers' association, says he is "looking forward to an early meeting" with Watmore. Guest is likely to press central government to remove legal barriers to local e-services and to provide more central government support, but not to tread on local authorities' toes. As one of Watmore's duties is to find ways of creating single channels of e-services through different tiers of government, there could be conflict in store.Watmore's priority is likely to be ensuring that government meets its target of making all services available electronically by the end of 2005 (the present figure is 71%) and persuading people to use them. He is also likely to be involved in the planning and procurement of the ID card.Beyond that, a clue to his thinking appears in Accenture's latest global survey of e-government, published in April. It exhorts countries with mature e-government programmes to "adopt a whole-of-government approach, building on strong governance and cross-agency collaboration. Their aim should be to establish seamless integration across all levels of government".On Britain, the report notes: "Upcoming changes in leadership and organisation, expected enhancements of a customer-focused citizen portal, and additional planned initiatives focused on driving internet awareness and usage among the population should make the UK one of the most interesting e-government programs to watch over the next 12 months."
Reed Elsevier is allowing academics to put papers that have been accepted for publication in its print and online journals on to the internet, breaking with years of tradition and reigniting the debate over open access to academic thinking.Until now the world's largest academic publisher has been a staunch opponent of open access, saying it poses a threat to the quality of academic research.But it is now letting academics put a text version of their accepted articles on to their own websites, or sites operated by their institutions.The move could make the 200,000 articles Reed Elsevier publishes every year freely available on the internet.Karen Hunter, Elsevier senior vice-president, strategy, explained: "There was a desire in the market from many authors and many institutions to have an official record of their institution's intellectual output. We have listened and we have responded."But rival publishers who have fully embraced the open access model and charge academics to publish their papers and then make them freely available to all over the internet, described the move as a cynical piece of public relations as Reed tries to defend its lucrative business.Reed Elsevier has come under fire recently for the high subscriptions it charges universities and libraries for its 1,800 journals.In March, chief executive Crispin Davies was forced to defend the firm's subscriptions in the face of critical questioning from the Commons science and technology committee.Deborah Cockerill, assistant publisher at rival open access publisher BioMed Central, said Reed's move "merely scratches the surface of the fundamental problem with the traditional publishing model which is based on controlling access"."They are offering a series of limited forms of access - so partial compared with open access so that it won't threaten the subscription model."BioMed Central, in contrast, produces 110 journals in the fields of biology and medicine. It charges academics to publish their articles but access to the journal itself is free to everyone.Reed, which has spent millions of pounds developing an online database of its journals known as Science Direct, is allowing authors to post only a text version of their published articles on the internet.In addition each posting must include a link to the journal's home page - which operates almost as free advertising. Crucially, academics will not be allowed to put links to their papers in central academic databases, making it very difficult for anyone else to find the paper.Ms Cockerill said these restrictions would counteract any potential benefit to the wider research community from Reed's decision."This kind of archiving is in many ways useless to the majority of scientists, mainly because no one will know the copies exist at all or where to find them," she said. In fact, Ms Hunter said, Reed does not expect the move to hit revenues."Science Direct is the official archive and the official source for the final article. That's the place that researchers should go."Reed's change of heart was warmly welcomed by Stevan Harnad, professor of cognitive science at the University of Southampton and a leading proponent of open access."There will be the predictable cavils from the pedants and those who have never understood the real meaning and nature of open access: 'It's only the final refereed draft, not the publisher's PDF; It does not include republishing rights; Elsevier is still not an open access publisher.'"I, for one, am prepared to stoutly defend Elsevier on all these counts, and to say that one could not have asked for more, and that the full benefits of open access require not one bit more - from the publisher."
Robert Mugabe was yesterday accused of attempting to censor Zimbabwe's email traffic after his government ordered service providers to stop any correspondence that the regime deemed "malicious".A new contract, which must be signed for the companies to have access to telephone lines, states that the "use of the network for anti-national activities" will be regarded as "an offence punishable under Zimbabwe law".The service providers have been told to promptly report the senders of offensive messages to the government.The firms regard this as an impossible task.This is the second time Mr Mugabe's government has tried vet the free flow of information on the internet. Two years ago parliament passed a telecommunications act which required all internet service providers to allow state agents to monitor the email correspondence of any subscriber.The law also forbade the service providers from informing clients that their emails were being read by state officials.However, in March this year the supreme court ruled that those clauses of the telecommunications law were unconstitutional."The government was frustrated by the supreme court judgment, but not prepared to give up," said a newspaper executive."Now they are attempting to smuggle those same clauses in under the guise of a new contract. It is typical of the Mugabe government, particularly the minister of information, Jonathan Moyo, to trample on individual rights to curtail freedom of the press."The Zimbabwe Internet Service Providers Association (Zispa) said it has asked the government to clarify its requirements in the new contracts."It's impossible," said one internet server. "It is just not feasible to expect us to look at each and every email message that passes through our system. The volume of traffic makes that impossible. And how would we be able to judge what the government finds objectionable? It would make us the internet police instead of the internet providers."The new contract calls on servers to turn in to government officials the details of subscribers sending messages that contain anything from obscenity to anti-government activities."It's ludicrous to think we can operate on that scale. I just don't think this was carefully thought out before they sent it out," said the head of one of Zimbabwe's service providers. He said he hoped negotiations with the government would sort out the problems. "If talks do not succeed, I am prepared to close down before I agree to spy on my clients," he said.The internet is one of the few communications channels left in Zimbabwe that individuals and groups opposed to Mr Mugabe's government can use to spread their opinions.The government controls all radio and television broadcasts and all daily newspapers.It has already closed the country's most popular daily newspaper, arresting 75 journalists and editors in the process. A handful of privately-owned weekly newspapers are under considerable pressure.Several anti-government newsletters circulate widely through Zimbabwe on the internet. But in November, 14 people were arrested for circulating an email calling for protests to oust Mr Mugabe.Zimbabwe is second only to South Africa in Africa in the development of its internet and email networks, with 12 large-scale internet service providers. It is estimated to have more than 100,000 registered users.Mr Mugabe's attitude to the internet was reflected in a speech he made to a UN telecommunications conference in Rome, when he described the internet as a tool used by "a few countries ... in quest of global dominance and hegemony".
Firewall frenzyFirewalls have been causing lots of problems this week. Hershbinder Mann reports that, after a Symantec update, he can no longer use Norton Personal Firewall 2002 because the SymProxySvc.exe file consumes all the processor cycles. Two Symantec help files address the problem (document ID: 2001101611595736 and 2000040412261536) but do not always solve it.Others have fallen foul of the latest Zone Alarm 5, which seems to ignore Microsoft's Internet Connection Sharing. If you have one machine acting as a gateway for others, the ZA5 setup does not allow the other machines to access the net. See < HREF="http://forum.zonelabs.org/zonelabs/board/message?board.id=cfg&amp;message.id=12315">http://forum.zonelabs.org/zonelabsfor a possible solution. Other problems are aired athttp://forum.zonelabs.org/zonelabs/board.Zone Labs says: "If you are running an anti-virus solution from another company, you must un-install the anti-virus product before running the anti-virus feature in Zone Alarm with Anti-virus." People using earlier versions of Norton products such as NIS2002 should probably upgrade or switch to a free firewall. Readers using Zone Alarm should avoid upgrading to version 5 until the smoke clears, especially if using ICS.Smart pasteHow can I paste text from a separate source into a Microsoft Word file so that it automatically adopts the formatting of that Word file?Mr MiraJS:Copy your text then go to Edit|Paste Special and choose Unformatted Text from the menu. The text   will then be given the formatting appropriate to the file. If you do this a lot, you can assign the whole series of commands to a keystroke combination, such as Alt P. To do this, copy your text then go to Tools|Macro and select Record New Macro. Give your macro a name such as smart_paste and click the keyboard icon. Now press your preferred key combination (Alt and P in my case), then click Assign and Close. Next, repeat the menu commands needed to do a smart paste and Word will record them. Click the stop button to stop. You can now smart paste unformatted text simply by pressing Alt P.Not needed?Last week you were advocating that all broadband users install a firewall. But users who have a router do not normally need one as this acts as a firewall - or so I understand.Bryan FletcherJack Schofield replies:It is true that a NAT (network address translation) router provides a good first line of defence, but it simply routes network traffic, it does not monitor or log it. If you open any access ports, deliberately or accidentally, the router may not detect or stop an attack. Also, you could still be vulnerable to a Trojan or virus that arrives by email. However, many routers now have built in firewalls, and some have "stateful packet inspection" (SPI), so they do check the data.The external NAT router/firewall combination offers much better protection than a software firewall, and is an affordable option for home broadband users.Lock outMy nephew uses my mother's computer (running Windows 98) and installs spyware toolbars and visits porn sites. Is there a free parental lock I can use to restrict his access to the PC or just the internet?Name withheldJS:There are lots of parental control programs available, many of them shareware, but not many free ones. You could try Parental Filter v0.1.7 (http://masl.to/?J27551278), which is designed simply to block access to pornographic websites. However, it would be more effective to buyNet Nanny,Webroot's Child Safeor a similar program.If you just want to stop your nephew from using the PC, you may be able to set a BIOS-level password, so the computer asks for a password when it is switched on. However, this will be less convenient for other users, and only works if the PC is switched off when he comes round.Backchat&#183;David Roberts wanted a portable music player with FM radio that would read his camera's SD memory cards. Ian David suggests the &#163;230 Archos Gmini 220: "an MP3 player with a built in CompactFlash slot (an adapter for SD can easily be found), and with the optional remote control it has an FM radio - all three in one!" It also displays photos and has a built in microphone. Kate Bevan pointed out that "Belkin makes a card reader for the iPod which works brilliantly". However, the &#163;89 Belkin is more expensive than the &#163;49 Sync Box I suggested last week, and the iPod does not offer built-in FM radio.&#183;Tim Gossling wanted a way of getting optical digital input into his laptop. Chris Jeffs suggests the Edirol UA-1D cablewww.edirol.itwhich has optical and coaxial S/P-DIF connections and plugs into a USB port. The site says it is for "transferring digital audio between CD, DVD, MP3, MiniDisc player/recorders" and works with PCs and Macs, but Chris has not tried it.
How many votes will the National Front win in the next European election? With each election, the far-right party gains more support in France - and the internet becomes a more important strategic tool for its extremist leader, Jean-Marie Le Pen.From the web's earliest days, Le Pen identified it as the ideal vehicle to promote his ideas. His party's sitewww.frontnational.commakes his reasons clear, stating its aims as countering "censorship and the media boycott"."We live in a country where freedom of speech is a deception," says Romain L&#233;tang, webmaster for the National Front. "You can be charged for just saying 'I am fed up, there are too many immigrants.' For us, the internet is a pure propaganda medium where our message is not distorted."The National Front considers all journalists biased against them. Even with around 15% of the ballot, the party does not have a single elected deputy - and for that reason they can't claim even minimal access to mass media, as granted by law.The party found the web, or more precisely discussion forums, to be the perfect way to canvass the French voters. "In neutral forums, such as Google, Yahoo! or in newspapers' &#91;websites&#93;, we can diffuse our information," says L&#233;tang.Frontnational.com even offers some advice to those who want to spread its message: be courteous and precise. "Try to establish relations. Avoid any 'direct' political propaganda, since 'moderators' responsible for filtering messages posted would surely delete yours."While such tactics are nothing new in US or even UK politics, the apparently complacent reaction of the major French political parties means the National Front's internet strategy is far ahead of the rest.Anne Catherine Franck, the webmaster for the Socialist Party, says only that her party plans to "develop an internet culture ... within two    years". Meanwhile Antoine Emeury, webmaster forwww.u-m-p.org, the site of Jacques Chirac's party, links the National Front's strategy to their difficulty in accessing the mass media. "Nevertheless," he says, "I am used to logging on to political forums and I did not notice they were especially active."But a detailed, three-month survey    by researchers atDatopssuggests otherwise. According to their statistics, the National Front has gained a real visibility on the internet, with its leader almost as apparent as the Prime Minister or President Bush.Datops analysed over 3,000 messages posted by 478 people. Just 13   people were responsible for 1,500 messages. Datops noticed that a few people send out the National Front's press releases, without entering into an online debate.Others joined in discussions around the party's favourite topics, such as immigration, security and most recently, the arrival of Turkey into the European Union.The National Front also urges its members to vote for polls on newspaper websites. Newspapers have spotted the impact that mobilisation has had on their results."We saw some anachronistic results on our polls about the National Front," says Eric Mettout, editor ofwww.lexpress.fr. "There were incidences of massive numbers of votes from the same machines, but this method is not the prerogative of the Front."Frontnational.com also lobbies the media. "When a journalist is very discourteous to us, or writes an iniquitous article about us, we denounce him on our unofficial mailing list. We are very reactive and have an efficient network of correspondents," says L&#233;tang.Oliver Blondeau, a sociologist specialising in social mobilisation on the internet, says the National Front is changing its tactics online. "The National Front is getting away from its strategy of victimisation," he says. "They want to look younger, and are using Jean-Marie Le Pen's daughter, Marine, as 'the new face of the party'. That is all part of it."While a new face can't disguise the old policies, the European elections could offer a further litmus test of the effect of the National Front's presence online.
The list of government bodies abolished for achieving what they were set up to do is short. There are wartime creations such as the ministry of aircraft production, of course, and, er, that's about it. More usually, government offices are wound up because they become an embarrassment. Anyone remember the Price Commission?This week, the Office of the e-Envoy formally ceases to exist. Although few people will miss its yellow UKonline logo, the office bows out after achieving a rare distinction: meeting two of the three targets set at its creation. Andrew Pinder, the e-envoy, told a UN conference in Shanghai last month that 96% of the population know of a place they can get access to the internet and that "survey   after survey shows that the UK has one of the best environments in the world for e-commerce".As for the third target, to make all government services available electronically by the end of 2005, we're well on the way. Over two thirds of central government services have been e-enabled, Pinder said, and local authorities are setting up new e-transactions "sometimes on what seems to be a daily basis".The e-envoy's evangelical job, then, is done. This week, the office metamorphoses into a mere unit of the Cabinet Office, after shedding some of its limbs to the Treasury's Office of Government Commerce.Pinder will run the new e-government unit until September, when he will be replaced by Ian Watmore, whose appointment was announced last week.The new unit will be a very different beast to its predecessor. Its title and formal status revive memories of the old Cabinet Office Central IT Unit, absorbed into the Office of the e-Envoy, but with a broader role.Among other things, the new unit will be responsible for "commissioning government-wide infrastructure and services; and addressing issues of systems integration with other levels of government". In English, this means replacing individual departments' bureaucracies with ones working across government - the new national identity register, perhaps - and figuring how to plug local and EU institutions into them.Officially, the point is "to support the government's objectives for public service delivery and administrative efficiency". This is code   for the political imperative to get a grip on the public payroll. Watmore's office won't be creating electronic services for their own sake, but as a way of cutting costs and civil service numbers. For the first time, online government projects will be funded by cuts elsewhere. This will take the e-government agenda into new territory. As the implications sink in, a bloody winter of e-discontent isn't out of the question.No doubt Watmore relishes the challenge. The job must have attractions beyond the top civil service whack of &#163;192,000, presumably a cut from his present package as managing director of Accenture UK. But he won't be making many friends. Nor, in four or five years' time, will he find it quite as easy as Pinder to stand up and announce "job done".
Windows for supercomputers? Microsoft has been pushing Windows for what it calls "high performance computing" since Windows 2000 came out, and with Intel and Dell, helped finance a Windows supercomputing facility at Cornell University. Now it is expected to produce another specialised version of Windows: Windows Server HPC Edition.Of course, today's "supercomputers" are often clusters or arrays of what are basically personal computers. Usually they are running a version of Unix, or the open source Unix clone, GNU/Linux, but most could run Windows as well or instead.Microsoft does not really expect these high-end, entrenched supercomputer users to switch to   Windows, because of their need to customise and share their code, among other things. However, there are thousands of companies who might like to buy a cheap supercomputer if they could get it prepackaged like a TV dinner, and integrate it into their existing IT system.This is where Microsoft hopes to get some advantages. First, it should be easier to integrate Windows HPC applications with desktop PC software, making supercomputer power instantly available to everybody in the company. Second, supercomputer applications should become much easier to write because they can be created with widely used tools such as Microsoft Visual Studio.net.A supercomputer cluster would also provide a migration path for Windows Server applications that   are running out of headroom.Finally, there's the old idea of exploiting unused desktop PC power. It should be easier to produce a grid based on machines running Windows than one that has to cater for many incompatible operating systems. But don't hold your breath expecting this to become of any practical value.Windows Server HPC would also fit in with Microsoft's strategy of increasing its profits by increasing the number of specialised versions of Windows.The standard version of Windows is widely available. Anybody can build Windows PCs just by signing up as an OEM (original equipment manufacturer) on Microsoft's website, and Microsoft has no control over these system builders. They can assemble and sell whatever they like.By contrast, Microsoft does control the specialised versions of Windows such as the Tablet PC and Media Center editions of XP. These are only available to a very small number of firms (who therefore don't have to compete with Fred-in-a-shed operators) at relatively high prices.Microsoft could market Windows HPC by giving it away with Windows Server. This would help create a base of applications, and expose the shortcomings that need fixing. Down the line, there might be a market for an HPC edition, providing a cheap "Windows supercomputer in a box".By that time, of course, there should also be a cheap "Linux supercomputer in a box" and maybe even a Mac option. But the point is users will have a choice, and we're all in favour of that.High Performance Computing for Windows Server 2003www.microsoft.com/hpcMicrosoft HPC partnerswww.microsoft.com/windowsserver2003/hpc/partnersCornell Theory Centerwww.tc.cornell.eduwww.ctc-hpc.comTop 500 supercomputerswww.top500.org
