USA Todayreviews the search engine market, which is expected to shake down eventually to a three-cornered battle between Google, Yahoo and Microsoft. There's a nice quote from Danny Sullivan, founder ofSearch Engine Watch. ""Google has the cake, Yahoo at least is able to open up the instant cake mix and start putting the ingredients together, and Microsoft is just opening up the cookbook," he says.
"Japanese companies are preparing for the commercial launch of a "robot suit" that helps aged or physically disabled people walk, get up the stairs or seat themselves to relax without a chair. Trading house Mitsui and Co and some 30 other Tokyo firms plan to set up a joint venture in April or May next year to market the powered suit developed by Yoshiyuki Sankai, professor and engineer at Tsukuba University, officials said Thursday."The powered suit, code-named HAL-3 (Hybrid Assistive Leg), consists of a computer and batteries in the backpack as well as four actuators attached around the knees and hip joints."APhas the story, and a picture.
Crime gangs are contributing to a surge in internet child porn, according to the national criminal intelligence service's (NCIS) annual assessment of serious and organised crime.The study, published today, says the number of websites showing child porn - often featuring images of what is believed to be actual abuse - rose by 64% last year.The NCIS report says most child sex offenders act alone or in secretive networks that distribute images freely. But the potential profits to be made from selling images of child abuse online have also attracted "serious and organised criminals".This has enabled a "rapid growth in the publication of computer-based images of child abuse and their global distribution". As a result, computer-based images of child abuse have now largely replaced printed material.Internet chat rooms and exclusive websites also encourage "extensive criminal networking", where individuals exchange indecent images and fantasies and help each other gain access to victims.Such virtual meeting places help "justify and normalise offending" by providing positive reinforcement that child pornography is acceptable.The internet has changed the "nature and extent" of paedophile networks, with sites offering participants "online guides" to all aspects of child sex."The internet makes it possible to network on a much wider scale and, if security measures are taken, with less risk," says the report."Some (of the guides) have hyper-links to bulletin boards, information about chat rooms, where IT expertise and access or grooming techniques are shared, and passwords or pass-phrases given to access pornography."The report says that most online child sex networks are hierarchical in structure and secretive, with access by invitation only. Individuals may be approached in chat rooms and invited to join a network.Often there is a vetting process, with status and trust gained by members through evidence of illegal activity."Protecting themselves against law enforcement is a key concern, and some online child sex offenders openly discuss methods for keeping their activities from the police," the report says.There is also evidence that online networks undertake "counterintelligence activity", researching techniques used by the police and internet watch groups by debriefing people who have been arrested.Some members are aware of surveillance techniques and take steps to avoid being followed.If an offender puts members of the network at risk, perhaps by the unauthorised passing on of images, he is likely to have his computer targeted with viruses or denial of service attacks.Possible the most alarming development is the sophisticated use of the internet by paedophiles to target and groom potential victims in internet chatrooms."The anonymity of the internet allows adult offenders to misrepresent themselves as young children or more often teenagers, making it easier for them to establish a bond."In some cases, children have been duped into meeting up with offenders, who have then attempted to abuse them sexually, sometimes successfully."The report cites intelligence supplied to police by the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), that over half of all illegal websites known to the IWF are hosted in the US, although the number in Russia has more than doubled (from 286 to 706)."This creates significant difficulties for law enforcement, not least in identifying and tracing the victims who feature in images of child abuse. Often there are no leads for research into the victims' identity or the location of the abuse," says the report.
Check your email. Have you ever been so popular? There's a good chance 
you have received dozens or even hundreds of messages that say "thankyou!", "wicked screensaver", "approved", "my details", or something similar. Don't bother to open them, and definitely don't run the email attachment, because they are all examples of the SoBig.F virus.We have been here before. The first time it swamped the net in January, 
SoBig.A sent lots of email from big@boss.com, which was easy to spot. 
Now it arrives with faked or forged email addresses and a bigger 
range of subject lines. Next time, perhaps soon after September 10, 
SoBig.G could be even more insidious.The problem with SoBig is that it does not exploit a flaw in Microsoft 
Windows. If it did, we could patch the flaw and stop it. Instead it 
exploits flaws in human nature and the internet's email system. SoBig only works in Windows, but there's no reason why it couldn't be adapted 
to any other system.SoBig is a mass-mailing worm program. It arrives as an email attachment 
called thank_you.pif, wicked_scr.scr, or something similar. If you run the attachment by double-clicking it, the virus installs itself, searches a range of files for email addresses, starts its own email server, and then sends out lots of copies of itself.It looks as though the virus writer started the current attack by spamming 
a large number of addresses. From there, the spread of SoBig depends on 
people being gullible enough to open an unsolicited attachment. There is 
apparently no shortage of gullible people.SoBig also works well because of the inherent gullibility of the 
internet's simple mail transport protocol (SMTP) system, which was 
designed in the 1970s for use by a relatively small number of people in a 
trusted academic setting. It can deliver any old rubbish to any mailbox 
without checking, and that's usually what it does.It is not yet clear what else, if anything, SoBig.F does."Basically it just spreads. The main impact is that it is slowing down email systems, " says Graham Cluley, an anti-virus expert from Sophos in the UK.Previous versions have set up "back doors" so that hackers can take over 
users' PCs and search for credit card numbers, or set up relays to forward spam and so disguise its real origin. They have also spread over local area 
networks (Lans), infecting people too smart to fall for the email version. 
Either way, SoBig.F will turn itself off on September 10, after which we 
can all look forward to SoBig.G.You can find out if your PC is infected with SoBig.F by searching for a 
file called winppr32.exe. While you are at it, search for the 
previous version, winssk32.exe, too. You can remove it by running a free 
program such asMcAfee's StingerorNorman's SoBigFixor by updating and running your usual anti-virus software.Better still, delete SoBig email on the server, without even 
downloading it to your inbox.Mailwasheris a free Windows program that makes this simple. It is particularly suitable for people who collect their email in batches.What happens next?At the moment, SoBig does not delete files or harm PCs, but - as Cluley suggests - the repeated releases of the virus suggest that the worm's author "may be experimenting to find out the most successful ways to spread a virus". Think of it as a form of market research, preparing the way for the ultimate version.Cluley does not want to speculate what that might be. "We don't want 
to put ideas into his head," he says.
BlastedMany of last week's queries were about the MSBlaster or LovSan worm, which attacked "new technology" versions of Windows (NT, 2000, XP). Guardian Unlimited published a lengthy piece on how to deal with it, so if you are still having problems, seewww.guardian.co.uk/online/news/0,12597,1018722,00.html.Most people should not have been affected because Microsoft published a fix on July 16, and XP users with AutoUpdate turned on should have had their PCs patched automatically. (In a few cases, AutoUpdate failed.) Others should have had the worm blocked by their firewall but, unfortunately, the firewall included in Windows XP is turned off by default. We can expect Microsoft to have it turned on by default in the future. Also, all the leading anti-virus software vendors issued alerts, andseveral offered free Blaster removal tools.Some people had a "cryptographic service" error message when they tried to install the Microsoft patch. Marc Liron posted a note about this atwww.updatexp.com/cryptographic-service.html.Online reader Geoff Wilkins reports that he solved the same problem by copying a system file, cryptsvc.dll, from a patched machine to an infected one.Some people had the security hole patched for them by another version of the worm, called Welchia, or Nachi. It works like Blaster but downloads the Microsoft fix. If you have not patched your system, hope that Welchia gets to you before a more malignant version of the same   worm. There will be some. This particular flaw seems to have been around since Windows NT4 was launched in 1996, but the code to exploit it is now widely available.iPod upWhy can't I upload from my iPod? I cannot believe Apple would neglect to allow this crucial feature, when competitors such as Creative Labs do. I use Windows XP with Music Match.Steven RandellJack Schofield replies:As a company offering a paid-for music service, Apple presumably doesn't want to encourage people to download songs from one PC to an iPod then upload them to a different PC. There are independent Macintosh utilities that allow you to upload music from an iPod, such asiPod Accessbut I have not been able to find one for Windows.Ziff's reviewers said they managed it "by turning on View hidden files and folders, and browsing the iPod's internal directories in My Computer until we found the music. However, when we reconnected the iPod to the primary machine, the device wouldn't mount as a drive or connect to MusicMatch until we reset it." Ziff reckons uploading data should not be a problem if you "activate Enable FireWire Disk. In this approach, the iPod mounts as a data drive, but it hides music files in the default mode" (seereviews.zdnet.co.uk/review/18/14/4138.htm). I don't have an iPod to try it.BlockedI can't access secure internet pages with Internet Explorer 6 SP1 and Windows Me. This used not to be a problem.Sue StillwellJS:Unfortunately, there is no simple answer. However, following the trouble-shooting tips in Microsoft Knowledge Base article813444should solve the problem. Re-registering dll files is a good idea but Windows Me does not have all the ones listed.SpamWhat does spam stand for?Mike SeymourJS:Spam is junk email, and perhaps we should call it UCE for unsolicited commercial email (seewww.cauce.org. It is also possible to "spam" Usenet newsgroups. The online usage is generally thought to derive from a Monty Python song that pays tribute to Hormel's canned, spiced ham or luncheon meat.Backchat&#183;Ron Graves wanted a simple way to clear the clipboard in Windows XP. Mark Pilbeam suggests checking to see if you have the clipbrd.exe file on your hard drive and creating a shortcut for it. If it isn't there, you can install it (with an icon) from the Accessories &amp; Utilities section of the Windows XP set-up, as Dr Martin Bligh and Adam Meredith point out.&#183;Nick Reynolds wanted some simple accounting software for a sole trader and I suggestedDO$H Accounts for Windows. Tania Stewart suggests Cashflow Manager fromBurgan Publications, which she says "is a good deal more user-friendly for someone with no accountancy background than either Quicken or the Sage packages". Peter Gregory suggestsClarisys. "You can even use their 'free version of Executive' to provide general ledger, accounts receivable, accounts payable and invoicing". Finally, BookkeepersEye offers a web-based accounting service that uses aspreadsheet.
It's a Thursday, so Online is out in print form, just 55p from all good newsagents, with a copy of the Guardian thrown in for free. And if that's too much, you can read it on the web for free. Today: how thenet is rocking the music industry, whyblogging's boringandemail Tony Blair. Andmuch, much more.
In three years of living in London, Emily Bingham moved house 13 times after being threatened physically and bullied mentally. She was pinned against walls, screamed at by flatmates and was frequently stitched up over household bills. At one point her parents had to step in and buy her out of a contract."I had just moved to London from Scotland and I was very naive. I didn't know I had to be tough or otherwise people just walk over you. Instead of causing a fuss, I would just move on."Two years ago, Bingham was again looking for a flatmate. "I was reasonably fussy but couldn't believe how difficult it was to find someone suitable. I spent a month looking through Loot and had heaps of strangers traipsing through the place, and I thought 'There has to be something better out there.'""I knew online dating had become quite popular, so I spent days trawling the net but couldn't find anything. Some websites list all the properties available, but they keep changing constantly, and it doesn't help you find out about the personalities you are going to have to live with. That's when I came up with the idea for a dating agency-style website for shared accommodation.Recent figures have put the number of people renting in London at two million and, says Bingham, "I can't believe they are all happy with their living arrangements." She reckons there is a perfect flatmate out there for every renter.Bingham says she wanted to get   across the fact that people do have options. "Even if you are a student on a limited budget, you can still do something."Her solution isperfectflatmate.com, a website that promises to help you find a room to rent, or fill an empty room in a house. It costs &#163;18 to register and if, after 28 days, a match has not been found, a refund is offered. Clients fill in a 24-question questionnaire that takes 15 minutes, where it is stressed that honesty is vital. There are basic questions such as age, gender, the amount you want to pay in rent and bills, and whether you smoke. It then moves on to issues that are the likely causes of friction in a household, such as housekeeping styles, and lifestyle and partying habits. A level of 75% compatibility is required to provide a match. The client is given the top 10 matches and can choose three to contact.As the website says: "No one should have to go through the misery of sharing living space with someone they are completely incompatible with. Think how much time and effort we put into finding a perfect boyfriend/ girlfriend/husband/wife/partner to share our lives with and yet many of us share a home with people we have nothing in common with."Bingham said the main difference with perfectflatmate.com from other sites is that all you need do is fill in the questionnaire. "As soon as someone compatible comes along, we email you. No personal information is given out, you are not bombarded with phonecalls, which happens   when you advertise in some areas, and we do not impose anyone on the client."After coming up with the idea, Bingham sat on it for six months before approaching her father, who thought it was a great idea. There was a web design company, Pole Position, which became involved and through them another company, Digital Roots, which built a bespoke database."We specified that the database had to be self-managing, and we did months of testing, which was really labour-intensive." The website has been trademarked, as has the logo, but to trademark the idea would cost several thousands of pounds, money that she doesn't have.But Bingham now faces a dilemma. Having already spent &#163;14,000, there is no money for marketing the site, and she relies on word of mouth. Perfectflatmate.com is registered on a website that tries to find venture capital, but because she has worked so hard on it, she is keen not to lose control. "I have spent a lot of time and effort building it up with Dad and the team and I don't really want someone to come along and change the feel of it."The site has been live since February, with a number of successful matches to its credit. Bingham says successful match-making will really take off when the registrations number in the thousands. However, even when the site had less than 100 registered, the site still came up with a perfect match.
This time last week, if you wanted to download a Rolling Stones track, there was only one way to do it: by breaking the law.You would have had to download KaZaA, or one of its fellow file-sharing programs, and log on. Using the software, a scour through the hard disks of fellow members would take seconds. Having found the track you were looking for, it could be illegally copied and playing on your computer's speakers within minutes.But a seismic change has taken place in the past seven days. The first big change came when OD2 - the music distribution company founded by ex-Genesis frontman Peter Gabriel - unveiled an a la carte music download service available to millions of Microsoft Windows users across Europe.Around 200,000 music tracks are now available for download, from 62p each and with no additional subscription, through version 9 of the Microsoft Media Player. This has made it easier for listeners, wherever they are, to get hold of legitimate digital music.The service is similar to the Apple iTunes Music Store, unveiled in April but only available to Mac users in the United States. Apple's store sold more than 1m downloads in its first week. At 99 cents a shot, the company claims the service came close to breaking even in its first quarter.The second major development came on Monday, when the Rolling Stones announced they would be joining in by putting 500 of their hits online for the first time (in legitimate form, at least). The band's online back catalogue boasts hits dating back to 1971, including Start Me Up and Brown Sugar, and is also available on the OD2 service in Europe."Clearly, we're in the throes of a major transition," says Peter Jamieson, the executive chairman of the BPI, the industry body for the music business in the UK. While figures released this week showed album sales hitting a record high in the UK, Jamieson points to a continued slump in singles sales. "I don't think anybody would turn around and say that music was less popular than it was before, so the industry has to try and get round to making music legitimately in ways that the public will put money toward," he says.The BPI is aiming to give music downloads a further pick-me-up later this year, when it launches an official download chart. This will, "at some point next year", according to Jamieson, be incorporated into the official singles chart, granting the same importance to tracks downloaded to hard disks as CDs bought in high street shops.OD2, the company behind the service being offered through Microsoft is MSN (as well as several others, including Tiscali and the long-established DotMusic service from BT), says the chart will be vital for the success of online music. The passion of fans for their bands is good for business, points out Ed Averdieck, the company's marketing director."There definitely was a thing, in the old days, that you wanted your band to get to number one," he says. "We think that as soon as downloads start becoming eligible for the chart, people will think 'if I download this from KaZaA it's not going to push my band to number one. If I download it from MSN or HMV, it is'."That's going to be a big additional push to encourage the kids to start using these services."In the meantime, says Averdieck,   the new service is doing well: there are no official sales figures at the time of going to press, but bandwidth use - the amount of material being downloaded - has doubled, he says.How good is the new service? To find out, Online took the a la carte menu of the MSN Music Store for a test drive this week.Apart from prominent advertising for the new Rolling Stones back catalogue, the MSN Music Store is unashamedly biased towards the current chart. We found a large number of recent hits available, from Christina Aguilera to Ms Dynamite, although some big names were missing. 50 Cent - one of the biggest acts of the year - was absent, and Pop Idol fans might be a little disappointed: Will Young and Gareth Gates were represented, but Darius was nowhere to be seen.And there were the eccentricities.   There was no Madonna, but 80s crooner Rick Astley had two complete albums available, a disparity less likely to do with taste and more likely down to the tortuous negotiation of rights with individual artists that has to take place before back catalogues can be put online.That is not to say, however, that then downloading the tracks would have been seamless. File-sharing networks remain clunky and occasionally difficult to use. Efforts by record companies to pump them full of fake tracks have had some impact on their usefulness.This means that the way to persuade us to move to legitimate downloads, according to one industry expert, is to make buying music more entertaining than getting it from a shop, or illegally from somewhere else.Steve Johnston is the head of licensing at Musicindie, an industry   body representing hundreds of smaller record labels that has taken an innovative approach to distributing its content on the web. He says the "majors" - the big five record labels that dominate the industry - have been guilty of "ignoring the fact that delivering a download is a really dull experience."Only Apple so far has made selling downloads seem sexy," he adds. The integration of the iTunes Music Store, system software and the company's iPod MP3 player makes the user experience very slick.There are other features, he says, that could attract users to the legitimate download market. "If you look at things that have done particularly well on the internet as a whole, such as Amazon, very few people have tapped nearly as well the peer recommendation element," says Johnston. "If you could trawl for   ages and hear about people's favourite albums of the year, and get a choice of eight different recommendations every time you type in anything &#91;and&#93; then wed those kind of peer recommendation features and chat forums with the ability to acquire music, you'd have the dream service."Apple's service offers a simple recommendation feature, which suggests tracks based on the behaviour of previous customers with similar tastes to you. But the iTunes music store remains unavailable in the UK, and is unlikely to open in Europeuntil next spring, according to some industry sources in this country.Acting in Apple's, and every would-be distributor's favour, is the fact that they are at least now pushing on an open door when they speak to the record labels. "We recognise it's in our interests to get as many of these offerings out there as possible," says Jeanne Meyer, the senior vice president at EMI in the United States.From being wary of putting much online at all 12 months ago, record companies such as EMI are now willing to release singles online ahead of their appearance in the shops. "We can make singles available to our online distribution partners the day they go to radio," says Meyer. "That's when people first start to want to buy it or hear it or, unfortunately in some cases, steal it."Calum Chace, a partner at KMPG specialising in the media industry, says this change in attitude shows record companies are starting to see the internet not just as a threat - to be met with lawsuits and copy protection - but as an opportunity."They are increasingly adopting digital content marketing," says   Chace. "They are looking at new ways consumers would like to get music, and trying to provide those."They are trying to do three things at once: protect their material through technology, protect it with lawyers, but also exploit the new digital medium as a whole new way of marketing."Or simply, as Steve Johnston at Musicindie sums it up, "the penny is beginning to drop".What does it cost?Ed Averdieck says OD2 uses a credit-based system - rather than Apple's 99 cents a track model - because it allows them to offer discounts for heavier users. The MSN Music Club also has variable pricing, which means some tracks sell for 75 credits, some for 99.Pay as you go&#183;&#163;1.49 buys 150 credits - enough for 150 low-quality "streams" of songs, or 15 temporary downloads that expire after a year, or when your subscription runs out - or one permanent download, which lets you burn a track to CD or copy it to a portable player.&#183;&#163;4.99 buys 500 credits, or 500 streams, or 50 temporary downloads, or 5 permanent downloads.&#183;&#163;9.99 buys 1100 credits, or 1100 streams, or 110 temporary downloads, or 11 permanent downloadsMonthly subscriptions&#183;&#163;4.99 a month buys 700 credits.&#183;&#163;9.99 a month buys 1600 credits
Some of the net's self-appointed guardians have announced Nutch, an open source project to develop search engine technology to rival Google. At this point, they don't plan to set up a competing site: indexing several billion web pages and doing thousands of searches a second is a non-trivial task. However, Nutch technology could be used by any company that wanted to invest the time and money required.According to Nutch's website: "Web search is a basic requirement for internet navigation, yet the number of web search engines is decreasing. Today's oligopoly could soon be a monopoly, with a single company controlling nearly all web search for its commercial gain. That would not be good for users of the internet."So much for winning by offering what people want: a clean, fast search engine that delivers high-quality results. And no mention of the fact that the market is open and users can switch search engines in seconds.It is true that the search engine market is consolidating. Overture Services took over Fast's AllTheWeb and AltaVista. Yahoo has taken over both Overture and Inktomi, which develops search-engine technology. Ask (Ask Jeeves) has taken over Teoma. Excite, Infoseek and Lycos, which could have become search giants, were distracted by the fashion to become "portals" and are now more or less irrelevant.But this is exactly what you would expect in a fiercely competitive IT market, where the winning companies, products and standards usually become dominant.   To quote New York University's Clay Shirky: "In systems where many people are free to choose between many options, a small subset of the whole will get a disproportionate amount of traffic (or attention, or income), even if no members of the system actively work towards such an outcome. This has nothing to do with moral weakness, selling out, or any other psychological explanation. The very act of choosing, spread widely enough and freely enough, creates a power law distribution."In this industry, things do not, as a matter of observable fact, follow some sort of "natural distribution" or bell curve. Instead, over time, they usually tend towards an inverse law, where the probability of reaching size x is proportional to 1/x. This means there is almost always going to be a dominant   standard, and ultimately you can only replace one dominant player or product with another dominant player or product. If not Sega (MegaDrive) and Netscape (Navigator), then Sony (PlayStation) and Microsoft (Internet Explorer). If not Google, then who?Well, there's no shortage of contenders. Yahoo has bought in a vast amount of search engine technology, and Microsoft is building its own. IBM, the world's biggest computer company, is developing WebFountain, a "Google on steroids", and there are many small companies with big ideas.Those fostering an anti-Google backlash might well consider the prospect of Microsoft winning the battle. Its browser already delivers MSN Search a huge number of queries. And if it has the will to win at any price, it can afford it.Nutchwww.nutch.orgPower Laws, Weblogs, and Inequalitywww.shirky.com/writings/powerlaw_weblog.htmlMSN Search prototypewww.msnsearch.com/msnbot.htmThe Web's Hidden Orderwww.hpl.hp.com/research/papers/weborder.pdfIBM WebFountainwww.ibm.com/mediumbusiness/venture_development/emerging/wf.html
Good news for the septic tank and dial-up modem community. The government's big idea for promoting broadband telecommunications in out-of-the way places is finally getting under way.It's called aggregation. From October, England's nine nascent regions will start ordering broadband networks on behalf of all government agencies in their areas. East Midlands Development Agency will be the first.Because public services are the biggest users of broadband (or will be once they meet the prime minister's targets), and because schools, GP surgeries and police stations are distributed relatively evenly across the population, these aggregated contracts will encourage telecom operators to install broadband equipment in areas where it is not viable today. Every primary school, for example, will have at least a 2 megabit connection.Government will get a better deal by ordering broadband services in bigger chunks, and more rural businesses and households will find themselves within reach of a broadband-equipped exchange.That's the theory. However, as usual with industrial policy, there are worries. The pressure group Broadband4Britain has already called on the government to "pause and reflect", mainly about the implications of using public money to create local broadband monopolies in rural areas. Once these contracts are in place, the barriers to competitive investment will be even higher than they are today.Another worry is whether regions are the right organisations   to run the new networks. The plan is for regional aggregation bodies to work with existing regional development agencies, but it is not clear what powers these bodies will have to force organisations to join the networks.What will happen to local authorities already making moves towards aggregation? One that considers itself to be doing well on its own is Cambridgeshire county council. Its Cambridgeshire Community Network, supplied under a &#163;29m private finance initiative contract with NTL Business, is about to go live. It will eventually link more than 700 sites, including community centres and GP surgeries, as well as different tiers of local government.Cambridgeshire's head of IT, John Little, says he will work closely with the regional body when it emerges - but in the meantime   argues that the county, not the region, is the logical entity for running a network: big enough to gain economies of scale while still being in touch with the needs of crucial users such as schools.The obvious solution is flexibility. In some parts of England, the north-east perhaps, regions could take a strong lead. In others, aggregation might better be left to counties, which would create a healthier mix of operators.But flexibility creates uncertainty and delay. And this would give public organisations that are only lukewarm about joining aggregated networks, such as the NHS and police forces, a good excuse to do their own thing. If e-commerce minister Stephen Timms hopes that the aggregation policy will kill the row over broadband access, he may be in for a shock.
Why fly?I read Will Wi-Fi fly? (Cover story, August 14) with a wry smile, as it put into words something that has been on my mind for a while. I run my own business, work alone at home, travel a lot and am a gadget freak. Logically, I expectedto have Wi-Fi by now. Indeed, I have every other form of mobile gadget available. However, in my travels, I have noticed a distinct lack of need to actually browse or check my email. As I work alone, I am obsessed with missing any form of communication, but over the years, twice a day on my email suffices.My Bluetooth phone with GPRS is good enough to manage this without any new service provider required, connecting at 56k with my Bluetooth card. While abroad, I use a hotel modem line at &#163;1/minute, or 10/100 Ethernet access. If neither of the above works, I can dial up with my mobile at 9.6k, and I can do this anywhere with mobile service.  So what if someone calls me while in transit, with an urgent request for an image from my laptop? Turning on your laptop while in transit, as anyone can tell you, is generally quite futile. You are thinking about boarding your next form of transport, and just as you get online, some external factor interferes: waiter, lost tourist, child with teddy, pretty girl, etc.As for the coffee shops and pubs - why would I concern myself with signing up for another monthly cost, or &#163;6.50 an hour, when I rarely spend an hour in either unless eating or relaxing with friends. Plus, you can sit in a park with the Bluetooth/GPRS setup quite happily for as long as your battery lasts. There are two potentials I    can see for Wi-Fi. First, while  in transit: ie trains and planes. Second, offer a light-user option in cafes, pubs, hotels etc, which simply charges you by the minute, and adds it to an existing bill for food/drinks.Jon TerryLondonDeadly but cheapIf wireless networks and Bluetooth gadgets etc do become much more common, there will be an increase in the amount of background radiation. How long before this shows up in health problems? I suspect no one knows yet, and by the time they do know, it will be too late.  On a more positive note, office buildings have until now needed the extensive, costly addition of under-floor IT cabling, with some of the cost regained from higher rentals. Wireless networks should increase the suitability of older buildings for office use without costly installation of IT cabling. The additional supply of usable office buildings could help put downward pressure on rents - good news for users.David JonesCaring and sharingSome companies could find that they lose money on Wi-Fi in a repeat of the dotcom bust. What a shame. I have a Wi-Fi network at home, and if a neighbour or someone passing through my hotspot makes use of it then fine. I've paid for my broadband connection and the other bits and bobs. If somebody else makes use of it, why should I bother? The companies mentioned in the article see Wi-Fi as a way to make money by piggy-backing on other people's work. They deserve to get their fingers burnt. I'm not going to lose any sleep over the fact that there are still bean counters out there who don't understand that the failures in the dotcom affair were those who had neither product nor plan, but were just trying to make money.Sean GoldingLondonLog your opinionI opened my copy of Online today to find, to my huge surprise, yet another full-page article on blogs - an exposition of Movable Type (On the road to blog nirvana, August 14). It seems the Guardian is lagging considerably behind the rest of the online world in getting over the whole blog thing. Given the inordinate amount of space you seem to devote to the blasted things, I think it would be a public service to run a survey to find out exactly how many of your readers write, read or are in any way at all interested in blogs...Adam WilliamsonManchesterLinux loverWhat is the purpose of referring to a "Linux Taliban" as in Jack Schofield's column (August 14)? It has always been obvious that he has no love for Linux but to express it in this way is ugly and offensive. Linux and Free Software are a very interesting phenomenon with a lot of different technology and philosophy which provide a welcome counterpoint to the Windows establishment. It would be helpful if Online's contributors were able to articulate the differences, benefits and problems with all alternatives in an informative and educational way rather than bang the drum of their own preferences and prejudices.I hope Schofield regrets making this remark.Dick MiddletonWest LothianHealth adviceThank you for the excellent article and advice on the MSBlast virus (What's new, August 14). Coverage of it over here has not been very good and though I was suffering from the virus, I had no idea that that was what it was.Simon CollinsNew York
Java or fava beans?It's been a vintage month for the puerile digital arts community B3ta, as the long-standing contributor Malevole was inspired by some of the terrible mugshots on the covers of software manuals to create the beautifully crafted Flash quiz, Programming Language Inventor - Or Serial Killer? An earlier twisted masterpiece featured Ray Harryhausen-style skeleton warriors dancing to a Chinese cover version of YMCA.Other recent targets have included the flash mob phenomenon, spoofed in a "flash mugging" site highlighting the pickpocketing potential of having so many phone cameras and iPods all in one place, plus the inexplicable attractions of the novelty photo call. A politics A-level student, Jason Whiley, has collated the 78 replies he received after writing to 150 current and former MPs asking if they had ever been photographed on a skateboard, space hopper, "or other locomotive child's toy", along with the images he managed to obtain, including Enoch Powell on a pogo stick and Gwyneth Dunwoody MP crushing a car.www.b3ta.comwww.malevole.com/mv/misc/tributewww.technicola.com/flashmuggingwww.statesmanorskatesman.co.ukAdmirable NelsonTim Berners-Lee may have invented the world wide web, but the concept of interlinked hypertext is attributed to his 1960s predecessor Ted Nelson, the keynote speaker at next week's HyperText 03 conference at the University of Nottingham. Nelson maintains that the web's use of hyperlinks is "far too shallow", and that his vision requires unbreakable, two-way connections for more reliable quoting and annotating. To a similar end, enthusiastic debaters in the US have tried inserting Quicktopic discussion links into every paragraph of articles they'd like to discuss. Meanwhile, here in the UK, the web developer Tom Dolan proposes: could   Hansard be turned into a weblog?www.ht03.orghttp://xrl.us/ohywww.sparklefluff.com/blatantoptimismGraphic and novelEpisode 3.5 of the astonishing comic strip Spiders is now online, an intended-for-mature-readers depiction of a hi-tech Afghan conflict observed from all angles by self-propelled webcams. It's also one of the few online comics that seems entirely at home in the medium of HTML, as you might expect from the author of the spot-on satire of 1990s cyberhype, The Guy I Almost Was. Meanwhile, one of the UK's top comic book writers, Warren Ellis, continues to confound expectation by posting the chapters of his new (all-text) novel, as he writes them, on to the net using LiveJournal weblogging software.www.saturn5.com/~esheep/spiderswww.livejournal.com/users/mistersleeplessBite the bullet pointsThe Visual Display of Quantitative Information guru, Edward Tufte, is a strident critic of slide-based presentation software such as Microsoft's PowerPoint, comparing its strictly hierarchical bullet point-based templates to the dictatorial edicts of Stalin. His printed essay critiquing The Cognitive Style of PowerPoint costs $7 from his website - but what if your PowerPoint-addicted colleagues are by now incapable of absorbing information in any other form? Fortunately, the teenage coding genius Aaron Swartz has translated it into a more familiar format for their benefit, hierarchical bullet points and all.www.edwardtufte.comwww.aaronsw.com/weblog/000931Tributary streamsBy day, MJ Hibbett is a database manager; by night a singer-songwriter who runs the indie record label Artists Against Success. The IT profession's very own Billy Bragg hopes to follow the cult popularity of his Hey Hey 16K anthem for the ZX Spectrum generation with a new downloadable track, Programming Is A Poetry For Our Time, musing "I wonder would Wordsworth have written in Perl?/ Would Keats have used Notepad for HTML?" If your musical tastes tend more toward the speeded-up chipmunk vocals of Euro-dance act Scooter (and especially if they don't), you may also enjoy the distressingly convincing official site of the Scooter "tribute band" Moped, featuring MP3s of upbeat Germanic techno reworks of everything from John Lennon's Imagine to Clocks by Coldplay.http://mjhibbett.tripod.com/sampler/programming.htmhttp://listen.to/HeyHey16Kwww.moped.org.ukNew &amp; notedDisposable email addresswww.mailinator.comQuotes you don't see on film postershttp://moviepoopshoot.com/mess/archives.htmlCult TV parodieswww.tvdregs.comBush/Orwell campaign 2004www.gwbush04.comSix of the bestTomb Raider and Lara CroftFan poetrywww.planetlara.com/fan_mail.asp'Too dark' death sceneswww.wsu.edu/~kgrytdal/lara_dies.htmlLookalike contests and advicehttp://adventureplace.0catch.com/competitionsLara meets Dianahttp://adventure place.0catch.com/TRstories/visit2.html'Sensual overtones and nudity'http://christiananswers.net/spotlight/games/2000/tombraider.htmlSay no to Nude Raiderhttp://jsn2nr.fateback.com
Patch workIn the aftermath of the MS Blaster debacle, Microsoft is beta-testing a product that will ensure the timely and automatic application of patches and updates to its software. Installer 3.0 will examine and apply patches and service packs to a range of Microsoft products. Currently, each product must be patched separately - a time-consuming and complex process. Installer 3.0 will have an impact on the consumer and small business markets, but large companies usually prefer to test patches before applying them.www.microsoft.com/security/incident/blast_faq.aspTwin peekSun Microsystems is taking the wraps off its Gemini chip, the next generation processor that will power its workstations and blade servers early next year. Gemini combines two of the current UltraSparc II chips into a single processor architecture. This multicore design allows multithreading, with lines of code being executed in parallel to speed up the processing rate. Early Gemini chips will run at 1.2GHz at 1.3v. Running them at 900MHz and 0.9v is cooler and reduces power consumption by 25%.Sun is also taking advantage of last week's publicity for security problems with Microsoft Windows to announce its launch of a rival desktop suite. The desktop suite, which is codenamed Project Mad Hatter, will include open source operating system Linux and use open standards. Sun said Mad Hatter will be a security and cost-effective alternative to Windows.www.sun.com/processors/throughput/MDR_Reprint.pdfwww.sun.com/madhatterinterestWi-flyAirgo Networks, a Silicon Valley start-up, has developed a chipset that doubles wireless throughput rates and increases the range by eight times current distances. The AGN100 Wi-Fi chipset supports all three 802.11 standards currently in use (a, b and g), but doubles the nominal throughput of 802.11g to 108Mbps. Airgo's multiple-input multiple-output (Mimo) system uses several aerials rather than a single receiver. Airgo claims that products based on its chips will require fewer access points to be used because of the increased reception area and support for all three Wi-Fi standards.www.airgonetworks.com/product_Overview.htmlNano nowMicroscopic chips using nanotechnology might be within reach of scientists   within the next few years, according to Andre DeHon, assistant professor of computer science at the California Institute of Technology. Speaking at the Hot Chips Symposium in Palo Alto, California, DeHon said that the techniques needed to assemble a chip based on nanowires are already available and that processors and memory chips using these techniques could be available within three to five years.Nanowires measure a few atoms in width and are about a thirtieth of the width used in today's chips. Delegates at the conference were sceptical because the process will require the development of new quality assurance tests and fabrication plants.www.hotchips.orgChinese checksThe Chinese State Council has decreed that all its departments will use locally produced software in future. The move underscores China's worries about foreign software undermining national security, and the rapid inroads that Microsoft, in particular, is making in the Chinese market. Under the new measures, Windows will be replaced by Red Flag Linux and Microsoft Office by Kingsoft WPS Office. China's Kingsoft has seen its 90% hold on the local word processor market rapidly overtaken by Microsoft Word. The ban should boost the uptake of GNU/Linux-based software in China, and may benefit the open source movement as more Chinese programmers contribute to the community.Big dealHM customs and excise last week increased the total value of its 10-year IT contract with Fujitsu Services, formerly ICL, from &#163;680 to &#163;929m. The department said that this will allow it to implement the next stage of its e-business programme, as well as enable links with other parts of government, such as the Inland Revenue. Fujitsu Services has already installed 19,000 PCs in 320 offices under the contract, which started in 1999.Calls are dearerThe independent committee for the supervision of standards of telephone information services (ICSTIS), which regulates premium-rate phone calls, will end its consultation on allowing providers to charge higher rates on September 1. The current price limit, set in 1994, is &#163;1.50 a minute, but the consultation proposes allowing &#163;5/minutes and a &#163;2.50/minute rates.Such services could provide legal, veterinary or accountancy advice, which ICSTIS says is not viable at the &#163;1.50 rate. The consultation suggests imposing a maximum call cost of &#163;75, as well as providing a free warning of the cost before and during the call, and a requirement for services to obtain advance permission to operate.www.icstis.org
Digital camerasPoints of viewSony has unveiled two digital cameras aimed at opposite ends of the market. Destined to become its flagship model when it launches in November, the &#163;900 DSC-F828 has image resolution of eight megapixels and includes Sony's latest HAD CDD, which features a four-colour filter to enhance colour rendition. Also featured is a Carl Zeiss Vario-Sonnar T lens, a new digital signal processor and an LCD display.Aimed at the first-time buyer, the DSC- U50 is due in October for &#163;230. Its new feature is a rotating lens, which enables users to take pictures of themselves. Image quality is two megapixels, and the camera can record MPeg movies.ANwww.sony.co.ukMobile phonesOrange SPV 2The mobile phone network Orange has confirmed it will ship the third incarnation of its Microsoft Windows-powered smartphone, confusingly titled the SPV 2, in November. Apparently a dead ringer for the current SPV (the SPV E-100), the new model adds an integrated camera (previous models came with external snappers) and Bluetooth to its predecessor's features list. Screen resolution remains the same at 176x220 pixels. The phone will also be triple band for use in the USA as well as Europe, and features truncated versions of Microsoft applications such as Outlook and Internet Explorer.ANwww.orange.co.ukGadgetsAll in a latherWave goodbye to those rubber ducks. For the ultimate in bathroom entertainment, the US company Jacuzzi has just    unveiled La Scala - a whirlpool bath complete with 42inch plasma screen TV and home entertainment system. While being massaged by water jets, owners can watch DVDs, or listen to CDs or the radio. It is only available in the US, with a price tag of around &#163;18,000, but the UK wing of the company is considering launching a similar product. If the budget doesn't stretch that far, Alba has revived an Online favourite. It has just released a showerproof, though not completely waterproof, CD player/FM radio. It is on sale now for a rather more modest &#163;35.www.jacuzzi.comPalm's upPalm OS-based systems took 51% of the market for handheld computers or PDAs (personal digital assistants) in this year's second quarter, but the market declined by 7%, according to Gartner research. PocketPC systems running Microsoft software took 35.9% of the market by units but 47.7% by value. Dell entered the handheld market, gaining a 5.3% market share, the same as RIM (Research in Motion). Total unit sales for the quarter were almost 2.5m. Also, after spinning off its operating system division, Palm Inc is now changing its name to palmOne.JSSoftwareVersatile by name....LG is launching what it is billing as the most versatile DVD burner for the PC so far. The GSA-4040 is the first of its kind that can record on to all three rewritable format discs (DVD-RW, DVD+RW and DVD-RAM) as well as DVD+R and DVD-R write-once discs. The GSA-4040 can also record on to both CD-Rs and CR-RWs. It is the first DVD burner not made by Panasonic to record on to DVD-RAM and is compatible with the new 3x DVD-RAM media due later in the year. The GSA-4040 is on sale now priced at around &#163;200.ANwww.lge.co.ukBroadband trainsPassengers on east-coast trains running between London and Scotland could soon be surfing the internet and checking their email wirelessly. GNER is teaming up with the Swedish mobile company Icomera to deliver a Wi-Fi network. A three-month trial will start next month, with GNER beginning a rollout across all its trains in 2004. The "broadband speed" connection will be provided by a mixture of GPRS and GSM mobile links and satellite communications. The company hasn't said anything yet about how much the service will cost and whether it intends to install electric power points in its carriages.ANwww.gner.co.ukFringe benefitsSome events at Edinburgh's festivals are selling tickets through a mobile phone system. Customers receive a    bar code called a "mobi-ticket", which is checked for validity at the venue by a supermarket-style bar-code scanner. The Assembly Rooms, one of the biggest venues for the festival, said mobile sales have picked up since the festival started, but was unable to provide figures. The mobile ticketing system is built by Mobiqa, an Edinburgh-based firm, which is building a ticket-sales system for the Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre.SAMIn conclusionGlasgow University's computing department has developed software that tracks the development of arguments within documents and looks for material connected to the conclusions. "It's a way of trying to strip out the rhetoric," says Chris Johnson, professor of computing science at the university. He says the software is particularly useful for tracking material used to both support and detract from the conclusions of very large documents, such as those produced by an enquiry.SAMwww.dcs.gla.ac.uk/~johnsonHardwareFaster bubblesCanon claims its new Canon Bubble Jet i560 printer is the fastest in its class, claiming speeds of 22ppm (pages per minute) in mono and 15ppm in colour. This is 25% faster than its forerunner, the i550. It is also the first Canon Bubble Jet that can print directly from any PictBridge-compatible camera via    a USB cable. The printer also features separate ink tanks for each colour, and the tanks are transparent, so you can see they really are empty. The i560 should be available next month for around &#163;149.JSwww.canon.co.ukThink flatDid you know there was an "aspirational designer space" in the flat-screen monitor market? Samsung Electronics not only believes there is, it has launched two brushed aluminium models to target it: the 15in Syncmaster SM152X (&#163;299) and the 17in SM172X (&#163;419). Both have narrow surrounds, which will appeal to people who want more than one. Samsung says the monitors "can be banked together for a reception area video wall without causing a large interruption to the overall image". The 17in model can accept both digital and analogue video signals.JSStat of the week: Falling through the netAnyone who thinks Whitehall policies are bridging the digital divide will have to think again. These figures show that 68% of the lowest social classes (DEs) have no web access at all, compared with only 19% of the rich ABs.AddendumThe Nokia 3300 multimedia phone featured last week is available from Carphone Warehouse.
As power failed in the north-eastern US and Canada and the MSBlast worm ran amok across the internet last week, system managers were hoping their business recovery plans were ready. With IT at the heart of business processes, keeping it up and running (or at least ensuring data is safe) has become more and more important.What started out as just good practice for managing backups has become an industry in its own right. Business continuity grew out of disaster recovery, and it covers the technologies and policies businesses need to use to survive major disruptions - whether they're caused by disasters, power failures or security breaches.Larger businesses often outsource at least part of their continuity planning, often using managed data centres. International organisations can take advantage of their data centres, and keep copies of databases and applications from each site out of harm's way on another continent: data management platforms such as Persistence Software's simplify managing data across several sites and countries. In the aftermath of the North American blackouts, large businesses - with their protected data centres - stayed   online. But do smaller organisations have as good a chance of staying live?A recent survey by RoperASW showed that 40% of large companies feel their data was vulnerable, and 25% would take longer than three days to recover from a disaster. It is likely to be worse in smaller businesses, which need to be ready for the unforeseen, from opportunistic burglars walking off with the company database server, to failed operating system or application upgrades.It doesn't even need to be your business that has the problems: other units on the same industrial estate could catch fire, or other local emergencies can force your team away from their desks. Yes, business continuity costs money, but think of it as risk management. Plus, it can also be far easier to implement, and much cheaper than you might think. More importantly, it can also mean the difference between going out of business and being back at work in a temporary office just a few hours after a fire, with complete access to your data.Teleworking technologies can help make a business more resilient, too. If the server is in the office but the emergency services won't let you in because of a problem elsewhere in the street, you could work over a    broadband connection using the virtual private network software built into most broadband routers and PC operating systems. You need to plan ahead; servers are often connected touninterruptible power supply (UPS) systems, to help shut them down gracefully after power failures. Critical networking equipment is often forgotten. It's a good idea to make sure you   are protecting network switches and internet access as well. UPS equipment should also alert administrators so you are ready to shut down servers cleanly if there is a power failure.Backing up your data is critically important. Changes in disk technology have made backing up large quantities of data easier. Instead of using tape,   which could be unreliable and fiddly, FireWire disks make it easier to back up, and to check that data has been backed up. You can use them with most back-up software - or even with disk imaging applications such as Norton Ghost. And when your backup is the size of a paperback and stores 250GB, it's not a problem to take one out of the office and so keep data safe.You also need to be sure you can recover your data. Too many companies run backups without ever testing to see if the data can be restored, until the day they need to restore a failed mail server or database and discover that several months' worth of backups are completely useless.Often, it's not just your internal data that needs protecting. Websites and web applications need to be kept running. Your web host might run into problems of its own, so keep backups of your site's content and applications, and be ready to reload them at any time.There are other ways of keeping web applications running. Dorian Logan, of the open source consultancy Tuxstar, has just changed his website hosting arrangements to improve availability. Instead of using a single host, he now keeps servers at two locations. By taking advantage of simple, and often ignored, features built into the internet's domain name service, the company can quickly switch between its two sites. If one goes down, DNS requests can be quickly routed to the second.On a larger scale, technologies such as F5 Labs' 3DNS manage internet connections to several data centres. Monitoring tools and rules make sure packets are routed to the appropriate site, keeping connections to e-business sites running. 3DNS does not just cover entire sites, it can also handle individual applications.Business continuity is for every business: from home workers to multinationals. Start with a risk assessment, and then work out what you need to do to deal with that risk. That's going to be different for every business, but you don't want to wait for a massive power failure to find out you have no continuity plans at all.
Is it strange looking back at the limited bit-rates you had to work with on your early machines?Strange but I think it's almost a fondness for things past - these days you have plug-ins such asBitCrusherandLo-Fithat do it all. In those days, I was a musician and I had an interest in technology. They do say that necessity is the mother of invention and there were ideas in my head for products that didn't exist!Is Mac the musician's choice?For someone who's serious about what they're doing, in the States at least, Mac is the better platform for music. In particular,OS X's Core Audiois wonderful because it has very low latency. Windows considers low latency to be around 200 milliseconds! Midi has become standardised now, too, so all the inter-application communication is done by the operating system, which makes it much easier.G5?I actually just bought a new Mac but it was a G4 PowerBook as the projects I'm working on don't require anything huge. The great thing is that I can effectively take my entire studio over to a friend's house if I need to. For fun projects I use bothLogicandPro-Tools.Should music software be made more intuitive?I think it's a lot harder to add all the wonderful features a program like Logic has than it is to make the program more intuitive. Emagic has done a great job with it so far, but they could go a little further still. By comparison, the first page of the manual for our AdrenaLinn says in big bold type I Want to Use It Right Now and gives you eight quick steps to do what you bought the product for! I think everybody should have a page like that in their manuals.iTunes?Basically, you want to be able to get any music you want at any time for a reasonable price. Steve Jobs, who is an incredible visionary, said a few years ago that software copying would eventually lead to a point where the prices would lower to a point where people don't feel like copying it - I think the same thing is true for music.    I'm very much in favour of being able to buy the music; I don't want to have to mess around withKazaaorMorpheus. These things will find their own level. Jobs has set the standard that people will follow.Is e-commerce getting its second wind?It never lost its first wind! The only problem was this onslaught of companies attempting to sell huge numbers of products to a slowly, but very steadily, growing number of people who were comfortable with buying goods over the internet. So the people didn't change - all these businesses came along and tried to present business plans to make huge amounts of investment capital from a market that didn't yet exist!Roger Linn's bookmarksOffice designwww.hermanmiller.comMusic hardwarewww.musiciansfriend.comMusic softwarewww.cakewalk.com/Products/SONAR/default.aspVisit:www.rogerlinndesign.com
What ever happened to Basic? Until a few years ago, just about every home computer sold came with a version of Beginners All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code, a computer programming language so easy to use that millions of adults and children worldwide used to write programs on their Sinclair ZX80s and ZX81s, BBC Micros, Apple IIs, and later on Apple Macs and PCs. And then suddenly, like Slade, it was gone.Writing programs in Basic was once the whole point of owning a home computer, but today, only a tiny percentage of computer users are bedroom coders, according to Ivo Salmre, the product manager in charge of programming tools at Microsoft. So what has changed? "A computer today is a tool for everyone, not just for computer programmers," Salmre says. "Software is also much more customisable now. In the past, if you needed a program to do just what you wanted, you had to get out your programming tools."But programming has also become much harder: writing a program that can take advantage of Windows' mouse-driven graphical user interface is more demanding than writing one that simply displays text, and 3D games often need whole teams of highly skilled programmers to create them. The truth is that Basic in its original form is totally unsuitable for writing these types of programs. Now they are often developed in C, C++ and Java, languages almost exclusively used by professional programmers.So does this mean the end of home programming? Not necessarily. That's because 40 years after its introduction, Basic refuses to disappear completely. It lives on in powerful new programming languages that still use Basic-like commands, but which are capable of producing top-notch programs and games.Microsoft's Visual Basic.Net is essentially a souped-up version of Basic designed for writing Windows programs, web applications and internet-based programs called web services. And although it looks daunting, it turns out to have many familiar Basic commands. A working knowledge can certainly be picked up in a few hours and, unlike most versions of Basic, Visual Basic can also make programs for PocketPC-based handheld computers and the next generation of Smartphone mobile phones.But writing games has usually been highest priority for home programmers, and Visual Basic is not much use for this. But Dark Basic is a version of Basic that has been specifically designed for writing games, generating fast-moving 3D landscapes using a handful of simple commands. Usually, it is only possible to generate these sorts of graphics by programming a computer's graphics card using a set of programming standards such as Microsoft's DirectX. Dark Basic simplifies this, using Basic commands to generate graphics using DirectX automatically."We've found our market is mainly teenagers or people who grew up in the 80s with Basic who want to try their hand at games," says Rick Vanner, the commercial director for Lancashire-based Dark Basic. "Learning C++ and how to use DirectX can take months, but if you know Basic, it is possible to get up and running making 3D games with Dark Basic in a few minutes."Programming may be a little harder today than it was 20 years ago, but with a little Basic knowledge, it is certainly still possible for anyone to whip up a program on a variety of platforms. That is the experience of Stuart Yate, a chef who also writes software. "I wrote my first programs 20 odd years ago in Basic on a Sinclair Spectrum and an old Amstrad machine," he says. "Then I stopped for a while, but after I went in to catering, I couldn't find the software I needed for my business so I decided to write my own. It might have been easier if I had gone on a course as I have made just about every mistake imaginable, but I taught myself and succeeded in the end."But if the newer, more powerful Basics aren't to your taste, you can still download a free version called Chipmunk, which will run on a PC or Macintosh, and bash out lines of classic Basic. Or for an authentic retro coding experience, download an emulator and turn your computer into a virtual BBC Micro, a ZX81, or even a MITS Altair 8800 - the first personal computer back in 1975 - and recreate the glory days of Basic programming in old-fashioned, low resolution monochrome.Dark Basicwww.darkbasic.comMicrosoft Visual Basichttp://msdn.microsoft.com/vbasicChipmunk Basicwww.nicholson.com/rhn/basicwww.delhez.demon.nlBBC Micro emulatorwww.mikebuk.dsl.pipex.com/beebemAltair 8800 emulatorwww.schorn.ch/cpm/intro.html
Gordon Brown will no doubt love it. The prospect of spamming Tony Blair to online hell has now become a reality. This week Downing Street issued the first public email address for the prime minister.As expected, Blair will be spared from going through most of the messages - a team of officials will be given the task of confronting junk and crank emails - but he will read and respond to the more interesting correspondence, says Downing Street.The decision to provide a prime ministerial email address follows much debate within Whitehall. Two years ago, just before September 11, it was reported that a system would soon be available. However, in the aftermath of the New York attacks, the idea appeared to have been shelved.After several months of development and testing, the system is now ready, but officials will be keen to avoid the sort of headaches suffered by the White House this summer when email enthusiasts, angered by attempts to set up a new and convoluted nine-page messaging process, reacted with a denial of service attack.The Bush administration wanted to draw emailers away from the traditional address -president@whitehouse.gov- issuing instead a web-based system designed as an online form with subject headings.The official line was that the new approach enhanced the service, allowing the White House to offer a more "substantive and personalised" response.Many users became frustrated, however, when they found that the    address - www.whitehouse.gov/webmail  - was not initially on the main contacts page but buried in another section. Confronted with a cumbersome template spread over several pages, many suspected it had been designed to put them off getting in contact.In contrast, Downing Street is keen to emphasise how simple it will be to get in touch with Blair, comparing the system to the smug, but straightforward, offering from the Australian prime minister, John Howard. His site warns that following the automated acknowledgement, "there will be no further electronic response from the prime minister", and only a remote chance of a response by Australia Post.Blair's email team is confident that the &#163;11,000 system will stand up to pressure. Downing Street is aware it will have to cope with considerable strain."The prime minister received around 1m items of correspondence last year," says a No 10 spokesperson. "We expect the number of emails to be greater than that figure but we can't say by how much. We do believe we will be able to provide a response to demand, like we had on the site during the Iraq war, with the publication of the dossiers."Everyone submitting a message will get an automated response and Blair will receive regular reports updating him on what's arriving in the inbox. He may even respond himself to the fortunate few deemed to have the appropriate content.In an attempt to root out mischief-makers, and concentrate on those with a need for a response, "sifters" will keep an eye out for signs indicating a genuine message, said the spokesperson. One indicator would be if someone includes personal details or an address.Richard Allan, the Liberal Democrats' IT spokesman, says that Blair's move is much needed, as Downing Street can no longer expect people to "stuff a letter in an envelope" if they want to get in contact.He says it gives an opportunity to set up a "proper exchange" with the public, especially during events such as the war in Iraq, when "people wanted to feel as if they could express an opinion and to know that at some point somebody had acknowledged their concerns".But Allan says more is required. The Downing Street site makes a valiant attempt to keep up with the times, offering a Wap version to any users still out there, and a digital TV debut is also planned, but less is being done to get real democratic participation online.Allan notes that until a year ago, the government was attempting a serious look at e-democracy, not just with voting on the internet, but how to involve people in the political debate. There was even much hype about setting up an "online civic parliament".At the time, Robin Cook, as leader of the Commons, was enthusing about internet democracy and there was talk of the government working more closely with the BBC on the subject. More chance now, perhaps, of receiving a Blair response in the inbox.Prime ministerial emailwww.whitehouse.gov/webmailwww.pm.gov.auwww.edemocracy.gov.ukwww.pm.gov.uk
P.N.03GameCube, &#163;39.99 Capcom, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Japanese games developers have a style all their own, which is much admired throughout the world - particularly among hardcore gamers. It owes a lot to the tradition of Manga comics and anime films, and if you fancy finding out what that style is like, you could do worse than buy a copy of P.N.03 (Product Number 03).In P.N.03, you play Vanessa Z Schneider, who can only be described as a cyber-babe. In a similar manner to Metroid Prime, Vanessa has a trick suit packed with weaponry, which can be upgraded during the game. The gameplay is also fairly reminiscent of Metroid Prime, although it does not feel quite so hi-tech and takes place in the third person.You pilot the lovely Vanessa through various levels, which are chopped up into short sequences, shooting pretty much anything that moves and negotiating simple puzzles, such as laser traps. What sets P.N.03 apart is the way Vanessa moves. Leave her to her own devices and she will groove away to internal music, and she has an arsenal of winsomely gymnastic moves such as cartwheels.She also acquires more powerful attacks as the game progresses, which are mapped, uniquely, in a similar fashion to beat-'em-up special moves. The stylised, almost monochrome, graphics also provide an agreeably cyberpunk/anime vibe. All in all, P.N.03 is a classic slice of Japanese-style, shoot-'em-up action that is an absolute must if you own a GameCube.Steve BoxerHeaven and Hell: Live &amp; Let DiePC, &#163;29.99 Madcat/CDV, &#42;&#42;&#42;Despite the superfluous subtitle, for one second you think this is going to be something really special. The idea seems to be to turn Peter Molyneux's Black &amp; White into an old-skool, top-down God game, packed with gentle humour and instinctive gameplay. At first, it pays off.Gameplay involves converting various nomadic tribes to your ideology, which you do by performing miracles or preaching. Once won over, they produce manna, which you need for the better miracles, and so on.Naturally, there are evil prophets too, which is where the whole thing starts to come off the rails. You have no direct control over your followers or soldiers. You can recruit prophets, and they give orders or cast spells, but there seems no balance to their abilities. There also seems to be a fundamental flaw in the targeting system, which remembers where a target was rather than where it is by the time your men get to it. It's a shame, because proper combat would have lifted this to a new level.However, fans of games such as The Settlers may find it an acceptable trade-off as there are so many cute touches to enjoy. The way your Bapticon gets lost while misguidedly trying to convert sheep, or the spy who can camouflage himself as a shrub. It's   just a pity the developers didn't get more time to iron out the bugs.Mike AnderieszThe Great EscapeXbox, PS2, &#163;39.99 Sci,  &#42;&#42;What's next? Easy Rider? Continuing the recent trend for retro-licensed videogames - Starsky &amp; Hutch, Rocky - comes The Great Escape.Based on the movie, this is a stealth-based war game that only sporadically shows signs of escaping mediocrity. Initial signs are positive. The familiar soundtrack and solid graphics create a warm nostalgic glow. After all, who wouldn't want to control Steve McQueen in the legendary motorbike sequence?Sadly, the annoying controls make this section a scant reward for ploughing through the rest of the game. That's not to say The Great Escape is without merit. The levels are varied, with a good mix of sneaking and fetching. The objectives are fixed but there is relative freedom as to how a player achieves them and, with four different characters to play with, and some diverting vehicle sections, there is a lot to do here. But so much of the good work is dissipated by hit and miss detection and a laughably frustrating combat system. Sadly, The Great Escape is just a bit too authentic in its depiction of tedious captivity.Greg Howson
SiPix has paraded a new model that can take two megapixel images and includes an integrated MP3 player yet retails for under &#163;100. Due next month, the StyleCam Ultra features a 4x zoom, mini LCD screen and can archive video at 10 frames per second.The camera has 16MB of internal storage, which won't carry a lot of MP3 tracks. To add music, users will need to buy a Secure Digital (SD) storage card. Prices for 256MB SD cards, which will store around six hours of music, start at &#163;60.www.sipixdigital.com
If you're lucky, your computer screen might be 17in or even 21in from corner to corner; many of us still struggle with 15in displays where you can only see one document or web page comfortably at a time. Your desk gives you room to spread out several documents, papers and magazines together - it's probably 10 times bigger than your screen. If you have a whiteboard, it is usually at least as large as your desk. So why not get a little more space to spread out on screen?For a start, desks are cheaper than screens. The larger the screen, the higher the price; it is more difficult to make larger screens, so you are much more likely to get dead pixels, but putting two screens side by side gives you the same advantage. It would take a pretty big desk to fit two 17in CRT monitors on, but once you switch to LCD panels, it is much easier to fit more than one screen on a desk. While large LCD screens are still prohibitively expensive, you can get more pixels and save money by buying two 17in screens instead of one 21in monster.The second screen is probably the only thing you will need to buy. If you have bought a graphics card within the past year, it almost certainly lets you plug in a second monitor, and cards such as the Matrox Parhelia even let you connect three screens at once. The Macintosh OS and any version of Windows since Windows 98 support multiple monitors, but Windows XP makes it much simpler to set up. It is down to the graphics card driver how windows and dialogue boxes arrange themselves on screen; NVidia's nView drivers give you more control than most.According to a survey Microsoft commissioned, while people worry about the cost of a second screen, the main objection is the amount of space it takes up on the desk. If that is really a worry, you can get a single stand that will take two or three screens at once, and because there is a standard for how LCD panels are attached to the stand, you can go to a specialist such as Ergotron or Grorud for a stand that will take any screen. Jon Peddie, who carried out the survey, thinks the main issue is lack of awareness and "thinking that monitors are big, hot expensive things and PCs are only used for one thing at a time".Multiple screens are common in specialist areas such as computer-aided design, financial trading and video editing. They are particularly   useful if you have a set of controls you want to put on one screen and a content window you work in - whether that is an image, a web page or a programming environment. But anyone who works with more than one program or more than one source of information will find life easier with more screen space.You can stack up the web pages you're reading and the document you're writing side by side, with email or instant messages down the side of the screen. You will have room for useful tools on screen, such as a taskbar that lets you type in URLs or search Google. But is the extra space just a convenience or could it make you more productive?Mary Czerwinski runs the Visualisation and interaction for business and entertainment team (Vibe) at   Microsoft Research, and the team's studies found definite increases in productivity - and in general satisfaction, too. Being able to see what you need to work with reduces stress as well as speeding you up.The biggest productivity gains - up to 50% - are with simple tasks such as cutting and pasting between windows. But even with more complex tests with multiple windows and applications (the way people really use their computers), you gain because you don't have to waste time resizing and rearranging windows just to get to the information you need to work with, so your attention is freed up. It is easier to keep the information you are using fresh in your mind when you can see it all the time, and when you are not distracted by managing windows."We see those gains even though Windows and Office are not really designed with larger displays in mind," Czerwinski points out. The Vibe team is working with the Windows and Office teams to make software work better on larger screens. It is also looking at ways to let you group related windows into projects that keep the context and layout of what you're working on. With a larger screen, you keep more windows open, so you need better tools to manage them.Interestingly, the research shows that women benefit from the wider view more than men, possibly because it gives them cues to spatial visualisation that they tend to use more, and that the "narrow, pin-hole view on the world" of a standard monitor misses out.The Vibe team developed a prototype 48in screen called DSharp, which curves around the desk and has no divisions between screen areas, but they have also used multiple LCD screens. Although most users think that the bevel at the edge of each screen is going to be intrusive, it turns out that you simply stop seeing the division.Having one screen further away than the other is much more distracting, which is often the case when you use a portable computer with an external screen. It's not a problem when you use the second screen for giving a presentation, with your notes and controls on your own screen, but Czerwinski thinks we are going to be using a variety of sizes and orientations of screens on our desks that we will want to knit together, which raises a whole new set of questions.If one of those is a smart display that you can carry away to use as a portable screen, do you want to see just the portion of your desktop that was on that screen when it was connected to your desktop, or the whole image resized to fit?That kind of setup would be much easier if you didn't need a separate interface for each screen. The Video Electronics Standards Association is working on a standard called digital packet video link, which would let you daisychain displays into a virtual screen without connecting them all directly to your PC. But that is still some years away.And while desktop users can double their working space by plugging in a second screen, it is more complicated with a portable. Apple and Toshiba have 17in widescreen portables that let you see two documents side by side, but the Xentex Flip-Pad makes a virtue out of its twin 13.3in screens. Use them together for a screen that is nearly 18in or flip one round to give a presentation.Estari's 2-VU is even more unusual: the prototype puts two 15in screens side by side like the pages of a book.Higher prices are likely to restrict multi-screen portables to specialist applications (they're very popular with the military), but if you ever open more than one window at the same time, you will like two screens better than one.Useful linksMicrosoft Research: Visualization and Interaction for Business and Entertainmenthttp://research.microsoft.com/research/vibeMekowww.meko.co.ukJohn Peddie Researchwww.jonpeddie.comVesawww.vesa.orgNVIDIA nViewwww.nvidia.co.uk/object/feature_nview.htmlFlip-Padwww.xentex.com/voyagerEstari 2-VUwww.dualscreen.comMatroxwww.matrox.co.uk/mga
"Tampa police have scrapped their controversial security camera system that scanned city streets for criminals, citing its failure over two years to recognize anyone wanted by authorities," reportsAP.
Hewlett-Packard shares tumbled by 11% in after-hours trading on Tuesday after it announced a disappointing quarter's financial results. HP's sales were $17.3 billion: up by 5% "but $200 million shy of Wall Street estimates", according toUSA Today. "HP's PC division lost $56 million in the quarter."On Wednesday, "Dell cut prices on computers, printers and other products by up to 22%," asReutersreported.The timing of the release was "serendipitous," a Dell spokeswoman said.Comment: Dell is (very roughly) half the size of HP, but it is in a position of strength, with profits up 24% and shipments up 27% in the last quarter (below). HP can now choose between cutting PC prices and losing even more money, or holding them and losing market share.
IBM is to add Simultaneous Multi-Threading technology (SMT) to its Power5 server processor for shipment next year, reportsExtreme Tech. Intel has been shipping what it calls Hyperthreading in Xeon versions of the Pentium, and last year announced it for the Pentium 4 line.
The birth of the first internet spermbank baby was announced yesterday - a healthy boy whose arrival exposes a hole in the regulations that govern fertility treatment.The 10lb 2oz boy was the result of a purchase of sperm by a couple in the south-east of England from a British-based website which claims to be the only one of its kind.ManNotIncluded.comis able to bypass all the rules and the scrutiny that fertility clinics have to endure because it does not offer treatment - it acts only as an introduction agency, to bring together men willing to sell their anonymised sperm and those, usually lesbian couples and single women, who want to buy it.This baby, however, was born to a heterosexual married couple who also want to remain anonymous and bring up the child as genetically their own.John Gonzalez, the former City headhunter who is the website's founder, said: "We are delighted at the fantastic news that the first baby has been born as a direct result of using our groundbreaking service. MNI is about giving all women the chance to have children without fear of prejudice or discrimination. Here's to the birth of countless more MNI babies over the coming weeks and months."He said the new parents were the only heterosexual couple on his books. There are 19 other women now more than three months' pregnant after using the service. This couple came to the website, he said, after treatment at conventional clinics was unsuccessful."This couple have been treated apallingly by a couple of private clinics. They have been through three or four direct insemination attempts and two egg-sharing IVF treatments."Nonetheless, the year-old website is unlikely to be heavily used by heterosexual couples. If the fertility problem is the man's inability to produce any quantity of sperm, most   can be helped by an increasingly commonly used technique called ICSI, which extracts a single sperm and injects it directly into the woman's egg. The treatment is expensive, and some clinics invite women to give away half the eggs they produce under the stimulation of drugs to encourage ovulation in exchange for cut-price treatment - known as egg-sharing.The new baby, said Mr Gonzalez, is "a very, very healthy bouncing baby boy", whose arrival he hoped would silence some of the website's critics. "So many people who criticised us were expecting us to deliver babies with two heads and six arms," he said.But rightwing morality groups and the fertility regulators will not be appeased. The Human Fertility and Embryology Authority says it has no power over such an internet sperm provider, but was concerned about its activities."The problem we have is that because it is fresh sperm, it doesn't fall within our remit. It is almost like a loophole," said a spokeswoman. "It certainly needs to be looked at but it would be for parliament to decide whether they would like to change it."The HFEA is concerned that the sperm donor may not have been adequately screened for diseases the child could inherit. And while men who donate sperm to regulated clinics are legally not considered to be the father of any child, that may not be so for internet sperm donors, it adds."The HFEA cannot guarantee good laboratory practices and safe testing of donated sperm from unlicensed donation services. Women wishing to use donated sperm are advised to do so through an HFEA licensed clinic where donated sperm is thoroughly tested and legal parentage is set down in law," said Suzi Leather, HFEA chairman.Jack Scarisbrick of the Life organisation is another opponent of the website service. "One has to welcome the birth of a child but the whole procedure is horrible," he said. "Children are far too important to be the result of sperm bought by email."
Tomorrow in Online we're covering online music, in the wake of the Rolling Stones' (legit) online debut, and the launch of OD2's a la carte subscription services across Europe. During the research, I had a few interesting chats with music industry folks on both sides of the Atlantic about Apple's iTunes music store. When, I was keen to know, would it be opening up here? Apple themselves say negotiations continue, with a few hints suggesting the tortuous rights negotiations in Europe (they vary from country to country) make things difficult.That's not in doubt - but what is interesting is that Apple may also be stalling a little, too. They need to get a PC version of the shop out in the US as soon as possible. After the success of the iTunes music store for Macs, there are at least four companies vying to beat them to a Windows version, so resources are being concentrated there. Expect a launch before Christmas.It now looks like Apple will certainly miss the rumoured September launch date for the European shop - next spring looks far more likely, to the frustration of users and - I can confirm - record company executives. For once, they're not the ones holding things up.
I'm pleased to say Eilan (aka Jason Staines), who has contributed to ourdiscussionhere on weblogs over the last week, agreed to pen this week's Second Sight column in the newspaper. We thought he did a much better job of proposing a downside to the blogosphere than many of the higher-profile critics who have been having a go of late. His piece appears tomorrow and, as a bonus, it's certainly the first time we've recruited a columnist from the comments boxes on Onlineblog :-)
The Rolling Stones, once happier to sue than share, have agreed to make their 40-year back catalogue accessible legally for downloading from the internet.In a deal between the band, online music network Rhapsody and retailer Best Buy, more than 500 tracks will be available at around 47p each on the websiteListen.com.The move is symptomatic of a recent change in attitude towards digital music by big record companies. David Munns, chairman of EMI Music North America, said: "This is a tremendous step forward in EMI's very aggressive push to expand and improve legitimate digital music services."Earlier rights were held by Universal, under a licence prohibiting digital usage. EMI/Virgin, new proprietors of material dating from 1971, removed red tape which kept tracks such as (I Can't Get No) Satisfaction from internet fans. The songs will be available on the Rhapsody network for the last two weeks of this month and then through the record giant itself.Ted Cohen, EMI Music's senior vice-president for digital development and distribution, emphasised the importance of the event for the growth of digital music. "It is a watershed event. One of the top bands in the world is putting its entire catalogue together, united on one of the top online music services."Rhapsody, home to 350,000 music tracks, is backed by web media giants Real Networks. It is competing legally with more popular download services such as Kazaa by installing internet kiosks in Best Buy music shops in the US.Mark Hall, vice-president of international RealOne, part of Real Networks, said: "We are beginning to crack through the barriers. The Rolling Stones are the first of a handful of significant artists to allow their repertoire to be shared."The digital medium is reaching its critical mass, they can't afford to ignore us any more. Hopefully, we'll see artists like The Beatles and Madonna following suit, and moving to a great new means of enjoying music."Conor McNicholas, editor of the music weekly NME, said: "For the first time, consumers are dictating how they want music. They read one of our articles, or hear a song, then download immediately. People are innovating and using the technology that's out there faster than the record companies are."His views are echoed by Dr Leonardo Chiariglione, credited with inventing the mp3 format in the early 1990s."Technology advances offer a convergence point between the goals of all multimedia actors: creators, intermediaries and users. It is high time that technology be used to keep the unfulfilled promises."
Last week's massive power blackout in the north-east and midwest regions of the US is a reminder that the electrical grid is the central nervous system that coordinates a densely populated urban existence. So how likely is it that the electricity will go off, not just for a brief moment but for extended periods of time? Unfortunately, the power grid is increasingly vulnerable to disruption because of energy shortages and terrorism.The problem with the existing grid in the US and elsewhere is that each part of the system is so dependent on the rest of the system working that when a single malfunction occurs anywhere, it can result in power loss everywhere. To prevent a repetition of this kind of blackout requires the creation of a decentralised, distributed electricity grid powered by millions of hydrogen fuel cells.There is an important lesson here to be learned from the development of the decentralised worldwide web. The Pentagon created the precursor to the internet in the late 1960s. The Department of Defense (DOD) was concerned about power blackouts and the potential vulnerability to attack or other forms of disruption of centrally controlled communication operations. They were looking for a new kind of decentralised communications medium, in which all parties could produce information and send it to one another in a way that would continue to function even if part of the system was disrupted or destroyed.The solution came in the form of the Arpanet, developed by the DOD's advanced research projects agency. The Arpanet metamorphosed into the internet. Today, a billion people connect with each other via the internet and the world wide web. Each person, armed with his or her own computer, becomes a potential producer and disseminator as well as user of information.Hydrogen-powered fuel cells are analogous to personal computers. That is, the fuel cell allows its user to produce, disseminate and use energy. Convertors are attached to either the gas line or the electricity line coming into the home, office or factory. In the case of natural gas, a catalytic convertor strips out the hydrogen from the natural gas, via a steam-reforming process, and stores it for later use in a fuel cell. Alternatively, an electrolyser can be attached to the electricity line and electricity can be used to separate hydrogen from water. This way, end users can store energy, in the form of hydrogen, and use it to generate electricity in fuel cells if and when a power surge or blackout occurs. Hydrogen fuel cells will initially be used as back-up generators.Over the course of the next three decades, millions of people will purchase their own power plants. Fuel cells inside cars, homes, factories and offices will be capable of producing electricity for their own use during emergencies, while sending the surplus back to the power grid to share with others. To connect all those fuel cells - mini-power plants - will require a reconfiguration of every nation's power grid.In many ways, the current power grid resembles the state of the broadcast industry before the advent of the web. Today's transmission systems are not set up to direct specific quantities of energy to specific parts of the grid, so power flows all over the place, often causing congestion, energy loss and blackouts. Transforming the power grid into an interactive network of thousands, and then millions, of small suppliers and users is a challenging task. New technology developed by the Electric Power Research Institute in the US called Flexible Alternative Current Transmission System (Facts) gives transmission companies the capacity to "deliver measured quantities of power to specified areas of the grid". American Electric Power (AEP) purchased the first Facts in 1998 for its Kentucky operations, and nine utilities are now using it.The integration of computer hardware and software can transform the centralised grid into an interactive intelligent energy network. Sensors and intelligent agents embedded throughout the system can provide information on energy conditions, allowing current to flow where and when it is needed and at the cheapest price. An American company, Sage Systems, for example, has created a software program that allows utilities to "shed load instantly" if the system is at its peak and stressed to the limit, by "setting back a few thousand customers' thermostats by 2 degrees ... &#91;with&#93; a single command over the internet". Another new product, Aladyn, allows users to monitor and make changes in the energy used by home appliances, lights and air conditioning, all from a browser.Soon, sensors attached to every electrical appliance - refrigerators, air conditioners, security alarms - will provide the latest information on energy prices and on temperature, light and other environmental conditions, so that factories, offices, homes and whole communities can continuously and automatically adjust their energy requirements to one another's needs and to the energy load flowing through the system.The coming together of millions of hydrogen-powered fuel-cell mini-power plants and systems intelligence changes the energy equation for ever. For the first time, the potential exists to replace a traditional top-down with a new bottom-up approach to energy - a democratisation of energy, in which everyone can be his or her own vendor and consumer.The consequences of connecting every owner of a fuel-cell micro-power plant with every other owner in an energy-sharing network will be as profound and far-reaching as was the development of the world wide web in the 1990s. Equally important, with everyone producing their own power and sharing it on the decentralised, interactive electricity grid, the kind of blackout America just experienced would be a thing of the past.&#183;Jeremy Rifkin is the author of The Hydrogen Economy: The Creation of the World Wide Energy Web and the Redistribution of Power on Earth (Polity Press: 2002)comment@guardian.co.uk
"The legendary rock band will make its entire catalog -- from its 1964 debut album through last year's anthology disc, Forty Licks' -- available for the first time to online music services, beginning with an exclusive arrangement with RealNetworks' Rhapsody service and retailer Best Buy," reports theMercury News.
IBM has cut more than 600 jobs in its microelectronics business as "part of our effort to re-establish profitability," said a spokesman. IBM chopped 1,000 jobs last year. However, it has not affected supplies of the latest Mac processors. "They've been doing a great job supplying us with G5s," Apple toldCNet.
"The new worm, dubbed W32.Welchia, W32/Nachi and Worm_MSBlast.D, appears to properly download the patch for both Windows 2000 and Windows XP from Microsoft's Web site. Moreover, the variant will delete itself the first time an infected computer starts up in 2004."CNethas the story.
Even technologically challenged music fans who could no more download an illegal MP3 file than pilot a space shuttle owe a debt of gratitude to the Napster generation.For years record buyers have complained that CDs are overpriced and the music industry has responded by saying, as politely as possible, put up or shut up.Now, panicked by the pirates, they've finally been compelled to slash prices to a reasonable level and sales have reached an all-time high.Profits are down but that's what happens when you stop charging &#163;16.99 for an item that costs 50p to manufacture.These sales figures are enormously heartening because they prove that people still love to buy music. In recent years many industry pundits have become professional jeremiahs, predicting the irreversible decline of record sales.They blame it on the bands, the radio programmers, the A&amp;R men, the internet and possibly even the boogie. They're wrong.Of course quality is subjective, although the fact that the year's biggest sellers include Justin Timberlake's consummate urban pop and the White Stripes' lo-fi blues-rock suggests a healthy state of play.What can't be disputed is that record buying is addictive. The more CDs you buy and enjoy, the more new ones you seek out.Thanks to the pile 'em high, sell 'em cheap ethos of online retailers, the discount chain Fopp and the never-ending sales in major stores, fans are inclined to buy armfuls of affordable CDs instead of one or two full-price ones. That means bigger record collections and more knowledgeable and passionate consumers.Maybe some teenagers whose introduction to music postdates Napster are now incurably addicted to freebies but most music-lovers are prepared to buy the real thing at a fair price.When you can pick up a classic for a fiver and a new release for a tenner, downloading doesn't seem quite as necessary.For many years the music business has been greedy, short-sighted and manipulative, inflating prices because it knew the consumer had no alternative. Now, led by the pirates, the customer finally has the upper hand.That means a painful process of readjustment for the labels, but if the price wars make music more available and desirable they could eventually prove to be the answer to a flailing industry's prayers.&#183;Dorian Lynskey writes about pop and rock for the Guardian
Bloggers have been trashed lately for being too parochial and introspective. In an attempt to hitch the medium to a global cause the Guardian (in aneditorial) today is launching apolitical blogwith one aim: the abolition of all agricultural subsidies. In less than a month the World Trade Organisation negotiations will resume in Cancun, Mexico. There is still a vast gap between the desire of developing countries for a big cut in the $300 billion a year handed out in subsidies to Western farmers and the mood of governments, heavily influenced by agricultural lobbies, to keep the status quo in one form or another. Yet the abolition of subsidies is the nearest thing to a free lunch in economics. Developing countries - with natural advantages in growing products like sugar, cotton and cereals - would be given an unprecedented boost if they didn't have to compete with heavily subsidised products dumped in their back gardens at uneconomic prices by Western (ie European and American) producers. And the West would have $300 billion (equivalent to over $200 a year for each of us) to spend on schools, hospitals or whatever. Reform won't happen by tinkering with the incredibly complex system of subsidies. There is only one answer: we must KICK ALL AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES. Join us and KICKAAS. Only the politicians stand in the way.
The UK games industry is gearing up for London Games Week, the country's biggest computer gaming event, running from August 25 to 31 at Earl's Court.The show is a mixture of industry and consumer events, including the annual European Computer Trade Show (ECTS), where publishers from all over the world gather to show off their latest titles, and the Game Developer Conference Europe (GDCE), where talks and discussion grounds abound about the future of European games development and, more significantly, how to make games better.For the second year running, ECTS is playing host to Sony's PlayStation Experience, a mad carnival of consoles that gives the public their first opportunity to play over 100 new titles from the PlayStation and PlayStation2 line-ups. Gamers will be able to shake their booty to the new Dancing Stage Fever rhythm action game, assume the role of deadly invertebrates in Worms 3D, and get some adrenalin pumping in Gran Turismo 4. And if you've always wanted an excuse to flap around madly like you're trying to communicate Shakespeare in semaphore, get yourself down to the show and try Sony's Eyetoy, a gadget which promises to make you the star of your own computer game.  	  Alongside these shows, London Games Week is also introducing the very first independent awards for the creative side of European games development. The awards will reward those who have long gone unrecognised - the people who provide the talent, innovation and imagination in our favourite titles. Nominations include Sick Puppies for Ghost Master, a game that allows you to take on the role of an undead civil servant in charge of a team of ghosts, and Rock Star North for Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, a game that needs no introduction.London Games Week has also been given the backing of the capital's mayor, Ken Livingstone, who said: "Trade shows and conferences like London Games Week have a major role to play in developing industry, creating an environment where deals can be done and new ideas are generated."He went on to praise the games industry as a whole, saying: "Creative industries like the games sector contribute enormously to the buzz that attracts people to our city, and are London's second biggest earner after financial services. The computer games and software sector alone employs around 64,000 people in challenging and stimulating jobs."The mayor has not indicated whether he'll be joining in at the events. After all, there are very few computer games starring newts, and the industry is undoubtedly the poorer for it.CompetitionWarcraft III was the fastest selling PC game of all time, and the expansion pack, WarCraft III: the Frozen Throne has just been released. It features new heroes, new units and new buildings, and we've got copies of the game plus matching mouse mats to give away. Three lucky winners could be sitting atop a Frozen Throne, and all you need do is email us at Online.Competitions@guardian.co.uk with your name, address and the answer to this question:Name the two races that battled against each other in the original WarCraft games? (Hint: you can still play as these races in WarCraft III).ChartsOfficial UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA compiled by Chart-Track1) Pokemon Ruby (GBA) Nintendo - 29.992) Pokemon Sapphire (GBA) Nintendo - 29.993) Eyetoy: Play (PS2) Sony - 39.994) Tomb Raider: the Angel of Darkness (PS2, PC) Eidos Interactive - 34.995) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - 29.996) Enter the Matrix (PS2, GC, XB, PC) Atari - 39.997) The Sims (PC, PS2, Xbox, GM) Electronic Arts - 32.998) Aliens Vs Predator: Extinction (PS2, Xbox) Electronic Arts - 39.999) Formula One 2003 (PS2) Sony - 34.9910) Harry Potter: The Chamber of Secrets (GBA, PS2, PL, PC) - 17.99
Just over a year ago, T-Mobile launched the very first photo messaging service in the UK.I remember being distinctly underwhelmed, both by the quality of the images and by the way they were displayed on the phone's (a Sony Ericsson T68i) low-resolution screen.Judging by the Sharp GX20, which launches next week, camera phones have come an awfully long way in 12 months.For the cynics who moan that, when compared with their Japanese counterparts, British camera phone buyers are being shortchanged, Sharp and Vodafone have joined to fashion the perfect riposte.Yes, there are more advanced models available in the far east. The best Japanese cameras take high resolution 1.2 mega pixel images (the best the UK can offer at the moment is 640 x 480 VGA ones) but, in almost every other area, this handset shows that the gap between European and Japanese camera phones is narrowing.I'll bet that this model is already causing executives at Nokia and Sony Ericsson to have sleepless nights, and has the networks cursing the fact that it is exclusive to Vodafone.Essentially, the Sharp GX20 is an update of the GX10 - or, as it has become known after advertisements starring David Beckham, the Becks phone.In terms of design and styling, the phones are almost identical. The GX20 maintains its predecessor's tidy clamshell form factor, with its protruding aerial and large screen and buttons. It is slighter bigger and fatter, but the difference is negligible.The most obvious change is that Sharp has upgraded the secondary screen at the front of the handset. On the GX10 this was mono, but now it is slightly larger and in colour. If you are vain enough to want to try, you can use the front screen as a viewfinder to take an image of yourself.Flip open the handset, though, and you see the area in which the GX20 really scores - its screen. With 240 x 320 pixels and 65,536 colours, it is much higher quality than even recent rival phones such as Samsung's V200.The images it delivers are superbly colourful and detailed: all those years pioneering LCDs have certainly paid off for Sharp.To make the most of that screen, Sharp has increased the resolution of the handset's camera. The GX20 now takes 640 x 480 images, bringing it in line with high-end smartphones such as the Sony Ericsson P800 and Nokia's 7650.The phone can capture around 20 seconds of reasonable quality video. Unfortunately, however, we couldn't actually send any moving images.Vodafone has a limit on the size of data that can be sent as part of a MMS, which currently stands at 36kb. The company promises that it will increase the amount of data very soon, enabling GX20 users to send videos and 640 x 480 resolution images. One slight irritant is that the videos can only be sent to other GX20 owners.Sending images is reasonably simple. It is not as easy as on recent Nokia handsets, or even 3's NEC phones, but far less complex than, for example, the Orange SPV.Sharp has also added a few fun features, the best of which is the option of adding a coloured light to an image. It is no substitute for a flash, but it does improve the quality of images taken indoors, and there are eight colour options to toy with. There is even a flashing light that Vodafone has christened Disco.The GX20 also has access to Vodafone Live!'s excellent range of facilities. News, sports, weather and so on are simple Wap pages, but are presented in an appealing, easy to use fashion.Vodafone Live! also includes games, videos (currently only a few snippets from I'm a Celebrity...) and polyphonic ringtones, which can be downloaded via the handset's Java facilities.Finally, unlike the dual-band GX10, the GX20 is a tri-band phone, equipped to roam in the USA as well as Europe.Of course, there are many features missing from the phone. There is no POP3 email support, no Bluetooth, and no HTML web browsing. Yet, for this phone's target market, they are probably superfluous anyway.I have been a little cynical about camera phones in the past, but will admit that the GX20 has won me round: it is the first handset of its kind that really works well. With its quality camera and superb resolution screen, it will seriously up the ante in the camera phone market.These days, Beckham wears a shirt advertising Sharp's rival Siemens. But, ironically, through his deal with Vodafone he will still be part of the promotional campaign for this handset, which will cost between 100 and 250.However, with a phone this good, the truth is that Vodafone probably won't need much help from Goldenballs anyway.
"A root compromise and a Trojan horse were discovered on gnuftp.gnu.org, the FTP server of the GNU project. The machine appears to have been cracked in March 2003, but we only discovered the crack in the last week of July 2003. The modus operandi of the cracker shows that (s)he was interested primarily in using gnuftp to collect passwords and as a launching point to attack other machines. It appears that the machine was cracked using a ptrace exploit by a local user immediately after the exploit was posted. (For the ptrace bug, a root-shell exploit was available on 17 March 2003, and a working fix was not available on linux-kernel until the following week. Evidence found on the machine indicates that gnuftp was cracked during that week.)" says theFree Software Foundation.The FSF is still checking the source code of software that could also have been compromised to make sure many thousands of free software (aka "open source") advocates have not been downloading programs with an added Trojan or back door for the past four or five months.There's an amusing discussion onSlashdot.
IPWireless in San Bruno, California, sells equipment for mobile broadband services, built around a packet data implementation of UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunication System), so you can use, say, a notebook PC anywhere within range, like a mobile phone, instead of having to look for a Wi-Fi hotspot. Qualcomm's 1xEV-DO (evolution data only) version of the CDMA2000 third-generation phone system could do the same. But with Intel pushing Wi-Fi, the two technologies look like being complementary.IDG Newshas the story.
The concept of six degrees of separation - the notion that anyone can be connected to anyone else through six steps of acquaintance - has been proven true. Or maybe it has not. Or maybe all we can learn from the first large-scale study intended to test the veracity of the 1967 experiment that first spawned the notion is that most people find email spam very tiresome.Researchers from Columbia University in New York have just announced the results of a study in which more than 60,000 email users tried to contact one of 18 people in 13 countries. They claimed it proved most people could be reached within five to seven steps. Unsurprisingly, it is not quite that simple.The study actually shows that only 384 out of 24,613 email chains were completed - a 98% failure rate. And of those completed chains, nearly half, 169, went to one US-based academic who happened to be extraordinarily easy to reach. That did not stop the research team coming to the conclusion that more chains could have been completed had those participating in the study not been so disinclined to pass on the study's emails. Quite.However, the researchers failed to address the veracity or otherwise of one of the generally accepted principles of communication: that those whom one most wishes to contact are uncontactable, while those whose existence one has no desire to acknowledge - especially bosses and double-glazing coldcallers - can always get in touch at any time of the day or night.Even so, the solitary among us can take comfort from the Columbia experiment. Those who recoil from John Donne's aphorism that no man is an island - and given the conditions this summer, there must be many who crave nothing more than a quiet, empty, darkened room with no telephone - can rest assured about one thing: even if the world is trying to build a bridge to them, the builders are too lazy to put it up.
Michael Dell said the company's latest financial results were "quite respectable''. Profits for the quarter grew by 24% to $621 million on sales that grew by 16% to $9.8 billion. Product shipments grew by 27%, "more than four times the growth of the rest of the industry," reports theMercury News.
A moblogrecords the chaos in New York following last night's power cut. (viaEvhead.com)
The Economist has a reasonable enoughlook at bloggingthis week - specifically, a look at how blogs might make money.Dave Wineris having a pop at them for two things: first, they made a mistake in saying Blogger didn't have a paid-for version before its acquisition by Google (it did - Blogger Pro was launched in early 2002, asrevealedexclusively on this weblog, as it happens) and also for calling Tony Perkins'AlwaysOn Networka weblog. On the latter point, it's a case of "who cares" - Perkins calls it his site a "super blog", and some of the blogging hardcore grumble that he's hijacking blogging to make a few bucks. If he is, good luck to him - and how odd thatNickDentonhas avoided such accusations.
&gt;connecting to server . . .Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:as time passes it appears increasingly likely that the Hutton inquiry will absolve Alastair Campbell of "sexing up" the Iraq  dossier, but what about the BBC? Is the Beeb guilty of sloppy reporting, or even wilful misinterpretation? What do you think?Pashmina:yes i am on the aktins dietHost_Chris2:but the information came from a single sourceBronco:isnt that dangereus thennameless:so that fool gilligan should never have used itPashmina:no u just dont eat carbohighdretsHost_Chris2:actually I was talking abt the 45 min claim, which also camefrom a single sourcenameless:whats wrong with that!Bronco:so you just eat loads of meatcapitalistpiglet:so when is 1 source good &amp; when is it bad?Pashmina:pls!!!! i am veggatarian!*LadeezMan has entered the NewsRoom*LadeezMan:yoPashmina:hi ladeezmanHost_Chris2:in practice it's always best to have more than one sourceLadeezMan:because sometimes he dont answer his beeper all weekend!Bronco:so do you eat chese thenPashmina:no i cant have lactoesHost_Chris2:im referring to sources of informationLadeezMan:like a grassBronco:so wot do u eatnameless:i dont know who i hate more, the govt or the bbccapitalistpiglet:wot does the daily mail say?Pashmina:diet coke &amp; crispsLadeezMan:it says ATKINS DIET DANGEROUSnameless:thats yesterdaysBronco:wot flavuorPashmina:smoky baconcapitalistpiglet:that pretty well sums up the daily mail, IMHOBronco:yumLadeezMan:&amp; they got a pic of george best drinkin wine for breakfastnameless:COME ON! THAT WAS YESTERDAYPashmina:i didnt know i was allowed wine for brekky!!capitalistpiglet:Pashmina, crisps are loaded with carbohydratesBronco:&amp; bacon. &amp; smokeHost_Chris2:this is about where I say "let's return to the topic, people"Pashmina:no wonder im so fatnameless:sod this. im off to MSN for a proper debate*nameless has left the NewsRoom*Pashmina:I aint got any wine. is bacardi brezzer OK?&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
I have met the team from Six Apart, the creators of Moveable Type blogging software, just once. A few weeks ago, while I was in Silicon Valley, I dropped by their new (and very modest) office while they were settling in. We had a very pleasant chat, but as things were rather chaotic, they couldn't offer me so much as a cup of tea or coffee.Since then, I've sent an email to Mena Trott who, along with her husband Ben, founded Six Apart. To date, she hasn't replied. This is the sum total of our relationship.I tell you this because I'm about to give their new product - a much awaited hosted weblogging service called TypePad - such a glowing review, that you will probably think: a) I am either related to them or, at least, a life-long friend; b) they have recently bestowed on me gold, frankincense, myrrh and other assorted gifts; or c) they know some dark secret about my past, and have threatened to reveal it unless I'm extremely kind about them.I assure you, none of these is true. What is true, however, is that TypePad is a truly fantastic piece of software. I have one grumble, which I'll explain below, but for me, it is about as close to blog-nirvana as you can currently get. I've added that "for me", because I'm aware that the main reason I find it so wonderful, is that it is aimed squarely at me.Absolute beginners might still prefer Blogger. The very technical might feel no need for it. Hormonal teens and 20-somethings might prefer the community elements of 20six.co.uk or LiveJournal. But for those of us born before 1975 who want a bit more than Blogger can offer, but lack the design and technical skills to make it happen, this is absolutely perfect.For the sake of objectivity, here are the problems. First, it costs. You will have to pay $4.95, $8.95 or $14.95 a month depending on whether you want the Basic, Plus or Pro package.Second, because it is a hosted service, your site won't live at your own domain name. You have to become xxx.blogs.com, or xxx.typepad.com (you can set up a redirect from your own URL, but it is not quite the same). I sense there will be a number of community benefits from being within their walled garden at some point, but these aren't yet visible.Now, I can live with both of these things. My real grumble comes from the fact that they have built a very neat tool that allows you to list your favourite books and CDs, and it automatically links to them on Amazon. No problem with that, but they have made these links part of their own Amazon affiliate deal, which means they will get a cut of all transactions that happen as a result of people clicking from your site. They do tell you how you can change it, but it is quite well hidden. I would not mind that on a free service, but when I'm paying $14.95 a month, I think that's a bit sneaky.However, in the grand scheme of things, this is a trivial matter. So let me carry on with the shameless gushing.Here's my Typepad story. On Tuesday last week, at around 6pm, I signed up for a trial. By about 10pm I had created my own template, imported all my old entries from Blogger and uploaded a handful of photo galleries using their fantastic gallery tool.At 11pm, I was so pleased with everything, I killed off my old site (OK, I actually did that bit by accident, but I don't regret it), and redirected everyone to my new TypePad-created online homestead.Yes, you're right: I should have been out enjoying the balmy summer's evening, or just having a   life. But for something this special, sunset and socialising could wait another day.What exactly is so special? Basically, you get to build the most fantastic looking and fully featured blog using an elegant interface and just about every opportunity to customise it that you could want, without ever having to get your hands dirty with HTML.For a start, you get all the functionality that has made Moveable Type the power blogger's tool of choice for a while: namely comments, categories and trackback. Then, you get dozens of excellent, standards-compliant templates that you can use and tweak with ease.There's the galleries tool - and the ability to have an index of your photo galleries in one of the side columns of your blog (an absolute winner in my book). And they have also created a neat tool to let you add an extra list of links on the side (as mentioned above, but available for any list, not just books or CDs).Depending on which package you choose, you can create multiple blogs and give them multiple authors. If you'd rather the world didn't know your innermost thoughts (admittedly an alien concept for many bloggers), you can very easily put your blog behind a password.Oh, and if you're desperate to know how many people are perusing your words of wisdom, there is a built-in stats package to let you measure page impressions on your blogs and picture galleries.What makes it all the more remarkable is that this is still just the preview release - there are plenty more features to come - and that Six Apart is just five people who have only just moved into their first proper office.Anyway, my recommendation in a nutshell: try it, buy it, and blog happily ever after.&#183;Simon Waldman is director of digital publishing at Guardian Unlimited. His personal blog can be found athttp://wow.blogs.com.
F1 Career ChallengePlayStation 2, GameCube, &#163;39.99 EA Sports&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;For several years, Sony and Electronic Arts have shared the official Formula One licence, but now Sony has managed to grab it all to itself. Hence the name change for EA's annual F1 offering. EA has made much the best of what could have been a bad job, in a rather clever way.It still holds the licence for earlier Grands Prix, so has created a game that spans the seasons 1999 to 2002, thus allowing you to pursue a mini-career. To do that, you must acquire your superlicence, by completing several exercises.Sony's Formula One 2003 is a mighty fine game, but F1 Career Challenge is even better. Its level of graphical detail wrings the absolute maximum from the PlayStation 2 and GameCube, and the cars, even with all the assists turned on, handle in what feels like an utterly realistic manner.The steering is less twitchy than in Formula One 2003, and for rookies, the artificial intelligence-powered rival cars are much more forgiving. The in-game sound is amazing - you can even hear when the traction control kicks in.In the interest of realism, you are punished much more heavily for sliding off the track than you are in Sony's game. The only comparative downside is that F1 Career Challenge lacks this year's adrenaline-inducing single-lap qualifying.If you can live without that, and are a confirmed petrol-head, you will find F1 Career Challenge a more than satisfactory purchase. And the Game Cube version, bearing in mind the console's dearth of software, is an essential buy.Steve BoxerFuturamaXbox, PS2, &#163;39.99 SCi&#42;&#42;&#42;It may have been cancelled recently, but Futurama was a great TV show: inventive, well written and genuinely amusing. With such rich source material surely videogame glory awaits? Well, in the non-interactive sections, yes. The cut scenes and dialogue are broadcast quality. The actors from the show all lend their voices and the production is slick throughout.Sadly, the playable game is a stodgy blend of jumping and combat so shamelessly derivative that even Bender - the thieving robot anti-hero - would overload his blush circuits. Each level is a generic mix of platforming, collection and combat that sees Fry, Bender and Leela battle against the evil Mom.Loose jumping controls and dicky camera aside, Futurama is fairly solid, but at no time do you experience anything that hasn't happened in a million other games. From moving platforms to object collection, this is gaming by numbers. But before your mind wanders from the action completely, a cut scene or wisecrack will drag you back.Often these will compel you to play on, in the hope of finding some gameplay variety. But even the Bender levels - the best in the game - are variations on a well-trodden theme. The plot is one of the strong points, and the urge to see what happens next is the main reason to play on. Futurama is certainly better than the Simpsons games, but unimaginative design makes the game a disappointing use of a great licence.Greg HowsonAquanox 2: RevelationPC, &#163;29.99 Koch Media/Massive Development&#42;&#42;&#42;The world is a very different place in the year 2666. Through a series of natural disasters mankind has been driven into the seas to forge a new civilisation below the waves. Into this aquatic world comes William Drake, the young, dumb and wet-behind-the-ears heir of a dilapidated undersea trading company. He dreams of life as a mercenary, although he starts out so witless, you wouldn't put him in charge of a rubber duck.After answering an SOS and returning to his frigate to find that it's been taken over by renegades, Drake finds his life has become a lot more exciting. There are 30 missions that make up the structure of the gameplay with plenty of other sub-goals along the way, allowing you to pilot and upgrade various aquatic ships. The underwater environment makes for some interesting physics, especially in simulation mode, which allows you to control your ship's movement in a more realistic way.The game has a definite Wing Commander feel to it, right down to the dubious characters with whom you interact. (This is either a good or a bad point, depending on how fondly you remember Origin's space adventure series.) The voice acting behind the characters is decent, but while Wing Commander utilised full motion video to bring its characters to life, Aquanox 2 opts for horribly static interactions.The Aquanox series seems to be heading in the right direction but, although this sequel offers pretty good entertainment and a nice graphics engine, the gameplay suffers from a retro outlook.Rhianna Pratchett
A teenager in Norwich has passed what is believed to be the first online A-level ever taken in England.Ian Scott, 18, took both theory modules of his A-level in electronics on computer, typing his answers directly into the machine. He scored a B in the exam, to go with two A-grades in maths and information technology, and a C in design and technology.Mr Scott was a pupil at Earlham high school in Norwich, but would not have been able to take the theory modules of the electronics A-Level without the online capability developed by his tutor at Norwich City College, Alan Twiddy.Mr Twiddy said the ability to study for qualifications using computers instead of the traditional pen and paper meant people living in remote rural areas would have more choice of courses.   Those who had to move abroad could carry on with their studies uninterrupted, he added.Following Ian's pioneering example, 14 more students at four Norfolk schools - Reepham, Hellesdon and Taverham - have taken their AS-level electronics theory modules online this summer and would do the same with A2s next year.Mr Twiddy said up to 50 pupils could soon be taking the online option as he had also developed a course in computer maintenance.Exam boards in England, Wales and Northern Ireland are expected to make increasing use of computers in the next few years. Testing watchdog the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority wants to see a big expansion of electronic marking, as is already commonplace in America.The next wave of technology should enable many more candidates to take tests on computer, although the days when they type, rather than write, English literature and history essays under exam conditions are still some way off.One of the things online education can do is enable teachers to keep a close eye on their pupils' progress, even if the students are miles away geographically.Mr Twiddy disclosed that some of the AS-level students had not always been working when they were supposed to be.Asked whether this amounted to "cyber-truancy", he replied: "I wouldn't say truancy. Maybe they've been in school but they've been playing pool when they should have been studying."Mr Scott, by contrast, had been very self-disciplined, he said.
"This system is being shut down in 60 seconds by NT Authority/System due  to an interrupted Remote Procedure Call (RPC)," says your PC.Congratulations: you have picked up the latest worm on the net, commonly known as MS Blast, Blaster, or LovSan. (We don't know who San is, but the worm's writer says he loves her.) It exploits a long-standing "buffer  overrun" flaw in Microsoft's RPC (Remote Procedure Call) code.The solution is to go to Microsoft's website and download apatchthat was posted on July 16. Microsoft Security Bulletin MS03-026 has patches for the seven "new technology" versions of Windows affected, from the antique NT4 via Windows XP to the latest 64-bit server software. All you have to do is install the update and you're almost done.The catch, of course, is that your PC may close down or reboot before you  have time to do it. The solution is to go to the Start menu, select Run,  type the commandshutdown -ain the box and click OK. This aborts the shutdown process. Then you can  download the patch and restart your PC.There are some more complicated alternatives. One is to get a friend with an unaffected version of Windows, such as Windows Me, to download the patch to a floppy disk for you. Another is to disable the RPC feature by  turning off its life support, as described in Microsoft Knowledge Base  Article 825750.Once you have the patch installed, you can remove the worm code. This is a three-step process.First, press Ctrl-Alt-Del and click on the button to select the Task  Manager. Look through the list of Processes for msblast.exe and click End  Process to stop it running.Second, use Windows Explorer to search for a file called msblast.exe and delete it. It should be in the Windows system directory. In fact, do a search even if you don't think you have MS Blast.Third, go back to Start|Run and type regedit in the box to run the  Registry Editor. Go to the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE section, open SOFTWARE, and keep going until you get to he entry for  Microsoft|Windows|CurrentVersion|Run|windows auto update.Delete that entry.In this case there are some simpler alternatives. If you use an anti-virus  checker, update the virus signatures and it should be able to find and  remove the worm for you. Or - and perhaps even easier - you could use  one of the special tools that anti-virus companies have made available to  delete the worm.F-Securehas posted one on its site. (I have F-Secure to thank for the "shutdown -a" command. I did not know it  either. . . .)Now, how did you get caught by MS Blast? You could have avoided it by  downloading and installing the patch earlier, by using Windows XP's "auto  update" feature to install the patch for you, by updating your anti-virus  program earlier, or by using a firewall that stopped the worm from  entering one of your PC's unguarded internet ports.If you don't have an anti-virus checker, you can download AVG, free for  home users, fromGrisoft. There are also several places where you can run a virus check online.Examples includeHouseCalland theSymantec Security Check.If you have Windows XP, turn on itsbuilt-in firewall. Or, better still, download either the freeSygate Personal  FirewallorZone Alarmor something  similar.The sad thing is that this whole saga has been all too predictable. On  July 29, for example, I posted a note to theOnlineblogheaded Windows  world due for devastating attack.What made it inevitable was not the flaw in Windows, which has been around for ages (Windows NT4 was launched in 1996) but the fact that samples of "exploit code" became available. If any idiot can use that to write a worm, it is a safe bet that some idiots will.But looking on the bright side, perhaps we should be grateful to our  humorous, San-loving author. He has released an "exploit" that will make  sure most people patch their vulnerable versions of Windows - something  that is clearly beyond Microsoft, anti-virus companies and the press -  and he hasn't done anything really nasty to their hard drives.If you fell victim to MS Blast, consider yourself lucky. A really  malicious worm-writer could have done something much worse.
Contrary to the impression you might have got from numerous press reports, Microsoft has not launched a music download service. MSN has signed up to brand OD2's music service, and if you follow the link from MSN.co.uk, you will find it takes you to the OD2 site, not to any Microsoft-run service. Tiscali and probably several other companies will offer the same service with the same download library with no reference to the Microsoft MSN version.The idea of buying tracks for 62p each may be attractive to some, but you only get them at that price if you sign up for a 9.99 per month subscription. The cost of a one-off download is "from 99p". As far as I can see, the statement that it's "the first time European consumers can purchase song downloads off the Internet for under one euro ($1.13), and without requiring a monthly subscription" just isn't true of the MSN.co.uk service.Finally, it is being reported that the MSN service is available via the Premium Services tab in Windows Media Player. Not at the moment, it ain't -- I just downloaded it to check. However, the Premium Services tabdoesoffer the rival PressPlay and MusicNow services. Also, you don't actually need WMP9 to use the service: WMP7 works fine.Reuters has one of the better reportshere.Comment: It could well be possible for Microsoft to go round and do deals with music companies and create the software to run a Microsoft music service from Microsoft servers. It hasn't. If it did, it would probably get a mention on the front page of the Microsoft.com Web site. What has happened is that MSN.co.uk (not MSN US, and so far not MSN France or MSN Germany etc etc) has put a sticky label on OD2's service. It could just as easily take it off and stick it on a different service. But if MSN.co.uk had stuck its label on iTunes instead of OD2, I don't think there would have been much hysteria about "Microsoft's" music service.
A great, geeky storyfrom the BBC: "An international team of model aeroplane enthusiasts say they have managed the first successful flight by a lightweight remote-controlled plane across the Atlantic." (Thanks toTechdirt).
'Co-opetition' - a coinage that blends cooperation and competition - is one of the most hideous words in English. It also brings back memories of one of the most pointless disasters in the computer business, when Novell geared up for a full frontal assault on Microsoft, then fell apart. But it is worth resurrecting now, because Novell is going into co-opetition with Microsoft again.Novell has just bought Ximian, a small Linux software house, for an estimated $30m. Ximian is home to two interesting developments: a desktop system for GNU/Linux, and the Mono project, which is developing a version of Microsoft.net for Linux, Unix and other platforms.Although Gnome is losing ground to the rival KDE desktop environment, Ximian's $99 Gnome-based Ximian Desktop 2 (XD2) seems more likely to appeal to companies that use Microsoft Windows. It includes Ximian Evolution, which is a Microsoft Outlook lookalike. For an extra $69, you can buy a connector that makes it work as a Microsoft Exchange 2000 client for email, group calendaring, etc. This won't appeal to the Linux Taliban, but in a corporate setting, the reduction in re-learning time and removal of potential support horrors could make XD2 much better value than "free" alternatives.Mono is a much more interesting effort. Microsoft.net is a system for programming net-based applications based on open standards such as XML (Extensible Markup Language), Soap (Simple Object Access Protocol) and WSDL (Web Services Description Language).You can, of course, develop net-based applications in many other ways and, if they follow web services standards, no one need know or care how you did it. Microsoft's strategy is to provide the quickest, easiest and most attractive way to develop and deploy them using its Visual Studio.net programming system and CLR (Common Language Run-time) execution engine. Microsoft obviously supplies the CLR for Windows, but if you want to run the same applications on a different operating system, you also need a version of the CLR and class libraries. Microsoft has put its CLR and a subset of classes through the Ecma open standards process, so you can develop these independently. That is what Mono is doing.Both XD2 and Mono are forms of co-opetition. They extend Microsoft's technologies, but can also replace its products, undermining Microsoft's grip on the market.Before hubris set in, Novell grew rich and famous by helping stitch together networks of proprietary computers with Netware, and its strength still lies in catering for a cross-platform market. From that point of view, Ximian is a good fit.But Novell is losing money and market share with products that are well regarded by their users. It's easy to imagine that if IBM or Microsoft had owned Netware, eDirectory/NDS, GroupWise, etc, they would have achieved much higher market shares. Novell could help Ximian's products become world-beaters, but if it does, how many people will know or care?Companieswww.novell.comwww.ximian.orgNet for other platformshttp://go-mono.orgwww.dotgnu.orgNovell's viewhttp://news.com.com/2008-1082-5061379.html
