Thishas made my day. Rockstar, the publisher and developer of the GTA series, among other not-very-notable titles, has been given the award of "worst P.R. blunder" for thehotcoffeescandalwhich rocked the western world and partly led to the passing of anti-videogame legislation in the USA earlier in the year. In brief, the situation involved unlockable digital content of an explicit sexual nature which had been "accidentally" left in the code of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, and when the code was cracked and the coffee spilled, they denied it, pointed fingers and generally acted like children.From thelist, compiled by Fineman PR:As if best selling video game "Grand Theft Auto, San Andreas" didn't have enough violence and debauchery already, its maker Rockstar Games added hidden animated sex scenes. The soft-core porn ignited a political firestorm forcing a new "adults-only" rating reported the Wall Street Journal. Other coverage said Best Buy and Circuit City pulled the game from their stores.From gamepolitics:As for Rockstar, including the Hot Coffee sex animations alone might not have propelled them on to the list. Repeatedly lying about how the steamy content got onto game discs, however, sealed their place in the Pantheon of PR disasters.Michael Fineman, creator of the list, explained that corporate mistakes are unavoidable. How they are managed is often the difference between a mere problem and a full-on P.R. disaster."A lot of these blunders oftentimes are not about honest mistakes that people make. Oftentimes the difference lies in the response that the organizations make to the original blunder. And oftentimes that response if filled with arrogance and so forth - and that's really where they make their biggest mistake...Indeed, it's not the content or that it was left on the disc; they got their place on the list because of how theyreacted. Sure, the Rockstar brand became a household name (and that result should put them on a "Top P.R.Successes" list, but it's now associated with corrupting children - the very audience it wasn't supposed to target in the first place.Oh the issues, issues.
E-cards have been a popular way of sending Christmas greetings, but they are not without their hazards for Windows users.The most dangerous kind are the ones that just arrive in your inbox. Even if you scan attachments first, opening them is always a security risk. Malware authors have used what claim to be e-cards to circulate Trojans, likeLoverSpy, or worms, likeAtak.h, orporn advertising.There are also the ones where you follow an email link to view a card on what is usually a reputable website. However, this also involves risk. First, there's the chance that the card is a phishing scam, designed to lure users to a fake version of the real site. Second, there's sometimes a security problem viewing real cards. If the card doesn't display properly, you may try turning off a pop-up blocker, disabling a firewall, or lowering your PC's defences in some other way to see the card. Will you remember to restore the settings later? Maybe not.However, there's one phishing card I suggest you take a look athere....
The webcam phenomenon has been familiar for years, and many cam-girls in particular have seen it edging towards pornography. Some have become "camwhores". Now a big piece in The New York Times --Through His Webcam, a Boy Joins a Sordid Online World-- has taken the lid off this sordid business.In this virtual universe, adults hunt for minors on legitimate sites used by Webcam owners who post contact information in hopes of attracting friends. If children respond to messages, adults spend time "grooming" them - with praise, attention and gifts - before seeking to persuade them to film themselves pornographically.The lure is the prospect of easy money. Many teenagers solicit "donations," request gifts through sites like Amazon.com or negotiate payments, while a smaller number charge monthly fees. But there are other beneficiaries, including businesses, some witting and some unwitting, that provide services to the sites like Web hosting and payment processing.The NYT focused on one case in particular, a star performer called Justin Berry. It says: "In its investigation, The Times obtained the names and credit card information for the 1,500 people who paid Justin to perform on camera, and analyzed the backgrounds of 300 of them nationwide. A majority of the sample consisted of doctors and lawyers, businessmen and teachers, many of whom work with children on a daily basis."Some of them have now been arrested....
...to clamp down on your kids' play time. Thishandy gadgettakes us back to the retro days of arcades by charging Little Jimmy or Jane for their time on the console box. It could be a handy side-earner; invite little Sam and Nora and Betty and Burt and Marvin and Ethel and Mark and Roslyn and Caroline and Gareth and Neil and Sara and all of the rest of the local ankle biters 'round and charge 'em a quarter every time they want to have 15 minutes of token time on Resident Evil 4. Or GTA.Features include:• Simple token-activated operation. The PlayLimit system includes 40 tokens — each token allows 15 minutes of game playing or TV viewing. • Ability to control video games and TV viewing. The PlayLimit system includes the necessary cables to connect to a game console and a VCR, DVD player, or cable television source. • On-screen display and audible warnings for time expiration. The large time display on the PlayLimit console warns you when play time is running out so you can save your game or add more tokens. A countdown timer also appears on the TV screen, the TV beeps at intervals. • Pause button allows breaks without losing time. You can press the Pause button at any time so you can leave your game without being penalized. • Secure case with key access for parents. Parents have the key to the token box where they can retrieve tokens. The token box also is where the back panel of the PlayLimit console is secured, preventing cables from being removed. • Additional secured modes for parents. The token box contains switches a parent can set to allow unlimited play or prevent all play.Just in time for the holidays.viaGizmodo
Last minute shopping for bargains? I am not an eBay addict, but I've bought enough stuff to have a Top Five bits of advice that should prove useful....First, check out the seller.eBay works on a reputation system where you leave comments on the success (or failures) of trades, so check the seller's reputation. Don't just look at the score, read the feedback. How many sales has the seller completed, and how did they go? What do they typically sell? (Have they built up great feedback by buying cheap CDs and their first offer for sale is an HDTV?) Where do they live? (If it's a high-value item, you may want to meet to make the trade.) How do they want paying? Drop them an email and see how they respond.If you are not absolutely confident that you will be happy dealing with someone, there is no point in going any further.Second, read the description very carefully.If the description does not mention a box and a manual, or whatever, assume they are not included. Yes, people have been known to bid more than $500 for a box described as not containing an Xbox 360 or even for a photograph of an Xbox 360. Most errors are not quite that dumb, but still, failing to read the auction post with due care leads to most eBay disappointments -- and you can hardly leave negative feedback when it's your mistake.Remember, if it doesn't say it, don't assume it.Third, do the research to find out what something is worth.One of the joys of eBay is that people will pay more for tacky second hand items than they cost new. Before you bid, do an eBay search for the same item with a tick in the box on the left marked "Completed items only": this will tell you both a typical eBay price and how often the item has come up in the past 90 days. Also, go to Amazon or a similar store and find out the new and second hand prices of the thing you want to buy. Bear in mind that the real price usually includes postage and sometimes VAT: some eBay sellers increase their profits by overcharging for postage.If an item is too expensive, let it go: there will probably be another one along soon.Fourth, only make one bid per item.People pay more than things are worth because they get caught up in the excitement of winning the auction. However, it's far better to decide what you are willing to pay, and make that your sole bid. eBay will keep your maximum bid secret and automatically bid up to that on your behalf. If you bid less than something is worth to you, you're just handing someone else a bargain, However, bear in mind that eBay auctions, unlike real auctions, are time-limited.Make your maximum bid as late as possible, preferably within a few seconds of the deadline.Fifth, don't buy things you don't need.eBay works because it enables people to find good homes for things they don't need but are cluttering up the house. If you don't really need them, you'll be out of pocket and they'll be cluttering up your house instead. Make a list of things you want to buy, and create searches for them, so they are the only items you will see. Don't browse around looking for bargains.It doesn't matter how cheap something is: if you don't need it, it's not a bargain.Well, unless you're an eBay reseller, and make a living out of recycling other people's junk. But that's another story....
Oh, go on then. We'vepraised the worthyalready, but what about those games released this year that stank. The ones where you wonder whether anyone at the dev or publisher had actually played the thing before it was released. Yes,Charlie, we're looking at you. So let us know - what were your worst games of 2005?
"Skirt-chasing playboy Daniel Anceneaux spent weeks talking with a sensual woman on the Internet before arranging a romantic rendezvous at a remote beach -- and discovering that his on-line sweetie of six months was his own mother!" reportsYahoo Newsfrom Marseilles."Mom called herself Sweet Juliette and I called myself The Prince of Pleasure, and unfortunately, neither one of us had any idea who the other was," said flabbergasted Daniel.
Time Berners-Lee, the web's inventor, is finallyblogging. Well, he made one post last Monday.....
InThe Probabilistic Age, on The Long Tail blog, Wired editor Chris Anderson argues that, like Google and blogs, Wikipedia is a probabilistic system.The good thing about probabilistic systems is that they benefit from the wisdom of the crowd and as a result can scale nicely both in breadth and depth. But because they do this by sacrificing absolute certainty on the microscale, you need to take any single result with a grain of salt. As Zephoria puts it in this smart post, Wikipedia "should be the first source of information, not the last. It should be a site for information exploration, not the definitive source of facts."There's an excellent response in a comment from Brock, who says it's not.At the time of a Google search you are presented with a mathematically determined 'average' value; the sum wisdom of the internet's hyperlinks. It is an average value, and even if 30% of the links on the web are "wrong" you still get the right answer.Wikipedia does not work like that. When you access Wikipedia you do not get the average value of an article; you get the last author's value only. Instead of getting a probabilistic average you instead are getting a single data-point.In other words, "Wikipedia is wrong when a single person is wrong."The "many eyes" theory is supposed to cope with that. If millions of people look at Wikipedia, the errors will get corrected. This is a nice theory, but as Brock points out, you can stick something like "Jake is the best!" in the middle of a sentence and it can stay there for months.There are some very good replies to this, of course. It's a debate worth following.
Hewlett-Packard, one of the world's largest IT firms, surprisingly joined the HD-DVD camp on Friday. Previously, it had been exclusively pushing Sony's Blu-ray format for next generation DVDs.HP's justification for straddling the fence was the "unreasonable cost we have to bear in supporting the Blu-ray format." Overall Blu-ray royalties total $30 per PC drive. That's what Maureen Weber, general manager of HP's Personal Storage Business unit, toldEE Times. According to the story:Weber said Java-based Blu-ray format royalties include: licensing the GEM (Globally-Executable MHP) standard; the cost of a Java test kit from Sun Microsystems; and the cost of BD Java. While the licensing costs PC vendors must support HD-DVD remain unclear, HP has been assured by Microsoft of "roughly a 10-percent addition to cost of the current DVD drive," Weber added.The HPpress releasealso says it asked the Blu-ray camp to support iHD, but it has not agreed to do so. iHD is an XML-based format co-developed by Disney, Microsoft and the HD-DVD forum. It's not platform-specific but, it has just been announced, will be included in Windows Vista.There was an interesting report inVideo Business Onlineon October 28 on the horse-trading going on in the background -- or "pork-barreling," as the author puts it.BD-J was already part of the spec and had the support of Fox, which the Blu-ray camp was ardently trying to woo. When it came time to choose, a majority of BDA board members actually voted in favor of iHD. But eight companies abstained, denying iHD the supermajority it needed under BDA bylaws. So BD-J stayed in, and Fox stayed on board.Even Sony voted yea on iHD when it first came up before the BDA board.
"Mr Pavel invented the device known today as the Walkman. But it took more than 25 years of battling the Sony Corporation and others in courts and patent offices around the world before he finally won the right to say it," reportsThe New York Times.Having invented a portable player in the early 70s, why didn't he just beat Sony to market?Over the next few years, he took his invention to one audio company after another - Grundig, Philips, Yamaha and ITT among them - to see if there was interest in manufacturing his device. But everywhere he went, he said, he met with rejection or ridicule."They all said they didn't think people would be so crazy as to run around with headphones, that this is just a gadget, a useless gadget of a crazy nut," he said.The story says Sony reached an out-of-court settlement with Pavel in 2003.
Last week, I caught a late-night minicab home from the West End. The driver was from Somalia and went by the name of Yusuf. Filling the darkness with small talk, he told me he had just finished reading, of all things, Peter Stringfellow's autobiography, King of Clubs, and that he'd been struck by Peter's wisdom. Anything in particular, I asked, wavering between bemusement and amusement. 'Peter believes that to be happy as a man, you should turn your hobby into your career,' answered Yusuf solemnly, 'and his hobbies are staying up late and women with big breasts ...'Oh, and what's your hobby?Yusuf turned in amazement: 'Driving cars, of course!'People often ask me if I actually like driving and, like Yusuf, I always say, 'Of course.' But the answer also depends on what I happen to be at the wheel of, and where I happen to be. This week, it's the turn of Seat's Toledo Sport Tdi and the where is the winding, leafy roads of the South Downs.Since Seat, the big Spanish manufacturer, was taken over by Volkswagen, it's shaken off much of its flaky reputation and tried to position itself as a maker of energetic, rebellious, even edgy cars. Each of its five models features at least one variant tagged by the word 'sport' - the marketing men's equivalent of adding magical go-faster stripes ...The Toledo is very much a love-it-or-loathe-it vehicle. It divides opinion wherever it goes. Some say it's ugly, others striking. Some adore its responsive 2-litre diesel engine, some think it sounds like a tractor with a cold. And it's true, it does have a great hulking engine. However, the multitasking power unit enables the Toledo to act as both a stamina anda strength act. It can do 50 miles to the gallon - which puts it in the same league as a stick-thin Ethiopian distance runner. And it accelerates to 62mph in 10 seconds, with a top speed of 125mph - which makes it a muscle-bottomed sprinter, too.Looks wise, it's not going to win any beauty competitions. It falls between stools as a sort of mini-MPV/lumpy saloon/ungainly hatchback thingummy type car. But all that identity hopping does mean you get the best of each of those types - it's roomy, comfortable and has plenty of headroom. Its most strikingly controversial feature is its shelf-like rear end. It's as if the designers decided it needed more boot space and so tacked on a onefloor boot extension.The Toledo, which starts at &#163;12,495, is firm, assured and quick to drive. It has a six-speed gearbox, sat nav, alloy wheels, air bags, air con, traction and stability control. My neighbour, on the other hand, who joined me for a test drive, thought it was unco-operative, oppressive and unresponsive - all words, incidentally, I've heard her use about her ex-husband.One word of warning: the sporty seats feature a rubberised crossweave which stops you sliding about on them when cornering. If you have hairy legs, don't go driving in shorts.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Some poeple might consider BJ Sintay's high-tech Christmas lights -- 30,000 of them -- a bit much, but viaControl the Show, he will let you play with them via the net.How it worksWhen you login to my website packets travel from your computer, through the internet, and to my web server in Texas. From there you are entered into the queue system for holding until your turn. The scheduler verifies that the system is ready for action, then YOU take over the system. The database manages the different channels, commands, and states of the lights back in North Carolina. When you click on a button, TCP/IP packets are sent out to my home network which forward these to the Tbase10 port on my chip in the garage. This chip interprets the commands and sends the appropriate signals out to the switching network of transistors and relays... and lights come on or off. You view the system through images that are requested via a direct HTTP1.1 CGI calls on the web cam back at home. These images update at a rate of 1 every 2 seconds (to save a little bandwidth).Or you could just watch theFox 8 News - Live broadcast @ 10pm(51.3MB avi)You can evensponsor a bulbfor $1.
We have an Epson which produces very good pictures but is expensive to run and the cartridges cannot be refilled -- which seems like a crime!. Do we buy a cheap laser for B&amp;W printing, and if so any recommendations? Usage varies depending on kids at home during holidays from 10 to 100 pages / week Kevin MurrayIt's certainly a better idea to use a laser printer for everyday printing, but very little ecological information is available. The only company that uses ecological factors as a central plank in its marketing is Kyocera, and its ECOSYS label "represents ecology, economy, and system".The web site says:Kyocera Mita's ECOSYS engine offers you an alternative approach to cartridge printing. The traditional laser printer, based on a toner cartridge forces you, by design, to scrap everything mechanically clever about the printer when the toner runs out. We have designed our printers in such a way that when toner runs dry, that's all you replace, in a clean and convenient cassette. The drum, developer and cleaning system have been built to last. As a result we are able to offer you page printers that conform to all software standards yet are capable of printing three times as much for your money. Since the acquisition of Mita, we've applied the same long-life drum technology to our copier based multifunctional products, to offer similar ecological and economical benefits.You can also download anEcosys Brochure (PDF / 731K).The Kyocera FS-1020D seems to be the cheapest model, if it is still current.What do readers think?Brothr HL-7050 laser printer
"Here's Google's first ever TV ad, sort of. Its a sponsorship spot for the PBS science series Nova," onYou Tube,
"Merrill Lynch Japan predicts Sony will lose more than $1 billion on hardware during its next-gen console's first year on the market--a sum it may not be able to recoup. According to the latest issue of Japanese magazine Toyo Keizai, Merrill Lynch Japan Securities has recently calculated an analysis that the production of a single PlayStation 3 console will cost Sony approximately 54,000 yen to make ($494), as of its initial release in 2006," reportsGamespot."Under the assumption that the Xbox 360 is expected to sell at around $299, Merrill Lynch Japan predicts that Sony will sell each PS3 at the price of 44,800 yen ($410) in Japan and $399 in America. That would mean Sony would suffer a loss of more than 130 billion yen ($1.18 billion) during the first year of the PS3's release."This compares with a first year loss of $458 million when the PS2 was launched.Toyo Keizai goes on to interview Sony Computer Entertainment president Ken Kutaragi, who seems confident the PS3 will sell even if it'smuch more expensive than the Xbox 360. Kutaragi says:The Game Boy Advance is a same handheld gaming machine, and it costs less than 10 thousand yen ($91). On the other hand, our PSP had cost 25,000 yen ($229). But people lined up overnight to buy it, and it sold out on the day of its launch. It all depends on whether people want it. Of course, I'm confident that the PS3 is a product that people will definitely want.
"The TypePad application is back up, and users can now log in. We've begun the process of republishing user's blogs. As we noted in our last post, if your blog is out of date and needs to be republished, you can do that yourself inside TypePad by visiting the Design tab for your weblog, and clicking the "Republish Weblog" button," writesMichael Sippey on the Six Apart blog."We want you to know that your blog data is safe. We have no reason to believe that any of your posts, comments, TrackBacks, photos or files have been lost."Comment:It's always worth being reminded that online applications can go down without much warning and that, as a user, usually there's nothing you can do about it.USA Today's blogs seem to have had particular problems. Last week there was a note on the site that said: "Due to problems with the our provider, Six Apart, USATODAY.com's blogs are currently down. Thank you for your patience during this outage. The blogs will return as soon as possible."It's still there, but they seem to be working at the moment.
"Rebuffing aggressive overtures from Microsoft, Time Warner has agreed to sell a 5 percent stake in America Online to Google for $1 billion as part of an expanded partnership between AOL, once the dominant company on the Internet, and Google, the current online king," reportsThe New York Times."While the deal terms are largely set, it will not be final until it is ratified by the Time Warner board on Tuesday, according to an executive who was briefed on the negotiations."According to the story:Google, which prides itself on the purity of its search results, agreed to give favored placement to content from AOL throughout its site, something it has never done before.Update:There's now an account of the negotiations inThe Wall Street Journal.
Remember when CDs arrived and made vinyl albums look like relics from a musty Victorian yesteryear, relegating them almost overnight to the dark dingy corners of high-street hyperbarns? Well, the same thing is happening this winter with board games. Our dusty old friends in their big boxes with their rules and clunky counters are on the verge of being consigned to history, not by the hi-jinks spills of naked ninja boxing and drive-by shootings available in computer games, but by interactive DVD games which, this Christmas, have muscled old favourites such as Monopoly and Scrabble off the shelves, seemingly for good.In America, DVD games sales are expected to reach $200m this year - up 300% from last year - claiming 10% of the games market. Behind this retail explosion is the fact that 150m Americans own DVD players, far more than own games consoles. Cunningly, what DVD games do is mix all the standard gameplay of taking turns and answering questions but also let families do what they really want to do anyway -- watch telly and fight over the remote. Also, unlike computer games, most of them have hosts just like real TV shows, albeit with slightly lower quality sets, to increase the illusion for kids that they're doing something they like (watching telly). They're also really simple - unlike the finger agility demanded by PlayStation, here all you need is the same skill level as changing channels."They're the future of family games basically," says Ian Gibb, a buyer at London toy store Hamleys. "Basically it's easier to get little Jimmy away from his computer games if he knows he's going to be able to do something visual. They leave ordinary board games in the dark ages."Last Christmas Ian was sweating, or as he puts it "without the need of laxatives", because he'd taken a gamble on the DVD version of Trivial Pursuit and had 400 boxes stacked in the warehouse. Happily they flew off the shelves and this year they're been joined by dozens more titles to please the entire little Jimmys of the world as well as their brothers, sisters, uncles and weird aunties who they only ever see once every three years. In an attempt to grasp this new revolution in games, I tested a selection of the bestselling titles to find out what all the fuss is about.Who Wants To Be a Millionaire(&pound;19.99)The first ever DVD game is now on to its third edition - this time with picture clues and 1,500 different questions. It works just like the TV show, with a studio audience who look as if they are being held at gunpoint, 15 questions building sloth-like towards the big one, lifelines and Chris Tarrant's poker face occasionally egging you on. Brilliant fun until, typically, around about the &pound;64,000 mark you get asked a question about ancient Greek literature.Cunning twist:Your phone-a-virtual-friend options consist of two eight-year-olds full of over-confidence on matters of Greek literature.Remote flinging moment:Getting any question wrong under the &pound;1,000 mark leads to a lifetime of mockery from friends and family.Best for:Families with bad coughs.Trivial Pursuit Let Loose(&pound;19.99)Hosted by a man whose name sounds like a particularly virulent strain of halitosis - MTV presenter Danann Breathnach - Let Loose is the wackier, edgy alternative arm of the Trivial Pursuit franchise. Here instead of collecting colourful cheese quadrants on dull old subjects like geography, you answer posers on adrenaline sports, weird science and boys' toys. And there's no need for a board - that's so yesterday.Cunning twist:You can make playmates do a dare instead of answer a question. Something crazy like stacking cards.Remote flinging moment:Danann's a lovely lad and that but his style of presentation is like being locked in a lift with a hyperactive toddler.Best for:Gangs of mates who enjoy sharing wild times and Doritos Dippas.QI Interactive(&pound;19.99)Now you don't have to be called Alan Davies to be humiliated by Stephen Fry. Pontificating on screen throughout, looking like a cross between an owl and Mrs Doubtfire, Fry will either parp with joy if you get one of his unfathomable trivia fancies right or say something arsey such as "wrong to the power of three" if you don't. After a while you will enter a zen like state of eggheaded calm.Cunning twist:Answer 50 questions and you are rewarded with an anagram that unlocks an internet portal to even more encyclopedia slurry.Remote flinging moment:The game is great but there's far too much a capella jazz on the soundtrack.Best for:Families entirely comprising Oxford University graduates.Harry Potter edition Scene It?(&pound;36.99)If you can ignore the photograph of the model family enjoying a giant bowl of Wotsits on the back of the box then you will reach DVD game nirvana. Scene It? is the perfect synthesis of board game and TV, with questions based on what you watch on screen. There are card questions too - finally a use for any previously unusable knowledge of Hogwarts' teachers' middle names.Cunning twist:The game board folds into quarter-size for a speedy short, dad-pleasing match.Remote flinging moment:After watching a long, eventful clip we are asked, "How many pictures were there above the door?"Best for:JK Rowling obsessives.Vinnie Jones' Gone to the dogs(&pound;19.99)Ex-footie hard man Vinnie Jones is incapable of saying anything without it sounding as if he is about to twist your testicles off. Perfect for dealing with the nefarious world of dog racing. Our job, after following our host's guidance on the sacred art of betting ("greyhounds are the only breed of dog mentioned in the Bible," claims Vinnie) is to pick a winner, fill out a betting slip and then watch one of 100 prerecorded races.Cunning twist:Unless you want to fleece your family and friends there's no need to use real money. Fake betting slips are provided.Remote flinging moment:The race commentator refers to the hare the dogs chase as a "bunny". Any fool who's played QI Interactive knows the correct slang terminology for a hare is puss.Best for:Wannabe wide boys.Telly Addicts(&pound;19.99)Celebrate how much crap you know about crap television ("On which show did Cheryl Baker have a colonic irrigation?") by playing this game based on the totally unmissed TV quiz show of the same name. Surely if you were a telly addict you'd either be a) watching telly or b) avoiding any interaction with Noel Edmonds in case it contravenes your nine-step programme.Cunning twist:Noel no longer wears retina-searing Christmas jumpers. Disturbingly this now makes him marginally less annoying.Remote flinging moment:Get an answer incorrect and Noel tells you you're wrong with all the gravitas of a doctor informing you that you have a month to live.Best for:Grandmothers with encyclopedic knowledge of the career of Dale Winton.Carol Vorderman's Sudoku(&pound;12.99)Thanks to newspapers our nation is now filled with sudoku widows - people whose partners would rather fill a 9x9 grid than do something useful like make love, visit Ikea, enjoy an argument or partake in all three simultaneously. Vorderman is a sudoku zealot who here says things like "welcome to the temple of sudoku - allow me to show you around". Players fill out sheets at her lizard-like command.Cunning twist:Sudoku-bot Vorderman transforms number-arranging into a competitive sport.Remote flinging moment:You gain extra points for beating Carol. Not easy when she annoyingly claims: "I completed this square in under one second."Best for:Off-duty maths teachers and their long-suffering offspring.
Battalion WarsGamecubeBattalion Wars is based on the spectacularly wonderful Advance Wars franchise on Game Boy that presents players with a chess-like set of perfectly balanced cartoon military units that go to war on beautifully thought-out all-terrain maps, letting tactics rather than dexterity prevail. Unlike its tiny forebear, this tests both nimbleness of thumbs and strategic ability as you place units where they're likely to be most effective, with the option of taking control of each individually to add your own "mad skillz" to the war effort. Cartoonish and careful to maintain its spirit of gentle silliness, there's no point here in which blood is spilt or skies are anything but blue, and while not as unutterably joyous as Advance Wars, this is a fun jaunt nonetheless.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;40Perfect Dark ZeroXBOX 360If Perfect Dark Zero were released in the course of a normal month on any other games console, it would be regarded as one of the most competent and solid games of its first-person shooting genre. The fact that it's the launch title for an entirely new games console - with developer, Rare, trumpeted as the console's major early supporter - puts this under more scrutiny. Nowhere near as stunning as Halo was, or as graphically impressive as Metroid Prime, this is staggeringly satisfactory, but sadly not stand-out, in single player at least. Played online using Xbox Live it really comes into its own, but on current form that will be a factor for a very small proportion of 360 owners.&#183;Microsoft Game Studios, &pound;50Path Of NeoPC, PS2, XBOXNeo's path is already well documented in a trilogy of films whose quality exponentially decreased over the series. Path Of Neo lets you play through scenes from the movies as well as many of the until-now hidden bits in between. Maker Shiny Entertainment is true to its word that this would not be as awful as the drudge that was Enter The Matrix, but it's still pretty weak. Underneath the style, self-referential humour and assorted tasks is a control system that never feels right: Neo lurches about, missing jumps and inducing despair at the randomness of it all. Moments of kung-fu satisfaction are not enough to make this worthwhile.&#183;Atari, &pound;30-&pound;40
If you've been watching Lost, then you'll know that the website4815162342.comis named after the mysterious sequence of numbers Hurley used to win the lottery. The numbers appear all over the series and this site collects sightings and madcap theories (look out for spoilers though) on their significance. Apparently 80,000 people used the numbers in the lotto that followed its first screening.Other interesting places for Lost fans include the site of the crashed airlineoceanic-airlines.com- with a bit of persistence you'll unlock a few vital clues and see some unseen clips. While Second Tour Of Finland (driveshaftband.com) is a fictional fan site dedicated to Crankshaft, the fictional band of character Charlie, played by Dominic Monaghan.
Monday360 hits JapanGamesblog baby No. 2!TuesdayWhat's it like to play a MMOG anyway?Play more 360Free academy in London for multimedia: thanks ESC!Wednesday2005 - the gamesIgnore the journalists: games ratings don't matterThursdayTechnologyKnife CityFridayGames of the year 2005
So here we are then. It's time to sit back, rest our aching hands and pick the best games of 2005. In the interests of democracy we decided to chose three each rather than shout at each other. Handy really, as the only game we agreed on was PES 5. Let us know if you agree with our choices.ALEKS:1. Sprung- The writing's superb, the tasks (flirt mercilessly, get boyfriend/girlfriend, ski) are silly, the potential for this game to utterly twist social relationships into a strange husk of their formal selves - all of these make this my number one game of the year.2. The Movies- This game provides a platform for users to do something really creative, and the results on the forums demonstrate what kind of creativity really abounds.3. Second Life- It's been out since 2003, but this is the year they went from 18,000 subscribers to 90,000 subscribers, which has changed things immensely. It's not really a game; it's whatever you make it.KEITH:1. PES 5- Astounding depth, breath-taking authenticity and always something new to discover.2. God of War- A joyous unself-conscious celebration of videogame violence and possibly the finest visuals the PS2 will ever see.3. Advance Wars Dual Strike- Once again, unputdownable strategy gaming that burrows into your brain like some nightmarish tropical virus - except it's more fun.GREG:1. World of Warcraft- A virtual world unsurpassed in beauty, imagination and the ability to kill things. A breathtaking example of what happens when you give talented developers the time they need, WoW will be played for years to come.2. PES 5- As close to the real thing as you can currently play, PES 5 is the footy game where every match is different and everything feels right.3. Fahrenheit- It tailed off towards the end and the action sequences were distracting but Fahrenheit's beautiful adventure deserves plaudits for reawakening the genre.So there we go then. 2005 hasn't been a truly vintage year but the quality of the games chosen proves that the bar for interactive entertainment continues to rise. Not convinced? Read on to find out what games some other Guardian journalists chose when I cornered them..NICK GILLETT:1. Oddworld: Stranger's Wrath- Like Fable, this is a game you feel you slightly live in after extended trips through its beautifully rendered alien Wild West. You come for the Halo-esque tactical battles; you stay for the non-intrusive, expertly told story with a very neat and playable twist.2. Resident Evil 4- It weighs in at a hefty 20-odd gloriously entertaining hours.. gunning down "the infected" being about as much fun as survival horror has ever been.3. Advance Wars DS for Nintendo DS- Oh sweet Advance Wars, Dark Mother that saps weekends and whole holidays in its tiny cartoon military siren call. More will never be enough - if you've never played this, speak immediately to Santa and welcome yourself to a world where long haul flights and train journeys become keenly sought after oases of joy.KIERON GILLEN:1. Darwinia- The future, past and present of videogames in one entirely compulsive bundle. Has become something of a /cause celebre/, yes, and often hailed for what it symbolises as much as its actual merits... but that's because the what it symbolises is terribly important. Darwinia is a manifesto in gaming flesh and rejuvenated me like nothing else.2. Guild Wars- A timely reminder that just because you're making an online fantasy game, you don't just have to rip-off Everquest's design and add a few shiny spangles. Bonus points for finally bringing the persistent online RPG to people without the cash or credit card to pay a monthly fee.3. Civilization 4- I've been working on my Top 10 games of the year in a list inside my head, and up until September I thought - for the first time in living memory - that I could have a list of games entirely without sequels (I was cheating a little by knocking BF2 just off the bottom). And then Civ 4 throw all that out the window.KATE BEVAN:1. GTA Liberty City Stories– Because it's so much fun to be able to steal cars and create mayhem while on the Tube.2. World of Warcraft– For how utterly compelling it is, for how well the world is realised and for its sheer longevity: I played it solidly for six months … and am now thinking about retrieving my gnome mage who must be feeling rather abandoned in the Arathi Highlands.3. Fahrenheit– For how intriguing it is and how brave it is in doing something a bit different.STEVE BOXER1. Resident Evil 4- The squishiest, cleverest zombies ever seen in the game are even more satisfying to dispatch once you learn how to kick their heads off and upgrade your weaponry; great bosses and set-pieces ensure the gameplay never becomes samey.2. Project Gotham Racing 3- High-tech bells and whistles like incredibly detailed modelling of the world's most exotic cars and cities plus reactive spectators and Gotham TV provide an incredible sense of immersiveness; sublime car feel is what gets you hooked, though.3. Super Mario Kart DS- Best ever version of one of the best games ever, and you can take on humans around the globe wirelessly.RHIANNA PRATCHETT1. World of Warcraft- Yes, I know this is predictable, but boy has this eaten into my life. After hour upon hour of playing this I've managed to refine my game playing to an hour, maybe two, a few times a week "just to relax". When Burning Crusade comes along I'm a dead woman.2. Eyetoy: Kinetic- Thank god for this, because it managed to combat the ill effects of playing too much of the above title. A brilliant idea extremely well executed. Put one in every UK household and we'd be the fittest nation in the world.3. Freedom Force Vs The 3rd Reich- I love the Freedom Force games because they never let up on the atmosphere... it's '50s schlock superheroes all the way and fantastic fun.
Intel will start the new year with a bang by releasing its new mobile platform, code-named Napa, with its first dual-core Pentium M mobile chip, code-named Yonah.According to eWeek:Intel claims the latest notebook technology stands to boost average performance 68 percent beyond that of its current Sonoma platform, which includes its single-core Pentium M, while reducing power consumption an average of 28 percent, extending battery life beyond the 5-hour mark, [Erik Reid, product marketing director at Intel's Mobile Platforms Group] said. Napa also improves wireless bandwidth and can help cut the size of a notebook by 30 percent versus today's machines, the Santa Clara, Calif., company said.PC manufacturers are joining up for what could be a Centrino style push. eWeek notes:The company is expecting more than 230 Napa notebook designs from various manufacturers in 2006, more than was supported by the Sonoma release, [Reid] said. Intel also expects more than 200 applications developed for the technology.In this case, the push will go beyond mobile notebook PCs to attack the home media market, which will benefit from the ability to make smaller, cooler-running and therefore quieter systems:Yonah also powers Intel's ViiV platform for home entertainment, which the company hopes will make the ViiV computer an integral part of the family room and conference room. The chip set, alongside several multimedia chip sets, a Gigabit Ethernet networking chip, Microsoft's Windows XP Media Center Edition 2005 and several other components, allows remote users to control music, video, streaming media and game technology from a remote control.What eWeek doesn't mention is that the Yonah/Napa-based home multimedia push is also expected to include Apple, which is expected to upgrade its Front Row software to include more of he facilities of Windows Media Center.Footnote:For a look at Yonah's performance in a desktop system, seeAnandTech. The site says: "The thought of having such a cool running dual core processor in a notebook is honestly amazing, and the performance difference (especially for multitaskers) over what we have today will be significant."
In this case, Ars Technica delivers much more than the headline. What you get is a10-page history of personal computingthat shows how the market progressed from the Altair to today. Yes, there are market share graphs, too, and the early ones are pretty interesting.
Wikipedia, the encyclopedia that relies on volunteers to pen nearly 4m articles, is almost as accurate on scientific topics as the Encyclopedia Britannica, the journal Nature said.The journal compared articles covering a range of sciences just as Wikipedia is under fire over over the accuracy of entries, including a long-running one falsely claiming a prominent journalist was a suspect in the Kennedy assassinations.Such errors appear to be the exception rather than the rule, Nature said. The average scientific entry in Wikipedia had four errors or omissions, Britannica had three.
According toa Tegic press release, the top ten "buzz words" to be added to the T9 dictionary for 2005 include:Lifehack- a tool or technique that makes some aspect of one's life easier or more efficientMashup- new information created by combining data from two different sourcesPlaceshift- to redirect a TV signal so the viewer can watch a show on a device other than his or her televisionPlaylistism- judging a person based on what songs are on the playlist of his or her digital music playerPodjack- to plug the cord of one's digital music player into the jack of another person's player to hear what the person is listening toPuggle- a dog bred from a pug and a beagleSideload- to transfer music or other content to a cell phone using the cell phone provider's networkVlog- a blog that contains mostly video contentVodcast- a video podcastUbersexual- a heterosexual man who is masculine, confident, compassionate and stylishThe list was drawn up with Paul McFedries fromWord Spy.Since I haven't used eight of the top 10 buzzwords, I must be out of touch....
Google has followed Yahoo and other search engines in picking up music-related searches and providing extra information. This isn't a separate search service. However, if you enter a search for, say,Keith Jarrett, then an extra result is added to the top, with a photo of KJ, mentions of some albums, and a link that saysMore music results for keith jarrett », with a list of albums etc.It works much like the extra results from news stories. Indeed, if you search for an artist who is also in the news, such asEminemorBritney Spears, the music results come below the news results.However, there are limitations to Google's musical offering. It works forSimon RattleandPhilip Glass, but there's no similar result forHilary HahnorLuc Ferrari.I notice there's also no music result forArctic Monkeys, though that may be in the works. Perhaps in the future, recognition in Google music search will be a sign that a band has really arrived....
The Microsoft team working on Internet Explorer have been testing icons to use for RSS feeds and one was liked because it looked like the Firefox icon. One theMicrosoft Team RSS Blog, Jane reports that "Amar and I took a visit down to Silicon Valley to meet with John Lilly and Chris Beard from Mozilla to get their thoughts on it. We all agreed that it's in the user's best interest to have one common icon to represent RSS and RSS-related features in a browser. And the winner is…"I'm excited to announce that we're adopting the icon used in Firefox. John and Chris were very enthusiastic about allowing us (and anyone in the community) to use their icon. This isn't the first time that we've worked with the Mozilla team to exchange ideas and encourage consistency between browsers, and we're sure it won't be the last.
'Everybody comes through the door whistling in the morning," Sverre Jarp, chief technical officer at Cern, tells me over coffee. You can see why: Cern, in Geneva, is the world's biggest particle physics laboratory, and probably one of the buzziest places on the planet to work at the moment.Built 51 years ago - the location was chosen because of Switzerland's neutrality during the war - and resembling an oversized postwar comprehensive school, Cern has 6,500 employees from all over the world. To the outsider, the most striking thing about the organisation is its democracy - the mix of nationalities and ages, the desire to share information with others. As Karina Loureiro, the young PhD student showing journalists around, says: "It doesn't matter what your status is. There are famous people here, and they're your colleagues - you're an equal."The cause of the excitement at Cern, and the reason I'm visiting, is the building underground of the large hadron collider (LHC) which, with a circumference of 27km, will be the world's largest particle accelerator.Collision courseDue to launch in mid-2007, the LHC will be the first particle accelerator able to recreate the conditions immediately after the Big Bang that created the universe 10bn years ago. Scientists will accelerate two beams of protons (particles that have the same positive charge) in opposite directions around the ring at almost the speed of light. The particles will be guided by superconducting magnets operating at -270&deg;C, until they smash together at the rate of about 40m collisions a second. About 100 of these collisions will create new particles. It is these particles that physicists at Cern, and around the world, are interested in.Thirty years ago, physicists used bubble chambers filled with superheated liquid and embedded in a strong magnetic field to detect the particles thrown off by such experiments: by photographing the trajectories of the subatomic fragments formed within a few milliseconds, they could work out what had been created by the collision. The equipment needed now to detect the smallest particles that physicists are interested in is vastly more powerful: each collision in the LHC will produce 1MB of data, cumulatively creating 10 petabytes of stored data each year. (One petabyte is equivalent to 1,024 terabytes; one terabyte equals 1,024 gigabytes.) The computing power required to analyse all this data is equivalent to 100,000 PC processors.So, explains Jarre, the project demands a computing infrastructure on a scale that has never been seen. To this end, Cern has engaged IBM, Intel, Enterasys, HP and Oracle as partners to work on openlab, a project to create a network known as the LHC grid (LCG). The LCG pioneers the use of grid computing - a way of sharing applications, data, storage and network resource across geographically dispersed locations, in this case Cern's 450 partner institutes over the world. Phase one of openlab - the creation of the grid - is complete, and the second phase, which involves the design of the relevant applications and technologies to make it all work, is about to begin.Distributed results"We could have built a huge computer centre here," says Wolfgang von R&uuml;den, a former physicist and now head of IT at Cern. "But scientists and students are distributed so it is much better to take the results to the community where they are sitting." For the IT partners, the project offers a chance to develop new technologies that may eventually prove as revolutionary as the world wide web (also, as it happens, invented at Cern).LHC represents a huge project in terms of engineering as well as physics. Atlas, one of the four particle detectors located on the circumference, weighs 7,000 tonnes, about the same as the Eiffel Tower, says Loureiro. Scientists hope that Atlas will settle the question of the existence of the Higgs boson particle, which is needed to complete the widely accepted Standard Model of particle physics.This model gives the best account we have of the way fundamental matter particles interact, describing the interactions in terms of forces: strong, electromagnetic and weak. Each force has a corresponding carrier: gluons, for example, are the carriers of the strong force). At the time of the Big Bang, particles and antiparticles (identical to particles but with opposite electric and nuclear charges) would have been created equally. The puzzle is why the universe ended up asymmetrical - why there is more matter than antimatter, and why some particles have mass, and some don't.The explanation proffered by the Standard Model is that there must be a particle that gives mass to other particles. This particle is known as the Higgs boson. So far, the Higgs boson has not been found - but if it exists, then Atlas will detect it."The Higgs particle can decay into something else, for example four electrons or two protons," says Loureiro. "You infer from the energy of those particles that what came before was a Higgs." Many physicists will be disappointed if the Higgs boson is found to exist; but, she says, "If it doesn't, a whole bunch of other opportunities open."Scientists already know that the LHC won't answer the ultimate question to life, the universe and everything. Plans are afoot to build the International Linear Collider (ILC) - an electron-positron machine that will be 35km long and will tackle some of the questions thrown up by LHC. As von R&uuml;den puts it: "In science, the more you discover, the more questions you ask."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I'm just about to have to get rid of my antique hi-fi because it's just too big. Would it be stupid to spend money on another CD player when it could be going (presumably) towards an iPod plus lovely speakers? I want something small and good quality. I'm not bothered about music on the move. Suzannah DeaneThere presumably will be a time when all music and movies will be downloaded in digitised form, but it's not within the likely lifetime of any disk-based MP3 player you can buy today. Hard drives and batteries have much shorter lifespans than good hi-fi equipment, which lasts for decades.At the moment, digital music is not the route to a simple life. If you buy and download tracks, you have to pay high prices for copy-protected music that is less than CD quality. It involves operating a PC with an internet connection, downloading and copying tracks to the MP3 player, and probably backing them up to CD or DVD. If you create your own non-protected files, this involves extra work "ripping" CDs. This is OK for people who listen to music on their PCs and portable players, but not a good starting point for home hi-fi.You will also have an extra problem, because you like classical music and ballet. Although more than a million songs are now legally available online, classical music is generally not well represented.I think, therefore, you would be better off with what the audio world calls a "micro system". There are lots of models available, but hi-fi quality seems to start with the Denon D-M33. I'd suggest the D-M35 DAB, which includes a CD player and digital as well as AM and FM radio, and comes with small SC-M73 speakers. If CDs do become obsolete, you can plug an MP3 player in the back, and still get better sound than you would from the little speakers designed for MP3 players.
I am in the market for a hard drive MP3 player, but after trawling through a variety of websites, I am yet to find one that can provide me with the information I need. Ant SmallwoodMost MP3 comparison sites don't have much information, or concentrate on price searches. You could tryCNet Asia's site, which lets you tick likely prospects then compare several players side by side. Apart from that, I'm open to suggestions.
When I choose "Save Web Page, Complete", for offline viewing, Internet Explorer appears to look for the site again, and in some cases gives me the blunt message: "This Web Page Cannot be Saved." Why? Pete BenlowIn the good old days, web pages were just downloaded from a server, and were easy to save. Today, a page may be constructed on the fly with elements from different servers, including adverts. It may include JavaScript or ActiveX controls downloaded to your PC to customise the page. Internet Explorer tries to convert all these elements to create a page where the links are to your PC's hard drive, but as Microsoft's Knowledgebase says, IE "does not parse the script in a web page when saving the web page, and so it is unable to determine when an image or document URL is constructed from within a script."Your best bet is to add the page to IE's Favorites list and tick the box that says: "Make available offline". Another workaround is to go to the File menu, select Send and then pick Page by E-mail. When the email window pops up, select File and Save As, then save the message as .htm instead of .eml. You don't have to send the email.Alternatively, WinWAX Express (www.winwax.com) is an IE add-on designed to capture and save pages - or try Opera's browser.
I was running Windows XP Home Edition, which came pre-installed as an OEM Product. My hard disk failed and I had to buy a new one, but I do not have an installation disc for Windows XP. I tried to contact Multivision Computers but they appear to have stopped trading. How do I re-install Windows? Jack BeebyMicrosoft generally takes the view that your deal was with the OEM (original equipment manufacturer), not with Microsoft. In any case, Microsoft does not have copies of recovery discs nor access to any drivers or other changes made by OEM suppliers. You would therefore have to buy a new copy of Windows and hope it works.However, in the UK at least, some smaller system builders bought Windows under a different deal, and if your Certificate of Authenticity sticker says OEM Product, you may be entitled to a replacement disc costing about £16. Ask on 0800 032 4479.
Google has long been associated with Firefox and could use that as the basis for a Gbrowser, if or when it felt the need for such a thing. However, there's now a rumour going round to the effect that Google could buy Opera instead.Gary Price at Search Engine Watchreports:OK, now to the source of what's going to be getting lots of blogosphere buzz in the coming hours. Dirson'sNew Google Bloglinks to a French language blog byPierre Chappaz(former president of Yahoo! Europe), says that the acquisition is going down but to use the terms given in Google's mechanical translation of the post, this info needs to be "taken with precaution." That's one of the things that make it a rumor. If you don't read French and want it translated (CAVEAT EMPTOR) here's a mechanical translation fromGoogleand fromother sources.Meanwhileover at the Opera Watch blog, Daniel Goldman has a denial:"An Opera official outright denied this claim, after I asked about it, saying "Rumors come and go. Google is not buying Opera."Under the circumstances, Googlenotbuying Opera seems by far the most likely result.
Wonderlandhas pointed gamesblog tothisgreat anti-knife ad campaign from the Met. Alice's take:The site is top quality, and the video is extremely well produced. The message, I think, is excellent. The target audience is clear - urban hoodie-wearing kids (popularly demonised in the UK on a regular basis). I think it could have a pretty strong impact on kids - it'll certainly speak to them... yup, I think the Met's being very clever here. Jeez, there's even a PSP version of the vid!She's right. They've really done their research with this one.
Two years ago, New Yorker Joshua Schachter was fed up. He had a huge amount of bookmarks gathered from his travels around the web, but found keeping track of them all impossible. In the end, he decided to create a program to categorise them.After experimenting with some ideas, he decided that other people should use it too; in fact, that they should be able to share all their bookmarks with each other in order to find more interesting websites. Soon he had opened up Delicious (http://del.icio.us), a social network for webheads around the world.Its premise is relatively simple. The Delicious site is like a big database holding the addresses of websites each user has visited and found interesting. Each user also tags their visited sites with useful (to them) labels such as "World Cup", "Canada" or "explosion". Anyone, inside or outside Delicious, can then search on a subject by tag, and the Delicious database pulls out the URLs that other users have spotted in the same area. It is collective intelligence, pooled from thousands of people.The site has won much acclaim since being launched in 2003. Last March, Schachter, formerly with the brokers Morgan Stanley, was able to start working on the website full time, thanks to a cash injection from Amazon, technologist Esther Dyson and publisher Tim O'Reilly. But, ultimately, Delicious was the preserve of a dedicated minority of early adopters.Last Friday, however, Schachter's hard work paid off when web giant Yahoo announced it would be buying the nine-person company outright for a rumoured $30m - equivalent to about $100 for each registered user.It must have been a busy week at Yahoo's expansive headquarters in Sunnyvale, California. Just days before the Delicious deal was announced, the company introduced a new service where readers solve each others' queries, Yahoo Answers. A double whammy turned triplicate with the announcement that a cross-promotional deal with weblog vendors Six Apart is in the offing.Such a flurry of activity has suddenly drawn attention to Yahoo, which often has a lower media profile than its more vivacious competitors despite being the world's most-visited website, with 101.3m visitors in August this year, according to the research company EMarketing.Most observers were quick to link last week's announcements with another of Yahoo's recent purchases: Flickr, the photo-sharing website and another pioneer of tagging, bought for around $30m in March this year.Tag teamsThe similarities between Delicious and Flickr - small north American startups that created popular social software services using tags - have cranked up the speculation. Even Schachter publicly drew comparisons. "We're excited to be working with the Yahoo search team - they definitely get social systems and their potential to change the web," he wrote on his weblog (http://blog.del.icio.us/blog). "We're also excited to be joining our fraternal twin, Flickr!"Clearly there's been a lot of activity in one area - but what is Yahoo really doing?"You can probably stitch together our plan from the moves we've made, the acquisitions we've made, the products we've put out to market," says Bradley Horowitz, Yahoo's senior director of technology development. That plan: to try and make social search the next stage in the evolution of search engines."Day zero was when Jerry and David &#91;Filo and Yang, the founders of Yahoo&#93; went into a dorm room in 1994 and decided they'd organise the web," explains Horowitz. "What came around next was the automated phase that led to companies like AltaVista and Inktomi. The third phase was really the innovation that Google came up with, looking at the topology of the web - link structures, back linking." That was in 1998.Now, he says, the next step will be to take social bookmarking - exactly the activity promoted by Delicious - and turn it into the basis for wider web searching. His proposition involves using the social network as the channel for search results."In topology search, what you're really doing is conferring to webmasters the privilege of deciding what's important for everybody. They cast their votes on what's important by building links - and they do it in a way that smears it out for everybody, so we all get the same results." The concept of personal search and social search, he says, "democratises that process, and says 'why should webmasters be the only authority we trust and confer that privilege to?'. Why can't I pick other authorities of trust, like for instance my friends? What is their opinion?"Social lifeSo instead of getting the same results as everybody who searches a term, you get results that are filtered through your social group. You choose your own peers - friends, family, colleagues, interesting strangers - and they provide your answers. And by including different levels of friendship, you can increase the size of your net dramatically. Even if you have just 10 contacts, and those contacts have another 10 each, that's still more than 100 potential sources within two hops. The concept is useful, perhaps, but maybe not for everyone."If you're trying to find the population of London, you don't need social search," admits Horowitz. "But if you're trying to find a restaurant to eat at, a blog to read, or a plumber who's reputable - the kind of things you depend on the expertise of others to know - that's where the social search phenomenon comes in."The acquisitions of Flickr and Delicious clearly point in this direction. But social search isn't new to Yahoo. The company launched an early attempt at this kind of service in the form of My Web 2.0, a Delicious-style tool that will most likely form the basis for whatever they decide to do in the future. It has had limited success - in mitigation Horowitz calls it "a living experiment" with no promotion - but will most likely be moving forward now that Delicious is on board.So why has a veteran web firm such as Yahoo decided that social search is worth spending millions on?For a start, it takes a lot of the hard work out of searching the web. The very clever thing about social software is that it puts the burden on to the user, not the provider. If you aren't getting enough results, it's not because the engine isn't indexing enough pages: it's because you haven't got enough friends in your social network. Conversely, if you end up getting a lot of spam results - an increasingly important issue with sites like Google -then you have obviously let the wrong person into your network (and should excommunicate them).Users enjoy the extra power: communities become self-policing and popular taggers become trusted sources, gaining minor celebrity along the way. Providers enjoy it, too, for taking some of the heavy lifting away from them.In a way, what's happening is a throwback to the earliest days of Yahoo, to the dormitory-created directory model, when the web was mediated through a series of editors and power users who would pick a Site of the Day (for the web really was that small). The difference now is that we get to choose who our power users are.More important to a huge business such as Yahoo is how social search could bring new ways to cash in. Search engine firms make money through advertising, and in the short run, a tighter focus increases the likelihood of being able to charge higher prices for ads. In the long run, social groups might emerge inside the search engine - for example, a group of doctors in Hong Kong who share their bookmarks - who could be specifically targeted by advertising campaigns.But beyond the vagaries of search evolution and the bottom line, something else is going on. Acquiring interesting little companies such as Flickr and Delicious adds value to Yahoo (else shareholders would reject them), but it isn't just about business.Agents of changeThrough a series of hires and acquisitions, Yahoo is clearly assembling a squad of innovators and forward thinkers. Schachter joins a list of employees including Flickr co-founder Caterina Fake, former CTO of technology news service Infoworld, Chad Dickerson, and blogging technology academics such as Danah Boyd and Cameron Marlow.Under Horowitz that team will be charged with putting some of the creativity back into Yahoo's operation, an area where rivals have pulled ahead - at least in the eyes of the public."We are agents of change within the organisation," says Horowitz. "We're here to cause trouble. It's largely about innovation, it's about disruption, it's about change. It's about kind of the mortar between the products. Yahoo Calendar, Yahoo Local, Yahoo Maps, Flickr - how can we knit all of those together to create some uber-applications that are extremely compelling and aren't really in the purview of any of one group to deliver?"This is the kind of innovation culture that keeps Google, in particular, in the headlines. Not that Google has shied away from acquisitions: since February 2001 it has acquired 14 firms, which have been used to create services such as Google Maps, Picasa, Google Analytics and the Google Ride Finder (in the US). Similarly, Microsoft's MSN has bought desktop search companies, and added blogging (at MSN Spaces) and mapping capabilities. One gets a sense of the three biggest "search" companies amassing armies of services ready to roll into battle against each other, fighting for your attention - and loyalty.Horowitz thinks having a crack team of brains focused on new ideas will help redress the balance compared to Google. To this end, spending some of Yahoo's $3.18bn cash pile (Google has $7bn) is aimed at "buying the mojo" of small, innovative startups, and the spree hasn't necessarily stopped yet. "I think you'll continue to see us do acquisitions in that model," says Horowitz. "The dozen-person company where we're buying talent rather than revenue or user base."Despite that fanfare, it is not necessarily time for anyone with a good idea to suddenly eye a deal with Yahoo. The services brought into the fold recently have reached a certain level of usage - about 300,000 registered users for Flickr and Delicious - married with passionate online followings before being bought out.Acquiring Delicious may have added an immediate momentum to Yahoo's plans for social search, but the real point seems to be the building of an innovative culture that can widen Yahoo's lens.It's certainly generating the biggest buzz the company has seen for some time, but the long run is what counts. In a few years, Yahoo could have become the byword for innovation - or it could look like the company was foolishly sucked into the Web 2.0 hype. But Yahoo does not feel that it can pass up this gamble.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's the biggest-ever Guardian Technology section this week: almost seven whole Berliner-sized pages. From the top:Searching for a fresher tasteFirst it bought photo-sharing site Flickr, and now it has snapped up bookmarking phenomenon Delicious. Why is Yahoo investing so heavily in the social networking stars of Web 2.0? Bobbie Johnson reports on the next generation of search.Xbox hits the ground runningWhich are the best of the launch titles for Microsoft's new gaming console? Steve Boxer knows.What's holding up internet telephony?Victor Keegan reckons that BT could do more to push VoIP.Ideal home to save the environmentWhy not make homes like we do iPods - made in China, shipped over here? Professor James Woudhuysen explains.Honey, I shrunk the movie collectionStacks of old VHS tapes taking up valuable space in your home? Then the time is right to convert them into DVDs - it's easier than you might think. Wendy M Grossman has been there, done that.How to analyse a Big Bang of dataThe mammoth project at the Cern physics laboratory in Geneva to recreate the conditions immediately after the universe began requires computing power on an unprecedented scale.Log on and join in, but beware the web cultsCharles Arthur on a strange, pervasive phenemenon that seems to take people over once they get too involved online.Lost in the big smoke? Call up a guideMobiles aren't just for calling home from holiday - now they can tell you what to see, and where you are.Virtual pageant honours beauty... and the bustIs Miss Digital World (and her roundhouse kick) the ideal woman, or just another sad lads' fantasy?Facing up to the problems of real peopleGamesblog: EA's obsession with realism has produced an unappealing onslaught of dead-faced sportsmen, says Keith Stuart.TechnobileWhat do you do when nothing seems to make technology that should work, work?Read this week's letters and blogs, including a response from Eric Raymod to last week's piece on open source and OpenOffice.orgSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number.Ask JackThe weekly answers to your queries. And see theAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.InnovationsCreative Vision:MA worthy video-playing rival to the iPod, boasting more colour - and colours - with longer battery life.Nokia 770Neither phone, nor PDA, this gadget is a multimedia wireless web tablet.PupilloSurveillance camera you dial to view.Telewest TVDriveCable overcomes its disadvantages to provide a fresh digital TV package.
This week'sTechnology sectionis out today with the highlight being Keith'sinteresting pieceabout photorealism in games. As someone who still shudders when remembering the zombie-like horror of Tim "deadeye" Henman in Virtua Tennis, I can see Keith's point. The other gaming article is aroundupof the Xbox360 launch games - slightly cruel considering you can't actually get hold of the console at the moment. But if you have, and you want some advice on what to buy, then PGR3 is supposedly the highlight. I'd probably agree with that - especially if cars are your thing - although I'd disagree with the recommendation of Quake 4. The gaming world already has enough dull shooting games.
Over the past week I have been hugely entertained by the way the Wikipedia project's dirty laundry has been strung out for all to see. For example, Adam Curry, the would-be "father" of podcasting (for success has many parents, while failure is an orphan) has been caught in the act of anonymously, um, "adjusting" the Wikipedia page on the topic, boosting his apparent role in its spread. Meanwhile, someone else had created an enormously libellous page about John Seigenthaler, a 78-year-old former editor of the Tennessean in Nashville, falsely suggesting he had some role in the assassination of John F Kennedy. The Norwegian prime minister Jens Stoltenberg didn't have much cause either to thank the online site, where he was - again, utterly falsely - labelled a paedophile.That has led to a furious (both angry and intense) period of navel-gazing at the site, with people arguing about whether things can or should be deleted or kept, and whether anonymous editing is a good idea or not, or whether pseudononymous editing is OK. Immerse yourself, if you can bear it, in the discussion at the "village pump" (go towikipedia.organd follow links to the Community Portal).This started me wondering about the intensity of the argument that goes on around similar projects online. Scratch an issue, and without too much effort you'll find those who are so pro and anti, it's scary. Pick a topic, any topic: the usefulness of Wikipedia; intelligent design; whether you should use the RSS or Atom format for a web feed; whether free open source development is better for developing software than the closed, paid-for method (see Letters on page 4 for more); whether Scientology should be classed as a cult, religion or stunningly expensive hobby. And don't even get me started on what happens when you criticise something that Apple Computer makes. On all sides you will find people who are willing to argue to the death.What I realised - perhaps it was the mention of Scientology - is that Wikipedia, and so many other online activities, show all the outward characteristics of a cult. Which, by my (computer's) dictionary definition, means "a system of religious veneration and devotion directed toward a particular figure or object; a relatively small group of people having religious beliefs or practices regarded by others as strange or sinister; a misplaced or excessive admiration for a particular person or thing; a person or thing that is popular or fashionable, esp. among a particular section of society, 'a cult film'."Certainly the latter definition could easily be used for Wikipedia. I also think the first ones are appropriate. There is a quasi-religious fervour surrounding the "rightness" of Wikipedia, or Apple's products, or RSS vs Atom. To outsiders, it makes little or no sense. To those inside, it is the most important topic they can imagine.Why should that be? The point about the internet was always that it reduced geographical distance to zero, so that the world (or the online bit) was only 12in from your nose. Now, any cult organiser will tell you that the hardest part about building your group is getting recruits. If the people don't have to cross a street, but just a screen, it is much easier.And online cults can grow themselves, building their story from the internet's ability to generate its own folklore. There's no need for an L Ron Hubbard to create the backstory, as there was with Scientology. The cult's members write its "truth", and defend it to the very last gasp of their keyboard.They also use the most charming of debating techniques, which is to allow you to make a long list of salient points and pull in a wide range of empirical observations to back up your argument, and then ignore them completely. Then they respond with something along the lines of "Are you being paid to say that by Microsoft, or just doing a mate a favour?" (to quote one email we received this week on the topic of open source software development).As I said, the cult of cultism isn't only happening at Wikipedia. (And I'm certainly not comparing Jimmy Wales, who set up Wikipedia with the most honorable intentions, to Hubbard's daft science-fiction grow-your-own "religion".) It's visible all over the net.And don't think I'm knocking participation online. I'm not. Getting involved is an excellent idea, in whatever project takes your fancy; and it has never been easier. Being a passive consumer is stultifying, and I wouldn't give up the past 10 years of online development for anything.But it's always worth asking yourself, before launching into the 124th flame of the evening for someone who has dared to question the rightness of your pet project, whether the other side might, for once, be right in their criticism. It is a radical idea, I know. But that's the only way cult thinking gets broken down. Personally, I'm all for it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The bar for digital music players has been raised rather high by Apple's launch first of its iPod nano and then of the iPod video. Creative, makers of the Soundblaster sound cards and the No 2 worldwide in MP3 player sales, has clearly decided to have a go at vaulting it - and with the Vision:M has arguably achieved that.The screen size, at 2.5 inches, is the same as the iPod, though Creative claims it will manage 262,144 colours against Apple's 65,536. The Singaporean company also has more colours in the product: the Vision:M comes in five - black, white, green, pink and blue - though it's noticeably thicker than an iPod. However, you don't notice the difference once it's in your hand or pocket.The patented menu, which chief executive Sim Wong Hoo says Apple has appropriated ("It means we're No 1 in interfaces," he comments merrily, while making vague noises about demanding licensing fees), gives the player a familiar feel: music, playlists, artists, genres. There's also an FM tuner and microphone, and you can dedicate part of the 30GB hard drive for data storage. (The Vision:M only comes in one size so far.)So far, so much like any other non-Apple player. But the Vision:M does have some nice touches that set it apart from its American cousin. First is the scroll pad, which reacts to finger pressure for volume adjustment or to give tracks a star rating (which is familiar from ... no, have a guess). You can dedicate one of the four control buttons as a "shortcut", say to the radio or microphone.But more important differences lie within. The Vision:M can play MP3 and WAV files, and also Windows Media Audio subscription tracks, from services such as Napster: the latter means you don't necessarily have to buy something to listen to it (but when you listen to a subscription track, there is a "Buy This" menu option as you listen). You can also play MPeg-2, MPeg-4, Xvid, Windows Media Video and MJPeg videos, as well as storing photos, and output them all to a TV set.Creative also claims a few more points over Apple: the price includes a power adaptor (not included with the iPod video), and, at 14 hours of music and four hours of video, longer battery life - though such numbers are at best only a guideline, as everyone's use differs.Finally there's the price tag, expected to be around &pound;200 . A week after its launch, however, Creative was still keeping that a secret.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There was no swimsuit parade, stomach-churning acceptance speech or even a paean to world peace. But just as the Icelandic part-time policewoman Unnur Birna Vilhjalmsdottir was crowned Miss World 2005 at the weekend at a ceremony in China, a simultaneous event in cyberspace saw the virtual Asian beauty "Mi" christened Miss Digital World 2005.The online competition had all the glitz of its human equivalent - as underlined by the vital statistics of the winner. Created by Japanese designer Ichi Yoshimoto, the 163cm tall beauty has "slick" black hair, brown eyes and weighs in at 88-58-89 (that's 34-23-35 in old money). In one image, Mi is portrayed looking coy in a kimono, but her video showreel reveals her kitted out in futuristic silver bondage gear and felling a demonic robot with a vicious roundhouse kick.Mi was one of 21 virtual women created by digital artists for the competition organised by Monumedia, an Italian multimedia company. The brief was to create a "contemporary ideal of beauty through virtual reality", according to designer Franz Cerami, who dreamed up the competition.In a scene reminiscent of the 1985 movie Weird Science, which saw two teenage geeks create a virtual woman (played by former model Kelly LeBrock), designers from as far afield as India, Japan, Brazil and Argentina, tried to fulfil Cerami's brief. Fighting for the grand prize of a $5,000 (&pound;2,835) gold bar, contestants drew inspiration from computer game characters, movie stars and celebrities.The results were, from the technical viewpoint, impressive. Admittedly, Lara Croft's DNA lives on: some of the chest characteristics were disproportionate, and the bust area saw particular attention to detail. But the majority of entries were scarily lifelike. Some were so realistic that the only things that betrayed their digital existence were minor physical details such as robotic body movements, and the absence of blinking.But what do real women make of these visions of digital perfection? Is it just a case of lonely geeks sitting in their bedrooms salivating over an exaggerated idea of beauty, or are their creations a lovingly crafted homage to the female form?Katie Lee, editor of the girls' gadgets website Shiny Shiny, sees little difference between the digital creations and today's C-list celebrities. "The virtual women all look quite feisty to me, and they're no more a projection of male fantasy than the various semi-clad silicone women in the likes of Zoo or Nuts," she says. "In fact, there's a bit more romance to them than that - it's obvious they've been created with a lot of care. Sure, that's still on the wrong side of creepy, and some seem to have improbably large breasts, but I'm finding it hard to get upset about it. These boys don't get to meet many real women, after all."However, online fashion journalist Sam Lyster is less convinced. "Although I hate to say it, the whole thing comes across as men who are unable to relate to real women retreating into a fantasy world where they can create their own version of femininity, which I imagine includes such physical characteristics as being mute except for when they are praising the masculinity and prowess of their creators. It is," she concludes, "a little bit sad."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Nokia doesn't like to be known as a phone manufacturer, preferring to say it makes devices for playing games, listening to music, watching videos and, occasionally, making calls. Now it has delivered the 770, which isn't a phone at all.While not quite a PDA - it doesn't have boring personal organiser facilities - the 770 is a web tablet designed to work via Wi-Fi, or remotely in conjunction with a Bluetooth phone. You can monitor email, surf the web and use RSS feeds to keep abreast of your favourite news sites. Nokia will add Voice over Internet Protocol facilities next year.The 770 is also a first for Nokia as it uses the Linux operating system. That means there's already plenty of third-party software.The hardware is very simple. The device has an excellent 800x480 pixel 64K colour screen, a smattering of buttons, connectors for hooking up to a PC via USB, and space for a reduced-size MMC card - which is handy, as the device only has 64MB of user storage.The software's look and feel isn't too far removed from Nokia's phones, and is very easy to negotiate. You can input web addresses and so on either through a virtual keypad or a handwriting recognition system, although that is dreadful.Overall, the web browser coped well with an array of sites and blogs. Nokia has also included versatile video software, which makes the most of the quality screen, plus both audio playback and internet radio. The latter is a real boon and it is easy to store the stations for quick access, though I had problems with MP3 playback on the MMC card.The 770 also has limited processing power, so it runs slowly if you have more than a few of applications open, but apart from these niggles it is a rather excellent piece of hardware.The &pound;245 price tag will only appeal to serious gadget lovers, but maybe Nokia will make a deal with an internet service provider to give it away with wireless broadband subscriptions. It deserves to be widely used.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
What's the project that fascinates eco-conscious design students? "Green" kettles that boil the least amount of water, says James Woudhuysen. And what use is that? Not a lot, says De Montfort University's visiting professor of forecasting and innovation. In fact, he says, "It's bollocks. People tell you that you fill your kettle with three litres of water and boil it and then only use a cupful. But if you do the maths, the kettle's only about 4% of your home electricity use. The fridge uses much more - and your central heating is the majority of the home energy use. Everyone wants to do their bit for the planet, but no matter how big the effect an architect wants to have with a green design, on new-build homes it will be only very limited."Woudhuysen, who is speaking tonight at the Science Museum on The Future of Creativity and Innovation, thinks an "iPod approach" is needed to meet twin needs: the growing demand for more housing, and the pressure to reduce greenhouse emissions."It will take 1,000 years at current rates for our current housing stock to be replaced," he says. "That's not fast enough to meet the need to improve insulation and boiler efficiency."Instead, he says, a complete rethink of how we build houses is needed. "Why not do what we do with the iPod? That's designed by one company, built in China and shipped here. It's manufactured to fabulously tight tolerances. We could do the same with houses. There will come a time when the Chinese will export part-built kit homes, because they'll be building so many at home to deal with their migrating population that they might as well sell them abroad. We could get people to assemble them here at the port and transport them to their location on lorries."Only in that way can the better technologies now available for insulation and heating be brought into Britain's housing stock, he argues."I'm not saying everyone has to move; I'm saying that there's a big demand for housing. My son doesn't want to live with me; he wants a place of his own, and he would, I'm sure, be perfectly happy with something made in China if it meant he could call it home."Though modular housing might sound fanciful in a country where most houses are still built in situ from bricks, Woudhuysen points to companies such as Verbus Systems, which aims to provide these ready-to-assemble homes.But for now, he thinks that the government's urging to citizens to change their habits at home is just tinkering at the edges. "The possibilities are so much bigger than just saving energy by turning off TV sets on standby," he says. Although, he admits ruefully, "the government has got me doing that."&#183;Details of tonight's lecture are available atNmk.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Why are we not taking advantage of free telephone calls? Britain leads the world in digital television, is well up to speed on mobile phone adoption and has made a dramatic catchup in broadband now that BT has got its act together. But when it comes to making calls through the internet for next to nothing, apart from the cost of broadband, we are trailing woefully. Fewer than 1% of UK customers use internet phones compared with 7% in France and more than 10% in Norway.This is important. If free, or very low-cost, telephony turns out to be the surprising "killer application" of broadband internet, then it could enable poorer people to sign up for broadband, thereby helping to close the digital divide. In turn, the expansion of broadband to poorer people offers a chance for some to receive digital television through the internet, thereby getting more people signed up by 2012, the analogue switchoff date.Why the slow takeup? In the UK, if you route calls through the internet, where voice travels in data packages like email, you still have to pay BT a monthly line rental of &pound;10.50 even if you don't make any BT calls. In Norway, you only have to pay an estimated third of the standard line rental charge when you switch to Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), a key factor behind its success.Some charge is justified because VoIP calls still use the copper wire from your house to the exchange before they reach the internet proper. The question is how much. BT supporters argue that the cost of maintaining its monopoly of the copper wire to your home means that the saving would be a few pounds a month at most. Ofcom seems to agree.It should be said that BT - much criticised in these columns in the past - is now a different animal. It has compensated for a culpable slowness in rolling out broadband by making it available almost everywhere with the promise of 8MB of broadband throughout the UK next year. BT also leads the world by building a &pound;10bn core network based on internet protocol, producing high-quality calls without encountering traffic jams from the main internet. It starts next year in Cardiff. Last week BT declared war with plans to undercut Skype on its main international destinations.That is commendable, but doesn't answer why, if I want to buy one product - a VoIP phone - do I have to buy another one - from BT I won't use in the same way as before? For example, I researched this article testing a beta version of a Vonage Wi-Fi VoIP phone due out next year, which will cost &pound;60 plus &pound;9.99 a month. It offers free calls to Vonage users and very low-cost ones elsewhere. It connects wirelessly to a broadband modem/router so there is no need to keep the computer on. It worked well in one house, though it often lost connection in another.The point is that adoption of Vonage-style phones (different to the Skype model, which has no rent but requires the computer to be left on) could be undermined by having to pay too much to help fund the current outdated BT infrastructure.But nothing is simple. Rupert Wood of Analysys points out that French success is driven by ultra-cheap VoIP as a come-on to sell "triple play" (TV, voice and internet), in a country that doesn't have the big cable presence to offer triple play, unlike the UK. It is easier for Norway's main operator to lose fixed-line customers by offering VoIP because it has a strong mobile arm to which customers can migrate to take a VoIP/mobile combination that satisfies most needs, including emergency calls (which VoIP lacks).In this context, BT is uniquely weak because it sold its mobile arm in a fire sale a few years ago. But consumers shouldn't have to pay for BT's decisions. Something is holding up the advance of net telephony in Britain and it is time Ofcom found out why.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Website comparisons are misleadingMichael Cross (The websites nobody wants, December 8) unfairly compares the number of visitors to our website (www.birmingham.gov.uk) with those visiting Upmystreet.com, which covers the UK. We have about one-sixtieth of the UK's population. Dividing the figure for Upmystreet by 60 gives 18,333. Our 335,000 monthly unique visitors is much more satisfactory.Andy MabbettBirmingham City CouncilIt is positive that government agencies have websites at all, given the inertia they have a reputation for, and that they have access to significant quantities of data. Second, such agencies are diverse, sometimes with contradictory policies, and a one-size-fits-all policy would not be appropriate. Third, one visit to a government website may have a greater value than you considered. That visit may lead to the dissemination of information to interested parties: a community group would no doubt distribute such information to members.Robin HullLondonThe statistics quoted were telling. Instead of wasting time developing a local DirectGov website no one will visit, why are we not working with groups such as MSN, Google and Yahoo to help citizens find the national or local government services they are looking for?Phil BrittonNorthumberlandIf you want &#91;to offer&#93; information, put it all in one easily searchable place. If I want to find out what the government is doing to tackle football-related violence, I could go to gov.uk and search for football violence and get the information on a page that is visibly part of gov.uk. This reduces the cost of building separately designed sites, and helps more people find it through a larger parent site.www.upyourego.com/wordpressNo silver bullet for bugsAndrew Brown (If this suite's a success, why is it so buggy? December 8) claims that OpenOffice "illustrates the limitations of open source" and shows that my aphorism "Many eyes make bugs shallow" is false, but his reasoning is shaky. Brown appears to be arguing that because open source development isn't perfect, it is no better than closed source. But there is no silver bullet for complex software - all programs will have bugs.Controlled comparisons between closed and open source versions of functionally equivalent programs have been done. Barton Miller's Fuzz Papers suggested that open source programs have a 39% edge in reliability over closed source equivalents.Do we know Microsoft Office has fewer than 11,000 bugs and feature requests outstanding? If Brown doesn't have those figures for a closed source program of comparable size, he has no basis for asserting that the open source method is failing.His article does illustrate an important point, however. If you make legal paperwork a requirement before volunteers can contribute to a project, few will. If OpenOffice is failing its promise, it's not because "many eyeballs" doesn't work - it's because bureaucratic obstacles are driving the eyeballs away.Eric RaymondI have used OpenOffice for years. I agree it has major flaws, and that its pace is more glacial than many would like. However, the open source model doesn't always work well for certain classes of software, this being one of them. But to generalise it into a sweeping slur on the open source development model is wrong. OpenOffice is a unique project, with lofty challenges and daunting goals but to paint its shortcomings on to the entire movement is misleading.Alastair StevensCambridge, UKSuit your needsThe article by Charles Arthur (Television on your terms, December 8) seems to ignore the commonest form of video-on-demand as practised by most of the viewing population: using a video recorder, in particular, a digital personal video recorder. If used with a Freeview tuner, it acts almost purely as a loss-free timeshifter to enable the viewer to schedule their own viewing needs.Perry MitchellFarnham
In the battle to attract viewers to digital TV, cable has been at a disadvantage. For both Sky, with its excellent Sky+ box, and Freeview, with models such as the Humax PVR-8000T, boast hard disk-based video recorders that work seamlessly with their services to make recording programmes very easy.All that changes this month with the arrival of Telewest's TVDrive (NTL subscribers will be offered a similar system next year). Its huge advantage over the Sky+ box is that it is compatible with high-definition TV, so if viewers have an HD-ready set they can watch a limited selection of programming in the new 1080i format, which delivers much higher resolution. The HD footage, delivered via Teleport, Telewest's TV-on-demand service, is a significant leap forward. I watched the BBC's HDTV documentary Pride and was impressed by the rich colours and superb detail, especially on closeups.Otherwise, the TVDrive is fairly similar to the Sky+ box. It also has a 160 GB hard drive, which can store 80 hours of standard definition programmes. It features an onscreen menu system so you can easily make timed recordings and pause live TV. Unlike Sky+, the TVDrive offers picture-in-picture on the programme guide, so viewers can see what they were last watching while setting the recorder. It also has three TV tuners so you can record two channels while watching a third. These tweaks make its interface less intuitive than the Sky+ box, but it is still easier than programming a VCR.Renting the box costs an extra &pound;10-15 per month. Telewest says users will be able to upgrade cheaply when the next-generation TVDrive arrives.The TVDrive is a far better bet for Telewest customers than teaming their decoder with a DVD recorder or VCR. It isn't revolutionary enough to persuade Sky+ owners to pull down their dishes, and the new Sky+ box due in April (three tuners, HD-compatibility and possibly a 300GB hard drive) will rival it. For now, though, cable has the strongest digital TV package available.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The pioneering transplant surgery by a French team last month, on a woman savaged by a dog, has forced some in-depth consideration of the complex aesthetic, emotional and ethical reactions that govern our relationship with the human face. As strange as it may seem, this is also something game developers are having to get to grips with.Writing about the Xbox 360 conversion of King Kong last week, Clive Thompson, a technology journalist and blogger, claimed that the scariest part of the game is not the giant ape itself or one of the many prehistoric monsters - but the representation of Naomi Watts. Although at a glance she appears authentic, her lifeless eyes, plastic skin and weirdly slack mouth soon become offputting.Thompson quotes from the "Uncanny Valley" theory, put forward by Japanese roboticist Masahiro Mori, who claims that representations of humans remain emotive and endearing while they are simply defined, but as soon as they approach photorealism, we start to see tiny faults and the illusion melts. This is why Pixar and DreamWorks prefer to base their animated movies around robots, toys and monsters, and why most people find Madame Tussauds creepy.Thompson is not alone in his reaction to "realistic" characters. A game designer friend emailed me last week with a pet theory - that Electronic Arts's Xbox 360 sports sims have left critics unimpressed because its obsession with realism has produced an unappealing onslaught of dead-faced sportsmen.So, should developers now look into more stylised representations of human characters or should they go forward, Frankenstein-like, with the quest for life? As studios get to grips with the next-generation formats, they will overcome barriers to facial realism. Using graphics technology known as shaders, designers are learning how to add detailed lighting effects to human characters on a per-pixel basis, emulating the reflective nature of skin and eliminating the plastic effect. With more processing power, artists will be able to build the complex muscular systems behind a face, thereby emulating the mechanics of expression. They will add environment-mapping to eyes to reflect surroundings. The "death mask" look of current in-game humans will be gone.But how will we then feel about hitting one of these characters? How will we feel about shooting them? So far, even for the very best of the current titles, low-resolution representations of human characters have let us stand back - a little - from what we were doing. But high-res ultra-realistic faces grimacing in pain and fear - will that be fun? Too close to the bone is an over-familiar cliche, but here it may be all too appropriate.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
When the phone networks invested in 3G in 2000, one way they expected to recoup some cash was person-to-person video calling. Sadly for them, despite its popularity elsewhere, video calling has failed to take off in the UK.This hasn't deterred the mobile operator 3, which is taking video calling to a different dimension with the launch of the Pupillo, a 3G-enabled surveillance camera. The concept is simple: you make a video call to the device - which has its own phone number - and can then see live video footage and hear audio of what is in front of the camera.The Pupillo concept isn't exactly new - Nokia has had the Observation Camera for years - but with the faster bitrates offered by 3G, 3 claims that the Pupillo's video is much higher quality.The Pupillo is easy to use. It can run off the mains or a battery, where it offers four hours of call time and 300 hours of standby. Quite how effective it is as a covert filming device is a moot point. It may be small and white but it has a big 3 logo emblazoned on its fascia, just underneath what is very obviously a lens, so would-be felons would probably cotton on fairly quickly.I rang the Pupillo using a 3 phone and was impressed by the image quality. It is roughly the same level as a 3G video call so, as long as subjects don't move too quickly, you get clear, reasonably sharp footage. Sound quality was also good and we could hear everything going on in the room.The tricky bit is siting the gadget in the first place. It took a lot of trial and error to set it up so it focused on my chosen target - the dog's bed - which seriously bumped up the phone bill.The Pupillo is a fun gadget, although users may struggle to find a serious role for it. Sure it will deliver proof that flatmate A has a cavalier approach to borrowing flatmate B's milk, but it lacks the Nokia's motion detection system, which automatically sends an image to the user. This would make it a serious security device. Still, for &pound;150 it is an entertaining little gizmo.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Any new console launches with a portfolio of games that skims the surface of its capabilities - developers need time to work out how to harness the number-crunching and graphics processing power. So, launch lineups are invariably sketchy, but the Xbox 360's first crop bodes well. While it has the usual array of titles unimaginatively ported from other platforms, and lacks a blockbuster, it covers most of the genres and includes solid efforts that offer a glimpse of the delights to come. Here is a rundown of the must-buys - and the mangy old dogs.Project Gotham Racing 3Bizarre Creations/Microsoft, &pound;39.99 5 starsThe latest iteration of the British-developed street racing game makes better use of the Xbox 360's grunt than its launch peers. The graphics are stunning - car interiors have been modelled as meticulously as exteriors, which inculde realistic renditions of swaths of London, New York and Las Vegas. Touches such as reactive spectators who jump back if you hit barriers near them, or greet you with virtual camera flashes if you pull off flashy moves, combine with motion-blur to give an incredible sense of immersion. Gotham TV allows you to watch the top drivers duking it out via Xbox Live. The chance to drive exotic cars and the feel that pulses through the control system rounds off an irresistible package. If you can only afford one game, this is it.Call of Duty 2Infinity Ward/Activision, &pound;39.99 5 starsSimply the best second world war first-person shoot-'em-up. Such games abound, but none has captured the full horror and confusion of war as this has, with an often harrowing result. Featuring a Russian army campaign in Stalingrad, a US army campaign that sees you scaling the cliffs of Normandy on D-Day and a British army campaign in north Africa, Call of Duty derives its edge from hi-tech tricks such as advanced particle effects and artificial intelligence that lets squad-mates react realistically to your actions. The incredible 3D sound will make you duck as virtual bullets seem to whistle past your ears.KameoRare Software/Microsoft, &pound;39.99 4 starsCreated by Rare Software, this cartoon-style action adventure has more than a whiff of Nintendo's Zelda games to it, and sports some innovative gameplay. The elfin Kameo can transform into many beasts with different abilities - an ice-climbing bear, a burrowing anthropomorphised plant with a killer upper-cut and a type of pangolin that can be rolled around like a giant marble. You must swap between the forms to progress, solve puzzles and defeat bosses. Some exploration is possible, and the graphics are enchanting. Suitable for all ages, it is up there with the best that Rare has created for Nintendo.CondemnedMonolith/Sega, &pound;39.99 4 starsA rare original launch title, Condemned starts as a CSI-style action-adventure game before morphing into a dark psychological survival game. Unsuitable for youngsters and 18-rated, this game involves you scrapping in gritty urban surroundings armed with whatever comes to hand (often a length of piping ripped off a decaying wall). Frightening at times, and unlike much else on sale.Quake 4Id Software/Raven/Activision, &pound;39.99 4 starsThe latest first-person shoot-'em-up from the masters of the genre, id Software - ably abetted by Raven, which specialises in turning id's technology into rounded games - may be a straight port from the PC, but it still sets the standard for Xbox 360, thanks to a control system that puts Perfect Dark Zero's to shame. Quake 4 is by far the most coherent of the Quake games, adding squad-mates who will heal you and repair your armour, and the ability to pilot vehicles. A great twist halfway through revitalises the gameplay, and all of Quake's joys - squishy enemies, satisfying weaponry and arcane machinery - are present and correct.Perfect Dark ZeroRare Software/Microsoft, &pound;39.99 2 starsThe most hyped launch title is also the most disappointing. Billed as a prequel to Rare's Nintendo 64 classic Perfect Dark (itself a sequel of sorts to the revered GoldenEye), Perfect Dark Zero looks impressive, in a rather garish way, but is hamstrung by a twitchy targeting system and a close-in camera that frequently makes it tricky to spot who is shooting at you. The plot, too, is disjointed, with missions frequently confusing.The ability to play missions cooperatively and decent online game modes help, but the employees responsible for GoldenEye and Perfect Dark have long since decamped, and it shows. Painfully.And the restThe remainder are essentially versions of Xbox games with enhanced graphics. King Kong is probably the pick - for a game-of-a-film it offers unusually challenging and innovative gameplay, taking cues from survival horror games such as Resident Evil, and forcing players to make use of what they find in its impressive environment. Tony Hawk's American Wasteland also impresses. Tiger Woods PGA Tour Golf 06 and Gun are decent Xbox games rendered no more or less decent by making the jump to Xbox 360. No amount of graphical bells and whistles, however, can disguise the appallingly twitchy car handling that ruins Need For Speed: Most Wanted, Electronic Arts' triumph of marketing over merit that is expected to occupy the Christmas No1 slot.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
