Remember your entries in for Guardian Unlimited's search for the Great British Blog.Hundreds of British webloggers have already entered the contest in the hope of winning a &#163;1000 first prize, or one of five runners-up prizes of &#163;100 each. The judging panel includes well-known figures from the blogging, business and media worlds.The closing date for entries is Friday September 6.
There is no such thing as pirate radio on the internet or, at least, there isn't supposed to be. Unlike with the AM and FM bands, there are no limitations on spectrum in cyberspace so, in theory, anyone can set up a radio station on the web.But a decision last month by the Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel (Carp), a little-known office of the Library of Congress of the United States, has placed the future of the industry in jeopardy and may push internet radio underground. After the failure of webcasters and the Recording Industry Association of America to agree on licensing fees for music streamed over the internet, Carp, which was empowered by the US Congress to resolve the dispute, set royalty rates at $0.0007 per song per listener. Many stations have gone silent.Although it doesn't sound like much, it adds up quickly. Carp's decision to impose relatively high licensing fees, rather than granting the recording industry a percentage of revenues, as with terrestrial broadcast radio, threatens to kill internet radio. Assuming the average internet radio station plays about 15 songs an hour, to an average of 1,000 listeners, a year's worth of licensing fees adds up to almost $100,000.It's a sum far beyond the budgets of many. When FM radio is becoming increasingly   homogenous, internet radio stations such as Live365.com have proven to be some of the few places listeners can find adventurous programming, and where lesser-known artists can find an audience.But as with Napster, which appeared when major record labels were refusing to make their music available online, a recently released free software program might render this debate irrelevant. Called Peercast, the program lets anyone set up an internet radio station - easily, cheaply and anonymously.Peercast uses the same protocol used by Gnutella, the decentralised file-sharing network that the recording and movie industries would   love to shut down, but can't. Instead of swapping files, users pass audio and video streams to each other, with "every listener also functioning as a broadcaster," says Giles Goddard, a video programmer for Nintendo, who created Peercast.Listening to a station broadcasting over Peercast is easy. Just install the Peercast software, which can be downloaded free from Peercast.org, log on, click the Get Channels button, which pulls up a list of available stations, and click on the one you want. The stream should automatically open up in your MP3 player. While it's still a little buggy, and I could only find a half-dozen stations, I was able to   get it to work in under five minutes. Goddard promises that future iterations of the software will be even easier to use and, as the number of Peercasters increases, it will be possible to search the streams by genre and sound quality.Using Peercast to set up your own radio station is almost as easy. All that is needed is the Peercast software, some MP3 software like WinAmp, and a freely available plug-in like Oddcast or Shoutcast for your MP3 software, which converts what you're playing on your computer into a digital audio stream. Peercast takes this stream online by connecting to Gnutella, and lets others on   the network know your webcast is out there. It's possible to webcast to millions using just a 56k dial-up modem, something that would be impossible without Peercast.Because Goddard's creation uses the Gnutella protocol, it is also difficult to trace a stream, making it all but impossible for the recording industry to track anyone down to demand royalties. Goddard admits that this is one of the reasons he unveiled Peercast now. "There was an issue of 'Why bother?'," he says. "If a listener can just go to some web page and click a button to hear a broadcast directly from some big fat server, then they will do that. So there has to be a valid rea son to use Peercast, such as being able to exercise free speech or to listen and broadcast among friends."Although using Peercast may be fine for the pirates of internet radio, the software may also have benefits for legitimate webcasters. A few years ago everyone thought the internet would kill off terrestrial television and radio broadcasting, but it turns out that sending a stream from a central server to every single listener or viewer costs a lot of money. Streaming a feature length film over the web to 100,000 people can rack up bandwidth costs of more than $1m. Many internet radio stations are already having trouble generating the advertising revenue needed to pay for bandwidth, let alone come up with extra for licensing fees.With Peercast, every person who tunes in to a station is also relaying it to others in the network, demolishing the one-to-many model of broadcasting and inverting the economics of webcasting. Each person in the network shoulders part of the burden, redistributing the webcast to others, meaning there are virtually no additional bandwidth costs. As demand grows for the stream, so does its availability as listeners or viewers use their own bandwidth to relay the stream.
Apple adsThose of us watching Apple's latest TV ads, premiered before last week's MacExpo keynote, thought they were spoofs; especially the barely coherent student talking about how a PC lost her essay. In fact, some of us are still not sure if this was Apple's idea of fun, rather than a genuine campaign to shift computers.What is certainly a spoof is digiboy's animated take-off of the Apple ads, which are supposed to encourage PC users to cast aside the yoke of their PCs and move to the Mac side. The real things probably work best for a US audience: the spoofs are funny wherever you are.www.apple.com/switchwww.ubergeek.tv/switchbackOld schoolStill on a Mac theme, old Mac hands can join me in rejoicing at the interface of Lowercase Music's website, which is based on the look, feel and black 'n' white wholesomeness of the Mac OS 6 Finder. All of a sudden, you're back on your first Mac Plus, and there's not a dock in sight.www.lowercasesound.comBlog and goEver feel the need to add to your weblog on the move? A handy free service called Wapblogger could be just the thing. Go to the Wap address below and you'll be asked to choose which weblogging system you use: it works with Blogger and LiveJournal at the moment. Log in, and you'll be presented with a simple interface that allows   you to peck in a new post, or edit existing ones, and then publish them.www.ubique.ch/wapbloggerwap.ubique.ch/wapbloggerPhoney tales02, the company formally known as BT Cellnet, is having a go at this viral marketing thing with a new website called Phoneytales.com. It features a series of short news stories with a mobile phone at their heart, and you get to rate the message or forward it to friends. You can also send in your own - the current favourite is the one about a lad who met his future wife by sending out a random "hello sexy" text message.www.phoneytales.comTop of the cropOn Memepool, a community weblog, it has been noted that crop circles aren't appearing in the news so much these days. Perhaps a summer of sporting action has kept the sillier elements of the silly season at bay, or maybe the sense of mystery has been lost now we know how they are created by mere mortals. But it doesn't make the formations any less amazing to look at, even if farmers complain they can ruin a crop. Check out the latest at the beautifully designed Circlemakers site to see what's in vogue in the crop circle world.www.circlemakers.org/totc2002.htmlhttp://memepool.comBomb sitesWar has broken out between the world's smallest websites, albeit on a very small scale. Regular readers will remember we ran the story of Guimp.com earlier this year, after it claimed the smallest website title with a mere 36-pixel by 36-pixel webpage that managed to include games and information. Now dot16 has come along, measuring just 16 pixels squared, and Guimp has taken the huff. Opinion is divided on which is best. Although dot16 wins the official title, it does leave you cross-eyed, and doesn't seem to be quite as much fun as Guimp.www.guimp.comwww.dot16.comLife sentenceWe perhaps shouldn't be surprised at the furore that broke out over a Spanish website that told you when, and in what circumstances, you are likely to die. One schoolgirl was told "You will die in 2018 slashing your wrists in front of a mirror," the Ananova website reported last week. But these sites are nothing new: MSNBC has a "real age" calculator that takes risk factors from your life and tells you what the real mileage on your   body is. Longtolive.com cuts the crap, and predicts - to the last second - when you're going to die. Even the BBC has a (more complicated) life expectancy calculator.www.msnbc.com/modules/quizzes/lifex.aspwww.longtolive.comwww.bbc.co.uk/health/tools/living_100.shtmlNew &amp; noted&#183;New look for World Trade Center site:www.renewnyc.com&#183;Looking for a place to go?www.holiday-rentals.com
&#183;Pegasus has launched its severest bid to regain dominance in the accounting-systems market to date. It's offering companies with fewer than 20 employees £399 worth of accounting software completely free of charge. The software is the company's Capital range, and will go to the first 5,000 employers to apply by going topegasus.co.ukand joining the online community. The company says it wants to stimulate a community and get businesses offering hints and expertise to each other. The software includes purchase, sale and nominal ledgers, invoicing, cashbook and stock control. It also integrates with Microsoft Excel and other key applications, and prints cheques automatically; this is the fully featured programme, not a cut-down version. The move will inevitably be seen as a move against market leader Sage, whose top position has been in little doubt for the best part of a decade, but the offer of free software in this way is likely to appeal to many.&#183;Business people need to get lives. OK, that's not exactly what a new survey from business communications company Equisys says but it might as well. Apparently a fifth of business managers take items including laptop computers with them on holiday so that they don't miss any emails, inevitably including business mails. Some holidaymakers admitted to spending half a day of their holiday reading mail; 50% relied on local ISPs and internet cafes to get hooked up. Equisys is using the research to push its filtering software so at least people won't get swamped with junk mail; presumably sellers of dictionaries should do OK when a business owner's partner insists that he or she should go and look up the word "holiday" and find the bit where it mentions taking the laptop along.&#183;Sick computer? Try giving it some fresh air. The apparently frivolous advice comes from service company ServiceTec, which has found that many computing problems can be overcome by increasing the ventilation around the systems during hot-weather periods. The company worked this out by looking at the most common problems coming in to its helpdesk, and found the following errors among the most common difficulties: power cords not being plugged in properly, printers without any paper, printer toner cartridges with the plastic seal still in place, people with fingers on keyboards while they were starting up, people not turning on their monitors and wondering why they couldn't see anything and the oldest chestnut - spilling drinks on keyboards.&#183;Sole traders and mobile managers will be interested to hear of the Personal Assistant service being launched by T-Mobile and AlldayPA. Charged on a per-use basis, it offers people a website of their own, unlimited internet addresses, letter typing, diary management, text messages and other services. The idea is to present an image of a larger business to clients who care about the size rather than reliability of their suppliers.&#183;Web designers wanting to put forms on to their sites will welcome Noetica'snoeticacr.com, which includes guidance on its form-building product. The idea is to build self-service applications so visitors to websites can service their own queries and related issues with comparative ease. Creating this sort of online form has traditionally taken months with everything being tailor-written; Noetica believes its software allows people to design their forms within a few days.&#183;AOL has withdrawn its Websitegarage service for all but the people who use its own AOL Hometown. The system has offered free web counters, tune-up services for websites and low-cost search engine submission services for a number of years. The company, which folded the service into its Netscape brand last year, has now written to all customers asking that they remove any code from non-AOL pages as they will stop working on August 15.&#183;Changes are afoot at ISP Nextra - which owns the Cix online community, essentially a set of moderated newsgroups, called conferences, with an offline front end. First Nextra, which acquired the business last year, is rebranding itself as Telenor to reflect its parent company's name. Second, development of the conferencing service is moving back to directors of the former Cix, who have formed a company called Parkglobe and will be developing the software through which the conferences are accessed further. The software is called Ameol, and is downloadable fromameol.co.uk&#183;Useful websites we have come across this month:ebusinessclubs.co.uk- a free-to-join group of small businesses under the auspices of UK online for business, Lloyds TSB, BT and other interested parties. They run regional seminars on how to make the best of electronic trading with a variety of speakers. Also:glasshouse.net- a group of entrepreneurs and business managers offering seminars, support and networking opportunities, expanding internationally and attracting high-calibre speakers in the UK.
Computer systems are supposed to save on work rather than create it for the majority of people. Remember that idea? The chances are that a lot of readers will be feeling pretty jaundiced on reading that statement.If they have a bunch of systems, they'll want to network them together, which, if it's going to be done with reasonable comfort, will involve ripping up a few floorboards to get the cabling in. Then there's an office move and you're ripping the floor up again, or calling in an installer and creating more disruption. It's not just the network either; links between the various bits of IT on your system - mouse, keyboard - involve more cables, and of course any PDAs you might have linked to your system through another bit of wire.OK, you can see where this is going: getting your office cable-free, as cheaply but efficiently as possible. Costs have come down dramatically in recent months, and the savings in time and convenience are highly noticeable.Setting up a wireless network is comparatively easy, although it's worth mentioning that some of the manuals sound more complex than they actually need to be, often due to poor translation skills on the part of the packagers. You need two basic elements: the access point and the adapters. The access point plugs into at least one of the computers on the network or, preferably, a network hub, and acts as a hub for the rest of the adapters which, once configured through the software, can take a feed from it across the air.Sounds simple, and basically it is. However, there are people who find difficulties. One correspondent said his Bluetooth phone (see help panel) interfered with a wireless keyboard, which should be impossible, but given that the problem ceased when he moved the phone away, there is presumably something in it.Others have experienced more severe practical problems. "Wireless networks are great if you live in a Californian house made of timber, but are terrible if your house is made of brick," says David Rose, managing director of software company Navigator Systems and proud owner of a home network. "With the transmitter in my study, I can just get to the other side of the wall, but not into any other room, or up or down stairs - though the garden is covered wonderfully via the study window!"Software engineer Simon Allen also has a network in his home and finds similar problems. "In practice, I've found 802.11 doesn't give anywhere near the claimed range," he says. "It is, however, a perfectly workable solution, and being able to sit in the lounge browsing the internet on the laptop with no wires connected to anything is just plain nice."Getting the system into the right environment isn't the only consideration; there's security too. There have been enough stories published about people driving past somewhere and intercepting confidential details for the worry to be quite real for a number of people.Security experts offer solid advice: Jocelyn Honeybunn, business development director at professional services firm FailSafe, believes that wirelessly connected PDAs are a particular risk. "Corporate security policies should incorporate workable measures including the use of password protection, defined security levels for data accessed remotely and the ability to exclude PDAs immediately when they are reported lost or stolen," she says. Some manufacturers are adding extra security to the networks they sell: Ericsson Enterprise's WLAN has a card called the WLAN Guard in it, which uses state of the art security."Each user is individually authenticated with a unique password and ID," explains Frederic Boone, Ericsson Enterprise's director of marketing. "There are two steps: you log on to the wireless network and then to the regular network. Many of the criticised systems are those where everyone in a company uses the same log-on." It's important to note that much of the standard security on offer, based on WEP (wired equivalent privacy), is looking pretty dated: Jason Holloway, UK country manager for F-Secure, points to Cisco research that says Cisco engineers cracked standard WEP protection within 15 minutes.In other words, shop around - and look at some of the areas in which wireless networking has done the job properly. The Victoria and Albert Museum is such an example. It installed a network from manufacturer Anixter, linking its storehouse at Blythe House with the museum, a two-mile hop across busy London streets. The budget was a major issue; staff needed to use laptops to get into the system and the total spend came out at £8,000. Installed in July 2000, it had to go in at peak time when closing the museum to the public simply wasn't an option. It took four days to put in and has changed working practices: staff at the storehouse no longer walk around with paper notebooks and walk back to one of the three PCs on the premises; they have laptops and enter information into the database in real time as they go.Linking into offices that are a distance apart can be a problem for cabled networks. This is where products from companies such as 3Com and CableFree come into their own. 3Com, for example, is about to release a WiFi networking bridge that will run between buildings, roads and motorways - it would suit active oil rig or firefighting outpost, it says here.If your need is for straightforward networking between buildings, mind you, you may not need full-blown WiFi; CableFree will happily sell you one of its rooftop gadgets which transmits to a similar gadget on another roof as long as there's line of sight between the two; and if you can't put them on the roof then in a window will do as long as it's not obstructed.Panavision, the movie people, are among its customers. "It paid for itself within about six months," explains Panavision's IT manager John Rawlinson. Panavision had two buildings on a trading estate and looked at a number of means of linking the networks that existed independently on either site, but all were prohibitively expensive or precluded by the owners of the land between them. Getting the CableFree installation running in four hours for under £9,000 was a step forward.It has gone wrong three times since 1998; on one occasion because of vandalism and on another because the telephone network went down - the system links the phone networks as well as the data networks so costs of re-routing phone calls between buildings have vanished as well.Rawlinson stresses that the system requires very little maintenance, and even the upgrade so that it could handle voice as well as data took less than a week from when he put in the first call and started talking to his budgeting people. 
Basically, this stuff works on most purpose-built business premises. If everyone were setting up their networks for the first time, this is what they'd be using - give or take the odd interference problem, or even perceived interference problem, between devices, which don't appear severe, nobody would be daft enough to start taking floors up, fiddling with listed buildings and calling specialists in whenever there was an office move. Costs are coming down so that home workers, too, can benefit from the technology.The main issue will be for people with existing networks; justifying the cost when a wireless network will not work as quickly as modern hard-wired systems is just about impossible. Nevertheless, you can expect to see increasing numbers of cord-free offices, or offices with a mix of cabled and wireless infrastructure in the coming years.Different types of wireless networkso Microwave: Microwave networks are common when linking between buildings, but are costly. They are, however, weatherproof.o Infra-red: Very rarely used in fixed computer networks although very useful indeed for hooking up laptops to main systems temporarily, and for communicating between PDAs and anything with an infra-red port. The next version of Compaq iPaq will use its infra-red port not only for networking but so that it can stand in for TV and audio remote controls.o 802.11/Wi-Fi: The current standard "professional" wireless network. Limited in its speed to 11Mbps (compared to fast Ethernet's 110Mbps), it does the job and offers a flexible network.o Bluetooth: The current standard "personal" wireless network. It'll link your appliances together - PDAs, phones, printers and other gadgets - but its limited range precludes it from the permanent, rugged network arena. If it's all you need, don't pay for more.The best wireless dealsWorking out what the best products are is a "piece of string" question. Everyone's needs will be different. People wanting to investigate starting off in wireless networking might consider the following, though:&#183;ipaccess Basestation: GSM-based networking to add telephone functions to a wireless network, starting at £150 to £200 per user.&#183;CP-2W: From Compaq/HP and available from their dealers: DSL-ready connection for up to four computers. RRP £169 plus VAT.&#183;WiNet: Forthcoming starter pack from Packard Bell, includes access point and adapters for a couple of computers. Will be available from retail channels, starting at £339.&#183;Wireless Home Networking Kit: Aimed at home workers from SMC, costs under £150 from retailers.
Eliminating the cables between the PCs on a network is one thing; it's not as satisfying, though, as clearing a desk of all unnecessary bits of wire.Even the sole trader can end up with buckets of wire on a system: USB-ing his or her way from the printer to the PC, from the PC to the monitor, the PC to the keyboard, the PC to the mouse, then another for an external storage device, the subwoofer and then the subwoofer to the speakers.Overall it's a mess and anything that can help sort it out is a blessing. On page 8 in this issue there is some discussion of Bluetooth, the short-distance network between appliances. On an even smaller scale are the cordless appliances which, although not a network in any sense, make life simpler and tidier. And most are compatible with anything with a USB port.Early models (Logitech in fact introduced the first cordless mouse in 1992, effectively kickstarting the market) used infra-red signals, but these required clear lines of sight between the CPU and the peripheral in question, which was automatically useless if, say, the CPU was going to sit on the floor. Current models use radio waves, so no matter how cluttered your desk gets you should be able to use them.The good news is that buying cordless equipment is a lot cheaper than might be imagined. A basic Logitech cordless wheel mouse will set you back £17 plus VAT from dabs.com and will eliminate a lot of cable clutter on any desk; just plug the sensor into the mouse port on the computer, press two buttons to establish a partnership and it'll start working immediately.There's no need to install the tricksy mouse software that comes with this and the Microsoft equivalent; most of it will take you into Logitech's preferred websites or add extra functions you didn't know you needed and so probably don't need at all.More fun can be had by opting for a cordless keyboard as well. These come in a variety of shapes, sizes and prices, the most basic of which, from Microsoft, Logitech and other sources, will offer you a wire-free environment for less than £40.So why go for a wireless environment in the first place? There can be a number of reasons. A recent sales conference on networking buildings together wirelessly was brought to a standstill by a teacher of special needs wanting to know how to make her classroom cable-free: "We can't have cables because the students chew them," she said.More prosaically, another reason is that the equipment can be more pleasant to use. Logitech user Dave Wilkins, who owns Dave Wilkins Motorcycles in Penge, swears by cordless keyboards through simple expediency: "When not in use, I can free up desk space by putting it on a shelf above, thus giving me more room in my tiny office, which is an eight-foot cube," he says. "And keeping it safe from spilt coffee etc, which killed my last three keyboards.' All said keyboards suffered their spillages when a keyboard was moved and its cable knocked the drink over.People wanting to look beyond the basics will inevitably need to be ready to pay a little more, partly because they're looking for more functions and partly because they're edging into the "gadget/toy" category rather than the "need to have" business purchase. Microsoft's Wireless Desktop, for example, includes the extra keys familiar to people who have its internet keyboard and costs £59.99 inc VAT from PC World.Competing products from Memorex, Logitech and others offer similar features. Top of the range, at least in terms of price, is the Logitech Cordless Desktop Optical. This is pricey partly because of the optical mouse (which has no ball so no grit gets trapped, and it doesn't need a mat, saving even more space), partly because of the extra functions (volume control, one-key access to your email, favourite shopping sites, automatic sleep mode and the rest), but mostly because it's a rather snazzy black and grey and looks pretty good in most office environments.At £81.07 including VAT from dabs.com, it's an expensive little gloat considering you already get a working keyboard with every computer you buy, but it makes loafing on the sofa while working at home rather simpler. And it's a very nice keyboard, although people who like the old-fashioned "clicky" keyboards tend not to enjoy working on it.Not that you should ever throw away your old keyboard. Battery-operated keyboards, mice and other accessories do run out of juice (this being why the cordless varieties don't have lights to indicate caps lock, for example: the power drain would be unnecessary) and sod's law says that if you didn't have some sort of backup your system would die in the middle of typing an important arti ...Still wired?Pleasant though the thought of a completely cable-free office might be, it isn't going to happen for a while yet.The following equipment almost invariably take cords:&#183;Monitors: Although there are a handful of cable-free systems on the market, these are mostly for the professional presenter; ordinary PC monitors are always cabled.&#183;Speakers: There are speakers for standard audio systems that don't require wires but there have been few, if any, attempts to sell them into the computer market. Certainly searches on both jungle.com and dabs.com for "cordless speaker" and "wireless speaker" drew a blank. Given the amount of wiring on a four-speaker, one-subwoofer system, that's quite a surprise, although substituting a pair of cordless headphones is a good compromise.&#183;Power cables: What do you want - miracles?
There's a word to describe a lot of Bluetooth technology, and that word is "Whee!" Sadly this is a business section so of course we're jolly serious about what we do, all the time and without exception, so we're not going to talk about boy's toys. Oh no.Well, not much anyway. Because although Bluetooth does throw out some genuine business benefits and applications, there's no doubting that part of the reason for getting any of the kit is to appreciate its "look what I've got" appeal.For newcomers, Bluetooth is basically a networking standard that links mobile computing products together without the need for wires. Mobile computers, mobile phones, a handful of printers and PDAs: all can be bluetoothed together over a short range and will communicate without any trouble. Setting up is a matter of following the instructions on the screen when you put the disk into the computer, or setting PDAs and phones to "discover" each other, which they will then do and set up partnerships.No, this isn't the same sort of network you get when you just go for a cordless office; it's more sophisticated than that since you can download and upload files between systems as well as synchronise PDAs with desktop systems and other useful stuff. It's not, on the other hand, a full-blown wireless network (although don't let any of its fans hear you say so); it's a small-scale personal system rather than anything too corporate. Which is probably why so many of the gadgets seem fun as well as businesslike.Take the Hewlett-Packard DeskJet 995c. It's a colour inkjet printer but the clever bit is that it's Bluetooth sensitive, so if you have a laptop or group of laptops in the office you don't need to faff around cabling them all together if they need to share a printer rather than data. This sounds a bit gadgety at first, inevitably, until you start thinking it through a little more carefully.Supposing you employ a mobile sales force who have to come in and print off the odd sales order from time to time (though ask yourself why they're not just emailing them in the first place); they can now do so without mucking about with wiring. Business owners with multiple sites will likewise be able to come in with a laptop, print off whatever they need to and put the laptop back in its box without any fuss.If you don't want to buy a new printer for the sake of Bluetooth then 3Com will happily sell you its new Bluetooth Printing Kit for £136.95 plus VAT, which includes adaptors for your printer and computer as long as they have USB slots.Laptops, too, don't need to come Bluetooth-ready, although an increasing number of them are. Samsung has certainly come out with Bluetooth laptops in the last few weeks following the lead set by Fujitsu-Siemens with its Lifebook B-2547. These aren't strictly necessary, though, as all you need is a spare PCMCIA slot (the one that looks approximately credit card sized) and then TDK, 3Com and others will cheerfully sell you a Bluetooth adapter for under £100; for a similar price you can get an adapter for most PDAs although the latest Handsprings, Palms and Pocket PCs costing £500 plus have it built in.The next logical step is to connect your mobile phone to your PDA or laptop. Many have infra-red connections and people who are used to lining up ports on their phones and computers will no doubt welcome the chance to get away from this; picking up emails while walking or on a train becomes a lot easier, for example. The cost can be high though: expect to pay hundreds for a Bluetooth phone even if it's an upgrade to an existing account.Future developments are likely to include more direct connections between devices and computers. For example, at the moment there is technically no reason not to have a camera linked to a computer via Bluetooth connection, but there exist only a handful of Bluetooth cameras for the moment. Zebra Technologies has released a small Bluetooth printer for environments such as retail: you wander around the shop and print out labels on demand, remaining connected to the office data the whole time.Brainboxes (seebrainboxes.com) has a Bluetooth vending machine. Logitech has released the "cordless presenter", a cross between a mouse and a pointer for presentations. Bigger networks are becoming possible; Red-M has kitted out a cruise liner with what it believes is the biggest Bluetooth network in the world, for example. So anyone with a Bluetooth device can connect to the network.More firmly on the gadget side is the Bluetooth Wireless Headset from Motorola (£149 fromMotorola.co.ukor the Carphone Warehouse), and a similar product about to come out from Jabra. 
You stick it on your ear and use it with your Bluetooth phone (which of course you'll have bought by now). Set-up proved simple when tested with an Ericsson T39m phone and OK, you look a pillock if you use it walking down the street (which, with that ticket price, probably isn't the best idea anyway), but at least you get to speak to someone without holding a handset.If you're working in an environment in which you're carrying stuff, taking copious notes or whatever, this could be useful - to justify the price as a business purchase it would have to be. Mind you, its "Whee!" factor is pretty high.Key facts about Bluetooth:&#183;Intended as a short-range network only, with approximately 30ft reach.&#183;Adapters, whether built-in or added, allow selected devices to talk to each other.&#183;International Data Corporation expects wide take-up next year with telephone handsets accounting for most of the growth. Expect prices to come down.&#183;Further information and constant updates available fromBluetooth.com.&#183;Business-specific news and guidelines on returns on investment available attdksystems.com. Check the "education" section and look for B-Informed.
The idea of the wireless office is fast leaving the realms of science fiction, and is gradually finding its way down to the lower end of the real-world business, the small office.Through wireless Lans (Local Area Networks) and a particular brand of network standard called Wireless Fidelity or Wi-Fi (or to give it its full technical name 802.11b), small businesses can now transfer files between computers and access broadband internet as they move around the office or from room to room.One small business that has embraced the possibilities of Wi-Fi, enabling it to make the most of its limited office space, is Sport Programming and Event Consultancy (Spec), a sports marketing agency specialising in football-related branding.Based in St Alban's, Hertfordshire, with six members of staff, the company was set up in September last year by David Piper and Sky Sports football presenter Richard Keys. Spec helps corporations associate their brands with "the beautiful game" and counts Radio 5 Live, T-Mobile and ESPN Star among its clientele.Managing director Piper is a self-confessed technophobe, who didn't know or care about the various wireless offerings available. All he wanted to do was save money and allow people to move freely around a small office "the size of a squash court" while they accessed the internet very quickly or transferred files around the office. With the office being the size it is, wires coming out of each corner, to pose an unsightly distraction and safety risk were not an option."All of the staff are office-based, but are constantly in and out of the office, with one or two in at any one time. There's a lot of hot-desking and movement between meeting room and sofa," explains Piper."The company constantly uses the internet as a research tool and for emails, so we needed to be in a position to get on to the net quickly without dialling up. When we set up last September, we had a normal BT dial-up account, and we found it frustrating having to dial up and come on and offline all the time. It was important to cut down on the time it was taking. We have strategic alliances with a number of e-commerce companies, so it's good to have instant access to what they are doing. It doesn't look good for us if we're dialling up slowly, and it means I can react to their work and give my opinion straight away."The solution was to get in touch with Wialess, a local specialist in mobile internet access from the home and business, to design and install Spec's wireless Lan."Before, each computer had a dial-up account with an ISP, so they were all plugged into one phone line or two ISDN lines. In order to share data or the even the printer between them, they always had to unplug one computer from the Ethernet to make room. Now you walk in, switch on and you're on the net," explains Ian Jeffroy, technical director at Wialess, who oversaw the project.His company recommended a low-specification, 3Com AP 2000 base station transmitter, router and wireless network cards for the six Sony Vaio laptops, "which took the best part of an hour to install," he says."The equipment is a compact Weetabix box-size, literally with two connection points that can go anywhere within the office. Because it's wireless, there was no digging through floors or walls."  Spec's Wi-Fi network has now been up and running for nearly two months with an initial outlay of around £1,000, according to Piper. He says it will pay for itself in around two months' time, from savings of around £200 per month since the move from a wired dial-up network.Now, all of Spec's computers share the same internet connection, a 512kbps ADSL broadband account with Exeter-based Eclipse Internet, costing around £60 per month, but nevertheless saving money compared with the cost of separate dial-up connections."We can now do presentations around a table, with live internet examples, without losing momentum. And when working with our e-commerce partners, we retain a certain amount of credibility: there is no longer any need for everyone to get up and walk over to a PC, which has made a difference to us," says Piper.  Jeffroy rebuts any question of security breaches around Spec's network."With any new network, you should configure it, test it and then you add all the levels of security available on to the base station and each computer. You do this as a one-off action and the network encrypts the security data. A network not secured at the beginning would be vulnerable."Restriction by the UK government of the use of Wi-Fi for public networks is to be lifted at the end of July. BT is planning to launch a paid-for public wireless Lan service when this happens, initially providing around 400 Wi-Fi access points in airports, hotels, shopping centres and major business districts around the country. This means that companies like Spec will be able to get 11Mbit internet access from such access points.The implications are that with a sufficient number of hotspots in place (BT plans to establish 4000 in three years), companies like Spec will be able to access broadband internet from near and far. "All it will require is a change of software," say Jeffroy.  For the not too distant future, as Spec grows and the technology becomes more accessible financially, Piper is also considering mobile remote access to the company's servers. "But it all seems to be stacking up nicely at the moment."
Acouple of years ago, retailers were told to go online or die. Now, with a few large exceptions, e-commerce looks like a fool's game - no place for a small retailer, surely?Paul Sims, of independent florist Bath Buds and Blooms, disagrees. His website atwww.bathbudsandblooms.co.uk, opened last September, is providing a quarter of his business, and it's growing fast. Sims and his partner Chris Cox paid design firm Webbed Feet £1,200 to set up the site, a similar cost to a single advert in a directory, he points out. They will also be charged £100 annually. "We've had a lot of companies phoning up, talking about exorbitant fees, says Sims. "I had one saying, we'll charge you £7,500."The shop is on Moorland Road in Bath, a local shopping street well away from the central area favoured by tourists. But the website has opened Buds and Blooms to custom from around the world: Sims has received orders from Korea, Hong Kong, the US and Switzerland. He says half his web business comes from overseas.The orders are sent by secure email, and Sims then processes them as he would a telephone credit or debit card order - technically known as a "customer not present" transaction. He accepts orders for delivery anywhere in the UK, but has friends in several cities who can provide orders on his behalf, as well as access to a specialist delivery service, for orders outside Bath.One idea for boosting repeat business is an email service where customers enter a date when they want to be reminded of an anniversary or a birthday. It's automated; Sims just sees the orders it generates.Across town on Walcot Street, an area at the edge of the centre known for specialist independent shops, Ann-Marie Dyas is similarly pleased with her web sales. She owns the Fine Cheese Co, which also includes a shop in Cheltenham, a wholesale service for local hotels and a mail-order catalogue.Mail, phone and web orders account for 10% of her business: the websitewww.finecheese.co.ukis generating about two-thirds of a week's orders. "I think it's doubling year over year," she says, of the web business.Dyas paid a firm called Web-Pro "less than £5,000" to set up the site in 1999. As with Buds and Blooms, she has found it generates overseas orders for UK addresses. She shows recent Father's Day gifts ordered by offspring in Los Angeles and the United Arab Emirates.However, she found it took a while to take off. "It's not as quick as opening a new shop, where you know within months if you have got a business or not," she says. "You have to show some patience." She says promotion is key. "The website address appears on every piece of communication." The site itself uses photos of the shop, to get across its atmosphere.Over the last couple of years, the firm has changed many of the mail-order catalogue's photos from atmospheric shots with several products - which Dyas thinks work badly on the web - to crisp white-background photos in which the products are separated. These can be cut up, and used on the website.In terms of delivery, the Fine Cheese Co gets customers to specify when they want the product, so it can deliver as close to that date as possible. To this end, it asks for alternative delivery options, if the customer is out. "We've even had someone who said, put it in the rabbit hutch," she recalls. The office  address, or a friend down the road, is the usual choice.But other retailers in Bath have done less well with e-commerce. The Linen Press, an upmarket gift shop for bath and bedroom goods near the Royal Crescent, has got little use from its website atbathbedbeyond.co.uk, which it opened in November 1999."The trouble is, we sell quilts and nighties - touchy-feely things that people want to touch before they buy," says joint owner Mike Cavell. The shop plans to turn the website over to its designers, in return for a reduced fee on each sale. "We'll still be involved, but to a lesser extent." The shop also had problems with its domain name, which is similar to a large US company's name.Another light web user is Bath Aqua Glass. Its main shop, the Glass House, is in a prime tourist location within the shadow of Bath Abbey. It specialises in coloured handmade glass, particularly the dark blue Bristol variety, and a cyan-coloured range called Bath Aqua Glass.Annette Martin, owner of Bath Aqua Glass, described sales throughbathaquaglass.co.ukas "a sideline": she receives about four orders a week this way. "Most are from customers that have been in the shop, then they reorder," she says, particularly those from the US.Martin says development of the website is not her priority. Instead, she has opened a visitors' centre on Walcot Street, where people can see glassmakers at work. And other forms of promotion work better: "I'm glad I've got a website there, but I'd rather invest in the shop, or the old-fashioned leaflet."She says one of the problems is web designers, who "cost a fortune and promise the world. We've been through about three." She now takes advice from UK Online for Business (ukonlineforbusiness.gov.uk), which provides a free directory of designers they have checked for financial stability and quality, by looking at accounts and taking customer references.Andy Poulton, a west country e-business adviser at the service, says the experience of these small retailers is not atypical. "Products that make gifts lend themselves to an e-commerce site. You don't need to have the full tactile information," he says. "Online florists are extremely popular."He reckons that retailers should budget about £1,000 for a brochure site that doesn't take orders, and at least twice that for one that takes card details online, if the work is given to a third party.Getting card details processed by a firm such as WorldPay, NetBox or SecPay - The Fine Cheese Co uses SecPay, whereas Buds and Blooms process cards in the shop - can be expensive. It can add 2% to 4% to the existing merchant account cost, and the firms can take several weeks to pass on the cash, Poulton warns.However, Dyas says using a third party for card processing allowsfinecheese.co.ukto be listed in more search engines, as it is considered more secure. "It would exclude me from certain transactions completely," she says, of not doing so.At Bath Buds and Blooms, Sims says he is keen to get more online business, but not too much. "Both me and Chris like talking to people," he says. "If we had 100% on the web, it wouldn't be the same." Given that he's found that locals prefer to drop into the shop rather than order online, this seems unlikely to happen soon.Taking your business onlineo Calling in the professionals? UK Online for Business (ukonlineforbusiness.gov.uk) has a vetted directory of web designers if you decide you want to pay someone else to sort out the technical details and create your website. But beware - even a modest website can be expensive.o You could do it yourself: at the Business Solutions website you can read about how one businesswoman set up a website that saved her business during tough times:www.guardian.co.uk/sbs/story/0,7369,674867,00.htmlSetting up shop onlineIf you want to trade online, how can you keep the costs down? If you are handy with a computer - and, particularly, can design decent web pages - setting up shop online can be quite cheap.Firstly, you need web-space. Several internet service providers, including Freeserve and BT Openworld, provide users with this as part of their service. Alternatively, it can be hired from about £30 a year.Your web-space will have a domain name, but you may want something snappier. The cheapest option is Nominet UK domain names, such as those ending with .co.uk. These cost £8.81 for two years fromwww.lowcostnames.co.uk, which provides web-forwarding, email forwarding and national-rate telephone support. Several firms have similar-priced offers, but watch that they don't place an advert while forwarding traffic to your website.Then there's the question of payments: accepting them online could be your biggest cost. You could side-step this by providing online or emailed reservations, in lieu of a cheque or card payment.A low-cost method for accepting payments comes fromwww.nochex.com, which offers a cash transfer service denominated in sterling (unlike paypal.com, which is US dollar-based). Nochex charges 99p or 1%, whichever is larger, for a user to "upload" cash from his or her bank account, and the same amount for each "download". Transfers are free. But if you want to make it completely free for customers who don't have an existing Nochex account, you might want to meet their upload fee.To accept debit and credit cards, you will need a merchant account with a bank, which can cost 2% to 8% of revenue, along with a secure method of accepting card details: unencrypted email is not good enough.Functionality for this, and for providing an online catalogue and shopping cart system, can be found in software such as Actinic's, which costs around £350.   You can find freeware online providing similar services, but you need to know what you are doing. If a customer's credit card number gets pinched by a hacker, they are unlikely to give you much repeat business.
The idea of paying for a text message never struck me as a particularly appealing one until last month, when I sat fuming on a stationary train, on my way to meet someone at Gatwick airport, with my mobile phone on the point of expiration.Even if I'd had the airline number to hand, my phone's battery wouldn't have lasted long enough to stay on hold while they found someone who could deal with my call.But had I sent the flight number to 2828 (for BT Cellnet/02 customers) or 8585 (for Vodafone), and had the British Airports Authority replied with an SMS update of the estimated landing time, I would have found out that the flight was running an hour late.It's not a free service - and, when I tested it, perhaps not quite as fast as BAA likes to think - but it's a useful one, particularly if you're meeting a business contact at the airport or want to know if (or why) they are delayed.   The authority also issues departure alerts which can be requested up to a fortnight in advance. BAA will then text you with the estimated departure time four hours before the plane is due to take off.Details of the service - which, unlike London Transport's version, doesn't involve filling in lengthy forms - can be found atwww.baa.com/mobile. You can also check from the office by going towww.baa.co.uk.Another way to save time is to check in online up to 12 hours before the flight. Just don't leave it until the last minute, as most airlines demand you register first. BA's online check-in system can be located viawww.baa.com/mobile. As for the others, Fodors has a pretty comprehensive list of airline websites at &lt;A HREF="http://"www.fodors.com/traveltips/airtravel/#carriers" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.fodors.com/traveltips/airtravel/#carriers.If you use a particular airport regularly, or have a connecting flight and expect to spend a while there, the airport's own website can be a surprisingly useful source of information. A little searching on the stopover hub Dubai (&lt;A HREF="http://"www.dubaiairport.com" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.dubaiairport.com) - voted the world's best airport in the most recent CondË Nast Traveller awards - reveals that passengers can use the swimming pool, spa bath or gym in the on-site hotel for between US$5 and US$8 per hour - which is a lot less than you might spend loitering in the duty-free shops.Assuming that you're not travelling business class, a flat fee of HK$250 (just under £22) will buy you access to Hong Kong airport's (&lt;A HREF="http://"www.hkairport.com" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.hkairport.com) communal lounge with massage chairs, showers, films and computers. But if you just want internet access, the airport has 52 free computer terminals and plenty of other places to plug in your own laptop, assuming it has a PC-Lan (network) card fitted. The Plaza Business Centre runs airport lounges here and elsewhere in the far east, which can be booked online at &lt;A HREF="http://"www.pbc-asia.com" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.pbc-asia.com.Facilities at British airports are rather more spartan, alas. Most people assume that unless you're a member of an executive club or at least hold a business class ticket, most of the lounges are out of bounds.Certainly, it's easy to spend a great deal on lounges: the Business Centre at Heathrow (&lt;A HREF="http://"www.the-bch.co.uk" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.the-bch.co.uk) costs a rather prohibitive £250 for annual membership, which will rule out all but the most frequent - or rich - flyers. In fact, unless you're a Heathrow regular, one-off tickets for airport lounges are much better value. You can buy them for £17.50 from ABC Holiday Extras (&lt;A HREF="http://"www.holidayextras.co.uk" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.holidayextras.co.uk).Given just how many business travellers are flying with budget airlines, it's a little surprising that only Buzz (&lt;A HREF="http://"www.buzzaway.com" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.buzzaway.com) sells lounge stickers. The cost varies between £5 for the KLM Executive Lounge at Stansted and £10 for Berlin, Bordeaux, Dusseldorf, Frankfurt, Marseille, Paris and Toulouse.Mindful that the cost of getting to the airport can be more than the ticket itself, many airlines offer at least a couple of pounds off the rail fares from central London. Go (&lt;A HREF="http://"www.go-fly.co.uk" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.go-fly.co.uk) customers can book a slightly discounted ticket for the Stansted Express at the time of booking. Easyjet (&lt;A HREF="http://"www.easyjet.co.uk" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.easyjet.co.uk) flyers get a reduced rate on Thameslink and the Gatwick Express. Lufthansa (&lt;A HREF="http://"www.lufthansa.co.uk" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.lufthansa.co.uk) offers a discount on the Heathrow Express.But none of these offers are particularly generous, and Holiday Extras usually has bigger discounts. As for the rail companies' own carnet schemes - notably Heathrow Express's book of 12 singles for £130 - they are scarcely worth the bother unless you want to buy tickets in bulk and distribute them around the rest of the company. A single ticket bought separately on the website costs £11, a saving of £1 on the walk-on fare.What's the best way to make a fast getaway at the other end? Sometimes the airport's own site will have details of the best route into the city centre. (Google will usually find it, or try &lt;A HREF="http://"www.airport.checkin.com" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.airport.checkin.com.Unlike the Economist, however, Google will not be able to explain the fastest route through customs and passport control. Consult &lt;A HREF="http://"www.economist.com/cities" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.economist.com/citiesfor their Russia correspondent's advice on negotiating the horrific delays at Sheremetyevo airport in Moscow.Good news for travellers&#183;July has seen plenty of good news for embattled and impoverished business travellers. First, pressure from the airlines has forced the government to rethink its plans to gather extra information from air passengers in the wake of September 11. Collecting extra details such as the date and place of birth of every passenger could have increased check-in times by at least an hour, the airlines complained. The home secretary, David Blunkett, has cut back on the amount of information required in order to minimise delays.&#183;Meanwhile, the big airlines are beginning to restore the services cut at the end of last year. Virgin Atlantic (&lt;A HREF="http://"www.virgin-atlantic.com" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.virgin-atlantic.com) is to bring back a fifth daily service between Heathrow and JFK - leaving early enough in the morning to catch afternoon meetings in NY - and by June 2003 there will be two daily flights to Washington DC rather than just one. American Airlines (&lt;A HREF="http://"www.aa.com" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.aa.com), which lost $465m in the second quarter of the year, is not quite so bullish. According to AA's chairman, average fares are at 15-year lows. And BA (&lt;A HREF="http://"www.ba.com" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.ba.com) was rather disappointed with its June figures - which means it is selling World Traveller Plus (extra legroom) tickets at a discount until the end of July for travel between August and November. Regular commuters to the States may also benefit from the fall-off in US tourists visiting Europe. It seems most have decided to take their summer holidays at home. (South Dakota is proving very popular, thanks to those patriotic presidents at Mount Rushmore).&#183;Last, the new boss at Eurostar (&lt;A HREF="http://"www.eurostar.co.uk" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.eurostar.co.uk) is trying to win back business travellers with three special offers this summer. The day return fare to Paris or Brussels has been cut to £220 for bookings made a week in advance. In addition, anyone buying a Business First return will receive a Leisure return free.
How about this for a weight-loss tip: "Eat six small meals a day spaced about three hours apart. At 50 calories six times a day, that is only 300 calories. Your body will thank you, and so will your metabolism!" Sound stringent? It is. Remember, "you can never be too thin". Because, after all, "being thin and not eating are signs of true willpower and success".You may not be aware that these "thinspirations", and hundreds more, are now within a click of your teenage daughter's computer mouse. They form the basis of a new trend: websites that espouse anorexia and other eating disorders as a "lifestyle choice". Collectively dubbed "weborexia", these sites (there are currently about 400 of them) are, according to groups such as America's National Association for Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders (Anad), created and maintained by women under the age of 20. They offer a dreadful glimpse into the mindset of eating disorder sufferers. And they could, experts agree, trigger the disease in vulnerable visitors.Each site certainly provides enough material to keep any parent awake at night. Using their own cosy terminology ("Ana" is anorexia, "Mia" bulimia), the creators offer tips on how to starve and binge and how to conceal this from family and friends. They provide mottoes, quotes, "commandments" and "triggers" and seem to see themselves as an underground movement united against persecution in a unique quest for "perfection".The "triggers" are perhaps the most immediately disturbing thing about these sites. These consist mainly of galleries showing emaciated celebrities and models in glamorous poses, some doctored to make them look even more Belsen-like, others (perhaps more worrying still) untouched: Gisele Bundchen and Jodie Kidd are two of the most popular "thinspirations". One site provides a long list of super-thin female stars ranging from Jennifer Aniston and Julia Roberts to teen "icons" such as Buffy actress Sarah Michelle Gellar and Kirsten Dunst. The supposed height, weight and body-mass index of each woman is given - no weight exceeds about 120lb (54kg). Veracity isn't the point. The point is that "beauty" and "success" equals emaciation. It's a familiar media message in stark terms, made all the more worrying when you remember that it is aimed at teenage girls (according to the Eating Disorders Association those most at risk of developing anorexia are girls between 10-19 years of age).The confused messages they give mirror the conflicts of the illness. One homepage begins, "Anorexia is a lifestyle, not a disease" before warning that: "Anorexia nervosa is a serious, potentially life-threatening eating disorder." Many sites say things like: "If you do not already have an eating disorder, turn back now. If you are in recovery, turn back now. Anorexia is a deadly disease. It is not to be taken lightly." Such warnings, of course, are about as effective as holding out a bone to a starving dog and telling it not to bite.Inside these sites your quest for self-annihilation becomes wholly reasonable. You are taught how best to starve (chew, but don't swallow; eat only sugar-free jelly; take up smoking; drink gallons of Diet Coke; punch your stomach when it rumbles). And how to hide that "perfection" (wear baggy jeans with stretch pants underneath; put rolls of pennies in your waistband). If you're wavering, the slogans will keep you on track. After all: "Nothing tastes as good as being thin feels."The "chatrooms" are equally distressing. Conversations are divided between discussions on the calorific value of semen (is it protein or sugar?) and outbursts of despair, self-hatred and suicidal longing ("I don't want to die, I refuse to die fat, but I've lost the will to live. What's the point? I don't think there really is one"). Visitors are often self-aware ("If you don't have a good head of hatred, you probably don't have an eating disorder") and have eloquent names ( "lardass", "fatass", "willbewaif4ever"). They exchange agonies - and often genuine support - in subgroups: "Ana", "cutting" (self-mutilation); fasting, diet pills, "Mia". The tragedy of all this is possibly summed up best by the case of one American girl who established a "weborexic" site, then died because of her eating disorder. Nobody knew the password to close the site down, so it remained open.Of course, these sites have quite a clientele. In Britain, the Eating Disorders Association (EDA) estimates the number of people diagnosed and undiagnosed with an eating disorder to be about 1.15 million. According to Anad, there are about 8m eating disorders sufferers in the US. Vivian Hanson Meehan, Anad's president, confirms that these sites can indeed be deadly: "Receiving or providing tips to promote thinness reinforces &#91;the anorexia sufferer's&#93; own negative and chaotic thinking, enabling them to increase their own efforts towards 'perfection'," she says. Many sufferers are highly competitive, showing the desire to be the "best anorexic" (or bulimic) - the thinnest. "Behaviours to achieve thinness become a game to win at all costs over physicians, therapists and family."But could such mottoes as "It is far better to be thin and dead than fat and living, because to be fat is a fate worse than death" push a "normal" teenager over the edge? According to one recent EDA survey, if your teenage daughter is like 75% of her female classmates, she will be unhappy with her body. If she's like 20% of them, she'll actually be on a diet. And it is not just teenage girls who are vulnerable; Anad says the number of eating disorders in the eight-to-11-year-old age range is increasing rapidly. And about 10% of eating disorder sufferers are male.Dr Sarah Beglin, a Cambridgeshire clinical psychologist specialising in eating disorders, explains the risks: "It would be simplistic to believe that such websites are causal. Eating disorders have many causes - family, personality, socio-cultural factors, maybe even genetic ones." However "Triggers such as these are definitely terribly unhelpful for the average young woman with poor self-esteem who feels she has no control over her life."There is, Beglin continues, a "sub-group of anorexics who have actively chosen to become anorexic. They start off dieting to lose a bit of weight and make themselves feel better. In the early stages they may get plenty of admiration for their control, restraint, for how slim they are. They then decide that by becoming anorexic they will be even more 'special'."So what can be done? Thanks to campaigns from the likes of Anad, internet portals such as Yahoo and MSN now take down these websites wherever they appear. But - understandably - those creating them are adept at dissemblance. Most now use addresses along the lines of Totally in Control or Living on Oxygen to conceal their "pro-Ana" purpose.In general, though, the message from the professionals is simple: if you find that your child is visiting such sites, take it seriously. "It is important to have an open conversation about it," says Beglin. "Simply banning your child from looking at these websites will probably not help." After all, she says, "A comment in the playground, or simply opening a magazine, can be enough of a trigger to a vulnerable person."
There is a new versin of Windows XP on the way, and you won't be able to buy it without buying a new PC, reports theWashington Post.Windows XP Media Center Editionwill as expected incorporate the technologies known asFreestyle, and will be used in PCs that double as TVs, personal video recorders and media players. They won't be the first PCs to come with a remote control, though some dumb journalist probably will make that claim. (I don't know which was, but theOlivetti Envisionhad one.)
Intel's Pentium 4 processor will reach the 3GHz milestoneby the end of the year, reports Reuters.That means earlierprice cuts on the slower stuff.
One of the oddest stories of the past week concerned Yahoo taking some words from the text of your e-mails and replacing them with other words -- for example, ""mocha" mysteriously changes to "espresso." Even odder, there are hundreds of Web sites that include the word "medireview", which doesn't exist but is a Yahoo-corrupted version of "medieval". Yahoo says all this is to protect against malicious JavaScript exploits. (JavaScript was invented by Netscape as LiveScript; the name was changed when it was gung-ho about Sun's Java.) Other companies manage to filter JavaScript without being quite so dumb about it.CNetandNew Scientistreported the story, both crediting our favourite zineNTK(Nasty, British and short) with breaking the story.
CNet reportsthat successful hacks of Web hosts running Linux have risen to 7,630 while successful hacks of ones running Windows have fallen to 9.404 for the first six months of this year, according to a report by British company, Mi2g. If the trends continue at their current rates, it looks as though Linux will be enjoying more hacks than Windows this time next year....
Following its takeover of Compaq,Hewlett-Packardhas become the world's biggest PC manufacturer, beating Dell by 15.1% to 14.8%. Better enjoy it while you can, guys, because you will be No 2 when the next quarter's figures come out.
If you were wondering why things were a little quiet round here on Friday (oh - right - you weren't...) it was because Jack and I were busy on a piece about thetechnology in Minority Reportfor today's G2 section.It was great fun to research - I learnt all sorts of stuff about 3D technology and rocket packs and man-grabbing plants (that bit didn't make the published version, alas). It turns out Spielberg did a great deal of research - including taking on a think-tank of futurologists - before making the film, to ensure the technology was plausible.Since writing my bits of the piece, I've come across aninteresting debateat the Stating the Obvious blog about the film's technology. I'd disagree with their assertion that the film doesn't present a vision of a networked future - networks run right through it, really - and some of their suggestions would have made the film a bit over the top. But that doesn't make the ideas any less interesting, though.
A corner of the British blogging world has been furiously debating theGuardian's weblog compo, launched earlier this week. The vast amounts of hot air being produced haven't held back the entries so far, I'm pleased to say - a big chunk of the UK weblog community got its application in the first 24 hours. And bigup toDave Winer, one of the blogging world's biggest advocates, who has given it a mention and linked to a suggestion that other newspapers should be doing the same in their circulation areas.There are a few questions worth answering following the hand-wringing on this side of the pond, however. First, why have the contest? Well - why not? There have been a few absurd things said, ranging from the expected conspiracy theories to the suggestion that Guardian Unlimited - the UK's most popular newspaper website - needs the hits. Fact is, the Guardian has written about weblogs for ages, Guardian staffers have produced quite a few blogs of their own (both personal and related to what we do for a living) and several of our contributors also play very active roles in the blog community. A contest seemed a fun way to celebrate British blogging (when the focus is often on US efforts) and reward the best for giving us something to read when we should be working. Or sleeping. And yes, maybe we'll get good karma from those we encourage to create or enhance their blogs. But we're not exactly expecting to make millions - this ain't like sponsoring the World Cup, is it?Second, what are the judging criteria? Well, I'm not sure they've even been discussed, and I don't know if they will be. We're probably just going to leave it to individual judges (and we've got a great panel) to plump for those ones they like most. Fittingly, that's judging criteria as wide-open to interpretation as the notion of the blog itself.Finally, I suspect most bloggers write to be read, by audiences small or big. But if you feel your blog is such a pure piece of personal expression - a temple devoted to balancing your inner self - that it would be sullied by the evils of competition and cash prizes, then don't enter. It is really that simple.(Update: I've had to repost this to delete a pretty foolish remark made in the comment boxes earlier, which means other more sensible comments were also lost. That's a shame - c'mon, readers, play nicely or not at all)
Apple Computer's profits halvedto $32 million in its latest financial quarter, on sales that slipped to $1.43 billion from $1.48 billion. Bear Stearns analyst Andy Neff said: "If nothing else, AAPL has offered investors consistency -- it has lowered financial guidance in seven of the last eight quarters (the only increase was January 2002)". Credit Suisse First Boston's Kevin McCarthy commented: ""Instead of the standard rectangular (PC) box, Apple has produced a teardrop, clamshell, cube, and half sphere. Apple may have to move beyond geometry as its key differentiator -- unless the company can fashion an iMac trapezoid." There is still time.... MeanwhileMicrosoft's quarterly revenues grew by 10%to $7.25 billion. Profits were only $1.53 billion, following an $806 million write-off for investment losses, but were still larger than Applee's turnover.Microsoft's annual revenuesgrew by 12% from $25.30 billion to $28.37 billion, and profits reached $7.83 billion.
Massively overhypedTransmetais laying off 200 staff, 40% of its workforce, and dropping the unsuccessful TM6000 version of its Crusoe processor. No mention of Linus Torvalds so guess he still has a job.
Ogg Vorbis, the free software audio format, has gone gold. The download page ishere.
"A NEW YORK law firm has filed suit against AOL Time Warner (AOLTW) on behalf of shareholders, claiming the company misstated andartificially inflated revenuefrom online advertising," reports Infoworld. The Washington Post article is, of course, cited.
It was billed as a marriage made in heaven: the union of old media with new media and of "content" with distribution. Yet, 18 months on, it looks as though the $104bn marriage of America Online (AOL) the brash internet upstart, with Time Warner's vast publishing and television empire was never even consummated. This is what lies behind the surprise resignation of its chief executive, Robert Pittman. The two sides just couldn't get on with each other. They couldn't even agree on joint approaches to advertising let alone strategic decisions like how to deliver high-speed "broadband" internet access to AOL's customers. One deal broke down, according to the Wall Street Journal, because Warner Bros refused to give away free DVDs and videotapes as part of a Burger King promotion because it would hurt its bargaining in future promotions. It also, reportedly, dismissed outright a suggestion that high performers at Burger King might have "walk-on" parts in television sitcoms like Friends as a corporate reward. Who needs sitcoms when you've got real life soaps like this?The history of mergers has itself proved to be a bit of a soap opera. Hardly any actually provide synergy to justify themselves in economic terms let alone as investments for shareholders. The only thing AOL got right was its timing. It used its hugely inflated share price to merge with the much bigger Time Warner just before the dot.com share collapse. The shares have fallen 60% this year. It soon became a case of America Off Loads after the group had announced the biggest quarterly loss in business history of $54bn in April. Judging by the recent management changes the old veterans of Time Warner are ousting the new economy upstarts. Meanwhile, the original proposition for the merger - AOL's ability to deliver Time Warner's content through the new medium of the internet, remains stubbornly unsolved. People, that's the problem.
Freeserve admitted this week that complaints about its AnyTime flat fee internet service had forced the company to improve the deal it offers customers. But Britain's largest internet service provider has refused to offer full compensation to those customers who have suffered huge costs since they logged on.Last week, Jobs &amp; Money highlighted how three customers had been forced to pay phone bills totalling &#163;1,300 after they signed up for the AnyTime &#163;13.99 a month deal but connected instead to a 1p per minute service.Unwittingly, they ran up huge phone bills - which in one case reached &#163;700.This week, several readers have written to say they were also caught out by the AnyTime software and were forced to pay massive phone bills. Some phoned the 50p-a-minute Freeserve helpline when their attempts to sign on failed.But despite attempts by staff to   sort out the problems, customers continued to pay 1p per minute to BT. John Hawthorne, a computer contractor from Guildford, Surrey, was landed with a &#163;450 BT bill this week after he signed up to AnyTime in the spring. "I am 100% certain that I followed the AnyTime download instructions correctly," he says.David Melville of Staffordshire says he quit Freeserve after using the service during January and February. He went to France and returned in mid-March to find his BT bill included &#163;96 of internet call charges. Since then, he has been waiting for replies to his letters in the hope that he might discover what happened.A spokeswoman for Freeserve   said the company has recently installed a system that checks if customers have correctly signed up to AnyTime. Customers that install it using the wrong phone numbers are emailed and told how to switch to the flat rate numbers. Unfortunately, the system only checks two weeks after they sign up.The spokeswoman says: "The reason we conduct fortnightly sweeps, rather than as the individual customer signs up, is simply a matter of technology and time. We are looking at future initiatives to improve upon this process."She says the company is currently receiving a 75% response rate from those customers who are contacted.The company believes customers should take responsibility for signing up correctly.It claims that most of the customers who complained to Jobs &amp; Money had failed to complete the installation process and for this reason had used phone lines that charge 1p per minute. In effect, it is their fault.The company maintains its tough line despite sending customers emails welcoming them to AnyTime and charging them the monthly &#163;13.99 fee when they sign up regardless of whether or not they use the right number.As a result, most of the "ex gratia" payments awarded to customers who have complained, amount to little more than refunds for the AnyTime service they didn't use.The payments are also diminished when set against the cost of calling the company's helpline.If the government's forthcoming Communications Bill is beefed up, internet service providers could be forced by a new ombudsman to check immediately that customers have correctly signed up and cut charges for helplines to national phone rates.If you would like to contribute to the debate, write to: Ms Fiona Murray, Joint Communications Bill Team, Room 3387, Department of Trade &amp; Industry, 151 Buckingham Palace Road, London SW1W 9SS.&amp;#183Freeserve says all members can check their dial-up settings by going towww.freeserve.com/anytime/newnumberorwww.freeserve.com/time/toptips/tips.htm. All AnyTime numbers should start with the prefix 0808 or 161642 - anything other than these numbers will be chargeable. Several readers have traced their problems back to the dates when they carried out system changes. The company has put in place software that triggers a message to customers who use the wrong dial-up numbers. But this message is sent after two weeks, during which time customers can still run up large phone bills.
The IT industry has resisted calls from Hollywood and other content providers to   do more to fight digital piracy.Microsoft's Steve Ballmer and Intel's Craig Barrett wrote an open letter to studio chiefs this week saying that the measures Hollywood is asking for would   threaten the vitality of peer-to-peer file swapping.The technology firms see file swapping technology as a core net activity, and   argue that Hollywood needs to keep its own house in order. Before the industry   will sit down with content providers, it is asking for movement from them on   "consumer education" and enforcement of existing legislation."Technology is an important part of the piracy solution," says the letter, "but   it is not the only solution."The US government is keen for content and technology firms to cooperate on   making digital piracy harder. In March, a bill entered the senate aimed at   obliging technology companies to incorporate "digital rights management" -   built-in anti-piracy measures - in all their products. Unsurprisingly,   technology companies oppose the idea, while Disney supports it wholeheartedly.At a round-table discussion on Wednesday at the US department of commerce,   protesters from "fair use" groups such as New Yorkers for Fair Use protested to   Jack Valenti, the head of the Motion Picture Association of America, who is a   leading proponent of the scheme, wearing badges saying "DRM &#91;digital rights   management&#93; is theft".The latest letter is part of the ongoing struggle between the content producers   - Hollywood and the music industry - and the technology industry, and   demonstrates that the two sides are not coming any closer to agreement on the   way forward.While there is common ground, it appears that the vested interests   of the parties are in direct conflict as long as net usage is influenced so   heavily by file-swapping. The letter to studio chiefs puts it bluntly, saying   file swapping "is critical to further advances in our economy".
Many councils are still struggling to get off the starting blocks in the race to make all local government services available electronically by 2005, the government's public spending watchdog warns today.A survey of councils in England and Wales by the Audit Commission has found that one in five local authorities is still planning its electronic services activities rather than actually implementing them.One third of the chief executives and "e-champion" council officers that were surveyed said that e-government was too broad an agenda to tackle effectively, and one-fifth of the e-champions - appointed to push through the e-gov agenda at a local level - say they have had no successes to date.The report concludes that, overall, around half the councils surveyed were still hesitant about delivering services electronically. They were largely smaller district authorities.Jenny Crighton, the commission's senior manager for public service research, said: "There are a number of councils that are struggling to understand this agenda. The will is there, but they are struggling to understand how the technology can be used."Some councils are starting to deliver successful e-government through strong leadership and joint working with other councils, public sector organisations and private sector firms. Two-thirds of the councils that identified the 2005 target as the key e-gov milestone said that they were confident of meeting it.The report adds, however, that other councils are struggling to find the right skills and failing to interest councillors in electronic service delivery.The authors say: "For these councils, e-government feels separate from, and marginal to, the core business of the council."They are calling for more government support to help councils go "back to basics" and come up with a better understanding of e-government, and a realistic set of proposals for delivering it.In particular, the commission wants to see the creation of meaningful central government measures of success in electronic service delivery, and extra help for councils to find people who combine technological know-how with business skills.Councils themselves need to set challenging local targets and review and monitor their progress against them.The commission questioned 254 officers in a representative survey of 120 councils.
Shares in Ericsson today lost one-fifth of their value as the Swedish telecoms equipment maker reported a second-quarter loss of 3.5bn kronor (£241m) and announced a further 5,000 job cuts.The company now plans to raise 30bn kronor by issuing 8bn new shares at a lower than expected price of 3.80 kronor. News of the rights issue, combined with the company's weak results, put heavy pressure on Ericsson shares, which hit an eight-year low at one point."It is a very difficult market environment and I cannot promise any good news," chief executive Kurt Hellstrom said. "It is as difficult to predict as it has been before. And we see that the difficult conditions will continue."Ericsson also cut its forecast of global mobile handset sales this year to no more than 390m units from its previous forecast of 400m-420m units. Nokia and Motorola this week cut their forecasts to 400m.Ericsson has hived off its handset business into a 50-50 venture with Sony, the Japanese entertainment and electronics group. Sten Fornell, Eriksson's chief financial officer, said the company now expected the venture to make a loss this year, not a profit.Like other telecoms equipment makers, Ericsson has been hit by the global slump in spending on networks by debt-laden operators. It is also being squeezed by flat sales of mobile phone handsets. Ericsson has already announced plans to lay off 42,000 jobs over three years. Today's new job cuts will take the workforce to 60,000 by the end of this year from about 76,000 at present."The outlook seems to be worse than expected. The terms of the rights offering seem pretty harmful for Ericsson shareholders," said Karri Rinta, an analyst at Evli Bank. "I'm sure the result will be overshadowed by the rights terms. 3.80 kronor is very low."The offer price is about one-tenth of Ericsson's closing price on April 19, the last trading day before it announced plans for a rights issue.Uncertainty about the timing of a turnaround in telecoms, Ericsson's return to profitability and the pricing of the planned rights issue have wiped out four-fifths of the company's value this year. Mr Hellstrom said Ericsson aimed to break even on sales of 120bn kronor by the end of 2003. By comparison, first-half sales fell 28% to 75.5bn kronor. Weak demand for telecoms infrastructure, and the cash the company has spent adjusting to falling sales, have already cost Ericsson credit rating downgrades from Moody's, which cut it to a notch above junk status.
Microsoft, the world's software company used as the barometer for the depressed software sector, appeared to offer some relief to a depressed Wall Street last night after reporting a relatively strong set of sales in the fourth quarter.Releasing its 2002 results after the stock exchange closed night, Microsoft beat the expectations of analysts in contrast to Intel, the chip maker, which disappointed the street earlier in the week. Even so, Microsoft was still said to be feeling the impact of slowing demand for PCs.The Microsoft figures came during a busy day for corporate results and after the Dow Jones industrial index staged a sudden fall late in the trading session to end 132 points lower at 8409.Analysts said they were looking for an indication from Microsoft about its expectations for the coming months. John Connors, chief financial officer, admitted that the "current environment remains challenging" but insisted that the company was well positioned for the difficulties ahead.However, there was some initial confusion about the group's results because of a tax charge which analysts said made comparisons with previous quarters more difficult. Microsoft reported a net income of $1.53bn for the fourth quarter to the end of June compared with net income of $65m a year earlier.In terms of the earning per share measure preferred by Wall Street, this translated into a 28 cents a share, including an after-tax change for investment impairments of 15 cents a share in the fourth quarter 2002 compared with 1 cent a year earlier.For the coming year, Microsoft slightly revised down its forecasts of its own performance, saying it expect to earn $1.85 to $1.91 a share in comparison with $1.89 to $1.92.In contrast to many US companies, Microsoft has been accused of understating its quarterly income. In June, the company settled such allegations with the US regulator, the SEC, that it was misstating its earning in parts of the 1990s.The company relies heavily on the sale of PCs because it generates around 50% of its income from its Office and Windows software. It also makes the Xbox game console, which has been subject to lower sales. It had already reduced Wall Street's expectations of its sales of the Xbox from up to 6m to between 3.5m to 4m units and yesterday said it had achieved sales of 3.9m.Mr Connors said he was "very pleased" that the quarter as a whole had produced revenues higher than had been expected.Analysts said the latest figures from Microsoft, which had been embroiled in landmark anti-competition case with US regulators, appeared to showed it was out performing its peers.Its shares, which had fallen during the trading day, rose in after-hours trading.Another technology-related company, Sun Microsystems, also reported last night, and while it produced its first quarterly profit in year it forecast it would soon make losses again. Sun Microsystems makes the computers that manage networks and has been cutting its prices to try to maintain its market share.
Telecommunications watchdog Oftel yesterday ordered BT to cut the price it charges other providers for unmetered internet access services using its telephone lines.Oftel said it hoped the 8.5% cut would be translated into lower prices for the 4m British households that use unmetered internet access, but industry experts fear BT's struggling rivals will keep the money for themselves."To be honest, in terms of the impact on web users the reduction is going to the middle men, not the ISPs &#91;internet service providers&#93; who would pass it on to customers as lower prices," said a senior executive at one ISP yesterday. "The best I think we can hope for is that it will stabilise prices and stop them going up."Unmetered access, where customers pay a flat rate of about &#163;15 a month for unlimited use, is a stepping stone to broadband services, which offer high speed, always-on access to the web.BT's rivals can offer ISPs unmetered internet access services over BT's network through a wholesale product named Friaco. Yesterday's 8.5% price cut, slightly more than expected, will cost BT &#163;7m-8m a year."Operators have the opportunity to pass these savings on to ISPs and through them to consumers," said Oftel head David Edmonds.But many of the companies that buy wholesale access from BT - such as WorldCom and Energis - have been hit by a dramatic slowdown in spending on communications by business customers so are likely to hold on to the money saved by the price cut."We are disappointed by the cut," said a BT spokesman last night. "But we hope it will be passed on to consumers."
"Unconventional Transactions Boosted Sales"at AOL, according to a massive Washington Post investigation that could "take the perfume off the pig," to borrow a phrase from Robert O'Connor, the former vice president of finance for AOL's advertising division. The 11-page report is billed as the first of two.Reutershas a briefer version.AOL's stock fellon the news,UPDATE: Within a few hours, AOLTW's chief operating officer,Robert Pittman, resigned.
Infoworld says Microsoft will launch a public beta version of Corona (Windows Media 9) onSeptember 4. (Microsoft has thoughtfully provided links to earlier no doubt positive coveragehere.)
After the fiasco of online self assessment for income tax you might think a government department rolling out a big and bouncy new e-government initiative would exhibit just a hint of cautious humility. But the house style of e-envoy Andrew Pinder is breathless hyperbole and judging by this week's consultation paper on e-democracy, he seems to have bewitched the normally careful leader of the Commons, Robin Cook, under whose name it was issued.  Although it turns out to be a series of questions rather than assertions - responses, please, by October - a touch of sobriety would not have gone amiss. It's not that the rest of the government has been carried away. E-voting's place in the wider scheme of things is shown by the princely allocation by Gordon Brown to the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister of &#163;10m a year for new initiatives.Nobody, Robin Cook and social researchers included, has much idea whether access to electronic media will combat the prevalent sense of alienation or mood of non-participation. In essence this paper says turnout matters but whether ICT can boost it is a hope rather than a judgment. Older technologies are   still part of the picture. At the May local elections in England, voting by post was associated with higher turnouts in several areas; it does not follow that more people would vote online. Surveys suggest 57% would be willing to vote online if they had the chance.But only 40% of households are online. Getting more electronic interaction depends on the expansion of digital broadcasting - a word from culture secretary Tessa Jowell about platforms and analogue switch-off would have decorated the consultation paper at this point.The public's enthusiasm is muted. Just under 30% would like to see internet voting by 2010. Asked what government should make its priority, a clear majority puts making the internet safe for children above using it for democratic purposes."ICT could help open new channels of dialogue between citizens and government," the document says. But it would lubricate the process if every MP, or at least every Labour MP or even every MP who is a member of the government, had bothered to put up a website. The paper conspicuously does not tell us what proportion of MPs are online yet. It is too diplomatic to comment that the parties could be a lot more imaginative and energetic in   their use of the web in internal no less than external communications. MPs are key, and this dilatoriness is an obstacle.People tell pollsters they would like their parliamentary representatives to hold online surgeries. But here exaggeration creeps into the    consultation paper. ICT "has the potential to vastly expand the range of opinions and experiences" available to MPs; technology   could bring on board marginalised groups such as such as tax credit recipients, flood victims and sufferers from hereditary diseases who could give evidence to MPs online.Yes, but they would be wasting their time unless backbench MPs are given more to do than now, if they played a more active role in scrutinising legislation or official appointments or in making policy. Not a word on these points from Mr Cook despite his pledges on modernising the Commons.The government admits "e-democracy is neither an alternative to representative democracy nor a replacement for existing forms of participation". But the "complementary" role envisaged would still require major changes in the way parliament, local authorities and the new assemblies and Scottish parliament operate. This document fails to say anything about the institutional re-engineering needed if ICT is to make any impact.
CNetreports on Apple's move to charge Mac users for services that used to be free. Apple also plans tomake users pay the full price for Mac OS 10.2 (Jaguar). Even though it is only a 0.1 upgrade from the current version, no upgrade version will be available. What is even more remarkable is that having failed to create a saleable version of its own Mac OS 9 operating system, Apple based OS X (10) on a free version of Unix. Of course, since Mac users are locked into a proprietary operating system with no real freedom of choice, Apple can do what it likes...
The telecoms watchdog, Oftel, today ordered BT to cut the cost of its wholesale unmetered internet access by 8.5%.BT, which sells unmetered internet access through BT Openworld, also controls the digital local exchanges through which other operators provide unmetered access. It then charges them for the capacity they use.Oftel said the price reduction, which is slightly greater than the 7% cut it proposed in February 2002, gives internet service providers the opportunity to pass a saving on to consumers.ISPs, who have long argued that BT has been slow to release control of its local exchanges, had wanted the price cut to be applied retrospectively.But a spokesman for BT said: "We're disappointed that they haven't taken our view that this is a pretty mature market that doesn't require this sort of regulation."On the other hand, we're pleased that they haven't agreed with the view of other service providers, that the price cuts should be retrospective."A spokesman for Freeserve said: "A reduction of this order has been expected for some time and has already been factored into our economics. We look forward to its implementation by BT."David Edmonds, director general of telecommunications at Oftel, said: "Oftel must ensure that the charges BT make to other operators for internet capacity on its network are fair and reflect BT's costs."This reduction means that operators can now buy capacity from BT cheaper than before. Operators have the opportunity to pass these savings on to ISPs and through them to consumers."More than 11 million UK households are connected to the internet through what is known as narrowband - as opposed to the more recent broadband, which offers faster access.Of those, 4 million pay a flat monthly rate regardless of how much time they use the internet. The remainder pay for the time they are online.BT was yesterday relieved to learn that Oftel was not intending to order it to separate its retail division from its exchanges, as the select committee on culture, media and sport had suggested.
Online isonline.And bloggers take note: Guardian Unlimited is launching its search for theGreat British Blogtoday, first prize £1000.
If yesterday's keynote speech by Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, could be summed up in one word, that word would be "connectivity".This is a departure. Normally, the word would probably be "hardware" - Mr Jobs knows a sexy new piece of computer kit, like another flash iMac or a cute laptop, is the sure-fire way to guarantee a happy MacWorld.Certainly, in New York yesterday, Mr Jobs had some hardware to show off: he pulled the wraps off a new 17-inch iMac with his customary flourish.The new model duly got a cheer, but the move was hardly unexpected: an iMac with a bigger screen was high on the wish list of many Mac users. In two weeks, for £1,499, they will be able to buy one.But by far the most significant developments revolved around software, and particularly around the next revision of Apple's OSX operating system.This upgrade has been code-named "Jaguar" (pronounced "Jagwire" by Mr Jobs), but is likely to be formally known as version 10.2 when it appears on sale on August 24.And connectivity - whether those connections are over the net, over wireless connections, with gadgets, other computers or web services - lies at the heart of much that is interesting in the new system.First, Apple's digital hub strategy has been extended. Already, Mac users know it is very easy to attach digital cameras, camcorders and MP3 players to their machines, and use software built into the system to manage and edit images and music. It is Apple's frequent boast - made again yesterday - that nothing exists in the Windows world to match its capabilities in this area.Yesterday, mobile phones and Palm personal digital assistants (PDAs) joined Apple's hub. Using Bluetooth, a communication standard designed to join up gadgets without the use of wires, your Mac will soon be able to manage your mobile phone and PDA.You'll be able to send text messages, via your mobile, from your desktop. And instead of keying in 100 phone numbers into your new phone, you will be able to beam your Mac address book - or a portion of it - over at the touch of a key. Ditto with your calendar to your Palm.To help with this, in a move that is likely to have developers of Mac diary software groaning, Apple has dramatically enhanced the Mac's built-in personal information management software. A scheduling program called iCal, as well as a much-improved address book, will come free with Jaguar.iCal, which can publish your diary to the web to let others know what you're doing, will make use of .Mac, Apple's cheekily titled foray into web services. Mr Jobs acknowledged the services were named after .Net - Microsoft's much-hyped drive to provide services over the net - but claimed .Mac was already doing what .Net had yet to deliver. "We're already doing stuff - we know what it means," he joked.In reality, .Mac does not come close to the complexity of the .Net scheme. What it is - at least for now - is an enhanced version of Apple's free iTools service, which offers email, online storage and other services. With .Mac, users will get 100Mb of storage, a variety of premium email services and new backup and anti-virus software servicesBut, whereas iTools is free, .Mac will cost $99.95 (£64) a year for new users. The existing 2.5 million iTools users will get in for half price for the first year.Yesterday's keynote was also unusual for the glimpse the normally secretive Mr Jobs gave into the future of Apple's operating system development. He was particularly keen on a new feature called Rendezvous, which will make it easier to control devices like printers from your Mac, and spot other people on networks, both wired and wireless.One of the first applications to use Rendezvous will be iChat, a new AOL Instant Messaging-compatible chat program that will be built into Jaguar.Future versions of iTunes, the free MP3 playing software, will also benefit: users will be able to dip into the music collections of computers nearby via wireless technology and play music from those machines.And administrators of large computer networks may celebrate at the news Rendezvous will be able to spot network devices, like printers, without human intervention, and then set up the Mac automatically.When the user hits print, the Mac should got on with it, without any configuration. Mr Jobs said that the various functions of Rendezvous shown off yesterday were "only the start" of the company's exploration of the system's capabilities.If all this goes a little over your head for now, Apple's simplest gadget was also given an easy-to-understand boost yesterday. iPod, Apple's dinky MP3 player, was lowered in price (it now starts at £259 in the UK), and a new higher capacity model (£399) was added to the top of the range.To cheers, Mr Jobs also announced that the little gadget will also be doing missionary work in the PC world - a Windows-compatible version is to be launched in the middle of August, to show off the Apple way of doing things to the PC-toting masses.It will, promised Jobs, appear a couple of weeks after the new Mac-only models have gone on sale, of course. "We want to look after you guys first," he said, again playing to his audience perfectly.
The claim by search engine Fast that it is now bigger than Google has rekindled a fierce online debate: does size matter?For some people, a search engine's prowess can be measured by the scale of its web page index. These indexes are essentially copies of the web, data-mined and compressed into a database for rapid searching. Size is important, goes the argument, because only a huge index can satisfy all the world's search engine users with their diverse information needs.Most of the major search engines have bought into this premise and since 1997, have engaged in an escalating game of one-upmanship known as the search engine size wars. Fast Search and Transfer recently fired a new salvo. While Fast, and its flagship AllTheWeb.com search engine, may not be common names, the company provides the horsepower for a number of search engines, including the global powerhouse Lycos.com and its regional portals.It's a serious contender. Fast's latest boast that its index has grown to slightly more than 2.1 billion web pages is worthy of attention. With this expansion, Fast snatches the size crown from Google. Yet the announcement was met with yawns from the former champ, because Fast outdistanced Google by a scant few million pages. And the index size claimed by both companies depends a lot on what is counted, and how it is tallied.Both Fast and Google claim to offer roughly 2bn "searchable documents". Last year, Google claimed nearly 3bn, but also disclosed that "documents" included images as well as the sizeable contents of Google Groups, two decades' worth of painstakingly restored Usenet Newsgroups postings the company had folded into its web site.Google's earlier claims prompted Greg Notess, the respected search engine analyst, to deconstruct its database. Notess' analysis, posted on the web site SearchEngineShowdown.com, estimated that Google's "searchable documents" included just under 1.5bn fully indexed web pages. Another half billion were "unindexed URLs", or pages that Google knew about because it had discovered links to the pages, but that it hadn't actually fetched and    indexed.In another study, Notess discovered that virtually all major search engines overstated the number of pages indexed, in some cases by as much as 40%. However, Notess found that Fast likely understated its claims. Fast's recent achievement, while noteworthy and credible - particularly in view of its history of understatement - also raises the question: does size really matter?Yes and no.For the researcher seeking comprehensive results, or for the scholar prowling for obscure information, search engine index size is crucial. Without a huge index, researchers can't have confidence that they've found all possible hits. On the opposite end of the spectrum, scholars may miss that needle if the haystack isn't large enough. But for most web users, size is largely irrelevant.For people seeking the latest Britney Spears gossip, info on cutting-edge cancer therapies or even news of local sporting teams, a small (very small) set of web documents will satisfy the vast majority of search requests. So why all the brouhaha over search engine sizes?Because just as with government budget deficits,    size makes good press. People readily grasp the significance of numbers, especially large ones, whereas eyes glaze over at even a glancing mention of the relevance algorithms responsible for producing good results. Ironically, these relevance algorithms are at the heart of what differentiates the engines from one another. Far more than index size, relevance techniques are what makes Google really good at finding results for simple one or two word queries, and Fast superior at finding news or multimedia files. They keep advanced users faithful to hoary but striving AltaVista.And novel relevance techniques allow newcomers such as Teoma, Daypop and Vivisimo to attract attention despite the dominance of the "majors". It is also fair to ask: Are Fast and Google equally capable search engines, now that they are running neck and neck in the search engine size derby? Again, the answer is yes and no. Both are capable of satisfying the needs of serious researchers and casual web surfers. Both companies have thrown significant financial and intellectual resources at solving the problems intrinsic to web search. And both can find a broad range of web    content, across a spectrum of documents, images and other file types. But fundamentally, both Fast and Google have important strengths and weaknesses.Google's strength lies in harnessing the collective opinion of the web and finding very good answers using only the scantest of clues. Fast's strength lies with using the rules and semantics of language to understand individual user needs. Google is great for finding still images; Fast is first-rate for locating sounds, music and video. These are broad generalities, but they illuminate a key point people typically forget when they fall in love with a "favourite" search engine. No search engine, no matter how good, can be all things to all people. Further, no single search engine is invariably going to provide the best results for all possible queries.Search engines are like people: they have strengths, weaknesses, idiosyncrasies - "personalities", if you will. Understanding these personalities can help you choose the best engine for your needs. Just as you wouldn't ask your greengrocer for advice on nuclear physics, you shouldn't expect to get an ideal answer every time from Google - or   Fast, or AltaVista, or any search engine, for that matter.They're all "good" but have fundamental differences.  Which brings us back to the upstart newcomers mentioned earlier. Despite the "mind share" dominance enjoyed by major players, we're seeing some intriguing new approaches geared toward solving some of the more intractable problems of web search.  Teoma began as an academic research project that was quickly snatched up by Ask Jeeves.Teoma narrowed Google's global web wisdom approach to locate specific naturally occurring "communities" of like-minded content creators. This makes it easy to find both individual web pages and link-rich pathfinders created by "experts and enthusiasts" for a particular topic. Teoma's index of 200m web pages is tiny compared with those built by Google and Fast but, largely due to its relevance techniques, the engine manages to find useful and interesting results none the less. Vivisimo doesn't even bother gathering its own index.Rather, it is a "meta search" engine that sends queries to other search engines, then concentrates on presenting the best results drawn from a wide variety of sources. It does this by "clustering" and organising results pages into different topics. This means a search for "venus" will return results clustered into categories for the planet, the Wimbledon runner-up, the mythical goddess and so on, rather than clumping them all together as a traditional search engine would. And then there's Daypop, an innovative search engine that focuses exclusively on current news and the relatively new phenomenon of weblogs, the online diaries maintained by thousands of individuals.Major search engines don't keep up adequately with the rapidly changing content Daypop tracks, so it fills a major gap. It can do this because it focuses "only" on a mere 7,500 weblogs and news sites. The net result: Fast's achievement in cataloguing more than 2bn web pages is admirable. That said, we may be nearing the end of the search engine size wars. Index size is just one of many factors influencing the quality of search results. And, just as in the real world, whether size matters often boils down to individual needs - something savvy users take into account when choosing the search engine they think will be ideal match for the task in hand.&#183;Chris Sherman is editor of SearchDay and co-author of The Invisible Web
Operation Flashpoint: ResistancePC		&#163;19.99 (requires original Operation) Codemasters 	 ****Operation Flashpoint was scarily good. More than a combat game, it simulated war to such a realistic extent that the    US marines use it in training. As such the game was an acquired taste, asking players to think and act like soldiers. So if, when faced with a small town, guarded by tanks and snipers, your instinct was to charge in, guns blazing, Quake style, then Flashpoint wasn't for you. If, on the other hand, you decided to crawl forwards on your belly, use cover wisely   and react swiftly to changes in the situation, then you'll be interested in Resistance. This is the first proper expansion pack for Operation Flashpoint and, as well as fixing some graphical and networking problems, it adds a whole new storyline.Instead of a well-equipped US trooper, players are now cast in the role of a resistance fighter, leading a rag-tag group   against the Russian invaders.So players need to scavenge for weapons and supplies, and the whole experience becomes even more tactical. Unlike before, your men and equipment carry over from one mission to the next, and losses are keenly felt. The whole atmosphere has been improved, with decisions made throughout the game - do you harbour a fugitive or hand him over to the Russians? - having an impact. Thankfully, the rough graphics of the original have been polished up, while networked multiplay on LANs and the internet is easier to set up. The difficulty level remains high, with enemy soldiers still unerringly accurate when it comes to blowing brains out. You'll need nerves of steel, tactical acumen and a copy of the original Operation Flashpoint to play Resistance. War was never so much fun.  (GH)Schizm: Mysterious JourneyPC		&#163;29.99 Mindscape/ LKAvalon 	**Long gone are the days of classic click and point adventures such as Monkey Island, Day of the Tentacle and the Gabriel Knight series. The puzzle/ adventure hybrid, embodied by titles such as Myst and   Riven, and now by Schizm: Mysterious Journey, has always been seen as the black sheep of adventure gaming - berated for being tedious and repetitive - yet still selling millions worldwide.In Schizm you play two colonists in the year 2083 who crash land on the planet Argilus and become separated. Though the planet shows signs of an advanced civilisation, it is strangely (or predictably) deserted. By swapping between the two main characters and solving various puzzles, you gradually start to uncover the mysteries of the planet.If Schizm is anything to go    by, these games have not advanced in gameplay from Myst back in 1994. So it's only likely to appeal to those with a partic ular penchant for that kind of game, who don't mind the stabiliser effect that stops players controlling where they go and what they do.Graphically, Schizm looks pretty and some of the puzzles are ingenious, if occasionally infuriating. It's just a shame you're at the mercy of a pointer rather than having the freedom to go where you wish. Adventure games are badly in need of an injection of imagination and a 21st century makeover. Schizm provides neither of these, putting just another nail in the genre's coffin. (RP)EnclaveXbox		&#163;39.99 Starbreeze/Swing 	****Disappointingly, too many of the games currently available for the Xbox are merely re-engineered versions of games that have already appeared on other platforms. So it is refreshing to find an Xbox title that is not too familiar. Enclave, from obscure German publisher, Swing, is a third-person fantasy action-adventure game, of the type termed a "hack-'n'-slash".In a medieval world not unlike that of Thief, you play a sword-wielding character straight from central casting, and must fight your way through 24 increasingly protracted missions, employing both melee and projectile weapons, and collecting potions to heal injuries plus gold with which to upgrade weapons and armour.Enclave does not have a gameplay experience which is either fresh or new, and it has a couple of irritating niggles, but overall, it is a fine, playable and absorbing game. It looks stunning, it is not as cliched as it initially appears, and provides some great action which requires a modicum of strategic thought.Each stage has a distinct storyline, a device used to good effect as a means of varying the gameplay. There are even elements of cooperative play (although it is a single player-only game), as you must, for example, chaperone AI-controlled characters through stages. Enclave also throws an element of puzzle-solving into the mix, although stealth has been abandoned in favour of fighting.Initially, the controls take a bit of getting used to, as the right stick controls both left-and-right character orientation and camera elevation, but as you get deeper into the game, you find they work well. If single-player action games appeal, then you should be pretty happy with Enclave.  (SB)
Three years is a very long time in mobile computing. If you bought a handheld PC back in 1999, chances are it would have been manufactured by either Palm or Psion.In 2002, Psion no longer makes PDAs, and Palm has seen its market share tumble as devices that use Microsoft's Pocket PC operating system have come to the fore.Today, connected PDAs featuring integrated mobile phones to enable the user to make voice calls, collect and send emails and surf the net, are edging ahead of traditional unconnected handheld in terms of sales.Arguably most representative of the way the PDA market is likely to develop is the &#163;500 Pocket PC based XDA, launched recently by the MM02 network. It is smaller and lighter than many of its rivals, boasts an excellent colour screen and seamlessly integrates Pocket PC applications   into the mobile domain.Its key advantage is its GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) connection, a rarity in the smartphone world, which means that downloading emails and accessing web pages is faster and cheaper than it would be with standard GSM.The XDA may soon be available under another guise through T-Mobile. The network has unveiled the Pocket PC Phone Edition, a product that's a dead ringer for the XDA, in the United States and is promising a UK launch soon.Samsung has announced that its large connected handheld PC, the Nexio 160, will arrive in the UK at some point in the autumn. The product has a strong line up of features, easy connectability to the PC and web surfing and email facilities. Its trump card is a 5in LCD screen - much larger than any of its competitors. Internet pages are easier   to view than on rival mobiles, while applications such as Word and Excel (the device uses Microsoft's Windows CE system) are less fiddly to operate.Other features include a USB port enabling owners to connect a mouse, keyboard or memory card and integrated software for games and music. No news yet on price.The Pocket PC/Windows CE camp doesn't have it all its own way. Handspring, whose PDAs use the Palm operating system, has just unveiled the Treo 270, the second version of its connected PDA, which adds a colour screen to its predecessor's facilities.There's no GPRS version yet, although Handspring says it intends to offer a free upgrade for the Treo shortly.   In its favour, the Treo's thumb pad (a kind of mini keyboard) is simple to use and the device is more pocketable than most of its rivals. It sells for around &#163;550 without a SIM card - cheaper as part of a deal.Already available in the United States, and possibly coming to the UK, is the Kyocera Palm-OS based smartphone 7135 colour screen PDA.It's a flip phone with a smaller screen than the Treo. Features include an integrated MP3 player and a slot for Secure Digital (SD) cards to add memory or functionality.The market for unconnected handhelds may be contracting, but there are still plenty of impressive new products being launched.Compaq HP (after its recent merger with Hewlett-Packard) is touting its H3900 series models - the successor to the enormously successful Compaq iPaq H3800 series   PDAs. Two models are available; the &#163;600 H3950 and &#163;700 H3970. The main difference is that the H3970 features Bluetooth for wireless connection to a mobile, and has 64MB of Flash ROM as opposed to the H3950's 32MB.Cosmetically, there's little difference between the new PDAs and their predecessors. Slip under the hood, though, and you'll find a faster processor (the latest 400MHz Intel PXA250 as opposed to the 206MHz Intel StrongArm of the 3800). Compaq HP claims that this will give it the edge in terms of speed of applications, but also for entertainment facilities such as watching video clips using   Windows Media Player. Another neat touch is a feature called Nevo that enables you to programme the PDA to control all your home entertainment devices.If the rather chunky iPaq is too weighty for your pocket and your wallet, Packard Bell recently launched the &#163;379 PocketGear 2060. Smaller and lighter than rival Pocket PC-based devices, it has a good quality colour screen, is expandable via its Secure Digital card slot and features a 206MHz Intel StrongArm processor, as found in older Compaq iPaqs.In the Palm operating system camp, Sony is continuing its policy of refreshing its line up of Cli&#233; PDAs every few months.The Cli&#233; PEG-T665C features what Sony is billing as an improved colour screen, boasts a 66MHz processor - currently the fastest chip available for Palm - and, like PocketPCs, comes with music and video-playing software. It is due in the UK later in the year for around &#163;400. Just like Compaq HP iPaq H3900 series PDAs it, too, can moonlight as a remote control for your TV. Just don't lose it down the back of the sofa.
Now it's trendy to take serious books to the beach - it seems they're a fashion statement - you could do worse than pack a few computer books. No, I don't mean DOS for Dummies, but some cracking good yarns. Take your pick from stories of great discoveries, personality clashes, marketing coups, turf wars, courtroom dramas, a bit of skulduggery, and unimaginable fortunes won or, in Boo's case, lost.Ernst Malmsten's Boo Hoo is probably the prime candidate for a deckchair potboiler, and now comes as a cheap paperback with a bright    orange cover. It's an amazing story, but mostly for the wrong reasons. At the time, I was unable to understand why the company was getting so much publicity, because it appeared to be clueless. Sadly, the book bears this out. On the other hand, Malmsten and the other perpetrators of this 3-D website disaster managed to get through $135m while enjoying 18 months of fame, rather than their allotted 15 minutes, so they aren't the biggest mugs on display. Still, the book's understandable air of self-justification could become a little tedious for people who think that, rather than being a heroic failure, Boo   was a ridiculous farce.Happily, there's a shorter and better account of Britain's bout of dotcom madness in Dot.bomb, by the BBC's internet and business correspondent, Rory Cellan-Jones. This covers Boo, of course, but also Lastminute.com, QXL, Freeserve and First Tuesday, among others. John Cassidy's Dot.con does a similar sort of thing but with the focus on American companies: Netscape, Yahoo, AOL, Amazon.com, eBay and dozens of smaller outfits. The names alone are enough to put the UK experience in a more realistic perspective. It's a less vivid and more business-orientated book than Dot.bomb, but then, in America, the internet is a more serious business.Meanwhile there were several million heavy online users who were not trying to get rich by starting internet companies or investing in internet stocks or even trying to book a cut-rate flight. Instead, they were sharing music using the MP3 file format. The sites involved may have attracted crowds, but they also attracted the attention of the recording industry and artists such as Eminem, who thought people should be buying CDs not downloading them. This is the subject of John Alderman's Sonic Boom: Napster, P2P and the Future of Music. It's another readable book, in beach terms, but no part of the industry emerges from it with much credit, and the story is far from over.One good reason for reading these books now is that you probably won't want to read them next year. (When the real history of the web is written, Boo.com won't even merit a footnote.) From that point of view, it might be better to tackle a few of the classics. Some can be hard to find offline, but a trip to one of the bigger bookstores should yield more than enough titles to keep you engrossed all summer.SiliconSince the whole of modern electronics is based on microchips, T R Reid's The Chip (called Microchip in the original UK edition, in 1985) is a good place to start. It's like The Double Helix, James Watson's account of the discovery of the structure of DNA, in giving the human background to a scientific detective story. Microchip also has the excitement of a race between two researchers, Jack Kilby at Texas Instruments, and Intel's co-founder, Robert Noyce: both came up with the idea around the same time, though neither knew about the other's work.The microchip followed on from the development of the transistor, and that's another great story told in very read able form in Crystal Fire: The Birth of the Information Age by Michael Riordan and Lillian Hoddeson. Where Reid is a first class journalist with a degree in Latin and Greek, Hoddeson is probably the world's leading historian of solid-state physics, and Riordan is a physics professor. The good side is that you get a detailed guide to the science, as well as a decent narrative. But it can be a bit much for the beach.The silicon chip led, of course, to Silicon Valley in California, which turned into the Valley of the Dollars, with "the largest legal creation of wealth in the history of the planet". In The Silicon Boys, David Kaplan tells the story at a terrific pace, with plenty of opinion and no little wit. There's less focus on the technology than on the Valley's most important personalities, and the companies they helped build: Jobs and Wozniak (Apple), Larry Ellison (Oracle), Jim Clark and Marc Andreesson (Netscape), Jerry Yang (Yahoo) and venture capitalist John Doerr. Even Microsoft boss Bill Gates gets a look in, though he's the best part of a thousand miles to the north.CompaniesThe silicon chip begat the microprocessor which begat the personal computer revolution, which turned the IT world upside down. Until then, data processing was owned and run by IBM, with systems that had their origins   in 19th-century, punched-card systems. At its peak, IBM was not only bigger than every other computer company, it was twice as big as the rest of the industry put together. Microsoft may have enjoyed 27 years of astounding growth, but it still only has a third of IBM's annual turnover and, even today, it is IBM's systems that run banks, get food to supermarkets and keep planes in the air.Although there are dozens of books about Big Blue, there's nothing as readable or as non-technical as Father Son &amp; Co, the autobiography of Thomas Watson Jr, the son of the founder, and IBM's most impressive chief executive officer. Watson had a varied life, which included signing up as a pilot during the second world war and being the US ambassador in Moscow when the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan. He launched IBM into the computer business and backed the development of the System/360 mainframe that dominated the market for 20 years.In the 1980s, the small but fast-growing Apple Computer positioned itself as the alternative to IBM, particularly through its 1984 launch commercial for the Macintosh. It was an unequal battle that IBM had already won by establishing the IBM PC as the business standard in 1981. But it turned out to be a pyrrhic victory. Slowed by decades of anti-trust battles and its own size, IBM had   turned to Intel and Microsoft for the basis of its PC, and these companies grew rich selling the same technologies to all comers.The story of Apple's subsequent decline is most comprehensively told in Michael S Malone's Infinite Loop. It is a bit of a ragbag, but stuffed full of information. Owen Linzmayer's thematically organised handbook, Apple Confidential: The Real Story of Apple Computer Inc, is an essential companion. It is designed to be dipped into, rather than worked through, and it's ideal casual reading.Unfortunately, Microsoft Confidential doesn't exist, but there is an essential blockbuster: Gates, by Stephen Manes and Paul Andrews. This gives you the Gates family background, then takes you from the birth of the personal computer industry, in 1975, and Microsoft Basic, to the triumph of Windows 3.1 in the early 90s. There isn't an ideal guide to the decade that followed, but Gary Rivlin's The Plot to Get Bill Gates covers the ground at pace. He doesn't make enough of Apple switching sides to ally itself with its old enemy, IBM, against Microsoft, which had been its best friend, but generally covers the numerous industry and US government efforts to shackle the new leader of the pack.Charles Ferguson is even more opinionated than Rivlin, which makes High St@kes, No Prisoners a surprisingly enjoyable read.   Ferguson's start-up company, Vermeer, wrote the first powerful web page editor, Front Page, and with some regrets, sold out to Microsoft rather than Netscape. This left Ferguson with time, insider knowledge, and more than enough cash to tell his side of the story without pulling many punches. The result is a brutal but often funny expose of the realities of the computer business. It is compulsive and perhaps should be compulsory reading.The internetToday, many of us take the internet for granted. In Where Wizards Stay Up Late, Katie Hafner and Matthew Lyon transport you back to a time when it was difficult and hugely expensive to get this kind of system going, even with a handful of computers. This is much the best book I've read on the origins of the net. Unfortunately, there isn't a similar guide to the early days of the World Wide Web, which turned the internet into a mass market phenomenon. However, there is Weaving the Web, written by the web's inventor, Tim Berners-Lee, with Mark Fischetti. The telling is nothing like as vivid as the Wizards book, but TBL has a very clear view of the issues and it's an inherently interesting story. And unlike Boo's, it's one that will stand the test of time.The classic approachTed Nelson: Computer LibTed Nelson described the personal computer revolution in 1974, before it happened, in a cut-and-paste hippy book somewhat like the Whole Earth Catalogue. He also coined the term hypertext and, in the 1960s, invented Xanadu: a world wide web complete with internet cafes and micropayments. Alas, it proved too difficult to implement.Robert X Cringely: Accidental EmpiresThis is still the best quick introduction to the early days of the American PC industry, though now it's of more historical interest than a practical guide. Cringely went on to produce the TV series Triumph of the Nerds.Geoffrey A Moore: Crossing the ChasmandInside the TornadoMoore was the man who figured out how Silicon Valley companies actually marketed and sold technology, and summed it up in two books that start-ups used as bibles. Few business books are as entertaining.Steven L Kent: The Ultimate History of Video GamesKent's 620-page monster is probably too much for anyone not involved in the games business, and focuses mainly on the US. But it is packed with information not easy to find elsewhere.Chris Dibona et al.  Open SourcesMost of the people who bandy the phrase around don't have a clue what "open source" means or where it came from. This book of essays and documents provides easy access to the answers.Rodney A Brooks: Robot: The Future of Flesh and MachinesBrooks has spent his life trying to build intelligent robots and his semi-autobiographical approach makes the topic accessible. Will machines take over, or will we gradually become machines (cyborgs)?&##149; Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Filter itYou may have received some spam (unsolicited commercial email) from a British company that offers to block spam and viruses for &#163;1.75 per month, paid annually. Basically, EMF picks up mail from your normal POP3 mailbox, launders it, then returns it to a new box where you pick it up. The system seems easy to set up: EMF's website downloads an ActiveX applet to detect your current mail services and set-ups.One free alternative isCloudmark's SpamNet, which blocks spam co-operatively via a peer-to-peer technology called Vipul's razor. Users identify their own spam, and these identifications are used to stop other instances of that bulk mail from reaching fellow users. No one has to write filtering rules, which is hard, and the more users there are, the bet ter it works. The drawback is that the latest beta test version is only available for Microsoft Outlook, though an Outlook Express version is "coming soon".www.emailfiltering.co.ukhttp://razor.sourceforge.netMappingMicrosoft has launched itsMapPoint mapping site, which was mentioned in Online when it was being tested. LikeMultimap, it is slow and has a bitty, over-fussy design. Unlike Multimap, it doesn't provide instant aerial photos or weather information. Microsoft's driving directions seem better, but MapPoint doesn't have Multimap's step-by-step route mapping. MapPoint's advantages are its Save to Pocket PC button and the ability to incorporate its service in .Net applications. Try both.Hear hereTheVirgin Radio websiteis now playing in three formats: you can listen to streamed MP3 as well as the usual proprietary Microsoft and RealNetworks formats. In   exchange for an email address and other details, you can register for a trial service that streams stereo to broadband users. The station has also overtaken JazzFM to become the web's most-listened-to radio station, according to independent ratings published byArbitronandMeasurecast.Twinkies timeThe evil Big Dome has captured Superman, and the earth is doomed. But wait: a couple of kids throw in a pack of Hostess Twinkies Cakes, which the villain will be unable to resist. "Twinkies Cakes have a power all their   own," exclaims Superman, carting Big Dome off to a life of captivity. Thanks toSeanbaby, you can read dozens of these one-page masterpieces featuring Captain America, The Hulk, Wonder Woman, Spider-Man and other cartoon superheroes at The Hostess Page. The ads are non-fattening, and even more irresistible than the Twinkies, cupcakes and fruit pies.Top rankingThe US has most computers (164m) but the UK is in fourth place (26m). Liberia has the highest unemployment rate, while the Maldives has the highest divorce rate. If you can't resist comparative lists thenAneki.comwill keep you clicking for some time.Open lookDon't worry if visiting OpenFind pops up a download box: you can cancel it unless you want to use the alternative interfaces in Chinese (traditional) and Chinese (Simplified). OpenFind started in 1998 at Taiwan's National Chung-Cheng University, and formerly powered the Chinese language version of Yahoo. Now it has servers in   the US and is running a beta test version that searches 3.5bn web pages. Its Polyrank system seems to work very well, and while you would not bet on it beating Google, OpenFind's pitch to business partners is that it's cheaper.www.openfind.comwww.openfind.com/en.note.htmlWeb credDoes your website have any credibility? The Stanford Persuasive Technology Lab and Makovsky &amp; Company have researched the topic and produced some design guidelines. The result is an academic paper inAdobe PDF format, but the observations should be of wide interest.New &amp; noted&#183;Is this poem hot or not?www.poemranker.com&#183;The definitive guide to something you should not try at home:www.swordswallow.com&#183;Pocket calculators, nerd watches, and more:www.pocketcalculatorshow.com&#183;Websites in brief:www.1do3.comSix of the bestGolfThe Openwww.opengolf.comPGA Europewww.europeantour.comSports Illustratedwww.golfonline.comThe 19thwww.19thhole.comClub infowww.golfeurope.comPlay onlinewww.linkstour.zone.com
Crack cocaine and the ease of stealing and re-selling mobile phones are two of the four key factors behind increased street crime, according to the Association of Chief Police Officers.Mobiles are involved in 50% of all robberies in London, and 28% across the country. Thefts can be violent and both victims and attackers tend to be young. But mobile operators and users could be doing more.Two out of the UK's four operators - Orange and T-Mobile - can bar a stolen handset from their networks if they know its 15-digit identity number. Vodafone and 02 can't do this yet, but plan to introduce an equipment identity register in September that will make this possible.To make best use of this system, all users should type *#06# on their phone's keypad, or look under their battery, to find out what their ID number is. They should then keep a note of it, separate from their phone, so they can pass it on to the operator in the event of theft.However, barring the   International Mobile Equipment Identifier (IMEI) only prevents a handset being used on its current network, eg Orange. It can still be re-used on the others with a new SIM card.From September, the IMEI numbers of stolen phones should be shared among operators so a stolen handset won't be able to be used on any UK network - somewhat defeating the object of stealing it, unless the phones are sold overseas in places such as South Africa.As yet, there are no plans to bar the use of stolen UK handsets on foreign networks. And David Nicholas of O2 said there was no real evidence that this was a problem.One problem that is about to be addressed is tampering with ID numbers. Some criminals are able to reprogramme phones to change their IMEI number. But the Mobile Telephones (Reprogramming) bill, going through parliament, would make reprogramming a mobile, or selling the equipment to do so, a criminal offence with a maximum penalty of five years in jail.In the meantime, there are   other ways of discouraging crime. When a phone is reported as stolen, its SIM card, associated with its phone number, can be prevented from making calls. But Vodafone has gone a step further and upgraded its SIM barring system.Anna Cloke, of Vodafone, says: "If a customer knows their phone's ID number,   when we bar their SIM, we'll also bar any SIM card the thief tries to put into their old handset. Or into any other Vodafone handset. In effect, this is a way of barring stolen handsets from our network."There are also some phone-marking products available that make it easier for police to identify a phone as stolen if they recover it. You can get   your house/flat number and postcode written invisibly on your mobile so that it can only be read by a police ultraviolet device, if you take it in to a Vodafone or Virgin store. The service is free to customers.Vodafone and Virgin also sell alphadot paint. Vodafone's Libby Pritchard says: "It's a bit like a tube of mascara. It costs &#163;4.99 and you dab it on to various parts of your mobile. Most of the tiny dots are barely visible apart from a few small red ones, so the police can see that it has been marked."The dots contain a unique number that the police will know belongs to your mobile because you fill in a registration card when you buy the tube." Proceeds from the sale of the paint will go towards training in mobile theft prevention, for example for sixth formers, she said.Mobile phone users should also be a bit more wary. Sarah Taylor, a spokeswoman for Orange, says: "You should treat your phone as you would   anything valuable. You would not leave your credit card lying around on a bar or beside you on a table, or on the front seat of your car, so don't do this with your mobile."Home Office advice includes: using your phone's personal identification number so only you can make calls on it; security marking it, registering it with the operator (if you are a prepaid user), which will make it easier to bar; and avoiding displaying it in public.Alison Bonny, of Virgin Mobile, suggests avoiding using your phone in dimly lit streets, or in crowds or places where you do not feel safe. If you have a particularly expensive mobile phone, using it with a handsfree or wired headset keeps it hidden.But just in case you're too scared to whip out your mobile again, Home Office research into phone theft suggests that only 4% of mobiles are stolen using force. Phones belonging to those under 18 tend to get nabbed between 2pm and 10pm. As for those over 18, late evening and the wee small hours are highest risk.
Has profit replaced prophet in the IT industry?Marshall McLuhan    warned us that a new medium takes its initial contact from old media. You can see from the stuff that IBM had been doing in business that what people wanted was more convenient paper! It was only really the research community, Arpa, that had dreams and a sense of destiny about a symbiotic partner and a worldwide network. Only a few hundred people were interested in those things then.Has the excitement and 'pioneer spirit' been lost?No, because we didn't invent the IT revolution in the 70s. We glimpsed it, and made some qualitative strides up to the first plateau. Maybe we've slipped back a little in the past 20 years. The funding situation for computer science research now, though, is the worst it's been in my 41-year career.Did you envisage laptops being as profligate?Sure. We almost shouldn't get credit for figuring that out! That was like 'if the human's first then what should their computer look like?' A portable notebook? There was enough knowledge to know the portable was going to happen. Flat-screen displays were starting to evolve when we were working on the Dynabook, so that was an easy choice as well.Is the portable the future?A vision you could possibly trace back to Negroponte  in the 70s was the idea that you'll just have a watch that knows who you are and, as you walk around, your user interface to this ubiquitous network follows you. The people that followed my time at Xerox called this "ubiquitous computing". One way to look at it is that you aim to deliver as many pixels as you can into the user's eyes. Another thing the Arpa community predicted was the "Negroponte implosion". That's where show business, publishing and computing coalesce. The most interesting thing about those predictions is how many people couldn't see it!How did the Smalltalk user interface evolve?There were GUIs (Graphical User Interfaces) in the 60s, several of which had multiple windows. They were line-drawing not video displays, so the difficulty in doing windowed interfaces was that you had to somehow find where the window boundary would clip a line extended outside the display boundary. At PARC (Palo Alto Research Center) we'd decided we were going to use a raster, video-type display; so it occurred to me that as you refreshed a window on a raster display it would look like that whole rectangle came up to the top - as if you'd scattered papers on your desk.Favourite sites?Google.com ) because it's the gateway! I'm not a huge fan of the web as much as what the next thing will be. We're working on exciting stuff at  www.squeak.org  and the educational site  www.squeakland.org.
Who pays?Richard Wray's article (Is this lights out for the internet, Online, July 11) covers its physical robustness well but says less about its remarkable commercial structure: here is a medium run in a cooperative fashion. If I fetch a packet from America, Turkey or Chad it costs me nothing, whereas the phone costs to those countries varies widely. It took a long time for this structure to evolve: IBM, Compuserve/AOL, Microsoft etc, all attempted to monopolise the networks and failed.Now a person only pays their internet service provider and there is no accounting for most of the packets that fly round the network, unlike in the above mentioned networks, where there were often elaborate means of counting the distance that packets travelled and the number of gateways through which they passed. Although a significant part of this is attributable to the nature of TCP/IP, I can't but imagine there will be a    continued struggle for control by the companies who run the net, as the rewards of monopoly must be huge.  Of course, there is no equality now: I'm sure there is no "free" internet access in Chad or Turkey, nor will there probably be in the UK in five years' time. Someone has to pay. So will the internet "as we know it" survive?Chris Mosschris.moss9@ntlworld.comShortedJack Schofield mentioned some interesting "shorties" in Web watch (Online, July 4) but looks like he skipped out one of my favorites: http://snipurl.com. This has a load of functionality that none of those mentioned has, including meaningful nick  names, protected short URLs, quick sharing, statistics etc. And try " http://x.com " at tinyurl.com or shorl.com: they do not seem to have much common sense, but are a great resource nevertheless!Erick Papadakiserick_papadakis@yahoo.comBreakthroughRe PCs content to be in control ( Second sight, July 11). Jack Schofield might have made rather more mention of Apple Computer.  He goes so far as to quote Gartner as saying: "The big break for personal computers came with the introduction of the IBM PC in 1981", but this isn't quite accurate; that wasn't the "big breakthrough", that was the introduction. The big breakthrough    came in 1984, when Apple released the Macintosh, the first computer to allow editing of images onscreen, the first to introduce different typefaces, and the computer that ignited the DTP revolution, along with most of modern computing.  Somewhat later, Windows was released as a poor imitation of the Mac Graphical User Interface. The rest is history, but the Macintosh has done more for computing than Windows could ever hope to. Schofield could have made more of this.Paul Bradforthpb@paulbradforth.comCold comfortRe You are now entering the comfort zone (Business Solutions, May 30). Working as an ergonomist I read the above article with interest, but was disappointed by it. Are you advocating all computer users sit on typist chairs? Having computers at eye level is not correct for all: good if you can touch type, but the majority can't. As for telling readers that when working at computers they should take a break from the screen once an hour - where did that come from? And you refer to black keyboards as well - but Dell's keyboards are a problem as the amount of glare they give off under a light can lead to visual discomfort.Duncan Abbott MSc, BScda@enricosmog.comBT encounterI see others are having problems with BT. I have had to start using my other ISP as BT is getting so unreliable. I get disconnected at random from my BT Internet account (not broadband), after anything between 10 seconds and 25 minutes, but it happens far too often. When I feel emotionally strong enough, I will take it up with BT, but I do not look forward to the encounter!Peter Jonespierrejones@clara.co.uk
So, now I'm getting spam faxes. From advertising ranging from a periodontist in New York City, to a wireless phone company. I only have one phone - the same phone line that grandma would call in an emergency - and these desperate folks send faxes to me at all hours of the night, courtesy of the fax broadcasting companies they've hired.I'm on the New York State government-enforced "do not call" registry (a database of people who have requested   that their phone numbers be removed from telemarketing databases).I've called the fax broadcaster's automated "take me out of your database" computer, and I've called the companies individually, telling them that this is a bad way to do publicity. As with internet spam, however, the flood of unwanted messages only grows worse each day.My question is: now that I know who these companies are, how terrible would it be for me to hit them back, say, with a late-night, 500-page black fax (emptying their toner cartridge)? Or what if I called the periodontist and made, say, 40 different appointments for fictional patients?If that seems too extreme, what if I simply called the periodontist and made one fictional appointment, in the hope that everyone else who got his three-page fax will do the same?Two wrongs don't make a right. The important thing is to get the doctor on the phone and try to explain to him why what he's doing is so bad. And, of course, spend some effort to assist the officials at New York State's "do not call" registry to enact their enforcement policies. (It turns out the official Do Not Call Registry doesn't apply to   fax advertising, only to voice or recorded telemarketing.)But I still want to screw these people: let them experience some of the power of "network effects", if you know what I mean. They're using a minimum of effort to create a maximum of impact. Thousands of faxes churning out millions of pages that we receivers are paying for in time, waking hours, resources and money. Why not show them how easily the network can reverse this polarity?This is why I was so glad to be speaking last weekend at the H2K2 conference (see link below), sponsored by 2600 magazine. It's an annual convention of hackers, perhaps "the" annual convention of hackers, held here in New York City, where they discuss everything from   lock-picking to government policy.It's not that I thought the hackers would want to help me "teach these folks a lesson". Quite the contrary, I knew they would soothe my nerves with their unique ability to see the "big picture". Hackers, on average, are some of the least knee-jerk people I've ever come to know. They understand the tremendous leverage afforded by computers and networks, and respect the power to which they have access.It's why I decided not to tell them about it, at all.Hackers are not the renegade wild men painted by the media. They are a regulating force. Ballast. In a sense, they are the conservative wing of the technology innovation club, keeping a check on unbridled power, and keeping us all aware of what direction our technology is taking us.As in any of nature's eco-systems, certain groups and individuals work to maintain the natural balance, and to maintain an environment in which the entire system can thrive. In cyberspace, hackers are that group.If I had told them about my late-night fax calls, they would have just smiled and nodded. "Well, you could..." one of them would have begun, half-heartedly, before the others rejected it with "why bother" shrugs. If I'd been really lucky, I'd have been able to get them going on a possible new scenario - a plan to incapacitate these fax-spam culprits, painfully.But, responsibly, the hackers would have refused to tell me how to execute such a plan. They would have known full well that, unlike them, I don't have the discipline not to try it.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Soft or hard?Alasdair Beal had a problem: two PCs running correctly installed copies of Microsoft Windows XP crashed often and at random. In such cases, I replied, it is always a hardware fault. But how could the   same hardware fault afflict both a desktop and a notebook made by different manufacturers? Toshiba put the problem down to a loose processor fan and repaired the notebook, but when all the software was reinstalled, the problem returned. This time, Alasdair noticed that Paperport was open each time it crashed: "When Paperport was idle, just sitting there, the processor activity shot up to 100% and stayed there. This is onerous for processor cooling and I suspect it is what triggered overheating problems on both computers." The problem was solved by downloading the Service Pack for Paperport 8 from Scansoft's website. Now, processor activity falls to 0% when the program is idle. As Alasdair says, "When is a hardware fault not a hardware fault?"Something that appears to happen with one version of Paperport could afflict other software, and I have seen AOL Instant Messenger 4.7 get stuck and "max out" the processor on my Windows 2000 machine. Alasdair may have found the answer to some otherwise inexplicable problems.Spam victimSpam email, including porn, is going out purportedly in my name, using my   .com email address - I know this because such mail has been "returned" to me as undelivered. Can anything be done to stop this form of electronic impersonation?Andrew Bibbywww.andrewbibby.comJS:The internet developed as an open, academic system and its openness is all too easy to abuse. There is nothing to stop spammers from forging From: and Reply To: addresses. The only thing you can do is make sure you are not contributing by running an open mail relay: seewww.ordb.org/faq.Internet service providers could help by closing or blacklisting open relays and by blocking mail with forged addresses. Unfortunately, this requires some effort and most cannot be bothered.Back upIf I want to back up my email, stored in Outlook Express, which files should I copy?Martin RosenbaumJS:You should take backup copies of all the files in your mail directory, but particularly Inbox.dbx and Folders.dbx. You can find your mail files by selecting the C: drive, pressing F3, and putting *.dbx in the    Search for files box. For further help, see Q270670 in the Microsoft Support Knowledge Base and theOE FAQ&lt;/a. If your mail is important, consider usingExpress Archiver, which is designed to do the job.DIYI was thinking of saving some money by building my own computer: can you suggest any publications or websites that might help? I know relatively little about the various components needed, or how to assemble them.Richard AtkinsonJS:I would like to see every schoolchild build his own PC, for educational reasons, and it is a good way for geeks to get exactly what they want. But it is not a good way to save money. Dell can buy components a lot cheaper than you, unless you resort to inferior parts that may be unreliable or not work well together. However, if you refuse to be discouraged,www.buildyourown.org.ukis a very useful site.Not foundMy laptop running Windows 95B suddenly has begun to throw up an error    message on start-up: "A required .DLL file, ECOMWR.DLL was not found." The computer appears to function normally, except for shut down. Ought I be worried and, if so, what should I do about it?Mike QuigleyJS:You should always be worried if a file is not found: it could indicate virus activity or, all too often, anti-virus activity going wrong. In this case, it seems to be a bug in McAfee's virus scanner: search Google for Q319898 in the Microsoft Support Knowledge Base. To fix the problem, download theVirusScan 6.01.2000upgrade patch from McAfee   or the larger upgrade toversion 6.02.On truckingMy problem stems from installing an Ethernet card to allow broadband access. On start-up, I get a box saying: "Please insert your CD-Rom with the virtual truck program. Looking for file d:\installs\paceeth\vtruck.exe". I cannot locate it.Simon BarrowJS:Broadjump Virtual Truck is the name of a cable modem    installation program used by NTL, among others. Happily, your problem is covered onthe troubleshooting page.Backchat&#183;Last week, John Lee wanted his vanishing favicons - the little icons provided by some websites - back. Simon Aubury has found "a terrific tool calledFavOrg. It scans the websites in your Favorites list for favicons and refreshes the icons if necessary". The program is free but you have to register with PC Magazine to download it.&#183;James Cheyne wanted to reach the UK version of the Financial Times's home page but, living in the US, was getting the American edition. Mike Turner and John Westbrooke have pointed us to the menu bar on the left side of the screen, which lists UK, US and Global. "Just click the one you want." Seewww.oed.com/public/news/images/doh.gif.&#183;Send your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.ukPublished letters will be edited for brevity but please include full details with your original query
Just back from watching Apple chief executive Steve Jobs' keynote, and very interesting it was too. We always get excited about the new hardware most - and there was a new £1,649iMacwith a 17-inch display unveiled, as predicted by the "rumour" sites, and a new 20GbiPodfor £399. iPods for Windows users were also promised; they will use theMusicmatchsoftware to synch up in the same way the MP3 players do with iTunes on the Mac platform.But the really big story this MacExpo lies in software: Apple is going at connectivity in a big way. This runs from new ways to synch your GPRS mobile phone and Palm with your Mac, via Bluetooth, to the cheekily-titled.Mac web services, once called iTools but renamed after Microsoft's .Net, which will provide email, online storage, backup, anti-virus software and online synching of diaries and contacts. (Rather less cheekily, whereas iTools was free, Apple will charge new sign-ups $99 a year for .Mac. Exisiting users will have to pay $49 to keep their Mac.com websites, storage and email alive, which is bound to upset quite a few people, new services or not).Many of the coolest new functions will be built into the new release ofMac OSX, version 10.2 (code-named Jaguar, or "Jagwire" as Jobs kept calling it today), which will be released for £99 on August 24. But, while there's a new version of the MP3-playingiTunessoftware out now, we'll have to wait a little longer - probably into next year - for rather cool new functions which will allow you to tap into someone else's MP3 playlist on their computer, and stream it over an 802.11 network to your own machine and speakers.More analysis of today's announcements will be appearing tomorrow morning, when we've had a chance to delve a little deeper into what all this means, on GUNetnews. In the meantime,CNet News.comhas a summary of the various announcements, althoughWired newsdoes it better.
Tony Blair has set 2006 for the first possible general election where the traditional ballot box will be consigned to the museum and millions of people will be voting online or by post. A consultation paper released by Robin Cook, leader of the House of Commons, reveals that the scheme got the go ahead as part of the comprehensive spending review.Under the proposals, which were put up for consultation yesterday, the system of ballot papers and ballot boxes would be scrapped and all voters would be offered four ways of voting: online from work or home; by post; by telephone; or at polling stations by online terminals. All votes would be counted electronically.The consultation document says: "The vision of an e-enabled general election some time after 2006 will require delivery of an online register and access for all voters to multi-channel means of voting according to individual preference."Gordon Brown has allocated &#163;30m to develop e-voting over the next three years, with further pilot schemes to be announced in the next 12 months. Under the government's timetable published yesterday, the technical standards for e-voting have to be agreed this year and a secure electoral register finalised next year. These will allow experiments in e-voting to continue for three years, with on line voter registration and postal voting applications introduced during 2004 and 2005.The Cabinet Office report says: "A programme to achieve successful implementation of   e-voting is under way to ensure that robust systems can be in place for an e-enabled general election after 2006."Mr Cook's enthusiasm for new technology follows an experiment in last May's local elections where in many areas voting turnout increased when people were given the chance to vote by post, at the week end, and electronically - including text messaging. In South Tyneside and Stevenage turnout doubled, possibly with more younger people voting. In other areas, like Hackney in east London, turnout was virtually unchanged at 34%.The report says that unless action is taken to change voting methods, Britain faces a   terminal decline in participation in general elections - particularly as young people are becoming increasingly apathetic or do not understand the political process.The consultation paper suggests that the government wants to widen voting methods in a new series of pilots over the next two years, in cluding using online voting, digital TV, touch telephones and text messaging. The government expects cost reductions from economies of scale and fewer polling stations if voter preference shifts towards electronic voting.Mr Cook has set October 31 as the deadline for replies and comment.
For a secret organisation hunted by the intelligence services of the most powerful nations on earth, al-Qaida has a remarkably public face. It is a website run by the Centre for Islamic Studies and Research. Since the start of the war on terrorism, the site has been producing hundreds of pages of material to rally support among radical Muslims, scare the west and enable al-Qaida cells to operate independently of Osama bin Laden and other leaders now in hiding.The site is entirely in Arabic, which means that tens of millions of people who hate American policies on the Middle East can read it, but almost nobody in either the governments or the media of the west can understand a word.The website is central to al-Qaida's strategy to ensure that its war with the US will continue even if many of its cells across the world are broken up and its current leaders are killed or captured. The site's function is to deepen and broaden worldwide Muslim support, allowing al-Qaida or successor organisations to fish for recruits, money and political backing.The whole thrust of the site, from videos glorifying September 11 to Islamic legal arguments justifying the killing of civilians, and even poetry, is to convince radical Muslims that, for decades, the US has been waging a war to destroy Islam, and that they must fight back. "America is the cause of every injustice, every wrong, every tyranny that afflicts Muslims... It is steeped in the blood of Muslims," wrote Sulaiman Bu Ghaith, an al-Qaida spokesman, in a series of articles published on the site last month entitled Under the Shadow of Spears. "America does not understand dialogue. Nor peaceful coexistence. Nor appeals, nor condemnation, nor criticism. America will only be stopped by blood."The site works to maintain the morale of al-Qaida supporters in the face of obvious reverses since September 11. In a letter to "brother mojahedin everywhere" in late May, Bu Ghaith warned: "My dear brothers: the path of principles and prayers is surrounded by calamities and obstacles, full of dangers and misfortunes, prison, death, banishment and exile. One day the believers are victorious over the infidels, the next day the infidels are victorious over the believers. Victory will never be the ally of either side, although definitely in the end the believers will triumph."He repeated the message in an audio recording on the site late last month. He also warned of new attacks on the US and promised a television appearance soon by Bin Laden. The story topped world headlines when the satellite TV channel al-Jazeera broadcast the recording, although it did not mention the website as the original source. Al-Qaida has also been using the site to launch diatribes against Muslims who question its strategy of total war with America.Although there is deep, broad anger in the Muslim world against US policies, there has been a surprising amount of criticism of al-Qaida from radicals who were once its allies and even its religious mentors. Shaykh Salman al-Oadah, for instance, who was admired by Bin Laden as one of the two religious leaders of Saudi Arabia's opposition movement in the mid-1990s, condemned the September 11 attacks for killing civilians. In April, he coordinated an open letter by 150 Saudi intellectuals entitled How We Can Coexist, calling for a dialogue with the west. Muntasser al-Zayyat, a lawyer for Egypt's radical Islamic Group, part of which merged with al-Qaida in the 90s, criticised al-Qaida for releasing a video featuring one of the September 11 hijackers explaining his motives for martyrdom at a time when Israeli-Palestinian violence was at its peak in April. He said the video, broadcast by al-Jazeera, diverted attention from the Palestinian issue and risked alienating potential supporters of the Palestinian cause in the west.Al-Qaida reacted furiously with a deluge of polemic on its website defending the entire conduct of its war against the west and dismissing any approach to the west other than violence. One statement on the subject of "the legality of the operations in Washington and New York" laid out seven grounds in Islamic law on which it is permissible to kill "sacrosanct infidels" - essentially civilians - and six grounds on which it is permissible to kill Muslims.These polemics explain why the site is so important to al-Qaida and why the real action in radical Muslim politics is now in a jungle of websites, bulletin boards, email lists and chatrooms on the internet. Al-Qaida knows it has to engage people there if it is to dominate debate.The Centre for Islamic Studies and Research website is a substantial undertaking. It has 11 sections, including the centre's own reports of fighting in Afghanistan, a regular digest of world media coverage of the conflict, books of jihad theology to download, videos such as the hijacker's testament, information about prisoners held in Pakistan and Guantanamo Bay, and poetry about jihad.The site has been hosted by legitimate internet service providers in Malaysia and, more recently, the US, at addresses such aswww.alneda.comandwww.drasat.com. The site has been shut down three times, each time because CNN was researching a story about the site and emailed the ISP for comment. As soon as the ISPs realised what they were hosting, they closed it. The site is now offline, but it is of such importance to al-Qaida that it is likely to try to find a new way to publish it.There has been media speculation that the site is being used to direct al-Qaida operational cells, and it has certainly carried low-level operational information. In February it published the names and home phone numbers of 84 al-Qaida fighters captured by Pakistan after their escape from fighting in Afghanistan, presumably with the aim that sympathisers would contact their families and let them know they were alive.More broadly, the site supports al-Qaida's effort since the war in Afghanistan to disperse its forces and enable them to operate independently. It provides all the strategic guidance, theological argument and moral inspiration - in a word, leadership - that a cell of trained al-Qaida operatives would need to plan an attack on western targets.A statement signed by Qaidat al-Jihad ("the Base of Jihad", al-Qaida's official name), published on the site in April, said: "God has enabled al-Qaida by his grace to reorganise its ranks, distribute its forces and arrange cooperation with the Afghan mojahedin. Serious work has begun inside Afghanistan. As for work abroad against the Americans and the Jews, matters have been arranged so that if one link is removed, however large its organisational importance, the organisation will not be struck by fatal blows, for new units have been formed..."Whether Bin Laden, al-Qaida's Egyptian theorist Ayman al-Zawahiri and their colleagues are on a mountain in the Hindu Kush or living with their beards shaved off in a suburb of Karachi no longer matters to the organisation. They can inspire and guide a worldwide movement without physically meeting their followers - without even knowing who they are.
We're expecting a few interesting announcements tomorrow at MacWorld in New York, but Steve Jobs' keynote will be too late for Online's print deadlines. Have no fear: we'll still be doing full coverage on the web. I'll be filing to Guardian Unlimited'sNetnewssection tomorrow afternoon, after Apple CEO Steve Jobs has done his sales pitch. Self-linking to the story will doubtless appear here, too.
