Facebook, the world's largest social network, is preparing for a public stock offering next spring which could raise up to $10bn, according to sources.TheWall Street Journal reportedon Monday night that the company is hoping that the IPO, which has been long rumoured, would value the company at around $100bn.Facebook's chief financial officer, David Ebersman, had discussed a public float with Silicon Valley bankers, but founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg had not decided on any terms and his plans could change, the Journal said.The social network, which now claims more than 800 million members worldwide after seven years of explosive growth, has not selected bankers to manage what would be a very closely watched IPO.But it had drafted an internal prospectus and was ready at any moment to go for a flotation, the Journal said, citing "people familiar with the matter" – a standard form of words for insiders at the company.At $100bn valuation, the company started by Zuckerberg in a Harvard dorm room would have double the valuation of Hewlett-Packard.A formal S-1 filing could come before the end of the year, though nothing was decided, the Journal added.A Facebook representative declined to comment.One matter which could force Facebook's hand is the number of people – especially employees – who have received stock options as an incentive for working at the startup. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) says that "a company must file financial and other information with the SEC 120 days after the close of the year in which the company reaches $10m in assets and/or 500 shareholders, including people with stock options".Google was forced to file for an IPO in 2004 after it passed the 500 shareholder figure. It is unclear how many of Facebook's 3,000 staff are shareholders, but the company said in January that it will exceed 500 shareholders this year, and that in accordance with SEC regulations, it will file public financial reports no later than 30 April 2012. That will be obligatory even if it does not file for an IPO.Facebook does not disclose its financial results, but a source told Reuters earlier this year that the company's revenue in the first six months of 2011 doubled year-on-year to $1.6bn (£1bn).If it does debut in 2012, Facebook's IPO would dwarf that of any other dotcom waiting to go public.Farmville creator Zynga has filed for an IPO of up to $1bn. In November, the daily deals service Groupon debuted with much fanfare – only to plunge below its IPO price within weeks. It is now one of the worst-performing technology flotations ever.LinkedIn and Pandora, which also floated this year, are now also trading significantly below the levels their stocks reached during their public debuts.Facebook has become one of the world's most popular online destinations, challenging established companies such as Google and Yahoo for consumers' time and for advertising dollars.Eric Feng, a former partner at venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield and Byers who now runs social-networking site Erly.com, said that the cash Facebook will get in an IPO would allow it to make more acquisitions and refine or work on new projects, such asa rumoured Facebook phoneor a netbook.Having tradeable stock will also allow Facebook to attract more engineering talent who might have been more attracted to the company in earlier days when it was growing faster but now perhaps might be attracted to other companies. "It'll be a powerful bullet for them," Feng said.Investors have been increasingly eager to buy shares of Facebook and other fast-growing but privately-held internet social networking companies on special, secondary-market exchanges.
A slow day today, with just five new apps to tell you about:World of GooWorld of Goo has been a huge hit on PC and iOS, but now Android owners can get in on the sticky fun. As on those platforms, this is a joyful physics-puzzler that involves building things from balls of goo.AndroidCome Fly With Me Holiday SnapsMatt Lucas and David Walliams' follow-up to Little Britain now has an app to promote its DVD release. The idea: insert the series' characters into your own photos.iPhone / AndroidOcado On The GoHome shopping service Ocado has a presence on most smartphones, including Windows Phone now. Its app has been redesigned to fit with the visual aesthetic of Microsoft's OS, and includes offline access to the Ocado catalogue.Windows Phone(spotted byWPCentral)C Ronaldo FreestyleFootballer Cristiano Ronaldo is no stranger to mobile games, having appeared in a couple already. This latest focuses on freestyle tricks, with several gameplay modes and – no lie – unlockable hairstyles.iPhoneGoogle CatalogsFor now, Google Catalogs is a US-only app, but it's a glimpse at the company's plans to shake up gift shopping. The app offers digital catalogues from a range of retailers, and has until now only been available on iPad. Now it's made the leap to Android tablets.Android
Answering a call of nature in a pubic urinal usually involves staring blankly at the tiled walls while desperately ensuring your gaze does not absently wander over to the person standing next to you.But boredom during a bathroom visit could soon be a thing of the past following the development of a urinal-based games console which allows men to aim, shoot and fire at targets with their stream.British company Captive Media has been granted the patent rights for the technology, which allows screens to be fitted to the walls of public urinals and flips into gaming mode when approached by a visitor.The device sits above the normal ceramic urinal bowl and plays a mixture of adverts and videogames for personal entertainment.When a user approaches the urinal, he is presented with three targets to aim for, highlighted with stickers which read "Start", "Left" and "Right".The console is able to detect where the urine is falling through the use of an infra-red device.Games on offer include a skiing challenge and a multiple choice pub quiz.Not only can players build-up an online score and compare their results with users across the country, they can also post their scores via their mobile phones onto Twitter and Facebook.Research by trade paper Adweek suggests that men spend on average of 55 seconds relieving themselves, which equates to nine months over the course of a lifetime. Captive Media hopes to capitalise on the time spent at urinals to encourage businesses to take advantage of the uninterrupted audience.Developer Gordon MacSween said: "It's notoriously difficult for brands to engage a young male audience whilst they're out socialising."Co-developer Mark Melford added: "It is allowing brands to really engage in a fun and memorable way."Drinkaware, a charity which promotes responsible drinking, has already signed up to the scheme, with machines up and running at the Exhibit bar in Balham, south London.It remains to be seen whether the idea will prove to be a flash in the pan or a long-term strategy for engaging with audiences while they spend a penny.
Pent-up UK demand for the new iPhone 4S meant that Apple sold more than three times as many phones in October as in any of the three previous months, eclipsing the rival Google platform, according to data from Kantar Worldpanel ComTech.Data released by the research company show Apple's iPhone took 42.8% of UK smartphone sales in October alone, ahead of all Android phones, which took 35% in the same period. The figures from ComTech also show the UK market is shifting dramatically towards smartphones: sales of smartphones grew by 43% in October, but the overall phone market dropped by 4% in October as "feature phone" sales nearly halved.Smartphones made up 69.8% of sales over the three months, meaning 44.8% of the British population now owns a smartphone. But it also leaves 29 million adults in the UK not yet using a smartphone – representing a huge opportunity for rival brands.The research company says the October boost meant that for the 12 weeks to the end of October, Apple's market share of UK smartphone sales was 27.8%, compared to 25% in the same period a year before. The Android platform continued to increase its overall lead, powering 46% of smartphones in the 12-week period, compared to 34.2% a year ago.The Guardian's calculations suggest that Apple's sales jumped nearly fourfold in October as the iPhone 4S was released. Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, complained that ahead of the launch, sales had slowed down substantially as people waited for the expected launch of the new iPhone – which many expected to be called the "iPhone 5". For those three months, ComTech's figures showed the iPhone's share of sales dropping to just 18.5%. Android phones made up 49%.Despite looking the same as the iPhone 4, which was released in summer 2010, the iPhone 4S has clearly boosted Apple's fortunes in the UK. Dominic Sunnebo, global insight director at ComTech, noted that 75% of sales of iPhones in the period went to people who already owned one – indicating strong brand loyalty among existing customers, but equally that Apple may not be growing its market as quickly as it might want, as the overall smartphone market grew faster than that 25%.The rapid expansion of Android sales suggests it is reaching new users who have not previously used the platform or even a smartphone.Other data from ComTech showed that for the three-month period, Nokia's now-deprecated Symbian OS made just 3.9% of sales, down by 10.2%, and the Windows Mobile platform – officially all but discontinued – almost vanished, making just 0.5% of sales. BlackBerry maker RIM also saw its share fall, to 19.6% from 20.9%.Microsoft's new Windows Phone platform saw a small uptick in sales, to 1% of the market from 0.2% a year ago, when it had just been launched. The ComTech figures predate the launch of Nokia's Lumia range, which are expected to boost Windows Phone's share noticeably.Sunnebo said: "The October launch of the hugely anticipated iPhone 4S has catapulted Apple into second place among operating systems based on the last 12 weeks of sales. However, if you just look at the month of October, Apple took a whopping share of all smartphone sales, giving it a significant lead over Android – a feat many thought was impossible."With nearly a year and a half between iPhone launches there has been huge pent-up demand for a new Apple device. We have previously seen that Apple customers tend to be very loyal to the brand. However, it is still astonishing that 75% of new iPhone 4S owners previously owned an iPhone. Most of these loyalists tended to own previous generation devices such as the 3G or 3GS models. However, 14% previously owned an iPhone 4, demonstrating that quite a few people bought themselves out of their contracts to get hold of the 4S. Clearly the upgraded processor, camera and unveiling of Siri assistant was enough to generate excitement among the Apple community."Sunnebo continues: "While unwavering loyalty is clearly great news for Apple, it is likely to be a relief for other smartphone operators. With Apple predominantly driving sales from within its existing customer base, it leaves the field wide open for the likes of Nokia, BlackBerry, Samsung and HTC to focus on converting the remaining 29 million adults who don't yet have a smartphone to their brand."Kantar ComTech UK smartphone sales data12 weeks to31 October 201012 weeks to3 October 201112 weeks to30 October 2011Android34.249.946iOS2518.527.8RIM20.922.519.6Symbian14.16.33.9Windows Phone 70.21.41Windows Mobile1.70.70.5Bada2.40.60.5Other1.50.10.7source: ComTech.
Sony seems keen to avoid the trap that Nintendo's 3DS fell into, with a range of launch titles for its PlayStation Vita that is long on both quality and quantity.Suggesting that the PS Vita launch on 22 February will be preceded by a considerable amount of hype, Sony has taken over what used to be the Burberry store on London's Haymarket, and turned into a giant pop-up showcase for its new handheld console.Sony Worldwide Studios' senior vice-president Michael Denny last week helmed a presentation that showcased the pick of the PS Vita's in-house launch games, as well as some of the machine's lesser-known capabilities.Essential launch titlesFrom a news point of view, the most interesting game on show was Unit 13, a hitherto unseen third-person shooter for the PS Vita being developed by Zipper Interactive.Impressive graphically, it will feature 36 missions in which you have to hunt down "High-Value Targets"; all the missions are playable co-operatively, and your performances can be used as the basis of challenges for your friends.Unit 13, a third-person shooter being developed by Zipper InteractiveDenny also unveiled MotorStorm RC, a typically anarchic MotorStorm game in which you drive a radio-controlled car, which will also be available from launch for the PS3 via the PlayStation Network. Like WipEout 2048, MotorStorm RC players will be able to take each other on whether they are playing on the PS Vita or PS3.Sony said that it would publish 11 games at launch – the three mentioned above plus Uncharted: Golden Abyss, augmented reality beat-em-up Reality Fighters, innovative puzzle collection Little Deviants, ModNation Racers, Everybody's Golf, pool game Hustle Kings and Escape Plan.The latter – a minimal but very distinctive black-and-white puzzle game – is undoubtedly the most original effort on the list. And for devoted PlayStation fans, Uncharted: Golden Abyss and WipEout 2048, both of which set new standards for graphics quality on a handheld console, will be must-buys.Third-party gamesSony also distributed a list of nearly 40 PS Vita games from third-party developers – although precisely which ones will be ready for launch currently remains a mystery.MotorStorm RC, in which you drive a radio-controlled carWe're pretty confident that Fifa 12, F1 2011, Rayman Origins, Virtua Tennis 4, Ultimate Marvel Vs Capcom, Lego Harry Potter Years 5-7, Touch My Katamari and Putty Squad Vita will be among those scrabbling for shelf-space on 22 February.All the abovementioned titles looked pretty strong. Fifa loses little in comparison with the PS3 version, at least visually, and the same could be said of Virtua Tennis 4 and F1 2011.Touch My Katamari – which works beautifully with the PS Vita's dual analogue sticks – illustrated how the PS Vita will feature a number of lesser-known franchises which nevertheless have an avid cult following among core gamers, along with the likes of Lumines, Ninja Gaiden, Super Monkey Ball, a new Oddworld game called stranger's Wrath and Shinobido 2.The PS Vita will also avail itself of made-over versions of a number of huge franchises – notably Bioshock, Assassin's Creed, Call of Duty, Ninja Gaiden, Ridge Racer, Mortal Kombat and Street Fighter X Tekken.Beyond the gamesDenny called on an army of helpers to demonstrate several of the PS Vita's more esoteric features. The one that most caught our eye was Cross-play, essentially a fancy name for the fact that some games will support cross-platform multiplay between the PS Vita and the PS3.A demo in which two PS Vita players and one person on a PS3 took part in a WipEout 2048 race against each other was impressive.Sony also told us that it is working on LittleBigPlanet's Cross-play support, with one player controlling Sackboy on a PS Vita while others, using a completely different control system, attack him from PS3s.This sounds very similar to the concept of asymmetric gameplay that Nintendo introduced to the world when it unveiled the Wii U.The PS Vita also looks set to go big on augmented reality (AR) gaming: a demo video showed that it will be able to create large-scale virtual play areas from real-world backgrounds, using up to six AR cards. Sony called this WAAR – Wide Area Augmented Reality.We also saw demos of some of the console's social networking features: Party, which brings voice or text chat with friends; Live Area, which brings games news which you can swap with friends; and Near, which lets you see what your friends in your vicinity are playing, and exchange gifts with them. The latter had a nifty radar-style interface, but none of them looked like a killer app for anyone but the most social media-obsessed.Uncharted: Golden Abyss will also be available for the PS Vita at launchRemaining questionsThe PlayStation Vita will come in two flavours in February: the base model, with built-in Wi-Fi, and a more expensive model with built-in 3G as well as Wi-Fi.They will cost £229.99 and £279.99 respectively and, from what we saw, there's no compelling argument in favour of lashing out an extra £50 on the 3G model.Sony has announced that its 3G partner will be Vodafone, so you can expect the telecoms giant to come out with some aggressive deals, no doubt involving discounts and bundles with phones, in February. But such details have yet to emerge.Another as yet unanswered question concerns the thorny issue of absorbing existing libraries of PSP games into newly-purchased PS Vitas.Off the record, Sony asserted that it will formulate some sort of deal in which proof of ownership of PSP games on UMD will enable PS Vita owners to download (often "upscaled") versions of those games for a reduced fee, although not for free. But the practicalities surrounding that exercise have yet to be firmed up, one suspects.Conditions, however, are looking good for the PS Vita launch. The hardware is beautifully designed and enthralling to use – the large screen is incredible, the dual analogue sticks give it the edge in gameplay terms over all phones and tablets, and clever features like the rear touchpad open up the prospect of truly innovative games.The launch line-up of games, too, is very impressive indeed, putting Nintendo's efforts with the 3DS to shame. The biggest proviso, though, concerns the price: £229.99 is a lot to shell out in such straitened times.But the PS Vita certainly has what it takes to rehabilitate the image of Sony handheld consoles following the debacle that was the PSP Go.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 26 NovemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (42)PC (2)Wii (2)32 (2)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)23 (4)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (32)24 (3)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (27)PC (8)35 (5)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (35)Wii (8)PSP (5)96 (–)Wwe '12(12+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (44)17 (–)Professor Layton And The Spectre's Call(7+)DS (100)18 (10)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (90)Xbox 360 (10)79 (8)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (40)510 (9)Super Mario 3d Land(3+)3DS (100)211 (11)Need For Speed: The Run(16+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (45)Wii (3)PC (1)212 (18)Moshi Monsters: Moshling Zoo (3+)DS (100)313 (20)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (100)214 (13)Lego Harry Potter: Years 5-7(7+)Wii (29)Xbox 360 (26)PS3 (18)DS (17)215 (14)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (46)Xbox 360 (34)PS3 (17)3DS (3)716 (17)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (41)PS3 (35)PC (17)617 (12)Michael Jackson: The Experience(12+)Wii (86)Xbox 360 (11)PS3 (2)DS (0)1418 (15)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (89)Xbox 360 (10)PS3 (2)3519 (7)The Legend Of Zelda: Skyward Sword(12+)Wii (100)220 (16)Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception(15+)PS3 (100)4UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
You can put cute little button eyes on an explosive device and call it a Bob-omb, but it's still going to blast you to wet, fleshy shards. The same goes for kart racers.However much the cartoonish looks and maddeningly cheerful music tells you not to take it seriously, Mario Kart will fire a red shell at your heart, destroying all your hopes and dreams and leaving a feverish desire tojust bloody beat Bowserstanding in the smouldering trash of your former life.Mario Kart 7 is MK at its charming, maddening, friendship-destroying best. It gets the balance of competition and cuteness just right: after the slightly soft racing of the Wii version, this is very close to the still-insanely-playable Mario Kart 64.Everything you want from Mario Kart is here, from Lakitu's chequered flag to the victory parade, plus a few smart additions.The biggest change to gameplay is the introduction of the gliders, adding new shortcuts and strategy to familiar courses. As your kart leaps off a ramp, a glider erupts from your pack, allowing you to cross otherwise-deadly gaps and (with a bit of mid-air manoeuvring) put just a bit more space between you and the banana-skin-chucking pack.The first time you sprout wings and fly is a genuine "Woah!" moment, followed by lots of little "Ah!" ones as you figure out how to build this new skill into your lap strategy. Unlike previous attempts to build on the basic karts (see MK Wii's motorbikes, not carried over to here), gliders are a substantial new feature with huge potential to enhance the racing skullduggery.There's even more mischief in the new weapons. Stupid exploding trick boxes have gone (hurrah!) and the remaining arsenal is supplemented with a fireflower (chucks fireballs, blows up enemies), super leaf (gives you a tanuki tail for swiping rivals and deflecting attacks), and the intimidatingly mighty lucky 7 (seven random items to be deployed at will; I got one and was so excited I immediately drove off a cliff).Multiplayer matches (both online and local) can be customised to exclude certain weapons – brilliant for when you get tired of the hateful blue shell bringing a last-second upset, or if you need protecting from your own haphazard use of greens.And if you can't get anybody to buddy up with you, it's good to know that the rubberbanding AI is properly gone. No more will Bowser mysteriously sweep up on your inside after you dumped him in a canyon two laps back.Away from the main racing, balloon battle and coin battle are both the venue for sensational viciousness, as you try to knock out opponents while preserving your own lives or scarfing up coins (depending on the mode). They're great, and added to the horrifyingly compelling time trials and covetable unlockables mean that MK7 has a huge number of gaming hours tucked away inside it.If MK7 is so brilliant, though, where's that fifth star? I'm withholding it because  the best thing you can say about this is that while it improves on a near-perfect 64-bit game, it doesn't make any major advances. The 3D is excellently done, but totally disposable (in fact, you probably will dispose of it before you get your first cup).Motion control (you can steer by lurching the 3DS to left or right) is nice, but just not as good as doing it the proper way. If this is stagnation, though, I'm happy to ride along with it, slinging out fireballs as I go.• Game reviewed on 3DS
A selection of 11 apps for you today:X is for X-RayCritically acclaimed book-app developer Touch Press (of The Elements, Solar System and The Waste Land fame) has a new iPad app out today. It focuses on the x-ray photography of Hugh Turvey, artist in residence at the British Institute of Radiology. 26 objects have their innards exposed, complete with narration from Doctor Who's Kerry Shales.iPadTraffic Panic 3DUK publisher Neon Play's latest iOS game is Traffic Panic 3D, a three-dimensional update on its previous traffic management game.iPhone / iPadRoute 66 Maps + NavigationCould augmented reality be a killer app for mobile navigation? That's the idea behind this service, which includes maps for more than 100 countries, and global weather reports thrown in for good measure.AndroidRace Of ChampionsAndroid-owning petrolheads have been getting very excited about this driving game, which puts you in a host of supercars, from the VW Scirocco to the Solution F Prototype.AndroidThe Amazing Spider-Man: An Origin StoryDisney's new Spider-Man book-app explains how Peter Parker turned into a superhero, courtesy of a radioactive spider. Spider-Man's co-creator Stan Lee provides the voice narration, with mini-games included to break up the main narrative.iPhone / iPadNext Bus UKHopping on a bus in Blighty? Next Bus UK is Windows Phone's equivalent of the various bus timetable apps on other smartphones, including live data on London buses.Windows PhoneAirDroidThis free Android app is for controlling your smartphone from a web browser – useful for transferring files from a computer, editing contacts and other tasks.AndroidWeathermobWeathermob is the latest weather app to launch on iPhone, but it has a twist: social features. The idea being that people take photos and share their own local weather with the world, as well as getting proper forecasts. An app worth watching next time we have some #uksnow...iPhoneFerry Corsten 20 YearsDJ Ferry Corsten is celebrating two decades as a dance music producer with this iPhone app, which includes a mix of 34 of his songs, along with photos and album details.iPhoneApp Hider BetaAndroid app App Hider Beta is all about, well, hiding apps. It creates a fake Stocks application, behind which can be hidden any apps you like, with a password to protect them further.AndroidDelenarTDTower defence may have started as a Flash/web gaming genre, but it has really come into its own on smartphones in the last three years. DelenarTD is a polished-looking variant for Windows Phone.Windows Phone
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamZynga's Tough Culture Risks a Talent Drain &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"Led by the hard-charging Mr. Pincus, the company operates like a federation of city-states, with autonomous teams for each game, like FarmVille and CityVille. At times, it can be a messy and ruthless war. Employees log long hours, managers relentlessly track progress, and the weak links are demoted or let go."Windows Phone Marketplace Is riding high on free content &gt;&gt; paidContentThis isn't surprising, since all the app stores rely on free apps to attract people. The more interesting element is the comparison of sizes, and particularly the most popular free app: yup, it's YouTube. Money in Google's pocket every time someone opens it.Music in the cloud: Google vs Amazon vs iTunes vs Spotify &gt;&gt; ModernMan.comQuick comparison of the four services on offer in the US.HTC: Quietly Blundering &gt;&gt; SlashGear"HTC is arguably at a disadvantage from the off in comparison with its mobility rivals. The smartphone market, outside of Apple for the most part, has become a vast game of spec-sheet bingo, with flagship, mainstream and budget products competing on how many buzzwords they can tick off. Advanced users familiar with the tech look for key features like the current generation of high-speed dualcore processors and pixel-dense displays, while the less involved can only compare long lists of checkboxes in stores to figure out which of the increasingly identikit devices is 'best.' "When your worth is the sum of your components, HTC's shortfall in manufacturing begins to drag. Samsung has a huge advantage in producing its own displays, camera modules, chipsets and memory, while LG has its NOVA display prowess. Apple has not been shy in flexing its mighty bank balance and tying up the latest and greatest in hardware for its phones and tablets." HTC, meanwhile, gets the leavings.I'm complaining, so how can the Galaxy Nexus be the best smartphone I've ever used? &gt;&gt; Chris Ziegler"If you had debuted the Galaxy Nexus in 2008, it'd be considered a perfect 10, for instance -- but today, our official review scores it "a mere" 8.6. This time next year, it could be a 7.5. Who knows? Everything is perceived in the context of current technology, of the competition, and of how heavily we've come to rely on our mobile devices. "Now that I've had the phone for about 48 hours, my opinion hasn't changed: this is the best phone I've used, period. It's a photo finish with the iPhone 4S, but I'd give the edge to the Galaxy Nexus. Most users would be delighted with either phone (excluding Android and Apple loyalists, of course)."Apple's Black Friday retail store sales were "off the charts" &gt;&gt; 9to5Mac"A source inside Apple Retail has shared with us the numbers for Apple's Black Friday sales event. Black Friday is always huge shopping day and Apple forecasted at least 4x sales for the day. However, because Apple did have the lowest prices on big ticket items like the iPad, it blew away forecasts by 7PM and unsurprisingly had its biggest sales day of all time.." The forecasts that Tim Cook made for this quarter to be a huge one for Apple are looking more and more accurate.HP Envy Design and Details &gt;&gt; YouTubeHey, look, a laptop with an aluminium chassis. And a backlit keyboard. Apparently the HP Envy is one of the designs HP is most proud of. Odd really that in this whole five-minute video nobody says "well, sure, it might look a lot like Apple's MacBook Pro, but there's a reason for that..."Copycats &gt;&gt; Matt GemmellThoughtful analysis by Matt Gemmell: "From the perspective of pure expediency (convenience regardless of morality), copying makes a hell of a lot of sense. We've all been tempted. Aside from potential legal vulnerability, what's the down-side? I'll tell you, even though it's something you already know. Here's the incredibly obvious truth: "Copies never, ever achieve the success of the thing they copied." He also points out various other problems that it leads to.Dell apologises for misleading graphics card advice &gt;&gt; PC Pro"Dell has apologised for misleading customers after PC Pro highlighted a Help page on the company's website that exaggerated the benefits of a high-end graphics card. "The Dell website showed two identical monitors, the one on the left allegedly using a 'standard graphics card' and the other a 'high-end graphics card'. "The monitor with the lesser graphics chip showed a blurry, washed-out image of the Windows desktop, with the more expensive card delivering a sharper, more vivid picture." So how should Dell have illustrated the better-quality graphics card option?The rise of Digital Civilizations will define our post-PC future &gt;&gt; Ian FoggSuggests that Apple, Microsoft, Facebook, Google, Amazon are all trying to create their own (interlocking?) digital civilisations, and that that's the best way to think of how to get along in the future. It all begins to sound a bit like the boring bit at the start of Star Wars: Phantom Menace if you let it wash over you, but this is not a film.The Rise and Fall of Bitcoin &gt;&gt; WiredYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A lovely cold Monday morning! Grab a coffee then tell us what you were playing over the weekend.
Police in the Philippines working with the US Federal Bureau of Investigation have arrested four people over a premium-line phone scam that targeted customers of the American telecommunications giant AT&amp;T to funnel money to a Saudi-based militant group.The four arrested last Wednesday in Manila were paid by the same group that the FBI accuses of having funded theNovember 2008 attacks in Mumbai, the Philippines' Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (CIDG) said.The hacking activity resulted in AT&amp;T incurring almost $2m (£1.3) in losses, the CIDG said.The Philippines police said money from the scams was diverted to accounts of a Saudi-based group that was not identified. India blames Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba for carrying out the attacks in Mumbai that killed 166 people.FBI spokeswoman Jenny Shearer said hackers targeted customers of AT&amp;T, not the carrier itself.Though the FBI declined to give official details of how the group took the money, one person familiar with the situation said that the hackers broke into the phone systems of some AT&amp;T customers and made calls to international premium-rate services whose payments would be diverted.Such scams are relatively common, often involving bogus premium-service phone lines set up across Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia. Fraudsters make calls to the numbers from hacked business phone systems or mobile phones, then collect their cash and move on before the activity is identified. Telecommunications carriers often end up footing the bill for the charges.Jan Rasmussen, a spokeswoman for AT&amp;T, said it wrote off some fraudulent charges that appeared on customer bills. She declined to elaborate or comment on the $2m figure.Earlier last week, AT&amp;T said it was investigating an attempt to access customer information but did not believe any accounts had been breached.The CIDG said the FBI sought the help of itsAnti-Transnational and Cyber Crime Division(ATCCD) in March after it found the Saudi-based group had targeted AT&amp;T using the hackers.Among the four people arrested was Paul Michael Kwan, 29, whom ATCCD chief Police Senior Superintendent Gilbert Sosa said had been arrested in 2007 after the FBI began an international crackdown on groups suspected of financing militant activities.Sosa said the Filipinos were being paid by a group originally run by Muhammad Zamir, a Pakistani arrested in Italy in 2007. He said Zamir was a member of Jemaah Islamiah, a Southeast Asian militant network with links to al Qaeda."Zamir's group, later tagged by the FBI to be the financial source of the terrorist attack in Mumbai, India, on November 26, 2008, is also the same group that paid Kwan's group of hackers in Manila," Sosa said in the statement.Last month, Philippine police said weak laws against cybercrime and poor technical capabilities had made the country an attractive base for organised crime syndicates involved in cyber pornography, cyber sex dens, illegal gambling, credit card fraud and identity theft.One of the biggest worms to affect Windows computers, called"Love Bug", is believed to have been written by a Philippines resident, who despite being identified wasnever prosecutedbecause there were then no laws against unleashing the harmful code.
The Taiwanese technology company HTC faces the bleak prospect of seeing sales of all its smartphones blocked from sale in Germany during the crucial Christmas period, after it withdrew its objections to a patent claim won by the German firmIPComin February 2009 in a Mannheim court.HTC's appeal against the 2009 decision was due to be decided on this week. Its withdrawal means that the fourth-largest smartphone maker in the world could see its sales halted in the country. IPCom said in a statement that it "now intends to execute this injunction in the shortest possible time" and that: "We will use the right awarded by the courts, likely resulting in HTC devices disappearing from shops during the crucial Christmas season."The announcement comes just weeks after HTC warned that its revenues could fall by much more the 8% in this quarter compared to the third quarter due to intensifying competition in the smartphone market from Samsung and Apple at the high end, and Chinese mainland companies at the low end.To some, it indicates that the company faces a serious challenge to its future growth. HTC claimed that its appeal would have been redundant, as a German patent court has questioned the validity of the patent in the 2009 decision.IPCom acquired Bosch's mobile telephony patent portfolio, created between the mid-1980s and 2000, which includes about 160 patent families worldwide, including some of the key patents in the wireless industry – such as "patent 100", which standardises a mobile phone's first connection to a network. IPCom has battled for years against HTC and the giant Finnish mobile company Nokia in European courts.Analysts and lawyers said HTC's withdrawal gives it time to battle against two other patents which could have been decided upon next week, while it can still try to delay the original injunction. However, the German patent expert and blogger Florian Müller said that "while HTC can try to oppose the enforcement of the injunction, my research shows that the odds are very long against HTC on this one".The sales disruption in Germany, one of Europe's largest smartphone markets – but where penetration is still only around 30%, indicating huge potential for growth – comes at a time when HTC is struggling to hold on to its position on the smartphone market."This represents an unwelcome distraction during an already difficult quarter for HTC," said CCS Insight analyst Geoff Blaber.Late last month, HTC warned that revenue would fall by up to 8% in October-December from the third quarter, and this week it flagged a much bigger drop, citing tougher competition and the global downturn. HTC's stock has fallen 30% in eight straight trading days.With Nokia's fall from market dominance still fresh in the memory, and BlackBerry maker Research in Motion losing ground, HTC needs to recapture its innovative drive to make sure it maintains its position, say analysts."It won't be easy for HTC to get out of the mess it's in right now," said Simon Liu, deputy investment officer at Polaris Group's fund unit. "Still, it's not the end of HTC. It's certainly not another Nokia. Nokia missed out on the smartphone market from the very beginning, and didn't develop applications as well as Apple."For a decade, Taiwan's HTC quietly made phones for others to sell, but then decided to push its own brand in late 2006. In the year to April, its shares more than tripled after its innovative designs played well with shoppers.Sales of phone models including Desire, Sensation, Wildfire, Rhyme and ChaCha grew fourfold in just 18 months, and in the third quarter of this year it sold more smartphones in the US than any of its rivals.But its cracking performance is sputtering as it fails to bring out new products to rival the iPhone and Samsung's Galaxy in the high-end smartphone market.Closer to home, China's ZTE and Huawei Technologies Co are turning out smartphones that sell for as little as $100 (£65) to target the low end of the business, a fast-growth market that HTC so far has largely avoided."It lacks a star smartphone," said CK Lu, an analyst with research firm Gartner in Taipei. "If you put HTC phones all in a line, you won't be able to differentiate the products too clearly, unlike Samsung's Galaxy 2 or the iPhone. In China, for example, consumers won't be able to differentiate HTC phones from a slew of others, such as the China-made ones, and that's where HTC is facing some problems."HTC, valued at around $14bn, saw a bigger buildup of unsold inventory than rivals in the third quarter, a portent of weak sales in the crucial year-end holiday season."Aside from rising competition from Apple and Samsung in the high-end market, aggressive price competition from Huawei and ZTE at the lower-end could put further pressure on HTC's margin," said Laura Chen, analyst at BNP Paribas. "We believe HTC is reviewing its product roadmap to regain market share in 2012. However, most of its new products are to be launched only late in the first quarter."HTC is also re-evaluating its $300m acquisition of S3 Graphics after the graphics technology firm lost a legal battle in the US against Apple, which raises the spectre that HTC products could be banned from the US – where it earns half its revenue. HTC had planned to buy S3 to beef up its defences in its own separate lawsuit battle with Apple."Winning the lawsuit has made it possible for Apple to squeeze HTC by the neck in future," said Liu at Polaris.HTC was the company that infuriated Steve Jobs, Apple's late co-founder and chief executive, when in January 2010 it introduced an Android phone that he alleged assimilated a number of iPhone features. On seeing it he told Eric Schmidt, then chief executive of Google, thathe would try to wipe out Android. However the iPCom lawsuit has been running since long before that, and there is no indication that Apple was involved in its inception.HTC's shares are down more than 60% in six months, making it the worst performer among major handset firms, along with RIM. Shares in LG Electronics are down 36% and Nokia 29%. Samsung and Apple both rose around 9% in that period.Five analysts now have "sell" ratings on HTC, up from two just a month ago. The number of "buy" recommendations has dropped to nine from 13, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. HTC shares fell by the most allowed in one day last Friday, dropping nearly 7% for a second consecutive session.The company, which had 10.8% global market share in the third quarter, sold only 1m more phones than RIM, and its market share gap with bigger rivals is expected to widen as Nokia fights back with its firstWindows Phone-based models."HTC hasn't offered enough new models, and hasn't been aggressive in its pricing strategy," Barclays analyst Dale Gai wrote in a client note. "We believe Samsung leads HTC in most high-end models, including LTE phones, where HTC has failed to compete on form factor."Gartner's Lu, however, sees little risk of HTC going the way of Nokia."Basically, HTC is on the right track, but it will take time for its brand- and retail-building. It's in way better shape than LG, RIM and Motorola. But it's true it's not as competitive as Apple or Samsung."Annie Lu, a spokeswoman for HTC, said the company remained confident about driving new technologies. "HTC has a strong and complete portfolio in both high-end/premium and mass market high quality products," she told Reuters."With our US operator partners, we have launched premium products such as HTC Rezound (with Verizon Wireless) and HTC Vivid (with AT&amp;T), with high customer satisfaction ratings. In the mass market sector, HTC Wildfire has been a big hit this year, and we expect strong sales with the HTC Explorer launch."
Age:Six.Appearance:An inbox clogged with purchase confirmation emails.Sounds grisly. What is it?It's the busiest day of the year for online shoppers.And when is it?That depends.On what?Who you ask. Some people think it's today. Others think it was a week ago.I'm asking you. Which is it?Probably neither. In the UK, at least according to predictions from major online retailers including eBay, Amazon and John Lewis, Cyber Monday is almost certainly 5 December. Past sales figures suggest the same: last year, British shoppers bought £350m of gifts online&nbsp;on the first Monday in December, and spent over £1m in a single minute at lunchtime. Although that may just have been one incredibly wealthy mum.Like that one in the Littlewoods ad?Probably her, yep.How come we do so much of our online shopping at Monday lunchtime?Theories abound.Such as?Because we've just been paid; because shopping at work makes it easier to avoid the prying eyes of kids and partners; because the internet in our offices tends to be faster and more reliable than at home; because, having eyed up our intended pressies on the high street over the weekend, we head online to find them all going cheap; and because there's nothing else to do at work on a Monday.And because a lot of us still secretly believe that the internet's closed on Sundays?And that, yes.Is there a risk of our gifts not arriving if we don't get in before Cyber Monday?Probably not, although a lot of people had bad experiences with snow last year, part of the reason some analysts predict an early peak in online sales this time.Still, it's best to get our online shopping in before the rush, surely?Well, even on Cyber Monday, you are unlikely to encounter too many&nbsp;queues.Yes, I realise that, thanks.It's always best to check with you.Not to be confused with:Cyborg&nbsp;Monday.
Apple is designing a television that you can shout and gesticulate at – and it will understand you.Having revolutionised the music and mobile phone industries with its iPod and iPhone, the company is planning an "iTV" to turn couch surfing into a hi-tech experience.The Japanese firm Sharp has been asked to begin commercial production of Apple TV screens in February, with the sets available in the second half of 2012, according to analyst Peter Misek at the American bank Jefferies."Other TV manufacturers have begun a scrambling search to identify what iTV will be and do," Misek claimed. "They hope to avoid the fate of other industries and manufacturers who were caught flat-footed by Apple."An internet-connected TV offering seamless links to cloud services to download films – as well as a new level of interactivity – could threaten other manufacturers as well as taking viewers away from pay-TV giants such as BSkyB. Senior engineer Jeff Robbin, who built the iTunes service and helped to create the iPod, is reported to be overseeing the project. Speculation reached new heights when the TV project was mentioned in a biography published soon after the death of Apple's founder Steve Jobs last month.Jobs told his biographer: "I'd like to create an integrated television set that is completely easy to use. It would be seamlessly synced with all of your devices and with iCloud. It will have the simplest user interface you could imagine. I finally cracked it."In October the US patent office published a filing by Apple for "real time video process control using gestures", which describes using infrared, motion and other sensors to read the user's movements. Gestures could edit video, or "throw" it from one device to another, say to transfer a film from a mobile phone to a bigger screen.The patents mention facial recognition, to tag individuals within videos so that home videos can be grouped according to who features in them. This autumn the iPhone was updated with a highly accurate voice control application called Siri, and some observers believe it will feature on the TV sets.What sounds like science fiction is already in use by niche products. Chinese manufacturer Hisense unveiled an internet TV last month which runs on Google's Android software and allows the viewer to issue commands with a wave of the hand.Microsoft's Kinect, which links to the Xbox games console to TV sets, acts as a digital video recorder and reads voice and gesture commands. Users can rewind, fast forward, call up menus, or select games and channels without having to find the remote control.Thanks to four microphones, it separates the user's voice from other noises in the room and users must say "Xbox" before speaking a command.The venture is a risky one for Apple, whose previous foray into the world of television resulted in a rare failure. Apple TV, introduced in 2007, is a box that can store video and connect the TV to the internet or to the laptop to view photos. However, its latest model is thought to have sold no more than 2m units, compared to 40m iPads since March 2010.Apple TV already incorporates some gesture commands, using the iPhone as a remote: users can flick it left or right or drag two fingers across its screen to fast forward or rewind, and tap to play.Misek says the iTV could have an initial production run of 5m to 10m units, and will use liquid crystal displays. The company declined to comment.Apple has taken over an entire Sharp factory to make its latest generations of phones and tablet computers, which will appear next year with brighter, less battery-draining screens. It is estimated to have spent $500m to $1bn buying manufacturing equipment for the plant, and retooling of a production line is believed to be under way to produce TV screens.Technology researcher Benedict Evans at Enders Analysis was sceptical about revolutionary an iTV could be. He said that accidental gestures could disrupt viewing, adding: "It would be like sitting in Sothebys and desperately not moving so you don't accidentally make a bid for £10m."The project will open a new front in Apple's battle with the South Korean consumer electronics giant Samsung, which already makes internet-connected TV sets and has been competing against the US group to produce high-end tablet computers and smartphones. The two are locked in an international patent disputes, with some 20 court cases around the world.
For all the hullabaloo surrounding the "mobile gaming revolution" there are few games that really tailor themselves well to the medium. Point and click and tower defence games are obvious fits for touch-screens, but the more popular genres, specifically shoot-'em-ups, have struggled – tacking on glitchy joysticks and buttons that obscure the on-screen action. So it's nice to see Shortround construct a title from the ground up, withExtraction: Project Outbreak(App Store, iPhone, 69p, Shortround) reaping the benefit.A top-down shooter, reminiscent of the classicCannon Fodder, you control a single mercenary flung into a war-torn land, filled with genetically altered prisoners now resembling that gaming stable, the zombie. The controls are flawless: tap on the screen to move, swipe over enemies to select targets – rubbing over multiple foes will chain up attacks allowing you to gain greater XP, which can be used to upgrade and buy new weapons. It's a combat system that the developer is rightly proud of: the ability to play with just one finger.Given the care that's gone into the controls, it's a relief that the visuals are a match, with excellent detail in the backgrounds. The different mission types do get a bit samey – protect scientist, escort solider, build turret gun – but it's addictively bite-size and the desire to max out all the weapons will keep you glued to your phone.
TheSaints Row series is the product of&nbsp;the realisation that, for allGrand Theft Auto's commendable aspirations&nbsp;to Hollywood levels of storytelling and characterisation, the vast majority of players are merely in it&nbsp;for the mayhem. There's a story here,&nbsp;but it takes a back seat&nbsp;to wanton, over-the-top destruction.Player avatars are fully customisable.&nbsp;Fancy playing as the Incredible Hulk with a cockney accent? A stark-naked Latina with the&nbsp;controversial bits blurred out and the voice of a zombie? Hitler in a gimp suit? It's up to you.On top of that&nbsp;are hundreds of vehicles, weapons,&nbsp;upgrades and activities including base-jumping and insurance fraud, in&nbsp;which you throw yourself in front of traffic and manipulate ragdoll physics to maximise your payout. It's&nbsp;gleefully puerile and&nbsp;offensive at every turn and, at times, a technical mess, but this is the year's most generous toybox.
Every time a new Nintendo system appears, the man burdened with the responsibility of proving its worth is Mario. Over the years, he has almost always delivered, blessing new hand-helds and consoles with brilliant ideas and dazzling design flourishes. And here he is again, stepping up to the task of showing the world that the Nintendo 3DS is a device worth its salt.With the hand-held's 3D ability, this is a game rooted heavily in the third dimension, but in spirit and design it feels closer to Mario's 2D heritage than any of his previous dalliances with the Z-axis. Neatly linear levels wind tightly through confined spaces as Mario does what he likes best: leaping through intricate landscapes built from the clouds, pipes, ledges and boxes.As3D Landopens, though, it seems to make a few too many concessions to inexperienced gamers. The levels will feel very familiar to Mario stalwarts and the difficulty bar is set extremely low for a series famed for its toughness. The many secrets typical of earlier Mario games are also too few in number and, before you know it, in a flash3D Land's apparent end is in sight.But then something wonderful happens. At the precise moment you think Mario may be about to whimper over the finish line, the game suddenly unfolds into a magical smorgasbord of delightful and original ideas. A mass of new levels of a far higher quality and difficulty is revealed and it turns out that the end is just the beginning. Quickly, Mario hits you with everything that has made him such a gaming celebrity over the years, making it a far tougher, more satisfying challenge.Overall, a new emphasis on shorter, bite-sized levels certainly fits the hand-held format well and in places the 3DS's unique abilities are well harnessed. It's hard to pardon3D&nbsp;Land's excessively gentle, frustrating start but, while this is certainly not the best Mario series ever offered, it does the job.Everyone's favourite plumber's newest adventure works as a fine piece of entertainment – and one that significantly increases the 3DS's desirability and relevance.
I am not what you might call a petrolhead. I got that out of my system decades ago by owning a 3.8-litre Mk II Jaguar – until the quadrupling of oil prices in 1973 cured me of the habit. As a result,Top Gearand similar TV programmes tend to pass me by. So it was just idle curiosity that led me to tune intoHow to Build a Super Caron BBC2. Since McLaren is a Formula One racing team, I assumed that the show would be about how it designs and builds motorised chariots for the likes of Jenson Button.How wrong can you be? It turns out that McLaren is going into the luxury car business and the programme described how it has gone about designing and building its MP4-12C "supercar", a vehicle aimed squarely at millionaires with a death wish. That is to say, it retails at around £175,000, can do more than 200mph and goes from zero to 124mph in "less than 10 seconds". Anyone desiring more acceleration should look on eBay for a used F-16 fighter jet with one careful military owner.McLaren hopes to sell 1,000 of these cars a year and has built a£50m factoryin Woking to manufacture them. The TV programme provided a riveting insight into how such an advanced product is made, starting with a frame (called for some reason a "tub") made by baking a secret mixture of carbon fibre composite materials in what appeared to be a large oven. The finished tub weighs in at only 80kg, which gives it a strength-to-weight ratio hitherto available only in sci-fi movies. But it was just the opening chapter in an extraordinary story.The film provided a series of startling insights into contemporary high-technology manufacturing. These included the fanatical attention to detail required for high-precision manufacturing, the astonishingesprit de corpsthat characterises the people who make the cars, and the mind-blowing cleanliness of the factory in which they work. The company even prescribes the deodorants allowed to personnel who work in the paint shop, because molecules from some personal hygiene products can contaminate the paint – which lends an added frisson to Thomas Edison's observation about genius being 1% inspiration and 99% perspiration.For me, though, the most extraordinary moment came when a team of three men began fitting the car with its electronics. The MP4-12C has several kilometres of cabling, with a central nervous system consisting of a spine of woven wiring which looked at least two inches in diameter.This, one thought, must be what a rat's nest looks like and it made one wonder if that is really the best way of passing data round a 200mph local area network. In the computer industry, cable weave was once the way of doing that job, but the rat's nest eventually gave way to an Ethernet cable. It was strange to see the intrusion of analogue technology into a product as advanced as the MP4-12C, but I guess McLaren's engineers know what they're doing.Once upon a time, car manufacture was all about heavy engineering – steel mills, metal presses, drop forges and lots of hammering and banging and generally forcing unyielding materials into curved shapes. But that was before electronics got in on the act. The proportion of digital technology in cars has been increasing steadily for years. It started with "engine management units" – black boxes whose internal programs determine how an engine performs – and moved on to the transmission system, chassis sensors and thence to braking systems (eg anti-lock braking), what is euphemistically called "driver assistance", passenger comfort (eg climate control) and information/entertainment systems.The result is that electronics account for an increasing proportion of automobile production costs. They now account for 10% to 15% of the production cost of a compact car such as the Toyota Corolla. The proportion goes up to 20% to 30% for a Lexus and to around 50% for a hybrid electric vehicle such as the Toyota Prius. The industry expects that, overall, electronics component costs will soon account for 40% of the cost of the average car and by 2015 will comprise themajority of materials/components costs.The implications of this are intriguing. Garages will become as spotless as operating theatres. Car mechanics will have to become skilled debuggers of engine management units. Hot rodders who want to impress their girlfriends will have to learn about embedded Linux in order to retune their engines. Expecting the AA or RAC to be able to perform a roadside repair will become a futile aspiration. And so on.The only consolation will be that owners of McLaren supercars will have the same problems.
All eyes last week were on the Leveson inquiry and the public spectacle of the press finally eating itself. Cameras focused on the notable figures involved as they arrived to give evidence against an unscrupulous fourth estate and its unethical practices.This modern-day witch-hunt, tipped off by the phone-hacking scandal that rocked Rupert Murdoch's media empire, has also revealed much about the UK's attitudes towards privacy. When dodgy reporting practices resulted in juicy titbits about celebrities being printed there was largely indifference. Only when tenacious investigation byGuardianjournalist Nick Davies uncovered a breach in our unspoken national ethical code – which, crucially, affected regular folk like us – did people begin to take&nbsp;action.What I find most fascinating, though, is how the dealings of the tabloid media have diverted attention from another, endemic evolution in our attitudes to privacy – the one that's happening online. The horror that many people express about the behind-the-scenes operations of the Murdoch empire and Fleet Street shows the level of faith that readers once had in newspapers. Aren't the people in charge of journalism supposed to have our best interests at&nbsp;heart?Here's a thought: online, there's no one to watch over us. We are responsible for watching one another. And we're doing it constantly. And we have a much more fertile ground to observe because no one needs to dig: we are giving more and more information away – willingly. In the virtual world, ideas about privacy are changing at the ground level and what we do online will have a greater impact upon future privacy laws than any legislation that results from the current offline inquiry.Most people have a story to tell about the moment they discovered how easy it is to give out or access personal information online: they accidentally hit "send" on an email or instant message; they made a private tweet public; they discovered a photo of themselves tagged on a social networking site. Or they did an ego search on Google and discovered how much the rest of the world was able to see about them. This, I believe, is a new kind of global, hyper‑mediated learning experience, a part of becoming a resident of the modern&nbsp;world.The 2009 studyFacebook and Online Privacy: Attitudes, Behaviors, and Unintended Consequencesfound that we share information with one another online in an effort to make connections across virtuality, reciprocating for the abundance of information that we perceive is being&nbsp;divulged.But not all the information about us online has been consciously shared: our mobile phone numbers may appear online because a friend has decided to update their Facebook profile with their own number and details about everyone in their address book also end up in the public network's database. Our search histories are de-anonymised and analysed, giving precise details of where we are, who we are and what we want. Our public and private online profiles cross-pollinate between networks as databases are sold to the highest&nbsp;bidder.The internet complicates and obscures matters: people are not always aware that what they say and do in virtuality – whether in a so-called private community or in an explicitly public one – is recorded and retained, because their interaction with the computer itself is intimate – them and the machine. It feels private; the networks in which they interact feel closed. And so they're more inclined to share without much resistance.But contrary to the speech in which Facebook founderMark Zuckerberg declared privacy in the age of social networking "dead", research by Alan Westin at Columbia University says that our views on privacy remain based on the cultural and personal. Do you live in an authoritarian or democratic regime? How much social legitimacy can you claim on the basis of your wealth, race and status? Where are you in your lifespan, your life circumstances, your personal context? The answers to these questions shape our views around privacy.We may share more information online, and it may be accessible to more people, but for the moment, the mechanics and function of privacy remain bound by the same ethical questions that have brought about the Leveson inquiry. How we negotiate the amount of information we're happy to share in the computer-mediated environment is still unknown. Who watches us watching one another is still up for grabs.
This is the third outing for the top-hatted Layton, who, with his gentle manner&nbsp;and power of lateral thinking, is like a Sherlock Holmes for the under-12s. As ever, the meat of the game is provided by the puzzles the professor encounters, ranging from shape-sorting and algebraic problems&nbsp;to devious observational posers.Belying&nbsp;the friendly presentation, these&nbsp;can be seriously challenging – the&nbsp;difficulty ranging from "spiky" to&nbsp;"sod it, that's just impossible".&nbsp;Luckily, on hand to soothe flustered minds between mental workouts are the warm and stylish anime cutscenes, complete with the professor's calming, authoritative voice, which guide the&nbsp;story to a town in crisis and beset&nbsp;by a towering spectre.In truth, the two sides of the game barely connect, which in effect leaves you watching a charming animated movie that pauses regularly (and at the slightest invitation – everyone, it seems, has a puzzle in their pocket) to tease your brain.
Some of the secret technologies created at the government's eavesdropping centre GCHQ are to be offered to private industry as part of cyber security strategy unveiled by ministers on Friday.The plans could lead to the government being paid substantial sums for software developed by the intelligence agency at Cheltenham. Ministers argue GCHQ's main priority will remain national security and the agency has insisted it will not be side-tracked.However, the new cyber strategy makes clear that better co-operation is needed between the public and private sectors to face the dangers posed by espionage and crime on the web.The plans aim to show how the government is going to spend some of the£650m it set aside for cyber security in last year's strategic defence and security review.GCHQ is to get a huge increase in funding, and the Ministry of Defence will benefit too. The ideas in the strategy include:• Creating within two years a cyber crime unit within the National Crime Agency that will take the lead in the most serious fraud and theft cases.• Sending guidelines to courts and police highlighting the extra powers now available to them. They include using orders which ban criminals from owning more than one mobile phone, limiting them to one email address and restricting internet access.  Courts can also order people to stop using instant messaging.• Encouraging all police forces to recruit more so-called cyber specials – part-time officers who are experts in computing.• Creating a cyber defence operations group at the MoD, which will be overseen by Air Marshal Sir Stuart Peach, head of the new Joint Forces Command. His job will be to develop "new tactics, techniques and military cyber capabilities". This will include offensive as well as defensive capabilities.The government has also pledged to do more to raise public awareness by revamping theGet Safe Online website. It will also push software manufacturers to agree to a kitemark safety system.The cyber strategy is the second since 2009 and is designed to bolster defences against the growing menace of theft, fraud and espionage online.The Cabinet Office insisted that GCHQ would not be opening a commercial arm. The minister for cyber security, Francis Maude, said: "The strategy heralds a new era of unprecedented co-operation between the government and industry on cyber security, working hand in hand to make the UK one of the most secure places in the world to do business."Though government departments are bombarded with malicious emails, and are frequently targeted for attack, almost all of the most serious cases of cyber theft are against companies and banks – but they prefer not to publicise such incidents because of the potential damage to their reputation and share price.Ministers believe that one way to stop or deter criminal networks from attempting to steal intellectual property is for firms to work with specialists at GCHQ. The co-operation will be in confidence, though that will raise questions about transparency with their customers.Fifteen companies, including Barclays, BT, Vodafone and Centrica, have been working to develop a pilot scheme which will start next month. This will involve some of the blue-chip firms across defence, energy, finance and pharmaceuticals, sharing information with GCHQ on a formal basis."We will create a hub with GCHQ in the middle of it," said a Whitehall source. "This has to be a trusted environment where intelligence can be shared in confidence. GCHQ will act as the clearing house."In turn, GCHQ is to offer to firms some of the expertise it has developed in-house. "There may well be things developed by GCHQ that could be used for commercial purposes," said the source. "Up until now, some of the clever things that have been developed have just sat on a shelf. GCHQ may not know how to use it, but private companies may be able to."Ministers have looked at the US firm,In-Q-Tel, which is funded by the CIA to help government and industry. Set up 13 years ago, it is a not-for-profit venture that has provided technology to firms such as Google, and made millions of dollars for the US government.
Rayman OriginsPlayStation 3, Wii, Xbox 360Rayman is Ubisoft's unlikely answer to Mario; a loose-limbed bandana-wearing creature that hops on enemies' heads, is mute and has hair that can be used as a helicopter. After relatively undistinguished outings over the years, it's a joyous surprise to discover that Rayman Origins is in fact absolutely superb. Oozing warm Gallic charm and featuring a rich level of insanity throughout, your fight to collect Lums and free Electoons is played out against a series of lusciously illustrated 2D backdrops. Fans of early Sonic The Hedgehog (before his name became a watchword forgrinding, soulless cash-ins) will find his spirit unofficially reignited here in a fast, amusing and stylish cartoon flutter through platform worlds.Ubisoft, £39.99-£49.99Need For Speed: The RunPC, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, WiiNeed for Speed: The Run. Photo: PRYou and 199 other illegal street-racing daredevils are in a non-stop race from San Francisco to New York. In real life that would mean long days at the wheel, stopping occasionally to shovel down fried food and sleep. The Run dramatises the process significantly, but between its oddly floaty car handling, brief but ill-advised on-foot sections and the fact that the race takes less than five hours, the result is something of passing mediocrity, which despite its good looks will leave you feeling shortchanged.Electronic Arts, £29.99-£49.99Saints Row: The ThirdPC, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360Saints Row: The Third. Photo: PRYour formerly humble street gang has morphed into a global media brand, squandering innumerable opportunities for satire in the process and continuing to shamelessly rip off Grand Theft Auto. And like the person at a party who tells you they're "a bit crazy" before demonstrating their humdrum normality, Saints Row: The Third is so desperate not to be taken seriously that it somehow comes full circle, leaving you with a collection of supposedly comedy gangsters who hijack cars and shoot people. There are moments of destructive joy to be had but the action's clunkiness undermines the fun.THQ, £39.99-£49.99Games newsWWE 12. Photo: PRThe pre-Christmas titles keep coming:WWE 12for fans of the mystifying muscle ballet that is American wrestling, this time promising to penalise players who make cowardly re-use of single moves;Professor Layton And The Spectre's Call, giving you a slew of more simple brainteasers, backed up by delightfully old-school artwork and an appeal that defies anyone to dislike it;Batman: Arkham Cityfinally shuffles its way on to PC after spectacular autumn success on consoles;Move Fitness, for anyone owning Sony's Wii-alike wands and wanting to fool themselves into thinking they might actually be able to shed a couple of kilos before their month long Christmas binge;Sonic Generationsis a compilation of Sonic's best bits over the years and manages to be nowhere near as dreadful as recent efforts andABBA: You Can Danceensures the party season will be well stocked with people humiliating themselves to the sound of 70s Sweden.
A quick one to think about while you work through the next couple of paragraphs: in August, Apple's share of the western European tablet market was estimated at 75.69%. Then the overall market grew by 20%. In September, Apple's share of the western European tablet was estimated to have fallen to 67.34%.So: did Apple's actual tablet sales grow or shrink in Europe?While you ponder that one (the answer's coming later), here's some data from Context, a European IT market research firm: in August, 7in tablets accounted for just 2% of sales volume in western Europe.Two. Per. Cent. That's the market share for tablets including the RIM PlayBook and… all those other 7in tablets. Context says that's "more a comment on the appeal of current 7in tablets".Which arithmetically leaves the other 98% to tablets above it in size – most likely around the 10in mark.In fact according to Context the best-selling non-Apple tablets in the August and September period in Europe were the HP TouchPad (unsurprising, given its £99 fire sale price), the Asus Transformer and Acer Iconia Tab.Once the TouchPad was gone (i.e. September), the Transformer and the iconia Tab remained the most popular when you exclude the iPad, according to Context.This came in a press release which was headlined "Consumers hungry for non-Apple tablets".That would certainly be interesting: consumers turning away from Apple's iPad, which dominated the tablet sector in 2010? Let's have a look.But hang on – why did Context exclude the iPad? In fact on looking at the initial release, it doesn't have any figures about the iPad at all.It's reminiscent of how in the US,NPD Group issued a rather weird press releaseearlier this week, in which it talked about "the tablet marketapartfrom the iPad" (emphasis added). It also included the intriguing sentence, ascribed to Stephen Baker, VP of industry analysis at NPD, saying: "According to NPD's Consumer Tracking Service, 76% of consumers who purchased a non-Apple tablet didn't even consider the iPad, an indication that a large group of consumers are looking for alternatives, and an opportunity for the rest of the market to grow their business."We learnt from NPD – which looked at actual shipments, rather than sales – that US tablet sales "excluding iPad sales" from January through to October totalled 1.2m units, which brought in $415m (average selling price: $346).Ten months? 1.2m sold? That's an average of 120,000 per month, or about 4,800 per working day (since NPD measures retail) across the whole of the US. The US is a very big country.But wait a minute. Lest we forget, NPD's study ignores the iPad, which asJohn Gruber pointed outprobably sold about 10m units in the US during the same period, which would give it an 89% share.In the NPD report, the biggest sellers were the TouchPad (17% of those 1.2m sales: that's 204,000 units in total), followed by Samsung (16%, 192,000 units), Asus (10%, 120,000 units), Motorola (9%, 108,000) and Acer (9%, 108,000).(Interesting to compare that Motorola 108,000 to thetotal number shipped, which we found out earlier was 790,000 in all. Of course some of those – half? – would have been shipped outside the US. On that basis, as few as a quarter of the Xooms it made for the US market actually sold.)Why does NPD ignore the iPad, though? It's the tablet that is actually selling well. Comparatively well. And as Gruber also points out, the whole "76% of consumers who purchased a non-Apple tablet didn't even consider the iPad" is a meaningless statement until you know how many consumersdidbuy an iPad. Then you find that it's 76% of 11%, or 8.3%. Which means that even among the people who bought a TouchPad, at least half considered the iPad first.[Clarification: the above reference to TouchPad buyers wasn't meant to suggest that only TouchPad buyers didn't consider iPads; only to give a picture of how comparatively small the number of people who didn't consider the iPad is. I've also asked NPD for clarification about how its figure was reached, and what the margin of error was, assuming it's based on a sample.]Clearly, people in the US who buy tablets tend to consider the iPad in their purchasing decision.Context also didn't give figures for the iPad; something that I thought was peculiar. So why, I asked a Context representative, didn't its data talk about the iPad?"Getting accurate data on Apple is challenging," they explained. "This is due to Apple being cagey about their data to be seen in the market, apart from what they tell the market themselves. So, while most research companies including Context can report on what they see flowing through the channels they monitor, sales going through Apple stores for example is data that Apple does not reveal."In other words: Context – and NPD, which looks at retail channels – can't see far enough inside Apple's retail chain to know how many iPads are selling. That's a problem, obviously, for a retail analysis company. Andnobodyseems to have bothered toask NPD about how many iPads it thinks were sold. (I've dropped them an email, but suspect they're closed for Thanksgiving.) On that basis, Gruber's estimate – which gives Apple 89% of the US market, where it tends to dominate – is probably close enough.And now we turn to western Europe and Context, where as we saw, initially all we had to go on was some market share and growth figures.So: 75.69% of the market in August (say, for simplicity, it's a market of 1m, though the actual figure is different) goes to 67.34% of September, with a market up 20% (say, to 1.2m. Bigger or smaller numbers?Bigger: 67.34 x 1.2 = 80.81.So Context is telling us that Apple sold more tablets in western Europe in September.Well, why not say so?Perhaps because there's a feeling that telling the same story – "Apple still dominates tablet market" – is a bit boring for them to put out on press releases. But this also leads to the faintly misleading releases that don't actually reflect how the market actually is. Which, at the moment (as has been said before) is much more like the iPod market, where Apple dominated for years with a market share above 60%, than the smartphone market, where Apple is one among many players, with no single vendor dominating. (Android dominates at present, butno single vendor has more than 20%).With some prodding, Context did come up with some other data: "Quarter on quarter, Apple sales were up from 2.46m units in Western Europe to 2.99m units. (Q2 vs Q3). The overall tablet market (incl. Apple) in Q2 was 3.16m units and in Q3 went up to 4.05m units (in Western Europe)."Most of that Q3 rise was due to theTouchPad's fire sale.And a parting shot: "Early Q4 indication shows that sales of all tablets in October was up 33% on September. (This growth is down primarily to Apple, which had 72% market share in October)."In other words, those headlines about consumers not even considering the iPad, and about howwellthe other tablets are doing are mostly just window-dressing. In the case of Context's headline, it's not even true to say that "consumers are hungry for non-Apple tablets". Apple is still dominating the tablet sector.And also on this evidence, RIM's PlayBook is toast at retail. Less than two per cent in August? If you put the total western European tablet market at about 1m in August (which would roughly work to give you the 3m figure for Q3) then 2% equates to 20,000 units sold. Assume RIM sold all of those; that's compared to 500,000 units shipped in the PlayBook's first quarter and 200,000 the following quarter. Of which in western Europe it sold about one-tenth of those shipped. Apple, meanwhile, seems to be able to sell all the devices it ships, which may be why it doesn't haveinventorybloat like RIM's.The bottom line? The tablet story is just as it was before. Apple's dominating and the other rivals are struggling to sell enough to make the shipments worthwhile.
I've always rather liked a&nbsp;Saab. Mainly for not being&nbsp;a&nbsp;BMW, or an Audi. It's&nbsp;not an anti-German thing, promise. It's mainly just an&nbsp;anti-cock thing. As&nbsp;in, anti&nbsp;the cocks who drive BMWs and&nbsp;Audis.Saab drivers are more stylish and discerning. They're more likely to be architects than accountants, media people than estate agents. No tie if he's a he, a cream jacket instead of a&nbsp;dark suit, maybe even a polo neck, rimless glasses… Actually I'm going off Saab drivers as I write. Snaabs, I&nbsp;believe they've been called. So concerned about image, and intent on standing out from the crowd, that they don't mind having a&nbsp;slightly less good car. Bloody idiots, you could say.This one does stand out, though it's just a re-tweaking rather than a whole new car: a modified front bumper and lights, to bring it into line with its 9-5 big brother, and a range of more efficient engines. It may not be beautiful, but it is unmistakably a Saab, and it has presence – especially this XWD model, which has a slightly higher stance than the others. Rugged even, and outdoorsy, but without the stigma-as-standard you get with a large SUV.Inside it's nice and smells almost naughtily leathery. Some of the detail isn't brilliant, like the indicator lever that feels so light and flimsy, I'm afraid to indicate too hard in case it falls off. It's little&nbsp;things like that that can let a&nbsp;car down.Other things I like – the dimmer switch on the instrument lights, so you don't get too dazzled on a dark night. Useful in Sweden, I imagine. I see myself driving through a black Arctic night. I've been to my cabin in the woods, to walk, and drink, and think about myself, alone. Now I'm driving home. It's snowing lightly, but I'm not bothered; Saab's intelligent, active system is distributing torque between the front and rear axles as required for optimum stability and grip. I'm driving hard, I've got plenty of&nbsp;power at my disposal.On the stereo I'm playing Swedish House Mafia, not because I like Swedish House Mafia (I'm too old, to&nbsp;be honest) but because I&nbsp;feel I&nbsp;ought to, and it goes with the image&nbsp;I'm trying to create for myself. I dim the controls, so the lights aren't reflected in my rimless specs, and I&nbsp;can see the road in&nbsp;front…Yeah, that works. Though if I'm honest, I'm on the North Circular. Or am I? There's no bloody satnav! You'd think if you spent 27 and a&nbsp;half&nbsp;grand on a car, it would tell you where the hell you were. So I'm&nbsp;lost. But at least I'm lost and a&nbsp;little bit&nbsp;different.Saab 9-3X 2.0T XWDPrice£27, 510Top speed146mphAcceleration0-62mph in 6.9 secondsCombined consumption35.3mpgCO2 emissions185g/kmGreen rating6/10Cool rating7/10
Haven't done one of these for a while, so here's a quick round-up of quirky items from the periphery of gaming...WondermindLaunched earlier this month,Wondermindis the latest project from the brilliant London studioPreloaded. Having previously worked with Channel 4 and the Science Museum, this lot are experts at applying really compelling game design ideas to educational projects. Wonderland, then, is a fascinating collection of Lewis Carrol-themed mini-games, designed to help us learn about the function and development of the human brain. It's funded by the Wellcome Trust and tied in withTate Liverpool's Alice in Wonderland exhibition. Although aimed at 8-12 year-olds, the visual style is so beautiful and the ideas so well presented, everyone should check it out.The Thrill ElectricIn case you've missed this,The Thrill Electricis a ten-part online comic book, commissioned by Channel 4 and themed aorund the similarities between our internet age and the Victorian era of the telegraph. Developed by Brighton-basedLittleloud(previously responsible for unmissable web games,SweatshopandThe Curfew) and written by Leah Moore and John Reppion with art by Windflower, it follows Emily Bagley, a young woman who breaks with tradition and stifling social conventions to become a telegraph worker. Parts one to six are already online, with the final four parts arriving on a weekly basis. You can also get it on iOS platforms – and if you're interested in the concept of the Victorian Internet, it's well worth a look.The Show Must Go OnAndanotherfascinating little game designed as a tie-in with an arts collaborator, this time the Royal Opera House.The Show Must Go Onis a selection of mini-games, in which you play a stage manager who must assemble all the parts fo the latest production through a series of gaming tasks. Typically for developer Hide&amp;Seek it's wonderfully stylish and filled with neat ideas. The game is available on iOS platforms for 69p and it has a dedicated websiteright here.SpecialEffect appBased in Charlbury, Oxfordshire,SpecialEffectis a charity that helps disabled gamers by – among other projects – providing (and in some casesbuilding) customised peripherals that allow access to a range of game titles. The team has just releasedan iPhone appthat explains their work, and provides tips for developers looking to make their projects more accessible. Go and download it immediately – they do amazing stuff.
Microsoft is refunding or sending out warnings to thousands of Xbox Live subscribers who may have had credit card details stolen as the company steps up its investigation intothe scam attack.The US technology company hasadvised Xbox Live customers to change their passwordsafter a number of accounts were hijacked as part of a phishing scam on the online gaming service.It is understood that scammers in China or Russia are suspected of being behind the attack – not the computer-hacking collectives LulzSec or Anonymous. Scammers are believed to have gained access to some XBox Live accounts via an "automated scripted attack" sent by email.Microsoft has played down the phishing scam in an attempt to distance it fromthe Sony PlayStation Network attackearlier this year that affected more than 70 million gamers.The company has denied that Xbox Live had been "hacked or breached", but said a small number of users in the UK had reported unauthorised access to their accounts.Fewer than a million Xbox Live users are thought to have been affected worldwide. However, Microsoft is continuing its investigation and has not ruled out an increase in the number of phishing emails before Christmas.Some gamers have been scammed out of "multiple purchases" of £42.50,according to the Sun, which first revealed details of the scam attack on Tuesday. Microsoft is understood to be contacting and refunding those customers."We take the security of the Xbox Live service seriously and work to improve it against evolving threats," a Microsoft spokesman said."Very occasionally, though, we are contacted by members regarding alleged unauthorised access to their accounts by outside individuals. We can confirm that only a small percentage of Xbox Live customers have been affected here in the UK."We work closely with impacted members directly to resolve any unauthorised changes to their accounts and, as always, highly recommend all Xbox Live users follow our account security guidance in order to protect their account details."Microsoft said there was no evidence that customer information had been released or sold.
Kinect Sports: Season Two ...Xbox360 Kinect; £39.99; cert 3+; MicrosoftA definite family game and a solid sequel for those looking for a compliment to the first title, Kinect Sports: Season Two offers six new games, most of which can be cracking fun if you have the chums to play it with. Darts, tennis, baseball, American football, skiing and golf – there is very little innovation in the series and it all seems very familiar, though it has to be said that none of the games are terrible. Skiing, for instance, is easy to play and should be a first stop for newcomers, with its easy to grasp concept and simplistic controls; and though tennis can feel stodgy and forced, it can still be an engaging multiplayer pursuit. However, for those who don't care much for American football, this game is hardly going to change your mind. There is no capacity to play in defence against your opponent and it is difficult to gain ground no matter how much on-the-spot jogging you do when on the offensive. That said, show-boating after atouchdownis very satisfying – especially as it can be tricky to get anywhere near the end zone. Darts can also be slightly problematic with some sensor issues making it a struggle for accuracy in a game whereprecision is vital.Baseball is only interesting if played alone and golf is nothing extraordinary, but it is the addition of voice commands that adds the most to the overall experience. It allows easy navigation through the menu system and boasts an impressive array of in-game commands, whether it be a quick "hike" to the quarterback or switching to a "nine iron" to do whatever that is used for in a game of golf. Occasional sensor issues aside, there will be at least one game on there you'll enjoy – though it is essential you round up some friends before attempting any.Sam O'NeillSchool 26 ...iPhone/iPad; £1.99; cert 12+; Silicon Sisters InteractiveSchool 16 is a rarity – a game for teenage girls that's neither bright pink nor covered in hideous stereotypes. The story arc about your first experiences of a new high school combines nicely with a series of memory games that ask you to balance situations by choosing cards, and simple personality quizzes. The game is let down a little by the dialogue advancement – which simply asks you to mirror the emotions of the people you're speaking to – and it's not clear how well it translates outside the US market, but it's still an engaging, interesting little game that I'd gladly recommend to young teenagers.Mary HamiltonSesame Street: Once Upon a Monster ...Xbox 360 Kinect; £39.99; cert U; Warner Bros InteractiveEverything is A-OK with this charming interactive storybook and even a grouch couldn't complain at the easily accessible world in which Cookie Monster (who, it transpires, is really quite fat) and Elmo serve as guides. The Kinect is sure to never get in the way as the motion detector always gives you the benefit of the doubt when performing actions and, as there is no way to fail outright in any aspect of the game, temper tantrums should not abound. While some dialogue can be a tad repetitive, it is never enough to be greatly annoying and with cameo appearances from the likes of Grover and Oscar the Grouch, familiarity and humour generally overrule irritation. It's easy to see that the soul of Sesame Street has been poured into this title – the content teaches valuable lessons, such as the importance of friendship and a healthy environment while never straying far from entertainment and fun. Without ever being tedious, Once Upon a Monster is simple in every crumb of it's cookie-shaped being and extremely young players are bound to feel immersed in the bright and colourful world.Sam O'Neill
A selection of six apps for you today:The Original Tale of Peter RabbitPenguin has launched a new iOS version of Beatrix Potter's The Tale of Peter Rabbit, with voice narration, music, mini-games and 3D scenes of Peter's burrow.iPhone / iPadFT IndiaThe Financial Times has attracted more than one million people to its main web app, which launched earlier this year. Now it has another focused on India, which carries a standalone subscription and curated content for that country.HTML5Metro BrowserMicrosoft may have its own browser for Windows Phone smartphones, but third-party app Metro Browser has launched with a focus on full-screen browsing and Flash video playback.Windows PhoneTap Zoo: Santa's QuestTap Zoo is one of the most popular freemium games on iOS, and now it has a Christmas version, following in the footsteps of several of its rivals. As in CityVille Holidaytown, the aim here is to build a winter wonderland for Santa, although as the title implies, there's more of a focus on animals.iPhone / iPadSport MagazineFree weekly magazine Sport has launched an iPad version, which is updated every Friday with a digital version of the latest issue.O2 Priority MomentsO2's Priority Moments offers service is already available on other smartphones, but has now crossed to BlackBerry. People sign up and get deals from the likes of French Connection, National Express, WHSmith and Yo! Sushi.BlackBerry
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Post-Jobs leadership vacuum: a conversation with Carmi Levy &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebExamines HP, Apple, and Yahoo, where it notes that Carol Bartz got fired even though nobody could say quite what she did wrong: "even in 2011 there's a huge double-standard applied to the gender roles of leadership. Typically men can get away with behaviors and outcomes that would normally have a woman shown the door almost immediately. It's very clear that, even though the glass ceiling has been somewhat breached, it's far from completely disappearing and it still represents a barrier to true advancement. Which is a sad story for business, and sad story for tech because here you have all this talent which is not being leveraged. You're limiting your talent pools to half the size of what they really should be, and it's entirely fair to ask the question, 'Does this help competitiveness?' And the only answer there is, clearly, no it doesn't."ISPs cannot be obliged to install filtering software &gt;&gt; European Courts of JusticeThe actual judgement from the ECJ. Begin reading at paragraph 15. Key paragraph: "In the light of the foregoing, it must be held that the injunction imposed on the ISP concerned requiring it to install the contested filtering system would oblige it to actively monitor all the data relating to each of its customers in order to prevent any future infringement of intellectual-property rights. It follows that that injunction would require the ISP to carry out general monitoring, something which is prohibited by Article 15(1) of Directive 2000/31." Note that this is quite a narrow verdict; it doesn't rule out any filtering system nor does it rule out copyright pursuits. What it does rule out is getting ISPs to put in permanent filtering systems.Fundraising 2010/Banner testing &gt;&gt; WikipediaVia Michael Brunton-Spall: Wikipedia reveals why you're seeing different ads for its fundraising efforts this year, and how the old ones did. It's A/B testing, out in the open.Carrier IQ drops empty legal threat, apologizes to security researcher &gt;&gt; Electronic Frontier Foundation"Today mobile software company Carrier IQ withdrew (pdf) a bogus legal threat to a security researcher who published an analysis of the company's software, as well as training materials on which he based his research. "Last week, Trevor Eckhart published a detailed article pointing out that Carrier IQ's software logs a great deal of information about users' activities without their knowledge. Attempting to suppress his research, Carrier IQ fired off a baseless cease-and-desist demand (pdf) claiming that Eckhart infringed the company's copyrights and made 'false allegations' about their software. "Eckhart reached out to EFF for help, and we helped him push back against the unfounded threat. As EFF explained in a letter (pdf) to Carrier IQ on Monday, Eckhart's research and commentary is protected by fair use and the First Amendment right to free expression."HTC considering Chrome OS for Internet-access devices"Although Chromebooks offered by Acer and Samsung Electronics may see low cumulative sales of 25,000-30,000 units at the end of 2011, HTC is evaluating the feasibility of combining the advantages of Chrome OS and Android for use in internet-access devices, products between tablet PCs and netbooks, according to component makers. However, Acer and HTC did not respond when asked for comment." A dual-boot device that's between a tablet and a netbook? Almost a niche-y a market as Chromebooks seem to be so far.Microsoft signs nondisclosure agreement with Yahoo &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"Microsoft is officially kicking the tires at Yahoo again, three years after it failed to buy control of the company. "The software giant has signed a confidentiality agreement with Yahoo, according to a person briefed on the move, joining other potential bidders like the private equity firms Silver Lake and TPG Capital. Behind the broad interest in Yahoo is what investors believe is a trove of riches that could be unlocked by providing stronger management. The Yahoo of today is in a weaker position than in 2008, having fallen behind Google and newer Internet players like Facebook. But Yahoo remains a formidable destination, with its news site along attracting 81.2m unique visitors in August." The NDA means it can take a really careful look at Yahoo's books. All it wants is the eyeballs for Bing; Yahoo could make it profitable.Personal Audio strikes again, has the Kindle Fire in its patent trolling sights &gt;&gt; Engadget"'Tis the season for reflecting upon our many gifts in life and giving thanks for them. If you're Personal Audio, however, once you've thanked your lucky stars that you own a patent on musical playlists, you then file an infringement suit against Amazon. That's right folks, Personal Audio is up to its old tricks again in the Eastern District of Texas, but instead of alleging iPods are infringing its IP, the Kindle Fire is squarely in the company's sights."Q3 2011 handsets and smartphones: the dominance of Android, Apple, Samsung and, just, Nokia &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansBenedict Evans works at Enders Analysis; this is a little snapshot of some of his analysis of the third-quarter figures for the smartphone and tablet market. It would be really interesting to see a figure for total Android revenue, but that doesn't seem to be available.Min7 micromouse robot solves maze in 3.921 seconds &gt;&gt; Geek.com"There are many areas of robotics that leave an impression. The standout ones include robots that walk, those that look and talk like humans, and any robot that is capable of precise and delicate object interaction. But there's also the fun side of robotics such as the soccer championships, Robot Wars, and a new entry on to my list: micromouse robot maze solvers." Means it could find its way to the coffee machine in almost any modern cubicle-based office before you, then.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A co-op hack-n-slash adventure set in Tolkien's Lord of the Rings universe? On paper, War in the North sounds like a genre classic. On screen, sadly, the promise remains largely unfulfilled.Initially, things look promising. Choosing from one of three characters – melee (dwarf warrior), ranged fighter and a mage – the game quickly throws you into the orc-bashing action that makes up the majority of the play. Luckily then the combat is pretty satisfying.Perhaps over-familiarity helps, but the mix of melee, range and critical strikes is exactly what you would expect and allows you to easily wreak havoc. It's gory havoc too, with dismembered limbs flying around an often bloody environment.Unfortunately, collision problems crop up too often in the heat of the battle. One minute you're clouting your foe with a big hammer, the next you're swiping air with no obvious reason why.As with all games like this, the action can get repetitive. Run into area, slaughter orcs or troll, grab baubles and move on. No surprises here.Of course, the driving force is new loot and character progression. It's relatively easy to forgive the repetition when you get a new shiny sword or glowing power every so often. Upgrading weapons and armour is mildly addictive too, although far too simplistic to become properly compulsive. At least your character does look the part as you grab new gear and loot. And there are plenty of goodies to go round, even if they do lose their potency quicker than you may think.Multiplayer is where the game comes alive, or at least wakes from a stupor. Playing online can be an issue if your team is a higher or lower level than you; it will either be too hard or too easy. Because of this, offline play comes recommended.The split-screen action is a welcome reminder that multiplayer needn't involve a modem. There's something special about offline multiplayer – nostalgia? a greater sense of teamwork? – which means the game's biggest fans are likely to be those who can play this way.Multiplayer in all its forms is where the game works best, though. The computer, AI, does an OK job, but the action only really comes alive when two or three gamers are teamed up. This is especially true given the game's later difficulty spikes. Taming these is easier and more satisfying with a human-controlled team. Poorly paced save positions serve to punish and antagonise if you fail.The game itself looks surprisingly pretty. OK, the dark hues and gritty art design won't win any originality awards, but the vistas are impressive and the locations varied enough not to outstay their welcome.Familiar locations from the books – such as Rivendell – are here, although they never offer enough depth to deter you from driving forward in the action. The weak storyline is a disappointment, too. Yes, the action doesn't really require deep characterisation but given the source material it feels like a missed opportunity.Once you finish the campaign you can play the game again with all your new gear (and harder enemies), but War in the North doesn't really warrant the effort. However in short doses and with a good team, War in the North is not without its compulsive charms.But with Skyrim – and to a lesser extent the new Zelda – keeping fantasy role-players more than happy this Christmas you wonder where War in the North can fit in. The January sales may be the best hope for this one.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Friday at last! Before you head out to the shops to buy one of today's new releases, check out our reviews ofProfessor Layton and the Spectre's Call,Zumba Fitness 2andWWE 12.
Leading up to its launch in October, British social TV startup Zeebox attracted plenty of attention within the television industry.ItsiPad appwas hailed as innovative and disruptive: a second-screen electronic programme guide (EPG) that used Facebook and Twitter to guide people's viewing choices by what their friends and the wider world were watching and tweeting about.It has been interesting to watch the response from iPad owners, expressed through their reviews on the App Store. Dozens of five-star reviews hail it as "awesome", "amazing" and "the start of something very big", while a decent number of one-star reviews wonder what all the fuss is about."I don't get it", "waste of time" and "Basically a TV guide that asks for your Facebook account, no thanks" being three examples. Zeebox has divided opinion, in other words.Talk to founders Anthony Rose and Ernesto Schmitt, and it's clear that Zeebox in its current form is just the start of the company's ambitions, with plans to add new features that may convince some of those doubters - even if their confidence runs the risk of hardening the antipathy of others."The living room TV was the last dumb screen in the house," says Schmitt. "The emergence of net-connected TVs; the mass proliferation of companion devices like smartphones, laptops and tablets; and people's expectations that entertainment will be socially connected felt like a perfect storm. The time was right to revolutionise TV."One reason for some of the more negative reactions to Zeebox v1.0 may be that it doesn't feel as revolutionary as it's been built up to be. It's a well-designed EPG that lets you see what people are tweeting about a given show, and if you have enough Facebook friends who have the app and are actively using it, lets you connect with them too.The potentially revolutionary stuff is what's coming in the next few months, though. Starting with a feature called Showtime, which will make its debut on 28 November through a partnership with Channel 4, based on its new scripted reality show Desperate Scousewives."Showtime is a tool that allows broadcasters to use our platform to plug in their own content," says Schmitt. That includes a Twitter visualisation mini-app, tweets from the cast, videos, information on the soundtrack, a Google Map of the show's key Liverpool locations, and a "Scouse Glossary" for viewers who are struggling with some of the slang."Broadcasters can choose what they want to do: it's a new plugin architecture that allows them to take over and augment Zeebox, owning the space with their own content," says Rose. "We're also seeing production companies developing the skills to use this plugin architecture, and you'll see quite a few programmes over the coming months starting to take advantage of this."The pitch to broadcasters and producers is that making this content for Zeebox is - in the longer term at least - a better bet than splashing out on their own standalone apps for individual shows. Zeebox isn't alone in this idea: Shazam, Umami and Yahoo's IntoNow are three other firms working with similar ideas.Showtime was added to Zeebox's iPad app in its v1.1.0 update, which went live on 23 November. Alongside it was another new feature called Starwatch, which Rose says taps into the hundreds of celebrities who are tweeting about their own TV viewing habits."It totally reinterprets the way Twitter is used," he says. "We made a list of about 400 celebrities, from Alan Sugar and Stephen Fry to politicians, Radio 5 Live sports hosts and so on.  And when they tweet around a programme, our servers follow them and hashtag it, then assign them to that programme in Zeebox and show their icon in the interface."In other words, Zeebox users watching a show - The X Factor, say – will be able to see which celebrities are also watching and tweeting about it. Or, indeed, watching and tweeting about something on another channel."When Stephen Fry tweets about a programme, thousands of people might flip to that show," says Rose. "Celebrities can become the TV schedulers of the future by saying 'I'm watching this' and that going out to the Twitter audience."Social features are key to Zeebox, but one of the ongoing criticisms of this kind of app comes from people who don't want their TV viewing to have social networking imposed upon it. Rose admits that plenty of people aren't attracted by the idea, although he notes that this may be partly generational – "some people over 35 are a bit scared of it, but people under 35 can't get enough of it".He stresses that Zeebox will not force its user to log in to Facebook, and points to its private viewing mode, which is used when someone doesn't want to share what they're watching with friends or the wider world. But he is bullish in his belief that people should not write off the idea of social TV before they have tried it."If you haven't tried a companion viewing app because you think it'll detract from your viewing, try it and you'll see," he says. "To diss is peremptorially is just stupid. Check it out to see if it's going to work for you. It may be better or worse for different shows, but even if it only enhances a third of your viewing, that's good."What comes after Showtime and Starwatch? An iPhone version is almost ready for release, with Android to follow afterwards. After that? E-commerce. Zeebox is working on ways to help people buy the products they see in TV shows and adverts from within its app."We'll be using video recognition to recognise ads on TV, so for something like Nike you'll be able to buy the product from your second screen with a few clicks. But this can apply to the songs playing on TV, and links to catch-up content." Getting Zeebox to integrate more tightly with personal video recorders (PVRs) and video-on-demand services is on the company's agenda for 2012, too.One question for Rose is how Zeebox views the TV strategies of Google and Apple, with the former working on improving its Google TV platform after an unpromising start, and the latter strongly rumoured to be working on its own television set for 2012.Rose does not mince his words when it comes to Google TV. "Google continues to not understand the television space: it's entering it like a technology company rather than as a content company," he says."If you look at the homepage of Google TV, it's a set of app buttons. People need to switch on and see content. Fundamentally Google are thinking as software engineers, and not as people who really watch television. But maybe someone else will make a great Google TV app – a Spotify for television – that will change this."And Apple? Rose has much less to say on this score, given the lack of information on what the company has planned: "It's a complete enigma."Even so, his enthusiasm for the potential of companion apps – and Zeebox in particular – is unbounded. "This is really the TV of the future, and it's not science fiction. It's happening right now. Second screen is really going to move the tectonic plates around for television."
It's now more than a year since Microsoft's Kinect motion controller hit the stores, bringing a new era of motion controls to the games console. While the first 12 months has been dominated by family titles and the usual multi-event sports sims, we're now seeing developers experiment a little more broadly with the technology.Forza Motorsport 4 introduced headtracking, while the forthcoming Xbox version of Minecraft is set to allow gamers to physically construct buildings. Meanwhile, the release of the device APIs into the wild has led to an explosion of homebrew "Kinect hacks" using the tech in many fascinating ways.At the forefront of work on the Kinect technology you'll find Rare, the veteran Twycross-based developer, responsible for creating several of the earliest Kinect titles – including Kinect Sports.Nick Burton has been at the company for 13 years, originally working on titles such as Starfox and Kameo, before becoming incubation director and working with emerging tech. He's been involved with the Kinect project since its inception, and recently we met up with Burton at the excellentLaunch Conferencein Birmingham."I'm passionate about the Midlands as a centre for gaming," he said. "You always hear about the North East and the South, and I'm like, 'Hang on a minute – the biggest hub in the UK is here, guys!'"Rare has its own studio in the city'sFazeley Studios("This is where Embarrassing Bodies is made," says Burton proudly as we tour the building), and clearly fits in neatly nearby Aston University and the rapidly evolvingScience Park, where numerous digital start-ups are flourishing.But we wanted to find out more about Kinect and where this fledgling technology wants to take us.Via the Xbox Live avatars and Kinect, Rare has transitioned from a straightforward developer into something of a hardware and interface innovator. How has that been for the company?Well, we've always been about new and exciting things – I don't necessarily mean technology I mean we think about what can we do that's different to what's been done before. Ever since I first walked through the door 13 years ago it's always been about innovation; it was with the Stamper brothers way back in the eighties, it was with Nintendo, it certainly has been with Microsoft.With the latter, it has become, "okay, you're about innovation, we have this new technology that you guys can probably do something with…" I mean, we developed avatars when Xbox was all about core gamers – avatars have softened the face of that. We were thinking about them years before they were introduced. Now we have something that's a huge IP for Xbox.And of course, Rare has been instrumental in the launch and game development for Kinect. How did that come about?I remember three years ago, going over to see Alex Kipman and Kudo Tsunoda when they'd just finished incubating what was then known as Project Natal – although, actually, it didn't have a name at the time. It was the depth sensing 3D thing. Seriously. I remember I was there with our creative director George Andreas, Mark Stevenson and Gregg Mayles our design lead, and the four of us looked at this 3D feed and this skeletal tracking in its embryonic form, thinking... wow. I had this Fast Show moment, looking at my representation on the screen saying, "does my bum look big on this?"I thought, for the first time it's like entering the matrix, I truly had a digital representation of myself in real-time, which we'd never seen before. I've always been about technology, I come from a computer visualisation background, and sitting on the flight home, I was like, "ooooh, you could do this andthis!" I was thinking, we can properly track the player, background subtraction works now, we don't have to worry about the environment, we can work out what's in the room! Oh and we need to talk to Microsoft Research about the speech recognition. The three designers were just asking, "how do we makegamesfor it?!"What did you tell them?I said, guys, years ago you were wondering how to make a first-person shooter on a console – this is no different. It comes from sitting down in a room and thinking, okay, what are the important facets that this technology has got?And we came up with an initial set of ideas – it was all marker pens and a whiteboard. Then we went off and started experimenting. We incubate lots of different ideas within a very small agile tech group. We literally started with just the tracked skeletal feed, mapping that onto a wireframe stick man. We put the camera on the eyes so you could look down and see your own wireframe feet, which was weird.Then, Matt South, the guy who was developing that, said, "I want something to interact with." So he put a sphere in there and it had physics on it so you could pat it around. And he thought, "hmmm, that's interesting, I'll put some gravity on it." So it falls to the ground and, ooh, we've got feet let's try kicking it. A very simple football prototype developed from that. Then the design team thought, okay, we can actually walk around the ball and address it like a real player – this was all done with physics at the time. And then they'd go off in a design huddle and think, what other sports can we do? That's the process we've always gone through – and with Kinect, we really got under the skin of what it was, very early on.So far Kinect games have only really touched on this whole idea of telepresence of having a digital version of yourself on the screen. Do you think we'll see this developing, perhaps with multiplayer spaces, and head mounted cameras? So we feel like we're in a virtual room with our friends?Yes, there's no reason why not. Even now, one of the thing that I love when I play Kinect Sports over Live is that I can recognise the body language of the person I'm playing with, albeit in a fairly rudimentary form right now. But I can see that kind of thing developing – it will develop to a point where you and I absolutelywillhave telepresence, whether it's head-mounted, whether it's Kinect-like sensors placed around a room or in a mobile device … there's a heap of ways it could go.I think the tracking and depth sensing technology that we have today is kind of where joypads were with the NES back in the early eighties – we've only really started down this path. I don't want this to be a sales pitch for Kinect Sports 2, but we've done atonof work behind the scenes, the tracking technology is a lot more advanced. If you look at darts for example, the fidelity of control there is way ahead of what we had in the first title. It's all about software and the machine learning behind it. And that was just 12 months of iteration. If you extrapolate out from that, you can see how far we have to go.How about the camera and audio functionality of Kinect. Will we get to a stage where it can pick up on emotional queues from gamers – watching body language and listening to the tone of voice?Yeah, I mean it's that process of continual development – and it depends on what any given developer wants to pick, and to push. With Kinect Sports 2 we really pushed voice – we had that virtual golf caddy, where you could just say, "change club, nine iron" and it does. The fact that it justdoeswork is no mean feat in itself!But right now, we're kind of commanding the box, rather than it necessarily interpreting and understanding us. Looking at where and how technology is developing, and the speed it has developed, we absolutely could have an emotional controller. Think about something simple like measuring excitement: without doing any speech recognition, just looking at the pattern of amplitude, pitch, the period between sounds, you can tell if someone is getting excited – the frequency of words increases, the pitch increases and the volume increases.If someone is getting angry, typically, the frequency of words and the pitch doesn't increase but the volume does – and this can all be tracked by Kinect without it knowinganythingabout what's actually being spoken. That's just one idea. You could look at the colour feed from the camera, the depth feed, facial characteristics – there's no reason why you can't detect everything about the user, as long as the detectors are good enough – and the detectors are all software-based. That's what's really cool about this.From an entertainment interface point of view, I love the idea of eventually being able to say to your console, 'Xbox, I want to watch a film' and it selecting a relevant movie, based on your emotional state…Yeah, I mean, if it's already learned the kinds of things you like because you've been using it as your media consumption tool, it can learn about you in the same way that Tivo learns. But if you then merge that information with data coming from the camera and mic about the mood that you're in, that could definitely work!How about augmentation of regular control interfaces with motion elements? I'd love to have a version of Modern Warfare, where I can tilt my head to look round corners; but I still want to use the joypad to move and shoot. Is this on the way?We've always thought about that. When we launched Kinect we didn't want to confuse the issue by saying, "well this is a joypad-controlled Kinect game." You have to wear your heart on your sleeve and show everyone what motion control is all about. But from there, you can definitely start to say, well, we can augment different experiences with different bits of technologies.Look at what Turn 10 has done with Forza Motorsport 4 – that's the first use of head-tracking control in an Xbox game, and you can absolutely see that going in to Modern Warfare or Battlefield. I could stick my head out of a foxhole, command my AI squad with voice… you have to make sure you fit the control mechanisms to the experience, and not the other way around. That's important.I truly see a world where everything is Kinect-enabled in some way, but it shouldn't be, "oh, here's the Kinect moment." I don't want to stand up for three hours to clear a first-person shooter – I like using the joypad. But there are interactions where it just makes sense for the console to know what I'm doing. I was talking to someone about this yesterday – if I'm playing a shooter and I look down for a second at the joypad because I've forgotten the controls, why doesn't the game pause? Something as simple as that could be a really cool feature.So now the APIs for Kinect are out there, they're freely available, and people are experimenting with the technology at home, at schools and at universities… what are the most interesting projects you've seen so far?I'll be non-committal and say all of it! Seriously though, I've been impressed with everything that people are doing with the incorrectly titled Kinect Hacks – because there is no hack, there was nothing to hack. The Kinect drivers whether they're official or unofficial – there's just such a wealth of ideas. A lot of them were things we'd thought of when we first started brainstorming a couple of years ago, but we couldn't do because we're game developers. At the time, I thought, oh, wouldn't it be cool to control an RC helicopter with Kinect, and then someone goes and does it and sticks a clip on YouTube!My personal favourite as an old Star Wars fan is something I saw at a hackspace maker fair a while back, where some guys had built some huge Tesla coils, and there was another guy there who had a Kinect. They got together and they added Kinect controls to these coils, so you could throw massive sparks into the air with your hands, like the Emperor. [There's a video of Tom Wyatt and Brightarc's Tesla/Kinect inventionhere.]But in all seriousness, some of the things that have come out of Microsoft Research and other universities, especially for natural user input in different ways, they're really interesting. I mean, using a projector and Kinect to turn your hand into a keypad. Someone's even made a pop video with it. As the technology filters out there, we will see much more of this.
I'm thinking about getting a laptop for my seven-year-old son and I'm looking for ideas. He's keen on playing games, but his dad is very wary of it, especially given recent research that has criticised it as a learning tool. I'm hoping that I can interest him in using the computer for things other than shooting games and collecting bananas. I'm also concerned about his safety and security. We have an iMac, which I use professionally, and I'd like to keep him off that too. But I'm not a Mac nut – I also have a Samsung netbook. What would you suggest?Su ButcherNetbooks are great starter computers for kids, because they are small and light, reasonably cheap, and have good battery life. Much of the netbook design thinking came from Intel's Classmate project, and Asus launched its first netbook into the UK education marketin October 2007, as I reported at the time. Later, Intel's much more robust Classmate 2 added a touchscreen for pen operation, with the screen folded back over the keyboard. A UK example is ZooStorm'sFizzbook Spinnetbook, with the latest version costing around £400.However, parents and schools tend to buy cheaper off-the-shelf netbooks. The Samsung NC-10 was hugely popular, and the Toshiba NB200 was an attractive alternative. The current equivalents include the Samsung NC-110 and Toshiba NB550D, but these are relatively expensive. You don't mention a budget, but theAsus 1008HA (£189.99)andAsus 1011PX (£199.99)are better value at Amazon.co.uk prices. You should also add £10-£12 for a 2GB memory upgrade.If you are willing to spend a bit more on a netbook, then look at the AMD-poweredLenovo IdeaPad S205instead. For a netbook-type price of £274.99, you get a bigger 11.6in screen, faster graphics (Radeon HD 6310M) and the full Windows 7 Home Premium instead of Windows Starter.The next step up from the S205 would be aLenovo Z370 (£449)notebook with a 13.3in screen, Intel Core i3-2330M processor, 500GB hard drive and DVD-RW. It has RapidBoot so it starts Windows 7 in 20 seconds, and an SSD (Solid State Drive) is optional. However, that type of laptop is more suitable for secondary school and older users.There's no shortage of educational programs and games for Windows-based netbooks and laptops, and Windows 7 includes parental controls. You could also installScratch, an educational programming language, andPivot Stickfigure Animator, along with IE9 and all the usual utilities fromAll My Apps. (Sadly, this site doesn't have a section for education software, but it does have 5,581 free utilities and 1,266 free games.) You will already know from your son's use of your netbook what kinds of apps might be worth trying, and can introduce him to some of the videos on theKahn Academywebsite.Netbooks are good value but they have not improved very much over the past couple of years, and you already have one. I can't really see the point of buying another if he can use yours. It might be better to upgrade your Samsung with 2GB of memory and a £38.49 student copy ofMicrosoft Windows 7 Professional 32-bit Upgrade Edition, unless you have already upgraded it.Assuming your budget is £200 or so, upgrading your Samsung would leave £150 to buy your son either a Nintendo DS (eg, the DSi XL, which has bigger screens and a built-in browser) or an 8GB Apple iPod Touch. These are more games-oriented and may have less educational value than a laptop, but they wouldn't require as much parental help or supervision, and might be less breakable.A couple of weeks ago, I asked readers what they'd recommend for young children, and the Nintendo DS and iPod Touch were the most popular recommendations. Steve Turley says the DS is an excellent choice for four- and five-year-olds and older children because of "the robust nature of the units and the wide availability of used units and games". While there are plenty of Apple iOS-compatible apps for primary school children, he reckons the iPod Touch and iPhone "aren't built to survive the rigors of small child usage without a fair degree of adult supervision".David Jeffery says: "If you're considering a gift for a child at the older end of the spectrum, I reckon the 3DS is a decent bet. It can access the internet, plays videos, takes 3D photos, can store and play music, has a growing library of (actually very good) games, and has recently received a massive price cut. The main drawbacks are that it doesn't play Flash games, is not an email client, and doesn't look like daddy's iPad either."But John Rogan, who has boys aged eight and 11, "would go for a fourth-generation iPod Touch. Not only are the games substantially cheaper than for the DS," he says, "you have the added attraction of Facetime, setting up their emails, and internet access, which is becoming more and more necessary for homework."Some of your son's friends will probably have one or both of these handhelds, so he will know which he'd prefer.Finally, while netbooks haven't changed much in the past couple of years, the market has. Today, Apple's iPad 2 is the answer to most tech questions, and there are also some cheaper multi-touch tablets running Google Android. According to Nielsen research, the iPad 2 tops the electronic wishlists of kids aged six to 12, and 44% would like one for Christmas.I think an iPad 2 is too expensive and probably too fragile to give to a child, but you could buy one for family use and your son could use it when supervised. The main attractions are the accessibility of the touch interface and the vast number of apps, including many educational titles. There are a couple of child-friendly alternatives, which you can see in an ABC News video review,Don't Break My iPad: Tablets Designed for Kids.David Jeffery, quoted above, says that for younger kids, "there is more value in something like a LeapPad reading system, [which] can be thrown against a wall and still work. Our youngest lad still loves his LeapPad and he's five." Leapfrog recommends the LeapPad Explorer for children aged five to nine, so your son might outgrow it too quickly. Still, it looks good value atAmazon.co.uk's price of £139.49, and even better value at the US price, $99.
A friend of mine who is a massive wrestling fan once explained to me that the audience of the WWE (and indeed, most pro-wrestling shows) is divided into two camps: marks and sparks.Marks, he said, believe everything they're watching is real. These are people young enough in mind to be swept up in the sheer spectacle of wrestling and are genuinely shocked when a heel defeats a face.Sparks, on the other hand, he said, follow wrestling as much as a business as they do an entertainment form. This group could see the potential for the Montreal screwjob before it happened, and more than likely would to be able to tell you which high-profile superstars also happen to be fundamentalist Christians.If my mate's definitions hold true then both Marks and Sparks will find an awful lot to enjoy in WWE 12. The game is fit to bursting point with content and customisation options, and offers a fairly decent, if slight flawed wrestling experience.However, it's let down badly is some areas by an erratic AI and irritating combat mechanics. It also contains a huge 12-hour mode, which is as dull as dishwater and – interestingly if you're a Spark – played completely straight.Marks will probably look past the game's flaws, while Sparks might decide they're too much to put up with and everyone else probably won't care.First, the good news: developer Yukes has gone to town with the creative tools, and players have a massive list of options available for building their own wrestling superstar. Players can decide their superstar's gender, build, facial features, ring attire, audience reaction and even create storylines, entrance videos and highlight reels for them.The customisation goes as deep or as shallow as you like; you can personalise every inch of your superstar, or you can just bolt some moves to a purple-skinned woman sporting white facial hair, if that's your thing.Players can also build their own PPV specials, match-types, sort out the look and feel of each wrestling and plaster logos all over the place. They can even head into the game's pre-set roster and mess about with the scores of established stars.Beyond its creation tools, WWE 12 boasts an online mode, a Road To Wrestlemania single-player campaign, and the robust WWE Universe in which players can play through a range of matches and match types in WWE events.Imagine a never-ending stream of Raw, Smackdown and other PPV events without the storylines, where players can simulate matches or take part in them. Then, toss in the appearance of stars from wrestling's yesteryear and you pretty much have WWE Universe.The multiplayer mode offers players a chance to square off against friends and strangers online, but at the time of this review, there weren't many matches available to take part in beyond a straight head-to-head and a three-way tag. We can report, however, that around half of the matches we took part in had serious lag issues.The Road to Wrestlemania is the main single-player campaign and is made up of three storylines – the villain, the outsider and the hero. It's a pretty meaty slice of the game, which will take players about 12 or so hours to play through.It's a pity, then, that this huge chunk of play makes up arguably the worst part of the game. It's not just that the storylines are pretty unengaging to begin with – and riddled with poor voice acting to boot – it's the fact that more often than not, they intrude on the in-ring action.A huge portion of the bouts players will encounter either end with a cut-scene that tosses all of their hard work to one side or are filled with tasks that make them maddening to play. In one fatal four-way in a steel cage, for example, we spent a large amount of time trying to keep three of our opponents flattened so we could escape over the top, only to find out that all we needed to do was hit one of the other superstars until a Y prompt appeared above his head. Upon hitting Y, we found we were destined to lose the match anyway.In another instance, our wrestler needed to defeat three other superstars in a backstage area. It was only after the fourth attempt at doing this that we realised the game wanted us to defeat them in a certain part of the environment. Cue rolling of eyes and gnashing of teeth.This wouldn't be so bad if the gameplay weren't so hamstrung by the awful counter-attack system. More often than not, the AI will reverse the player's wrestling moves and begin to administer a beat-down on their superstar.At certain points, the player will be able to reverse this, by pulling RT or hitting A when prompts to do so appear above their wrestler's head. The problem here is that unless they hit the prompt at exactly the right time, they'll fail to counter.The prompts also appear and disappear so quickly, that hitting a counter is something of a dice throw. Players also need to hit the counter button at the precise moment it appears – they won't get away with button bashing.There's the option to dial down the AI's reversal frequency and counter move frequency, but not, it seems, for the campaign. This means that the Road To Wrestlemania mode becomes a 12-hour war of attrition, punctuated by really bad dialogue and badly written plotlines – and as anyone who follows wrestling knows, plotlines actually play a large part in the WWE's appeal.This is a real shame, because in the exhibition and WWE Universe modes, where players can set their own difficulty levels and toggle with the AI's wrestling option, there's quite a bit of fun to be had.Toss out the lousy counter system, and WWE 12's wrestling engine isn't half bad. Players use A to grapple, B to punch or kick and B to Irish whip their opponents towards the ropes or turnbuckles. The Y-button is mapped to signature moves, finishing manouveres and, in a new addition, a comeback function, which allows players to enjoy a second wind if their opponent has them on the ropes. Players can also target parts of their opponent's body, soften up their limbs and then put them in a debilitating submission hold.The presentation in WWE 12 isn't exactly brilliant. Facially, the superstars look pretty close to their real-life counterparts, but their skin has the texture of store mannequins.The commentary doesn't always line up with the action in the ring and when it does it can be frequently hilarious. The entrance videos and audience reactions aren't bad, but occasionally the crowd noises dampen at strange moments.There's even the odd glitch in the game where a wrestling animation will look outlandish, or a punch will land on an opponent's face without making a sound.WWE 12 is bursting with content and fan service. Players who want to play in the WWE Universe or start creating their own will find plenty to enjoy here. But the single-player campaign is rather a chore to play through and the gameplay is in dire need of some retooling.If Yukes can overhaul the in-ring action, pretty up the graphics and marry it to the current level of content and customisation, WWE could truly shine. As it stands right now, though, the only fans who would be truly satisfied with this package are players whose desire for a new wrestling game is sufficient to allow them to overlook a fair number of faults.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Where's My Water?Disney's Where's My Water? iOS game has been a big hit – and has seen the debut of a new character, Swampy the Alligator. Now he's snapping his way onto Android with the physics-based puzzle game.AndroidChuChu Rocket!Sega's classic Dreamcast action-puzzler is already on iOS, but now Android owners can get in on the fun. As ever, it's about guiding mice to rockets while avoiding prowling cats. Quirky, but marvellously so.AndroidTop Gear: News for iPadThis BBC Worldwide app isn't available in the UK: presumably it's for overseas Top Gear fans. Sponsored by Mercedes-Benz, it offers "all the latest news, rants and opinions from Top Gear" along with videos, photo galleries and previews.iPadZombie LaneDigital Chocolate has ported its Facebook social game Zombie Lane to iOS. It sees players defending their home from a horde of zombies, in an undead take on the tower defence genre.iPhone / iPadNFL Pro 2012Gameloft's take on American Football enters the 2012 season on iPhone, adopting a freemium model: players buy "Credit Packs" in-game to build their team and unlock new features, although these things can also be earned by playing.iPhoneNational Geographic Traveller (UK)National Geographic Traveller magazine has a new iOS version for its UK edition, offering articles on holidays, city guides and practical travel tips. It's using Apple's iOS Newsstand subscription system.iPhone / iPadPhoto Editor UltimateRIM's latest giveaway BlackBerry app is Photo Editor Ultimate, which helps people crop, rotate, resize and apply effects to the photos they have taken on their smartphones.BlackBerryFarm Frenzy 2Windows Phone is still waiting for FarmVille, but Farm Frenzy 2 may appeal to anyone who wants to grow crops and breed animals on their Microsoft-powered smartphone.Windows PhoneSports Car ChallengeVolkswagen's latest advergame for iOS puts players in six virtual supercars – including models from Audi, Bentley, Bugatti, Lamborghini and Porsche as well as Volkswagen's own Scirocco R.iPhone / iPadLondon CallingNothing to do with The Clash, this is the latest app to use augmented reality technology from UK startup Aurasma. It promises to reveal "new layers of fantastic cultural content across London and beyond" on leaflets, brochures and posters.iPhone / iOSCthulhu Christmas CalendarH.P. Lovecraft and Christmas... Together at last! This advent calendar app uses Cthulu characters with a festive countdown, including trivia questions. It comes ahead of the release in 2012 of a full Call of Cthulu mobile game by developer Red Wasp Design.iPhone / Android / iPadDC Super Friends: Race to Save ChristmasYoung comics fans will be getting a festive treat with ScrollMotion's DC Super Friends: Race to Save Christmas. It sees Superman and The Flash searching for Santa. The core book-app is complemented by camera, personalisation and puzzle features.iPad
It's Thursday, we're a little late, so let's cut the small talk and get straight into games!
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple took 3+ years to fix FinFisher Trojan hole &gt;&gt; Krebs on Security"The Wall Street Journal this week ran an excellent series on government surveillance tools in the digital age. One story looked at FinFisher, a remote spying Trojan that was marketed to the governments of Egypt, Germany and other nations to permit surreptitious PC and mobile phone surveillance by law enforcement officials. The piece noted that FinFisher's creators advertised the ability to deploy the Trojan disguised as an update for Apple's iTunes media player, and that Apple last month fixed the vulnerability that the Trojan leveraged." ....But it took 1200 days to do so, having been warned of the hole in 2008. Odd, huh? Especially when you consider that the average time-to-fix for Apple security holes is 91 days, and the longest previous 245 days, by Krebs's analysis.Peggy Noonan on Steve Jobs and why big companies die &gt;&gt; Forbes"What's interesting is that Steve Jobs lived long enough to show us at Apple, in the period 1997-2011: what would happen if the firm opted to keep playing offense and focus totally on adding value for customers? The result? The firm makes tons and tons of money. In fact, much more money than the companies that are milking their cash cows and focused on making money. Other companies like Amazon, Salesforce and Intuit have demonstrated the same phenomenon and shown us that it's something that any firm can learn. It's not rocket science. It's called radical management."Facebook law enforcement subpoena/data request guidelines &gt;&gt; Public IntelligenceJust in case you needed to know how the police might need to approach Facebook, and what it would provide.Africa's mobile market now second only to Asia &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWeb"The first GSMA Mobile Observatory report to focus on Africa has come back with some fascinating conclusions. First among them, Africa has passed Latin America to become the world's second largest mobile market. "The global mobile association examined the 25 African countries that account for 91% of mobile use (calling them the "A25"). Here are some of the most interesting of the report's conclusions..." Among them: mobile generates 3.5% of Africa's GDP. Prices are falling, and 96% is pre-paid - but SMS is growing fast.HTC could drop its planned purchase of S3 Graphics following the ITC ruling favoring Apple &gt;&gt; 9to5Mac"Taiwanese handset maker HTC's lawsuit against Apple over infringement of S3 Graphics' patents has suffered a fatal blow (in addition to this one) as the United States International Trade Commission (ITC), which can block the import of products, reversed its earlier decision and ruled in favor of Apple on November 21. The Commission has officially ended its investigation of the case and HTC shares fell 4.9 percent on the news. "And now, Bloomberg reports that HTC 'will reevaluate' its planned purchase of S3 Graphics following the ITC ruling." All we'd need now would be for Google to 'reevaluate' its purchase of Motorola Mobility and the whole patent world would be looking sick.Google now censors The Pirate Bay, isoHunt, 4Shared and more &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakActually, it doesn't: "Google has expanded its search blacklist to include many of the top file-sharing sites on the Internet, including The Pirate Bay. The changes were quietly processed and appear to be broader than previous additions. Google's blacklist prevents the names of sites appearing in their Instant and Autocomplete search services, while the pages themselves remain indexed." So it does still index them. They just don't appear in two of its systems for showing or indicating search results.The US government's $200,000 useless Android application &gt;&gt; Gun.ioA data feed would have been much cheaper and given independent developers the chance to create something useful. Good to see that our own government is staying out of this sort of app development. Mostly cough *tech city* cough.Nokia says Windows Phone off to excellent start in Britain &gt;&gt; The Economic Times on Mobile"Nokia said sales of its first Windows Phone model, the Lumia 800, were off to an excellent start in Britain, dismissing analyst comments of [a] weak sales start, which have hit shares in the Finnish company. "'Lumia 800 sales in the U.K. are off to an excellent start,' Nokia said in a statement. 'Based on earliest data the sales start of the Lumia 800 is the best ever first week of Nokia smartphone sales in the U.K. in recent history.' "'By our measures, we have gained significant smartphone sell-out share in the channels in which we are operating in the U.K.,' Nokia said." So - "best ever first week of smartphone sales in recent history". How recent is the history? Isn't said. Whose measures say the sell-through is good? Their measures. In which channels? The channels in which they are operating. Mealy-mouthed stuff like this is unworthy. Just ignore the analysts, or say straight out "we have great confidence in the Lumia" and leave it at that.Undercover researchers expose Chinese 'Internet Water Army' &gt;&gt; Technology Review"In China, paid posters are known as the Internet Water Army because they are ready and willing to 'flood' the internet for whoever is willing to pay. The flood can consist of comments, gossip and information (or disinformation) and there seems to be plenty of demand for this army's services. "This is an insidious tide. Positive recommendations can make a huge difference to a product's sales but can equally drive a competitor out of the market. When companies spend millions launching new goods and services, it's easy to understand why they might want to use every tool at their disposal to achieve success. "The loser in all this is the consumer who is conned into making a purchase decision based on false premises. And for the moment, consumers have little legal redress or even ways to spot the practice." That's you, by the way. The consumer.Samsung US Galaxy S II ad: "the next big thing" &gt;&gt; YouTubeReally clever bit of advertising. (Don't trouble to read any of the 2,000 comments, though.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Spotify has notched up more than 2.5 million paying subscribers, as the pace of growth at the music streaming service accelerates following the launch into the US in the summer.The company, which launched in the US in July after two years of protracted negotiations with record labels, hit the 2 million paid subscriber mark two months ago. It had 1.6 million subscribers in June.Revenues for 2010increased to £63m, up from £11.3m in 2009. Of that subscription revenues stood at £45m and advertising at £18m.However, losses widened considerably – from £16m to £26.5m – due to Spotify having to fork out increasingly large amounts for royalty payments and licenses to rights holders. Cost of sales were £65m in 2010.Spotify allows 10 hours of free listening a month, before users have to pay £10 a month for a premium service.
Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 has found itself at the centre of a confrontation between two Labour MPs in the ongoing debate surrounding violence in video games.Labour MP and prominent anti-video games campaigner Keith Vaz has tabled a motion in the House of Commons, condemning Modern Warfare 3 for its violent content and calling on the British Board of Film Classification to take "further precautions" over violent video games.In his motion, Mr Vaz said: "This House is deeply concerned about the recently released video game Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, in which players engage in gratuitous acts of violence against members of the public; notes in particular the harrowing scenes in which a London Underground train is bombed by terrorists, bearing a remarkable resemblance to the tragic events of 7 July 2005; further notes that there is increasing evidence of a link between perpetrators of violent crime and violent video games users; and calls on the British Board of Film Classification to take further precautions when allowing a game to be sold."But Labour MP, Tom Watson added an amendment to the motion, drawing attention to the game's 18 certificate from the BBFC and criticising the claim that events in the game are similar to those of the 7/7 bombings."Keith, for many year, has been very critical of adult content in video games and he's homed in particularly on the Call Of Duty franchise," Watson says."He's tabled a motion, about a week ago, condemning the game. I just amended it to make the point that the game has an 18 classification and that the BBFC said in a statement that it bore no resemblance to the July 7 bombings in London – which is what he refers to in his motion."There may be disturbing or unsettling content in that game, but adults should have the choice as to whether they want to play those sorts of games or not."Watson says that he hasn't played Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 yet, but he has booked time to play it during the Christmas recess as he's a massive fan of the franchise. He's currently playing Portal 2.Neither Vaz nor the game's UK distributor, Activision, were available for comment.
You know a game franchise is successful when an annual sequel rolls around. You also know a game franchise is successful when they can throw a prequel into the mix.That's the case with this latest instalment in the Professor Layton puzzle series, which focuses on how Layton and his regular sidekick Luke first met: solving the mystery of a strange spectre that comes at night and lays waste to the odd town of Misthallery.According to legend, the town has a guardian spectre that can be summoned by a magical flute in times of need. Use the flute unwisely, however, and the spectre turns malevolent. Assuming – ahem – that it's a spectre at all ...You know the drill by now. Eccentric villagers? Check. Quaint settings? Check. Slightly insane storyline? Check. Miyazaki-like animation, plenty of point-and-click gameplay and puzzle solving? Check, check and check.It's a winning formula and this latest title doesn't mess with it. There are more puzzles than before – some 170 in fact, before the usual downloads – and a little innovation in terms of mini-games and side challenges, but mostly it's exactly what you would expect from a Layton game.Of course, that means the usual Layton niggles and irritations as well. Forcing the narrative on means tapping the screen through unnecessarily lengthy conversations; the background music descends rapidly from "sinisterly scene setting" to "I'm going to kill an accordionist"; and the puzzles themselves range from the challenging and well-produced to hanging on the most miniscule of details that you can barely see on the tiny screen.As before, though, the enjoyment factor far outweighs the negatives, it looks beautiful and the new tweaks are moderately entertaining (particularly a reaction test that involves tapping a fast-moving mouse whenever it appears, in order to earn badges).These include hidden artefacts to collect, three new mini games – track laying puzzler Toy Train, the coin-collecting Fish and the eccentric Puppet Theatre – and video episodes that reveal some background information on the various characters you've met.If you've not been a fan of the series, this isn't the game that's going to change your mind. For everybody else though, Professor Layton &amp; The Spectre's Call is several days of commute-improving, grey cell stimulation in a mostly effective package.And bravo to Nintendo for keeping this franchise on the standard DS rather than – for the time being, at least – adding that third dimension.• Game reviewed on DS
Zumba is coming for you. It's occupied gyms and church halls across the planet, and if you weren't caught up in its first console sally, Zumba Fitness 2 is here to sidestep, travel and merengue its way to dominion over your Wii.This is an aerobics programme with a fun-times Latin soundtrack and a phenomenal amount of lifestyle branding: Zumba isn't a workout, you know – it's a "fitness party", and the really well-dressed guest can even buy a wardrobe of official Zumba leggings and bra tops for the occasion.That approach makes more sense in a communal class environment than when exercising at home with your console, of course. However grotesquely I stretch the concept of "party", I can't quite reconcile it with the experience of "salsacising" on my own under the slightly dozy eye of the Wii.Beginners can work their way through the moves tutorials before they tackle the main routines, and the 32 songs can be selected individually or performed as part of workouts, with varying lengths and intensities.You don't get much in the way of control, though: you can't even specify how many minutes your party should last, while potentially handy customisations such as "calories burnt" or "target heartrate" are as far off as the Rio carnival is from a drizzly British November.Beneath the insistent branding aside, what you get is a feature-light dancing game. There isn't even a competitive multiplayer mode.Data is saved to your profile – weight, total Zumba time, calories burnt while Zumbing, Zumbability – so you can track your progress. But the really interesting thing about Zumba Fitness 2 is that it seems to have no idea what you're doing at all.It's a constant niggle with Wii dancing games (just how can it judge the strength of my moves from one little controller?), but here the tracking issue is unavoidably aggravating, thanks to a belt peripheral designed to hold the controller snugly on your gyrating hip.The good thing about the belt is that it leaves your hands free for shimmying. The bad thing about the belt is that, unless you're grinding like a millstone, the Wii registers no movement whatsoever.The worst thing about the belt is that, when I bent over for a touch-the-floor move, the controller slipped right out – and the game spaffed up more praise for my dancing while the controller was lying on the floor than it did for any of my hapless crunking.Zumba Fitness 2 is an exercise DVD. An exercise DVD with an integral logbook (handy), but one you can only play on Wii (less convenient). It can't tell you when you're doing the moves correctly. It can barely tell whether you're moving at all.For actual fun and a bit of instruction – all the things you'd get at a real life Zumba class – you want Dance Central. But for adding one more piece to the Zumba branding behemoth, it has to be this, whether it's any good or not.• Game reviewed on Wii
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 19 NovemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (43)PC (2)Wii (1)22 (–)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (43)13 (2)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (28)PC (10)24 (–)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (69)PS3 (29)15 (4)Fifa 12(3+)PS3 (44)Xbox 360 (36)Wii (8)PSP (5)86 (–)Halo: Combat Evolved Anniversary(16+)Xbox 360 (100)17 (–)The Legend Of Zelda: Skyward Sword(12+)Wii (100)18 (3)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (44)49 (–)Super Mario 3d Land(3+)3DS (100)110 (5)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (92)Xbox 360 (8)611 (–)Need For Speed: The Run(16+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (43)PC (3)Wii (2)112 (13)Michael Jackson: The Experience(12+)Wii (88)Xbox 360 (10)PS3 (2)3DS (0)1313 (–)Lego Harry Potter: Years 5-7(7+)Wii (30)Xbox 360 (28)PS3 (21)DS (15)114 (11)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (43)Xbox 360 (36)PS3 (17)3DS (3)615 (9)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (88)Xbox 360 (10)PS3 (2)3416 (6)Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception(15+)PS3 (100)317 (8)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (43)518 (7)Moshi Monsters: Moshling Zoo (3+)DS (100)219 (12)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)620 (–)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (100)1UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
At first glance it seems as though Ubisoft is having some sort of mid-life crisis. Within the space of a month the company has released two ostensibly traditional 2D platformers: its impressive tie-in with the Tintin movie, and now this hark back to the nineties.Is there a wistful sense of reminiscence wafting through the corridors of this veteran French publishing house? Perhaps. But with game design legend Michel Ancel at the helm of this gorgeous looking game, and with a new, dedicated 2D engine named UbiArt Framework powering it, this is no exercise in empty nostalgia.In Rayman Origins, the latest instalment of a series that goes back to 1996, the titular character and his bizarre friends have accidentally started a war with the Livid Dead, the monsters lurking beneath the otherwise peaceful Glade of Dreams.Having escaped capture, Rayman must work his way through a series of themed stages, collecting floating objects called Lums, and rescuing critters known as Electoons from hidden cages. Grabbing the special King Lums doubles the value of other Lums in the vicinity, and reaching certain Lum targets at the close of each stage can earn extra Electoons, which unlock new levels and characters.Electoons? Lums? Don't worry, if you're not a Rayman veteran, it doesn't make an awful lot of sense until you're actuallyinsideMichel Ancel's gloriously vibrant levels, leaping from ridge to knoll and re-acquainting yourself with an array of staple 2D platforming ingredients.Rayman can jump, of course, but as you progress, he learns new skills such as hovering, swimming and shrinking, bringing a compelling variety to the action, and testing your dexterity to the limits.And yes, you will be tested. Floating platforms, dissolving platforms, platforms that twist and turn, that bounce you into the air or slowly fall and fade; you need to study and learn the language of the Rayman universe, and within it, the base language of all 2D platfomers.Spikes are to be avoided, parallel vertical walls can be leapt between, visible winds will lift and carry your character, breaks in the scenery reveal hidden chambers. Exploring these wonderful little worlds is like being a tourist in the city of two-dimensional game design; you'll glimpse elements of Mario, of Sonic (especially in the multi-laying of platforms and the speed run sections), and even of eighties classic Boulderdash.The stages are typically themed – there are deserts, mountains, jungles, frozen wastelands – but they all have a gloriously eccentric spin.In the Desert of Dijiridoos you ride through the sky on a worm-like flute, occasionally jumping on to disintegrating clouds; in Gourmand Land, there are giant ice cubes to smash through as dinosaurs patrol carrying drinks trays, and giant slices of fruit become strange pivoting platforms; in the Sea of Serendipity, Rayman must dive into caves populated by throbbing jelly fish and nightmarish grabbing claws emerging from the cave walls.Everywhere there is humour and whimsy, every screen a feast of bizarre scenery and weird inhabitants. Although the visuals are 2D, the generous use of parallax scrolling gives a rich depth, the intricately detailed landscapes seemingly fading off into distant hand-drawn backdrops.The colours are so vibrant, they seem to bleed from the screen, the inspired use of primary hues and shadow lines crafting scenes of almost expressionistic beauty. Waterfalls cascade, lava bursts from volcanic craters, eerie plants with lengthy fronds wave in the breeze.And all of this is accompanied by perhaps the most extraordinary game soundtrack of recent years, taking in everything from Aboriginal sounds to dance beats, ambient chimes and even lounge jazz accompanied by Pinky and Perky vocals.Alongside the standard platforming levels, there are end-of-level boss encounters, and scrolling shoot-'em-up challenges in which you leap on to a mosquito and fly through formations of angry birds and spiky puffer fish.These are compact and challenging, never diverting you for too long, and always providing something interesting. This is confident, playful game design – it is the work of an artist toying in an old familiar medium, enjoying its idiosyncrasies.There are caveats. With its ever-louder demands for precise jumps and absolute control fluidity, Rayman Origins won't be for everyone. It is tough – have we mentioned that? – and it will frustrate some gamers more than it compels them to continue.The visuals can be frustratingly misleading at times, too, with an uncertainty between harmless background objects and dangerous barriers. Sometimes, there is just too much going on – like a platforming version of a Terry Gilliam movie. It can all be overwhelming.But Rayman Origins has moments of absolute genre mastery and an oddball style of its own. It is weird to pitch this throwback against the likes of Skyward Sword, Uncharted and Skyrim, but it will provide a lot of pleasure – especially for those who'll get the chance to sample its four-player co-op mode, allowing a whole bunch of mates to take on levels together, shouting instructions and dividing tasks.Even this – the idea of uniting gamers in front of a single screen – is an anachronism in our age of broadband connectivity. But again, it reminds us of the fun we used to have before online multiplayer, 3D visuals and Hollywood aspirations.Michel Ancel, one of the great game designers, has come home. We're all welcome to visit. We should all make the trip.• Game reviewed on PS3
Apple has started publishing weekly charts for paid and free apps on iPhone and iPad in the UK, through a partnership with the Press Association.The charts are based on sales and downloads in the company's British App Store over the previous seven days, although no figures are published with the rankings.The first set of charts have just been published for the week ending 20 November, and are topped by Dekovir Inc's Amazing Breaker (paid iPhone), Ming Liang Chien's Hardest Game Ever (free iPhone), Apple's own Pages (paid iPad) and BSkyB's Sky Movies (free iPad).Two trends that stand out from the data: Apple continues to make hay from its own paid iPad apps: four of the top 10 in that category are internally-developed applications.There is also clearly a strong demand in the UK for TV apps, with Sky Movies joined in the top 10 by ITV Player, 4oD Catch Up and Channel 5's Demand 5. The BBC's iPlayer is surprisingly absent, despite being the seventh most popular free iPad app in the live App Store rankings at the time of writing.Developers may be wondering why this is news, given that all these charts are already available for all to see on the App Store itself, with a greater depth. Those charts are a snapshot of what's been popular in the last few hours, though. The new rankings are a more standard weekly chart.The benefits for Apple are clear: if media outlets pick up on the charts, it will cement the App Store's reputation. Watch for press stories labelling the rankings as the "top apps", without specifying that they relate to one platform only.Google (for Android), Research In Motion (for BlackBerry) and Microsoft (for Windows Phone) all have their own app store charts, but do not currently publish weekly roundups in the UK. Perhaps Apple's move will encourage them to follow suit.Could this be a step in the direction of a cross-platform weekly apps chart with figures, as is seen in other industries like music and games? Don't hold your breath. There have been attempts to aggregate this kind of data though: most notably the GSMA and comScore's chart of connected mobile apps, which waspublished in June 2011.Apple's first weekly charts are published in full below:iPhone (Paid Apps)1. Amazing Breaker – Dekovir2. WhatsApp Messenger – WhatsApp3. Hardest Game Ever – 0.02s PRO – Ming Liang Chien4. Angry Birds – Clickgamer.com5. Superman – Chillingo Ltd6. FIFA 12 by EA Sports – Electronic Arts7. Fruit Ninja – Halfbrick Studios8. Sleep Cycle Alarm Clock – Maciek Drejak Labs9. Camera+ – tap tap tap10. Blueprint 3D – FDG EntertainmentiPhone (Free Apps)1. Hardest Game Ever – 0.02s – Ming Liang Chien2. Facebook Messenger – Facebook3. Crime City – Funzio4. Amazing Breaker Free – Dekovir5. Place My Face – MUGOCO6. Solitaire – Byterun7. Idiot Test – Way Too Funny – CreativeNose8. Finger Olympic – Fingerway9. Glass Tower 3 – iDevUA Treelight10. WordSearchUnlimited Free – VirtueSoft.comiPad (Paid Apps)1. Pages – Apple2. Sonic &amp; Sega All-Stars Racing – Sega3. Minecraft: Pocket Edition – Mojang4. Shadowgun – Madfinger Games5. Extraction: Project Outbreak – Chillingo6. GarageBand – Apple7. The Cube – All3Media International8. Numbers – Apple9. Keynote – Apple10. Scriblenauts Remix – Warner BrosiPad (Free Apps)1. Sky Movies – BSkyB2. ITV Player – ITV3. Blood &amp; Glory – Glu Games4. iBooks – Apple5. 4oD Catch Up – Channel 46. Demand 5 – Channel Five7. Solitaire – Byterun8. Snoopy's Street Fair – Beeline Europe9. FilmOn Free TV Live Football Sports News – FilmOn.com10. Gmail – Google
Aleks Krotoski is joined by Guardian telecoms correspondent Juliette Garside and Occupy London's Martin Dittus to make sense of the week's technology headlines. Under the microscope: Google's new music service – is free cloud storage and integration with the social network Google Plus enough to distract users from the absence of a back catalogue?Also this week, UK prime minister David Cameron's technology manifesto pledge to introduce ePetitions with more than 100,000 signatures into the Commons is expected to be watered down. What are the motivations, and how will this affect the public's perception of valuable, responsive e-participation? Finally, a group of concerned developers wants to rid the world of Flash, and not just from mobile operating systems. We hear from a member of Occupy Flash about its motivations and wish list.And Aleks grills Dittus about the global movement's use of technology. What's different in this protest than in previous ones, and how is the group using the tech to coordinate it members without generating hierarchies?Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
A selection of 16 apps for you today:Noddy in ToylandNoddy is the latest famous children's character to pop up on the App Store, with a game for iPhone and iPad. In fact, it's a collection of mini-games from publisher Avanquest, focused on reasoning, deductive skills, memory, concentration and observation skills. The link above is for the iPhone version, but there's a separateHD iPad game.iPhone / iPadCometThis Christmas is expected to be a big one for mobile shopping. Comet is the latest UK retailer to launch its own app, which is available on iPhone, Android, BlackBerry and iPad. Developed by Grapple Mobile, it includes a feature for people to scan barcodes in-store and then read reviews from consumers and experts.iPhone / Android / BlackBerry / iPad360 PanoramaThere are a number of apps helping people shoot photographic panoramas, but 360 Panorama looks like one of the slickest. Available for iPhone and Android, it helps users to stitch together shots as they take them.iPhone / AndroidDream ZooIt's a busy mobile month for Zynga, having already released new games Mafia Wars Shakedown and CityVille Holidaytown. The company's third iOS release in November is Dream Zoo, an all-new game that involves building a zoo, breeding animal varieties and playing mini-games.iPhone / iPadToy VillageGlu Mobile's latest mobile social game is (yet) another spin on the FarmVille / CityVille town-building genre, except this time with toys as the digital citizens. Expect crops, shops and in-app purchases for virtual currency.iPhone / AndroidTimelines for FacebookFacebook has yet to roll it new Timeline feature out beyond developers, but Loytr – the company behind iPad app MyPad – has got in early with a new app that brings Timeline-like features to the social network. It looks very slick, although the question is how appealing it will be if and when Facebook brings official Timelines to its own iPad app.iPad31 Days of MangoHere's an app for developers about... developing apps. It's all the articles from a series called 31 Days of Mango, about making software for Microsoft's latest Windows Phone OS.Windows PhoneTop ElevenWe wrote about social football management game Top Eleven when it launched on Android, but now it's on iPhone too. Based on an online game with 3.5 million players, it involves buying and selling players, choosing tactics, and playing friendlies against friends.iPhoneFonduSoon, we'll need an app to rate all the apps that rate things. Fondu is the latest iPhone app wanting people to exercise their critical faculties out in the real world. In this case, it's restaurants getting the user-generated reviews treatment, although bars, cafes and clubs are also included.iPhoneOnce Magazine: Issue 2San Francisco-based iPad app-mag Once focuses on longer "photo essays", with the photographers sharing in revenues generated by the app. Its second issue includes three essays: the US-Mexico border; cockfighting in Kabul; and female soldiers in Kurdistan.iPadFairy Tales 2 Oxbridge BabyParents looking for a new book-app to use with their children may enjoy Fairy Tales 2, the second app from Oxbridge Baby. It includes six fairy tales, from Puss in Boots and Cinderella to Little Red Riding Hood. Each offers original music and visuals from a hotshot new British animator.iPhone / iPadMixmag MagazineDance music bible Mixmag is the latest print magazine to join Apple's iOS Newsstand, selling individual issues for £2.49. The App Store description may need a little editing though: it talks about "our cover CD this month".iPhone / iPadUno for BBMGameloft has rejigged its mobile version of board game Uno to tap into RIM's BBM messaging service, including a multiplayer mode to play against those BBM friends.BlackBerryBigsby's Best FriendHallmark is best known for its greetings cards business, but the company is getting into book-apps too. Bigsby's Best Friend stars a shy monster who goes on an adventure with his best mate. The twist: people can buy a Bigsby Story Buddy stuffed toy in the real world, which responds to phrases in the iPad book-app.iPadRetroGramiPhone app RetroGram is aiming squarely at Instagram users who want pure vintage filters for their photographs. 12 are preloaded, and people can combine two or more of them for different effects.iPhoneHQSexyTextsDating coach Hayley Quinn has released a new app designed to help nervous men ask women out via text message. And if they're really nervous, they can just pick one of the 125 included messages to send.iPhone
Nokia's Lumia 800 handset, billed as the Finnish manufacturer's make-or-break return to the smartphone race, is set to sell fewer units by Christmas than Apple took in pre-orders in a single day for its latest iPhone.First estimates suggest the Lumia, which went on sale last Wednesday in the UK and five other European countries, will shift between 500,000 and 1m units by Christmas. The iPhone 4S topped 1m pre-orders in a single day.The number is also far lower than estimates for the company's previous flagship smartphone, the N8, which launched in October 2010 and is thought to have sold between 3.5 and 4m units in its first quarter, according to research firm Inderes.Early indications that the Lumia is not a comeback product to topple the dominance of Apple and Google's best-selling Android operating system saw Nokia's shares close down 8.8% at €4.19 (£3.61) on the Helsinki bourse.The N8's Symbian operating system was ditched by Nokia's chief executive Stephen Elop in February, as he bet the company's future on adopting Microsoft's mobile software.Pacific Crest, the US technology investment bank, suggested on Tuesday that Nokia's future is not yet secure. "We believe that shipments of Nokia's new Windsows Phone 7 have been lower than we had previously anticipated," said Pacific Crest analyst James Faucette."We had expected that the company could ship as many as 2m units into the six targeted markets for the holidays; however, we now believe that those shipments are likely to be less than 1m for the quarter."Faucette said checks with retailers indicated "disappointing" sales so far and that the total number of phones sold to customers, as opposed to shipped to retailers, could total no more than 500,000 by the end of December.Lee Simpson at Jefferies bank is suggesting a 1m estimate based on orders from component-makers and the Lumia's Taiwan manufacturer, Compal. Simpson said: "My impression is the first weekend wasn't terrific but it wasn't an outright disaster. The pre-ordering was a good bit lower than 500,000; my estimate by Christmas is that 1m sales would be achievable. It's too early to write this off right now, although the temptation is there."The Lumia is only on sale in six markets, while the N8 was available across Europe and in selected Asian markets during its first months. The Lumia will be rolled out to Hong Kong, India, Russia, Singapore and Taiwan before the end of the year, but will not reach further markets, such as the US and China, until 2012.
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamExclusive: SV Angel's investment portfolio - The Term Sheet &gt;&gt; Fortune CNN"Overall, SV Angel reports 290 active portfolio companies through the end of October. Notables include Facebook, Foursquare, Gerson Lehrman Group, Square, Twitter and Zynga." ... And Groupon, whose shares were ticking back around IPO price last we checked.HP surprisingly emerges as No. 2 tablet maker &gt;&gt; CNET News?Despite all of the attention focused on Apple's iPad, other tablet makers have seen some adoption this year. In total, the U.S. tablet market--excluding Apple--saw sales of more than 1.2 million units and retail revenue of $415 million from January through October, according to a new study from NPD. HP stood on top of that non-iPad hill, closely followed by Samsung Electronics."iPhone 4S Becomes Second Most Popular Cameraphone on Flickr &gt;&gt; Mac RumorsApple gets control over porn domain names &gt;&gt; Domain Name WireWeb-blocking, the Apple way.Microsoft readies new Kinect hardware for Windows PCs &gt;&gt; ZDNetIn time for Christmas? Don't betcha bottom dollar, but interesting nonetheless.The Facebook Phone: The "Slayer" That Wasn't &gt;&gt; AllThingsDLiz Gannes has a pretty convincing report on the origins of the Facebook phone that wasn't. Apparently Facebook planned to make a phone 'just as much as Apple makes phones' - hardware and all. The handpicked team even had their own separate building, according to the report.FCC Chief to Seek Hearing on AT&amp;T Deal &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"It's rare for the FCC to seek an administrative hearing on merger deals like this. Holding such a hearing adds an additional layer of review and extends the time the agency looks at the deal. The last time the agency did this was in 2002 on the proposed merger of EchoStar and DirecTV. The companies eventually pulled the deal."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Wednesday – how is this week panning out for you, game-wise?
