TheBBChas reported that the four-years-in-the-making, hotly anticipated first person shooterDOOM3has been leaked onto the internet two weeks before its release date on Friday 13 August.While the US expected to wake up to the game in the shops on Tuesday morning,"At one point on Sunday, more than 50,000 copies of the game, which weighs in at more than 1.5 gigabytes, were being downloaded.Translated in lost sales, this amounts to $2.7m (£1.5m), if all these people instead bought the game.", reported Alfred Hermida.A similar fate metHalf Life 2last October, reportedly pushing the launch date of that title back from Christmas 2003 to later this year.The music and film industries are veterans of the struggle with this kind of copyright infringement thanks well-publicised scraps with peer-to-peer technology networks like Napster, KaZaa and others. Games police, on the other hand, focus their piracy thwarting on pinching people at car boot sales and searching for tangibles underfruit and veg stalls.Internet networks make it increasingly easy to swap software, and there's very little regulators can currently do to stop it. The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) claims they're tracking Joes and Janes who sample the latest pop releases, but suing penniless college students for downloading some Avril Lavigne - or un-released game code - is proving more expensive in legal fees than its worth.According to John Hillier, theEntertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association's Anti-Piracy Unit Manager, "I suspect a lot of people who find they can sell a good deal of product by post are moving away from the carboots and the markets where they are visible to where they are somewhere out there in the ether. A significant proportion [of software piracy] is done through peer-to-peer."Unfortunatley, there's only one dedicated web-watcher at the games anti-piracy unit ofELSPA, so it looks like the cracked code of future releases will still get out before shop date, and lose the industry millions of pounds.In the real world, offline piracy doesn't go un-punished; the longest prison term sentence for a software crim was handed out in late July to a Welsh 45-year old who'll be hitting the clink for three and a half years for £250K's worth of trade offences.I'd better re-think that three-year plan...
Today, the Guardian has unveiled a newGamesblogabout games and gaming, and this is our second blog using Movable Type. It has already been mentioned inNew Media Age,Poynter Online,Paid Content,Corante, and probably other places, which saves me having to tell you about it.The man mainly responsible for getting the games blog off the ground is Online's former deputy ed Neil McIntosh, which explains why he hasn't been seen around here recently (a huge loss, I am sure we all agree). Neil has now moved over to Guardian Unlimited, which runs our Web sites. On the good side, we have gained Bobbie Johnson, who is in the process of making the trip in the other direction. We hope to get him blogging here soon.
According toslashdot(heretofore referred to as/.), beavers eager to get a final glimpse of the forthcoming release of the latest in the first person shooter (FPS) DOOM series before its launch date on Friday 13 August (oooooooo) should be directed to the following download establishments:FileRush,File PlanetorFileShackBe warned, this isn't a 98 pound weakling. This beast is a butch 42.5 Megs.XBoxers, your release date is set for 24 September. Hold on to your hats.
It's August, and if you sit quietly you can see the luvvies making their annual migration north to the Edinburgh Festivals. For the second year in a row, they're joined by a gaggle of games fanciers. TheEdinburgh International Games Festivaltakes place from the 8th to the 22nd of this month, making the claim that Super Mario Bros and the PlayStation Portable are High Art.It's not about soft-bellied boys emerging from their pits to gape at barely clad bimbos, nor will there be many poncey types in berets. This year's festivities are drawing luminaries from Hollywood glitz to people who've made millions selling imaginary goods in virtual worlds, and will feature games a-go-go at the National Museum of Scotland. Expect updates as the time looms, but it appears that while the more conservative elements across the nation are shaking their collective fist at video gaming, the liberal left is giving the industry a nice big warm hug. Mmm, fuzzy.
Bottoms are big in  the world of cars  at the moment.   There's the  bump'n'grind  behind of  Renault's Megane, the pert derriere  of Nissan's 350Z and even the  rounded rump of VW's new Beetle.   But one thing seems to have been  agreed, by none other than The Sun,   that the rear of the year belongs to  Chrysler, and more specifically the  perfectly dimpled tush of the  Crossfire. But the back end the  Crossfire boasts isn't so much sexy  as an exercise in bootylicious  horsepower - think Dwain  Chambers in anatomically explicit  Lycra and you're getting close.The Crossfire is the latest  attempt by the American giant  to colonise our streets - following  the softening-up operation of its  Voyager, Neon and laughable  PT Cruiser. European markets  were never high on the radars of  US producers; they've always been  able to shift millions of motors  back home. But with foreign cars  now making inroads over there,   the Americans are having to come  over here. And by the head-turning,   eye-popping responses the  Crossfire is attracting from passers-by, Chrysler's campaign isn't going  to face much resistance - especially  from fading playboys hoping to  camouflage a middle-age paunch  with some automotive raunch.This is a car that puts pleasure  ahead of all notions of common  sense. It's a two-seater; it has  a boot big enough for a small child  to squat in (a two-year-old, if that  paints a clearer picture); you can't  get your head out of its windows  (well, sometimes you need to see  just where that kerb has got to);   the volume on the sound system  goes up to 40; it can accelerate from  a standing start to 62mph in 6.5  seconds and, oh yes, it tops out at  155mph. Now that is useful.Having said that, the manner  in which it takes you over the speed  limit is rather nice. It's the first  offspring of a partnership between  Chrysler and Mercedes - the  Crossfire is built on the chassis of  the SLK and shares its v6, 3.2litre  engine. Stand an SLK and a  Crossfire side by side and you have  a neat stereotype of the two cultures  - Germanic understatement  versus American egomania.To the gawking pedestrian, the  Crossfire is a show-off's dream.   The bonnet is raked with go-faster  ridges and flanked by great steel  gills which give the whole thing  a shark-like appearance. To the  gulping passenger, however, the  car is less lovely. The interior is  wrecked by a cheap, crappy, square-cornered plastic console - and  crappy is not a word that should  ever appear in a review of a  £30,000 car. The climate-control  is effective but basic, and there are  none of the usual perks a motorist  expects with this level of car; nothing that makes you go, 'Ohhhh, that's clever.' Though it  does win with its self-activating  spoiler which pops up at 60mph.In short, it's great looking on the  outside, but a little disappointing  on the inside. Bit like Dwain, then,   in more ways than one."martin.love@observer.co.uk
"Software patents are considered the greatest danger to the usage and development of Linux and other Free Software. A cursory search revealed that the Linux 'base client', which the city of Munich plans to install on the desktop computers of approximately 14,000 employees, is in conflict with more than 50 European software patents,"reportsLinuxElectrons."Today Jens Muehlhaus, an alderman from the Green Party, filed two motions in which he calls on the mayor of Munich, the Social Democrat Christian Ude, to contact the federal government of Germany on this matter and to analyse how the EU software patent directive affects Munich's Linux project. The politician, a supporter of open source, warns that patent infringement assertions could take entire departments of the city administration out of operation. Mr. Muehlhaus expresses concern over the future ability of open source software to meet the needs of the city administration if software patents massively hinder its development. Related caveats have been voiced by the SME association CEA-PME and by Deutsche Bank Research."
Forget obesity and torpor, the old curses of the Playstation generation. Now a mutant tribe of homicidal couch potatoes is being incubated on sofas everywhere. The murder of a teenage boy has been ascribed to his killer's alleged fondness for Manhunt, a violent computer game, and the media want this 'evil' banned.Dixons have already obliged by withdrawing Manhunt - though not other games guilty, in critics' eyes, of incitement to murder-by-console.Amid the uproar, it is possible to forget that a child has died, not at the click of a mouse but in the coldest blood imaginable. Stefan Pakeerah was lured to a Leicester park by his friend, Warren LeBlanc, 17, on the pretext that they were going to meet girls. Instead LeBlanc attacked the younger boy from behind, beating him to death with a claw hammer and a knife.Shortly before the hearing at which LeBlanc admitted murder, Alan Pennell, aged 16, was named by a judge as the murderer of Luke Walmsley, the Lincolnshire schoolboy stabbed in a school corridor. The two cases had eerie similarities. The victims, both 14, were popular and bright children killed by older boys described as loners with chaotic and unhappy backgrounds. Practically the only missing link was any suggestion that Alan liked Manhunt. His den, marked 'Members Only', contained martial arts videos, as well as a snooker table, a stereo and a cache of knives.Many people knew about the knives. Alan had threatened several times to stab Luke to death and, on the morning of the murder, he held a blade to another pupil's throat during a debate over   whether Manchester United were 'crap.' Many people also knew Alan's history. His mother, whose memory he idolised, died with her boyfriend in a drunken car accident when he was four. His father, a lorry driver, was rarely home. Alan, a veteran of vodka blackouts, was known to the police because he had an assaulted an officer as well as smashing another pupil in the face.If he had gone to school wearing a sandwich board labelled Murderer-in-Waiting, he could scarcely have advertised his potential more starkly. And yet, in a post-Climbi&#233; age of school-centred protection and sharp shocks for bad boys, the authorities stood languidly by as the day drew nearer when one child would die and another have his bleak life effectively terminated.That is not to blame teachers. The problem is the blind smugness of a society, and a political class, that see teenage violence simultaneously as a canker and an abstraction. What would have persuaded Alan Pennell not to kill? An Asbo? An exclusion order? A DVD cupboard stocked with the Blue Planet? Counselling from our threadbare mental health service was never an option.However nebulous the solutions, the adult world should cringe for shame at its failure to try. For a brief moment, there was a flicker of media remorse. Newspapers quoted Luke's mother's entirely justifiable view that Pennell was 'evil', but they also reported the sad past of a murderer who, when asked by a doctor for his three wishes, could only muster two - to have his mother back and never to have killed Luke.For once, the press stepped haltingly on to the cracking ice between hatred and pity, almost willing to study the complex world of child violence, in which action and consequence, provocation and licence curdle together in damaged minds. It did not last long.Two days later, Warren LeBlanc pleaded guilty to murder, and Manhunt was screamingly deemed the corrupter of all children. Writing in the Daily Mail, Brian Masters claimed that 'an entire childhood of careful education by example, trying to establish the necessary virtues of moral choice, may be utterly unravelled by an activity which purposefully releases the participant from any moral considerations whatever.' This is absurdly wrong.Obviously, normal children do not take GrandTheftAutoViceCity as a licence to shoot policeman. I would rather my teenage son had not gone through a phase of playing it, because I loathe all violence, but I knew there was not the faintest risk that he would lose any traction on right and wrong.The savage environment that nurtures violent children is the very opposite of virtual. Its creators are brutal carers who do not know, or mind, that the beaten become aggressors. Occasionally it is not even necessary to thrash a child. Some backgrounds are so cleansed of love that they produce automatons in whom emotion dies unformed.Any correlation between violent computer games and crime belongs in a mishmash of studies with contradictory and inconclusive findings. One educational theorist, Professor John Paul Gee, last year published a book arguing that video games, even violent ones, were an aid to learning and literacy. Most people would allow, though, that bloodthirsty material could be a catalyst in rare cases where very damaged children are exposed to an overload of vicious fantasy.But the current furore is not really about such cases. It is, instead, about finding somewhere to pin the blame. Such witchhunts are nothing new. If the Columbine High School massacre had really been ordained by video nasties, or if James Bulger's killing was decreed by his killers' fondness for the horror film Child's Play Three, then hideous crimes would have been stamped out long ago.In the absence of such a simplistic solution, berating game tycoons at least allows protesters to mask their own complicity in a society that heaps tawdry emotion on murdered children while ensuring that those branded irredeemable stay that way. Having once washed their hands of Alan Pennell, the authorities are likely to do so again.In accordance with the Home Secretary's discretion to send such children to any institution, William Whitelaw once despatched a grave offender to public school. David Blunkett is unlikely, and rightly so, to conclude that anyone capable of Alan's crime would benefit from a spell at Eton.He could remain at his highly-praised se cure training centre, but only until he is 17. After that, he will be destined for one of the young offender institutions on which the Youth Justice Board has, according to one member, Rob Allen, signally failed to make a real impact. In such hotbeds of violence and bullying, boys like Alan Pennell can brush up on any aspects that have so far eluded them of how it feels to inhabit a living hell.Those who think it obscene to expend sympathy on children who commit terrible crimes should realise that the fate of the innocent, like Luke and Stefan, depends on helping the most vicious, not on drumming up spurious reasons for their behaviour. Computer games are relevant, but mainly as a metaphor for a system that invents and disposes so carelessly of its demons.This time next week, Alan Pennell and Wayne LeBlanc will have been zapped from public debate as thoughtlessly as an average teenager might eradicate Manhunt's electronic images. Monsters need not hang around to haunt us. Simply hit the erasure button, and watch them die.mary.riddell@observer.co.uk
The timing of Microsoft's announcement that it is to give $75 billion back to its shareholders is significant. It means that Bill Gates and his colleagues judge that John Kerry is likely to win the presidential election and roll back the generous tax breaks granted by George W. Bush to wealthy shareholders. Under the Bush dispensation, many large Microsoft shareholders will pay tax on the company's largesse at the modest rate of 15 per cent - a concession that a Kerry administration has pledged to abolish.At one level, there is nothing unusual about the decision: it's just the kind of tax planning that any prudent group of billionaires would do. What's more interesting is the way Microsoft has made the transition from a company which essentially    ignored politics to one which has become adept at channelling its money through political conduits to further its corporate interests. In 1995, the budget for Microsoft's Political Action Committee (PAC) was a paltry $16,000. By 2000 it was $1.6 million. And total donations by Microsoft and its employees to political parties, candidates and PACs in the 2000 election cycle came to more than $6.1m, according to Edward Roeder, a long-term observer of corporate political donations. During this period, Microsoft outspent even Enron, giving $2.3m in so-called 'soft money' contributions, compared to the $1.55m donated by the Enron crowd in the same period. (Soft money is unregulated corporate and individual contributions that cannot go directly to candidates, but which usually goes to political parties.)In the last three US electoral cycles (1998, 2000 and 2002), Microsoft's soft money donations have favoured Republicans over Democrats. In 2000 the company gave $1,313,384 to the Republicans and $876,792 to the Democrats. But it's difficult to know what to read into these figures because soft money returns filed with the Federal Electoral Commission aggregate individual employees' donations with their employer's corporate donations. Analysis of donations by Microsoft employees indicates a bias to the Democrats; Bill Gates, for example, has consistently favoured Democratic candidates - which suggests that the company's overall Republican bias was the product of a board decision. Now, according to the   Centre for Responsive Politics, using FEC data, the bias has switched back to the Democrats.What is indisputable is that Microsoft has belatedly become a politically savvy company. For the 20 years after its foundation in 1975, it operated in a politics-free zone. It was part of a new industry that the political system barely noticed - and left alone.The dominant people in the company shared Gates's disregard for the rules and conventions of the old order. Like the libertarian philosophers of the internet, they believed they were shaping a new world - a world to which the restrictions of the 'old economy' would not apply.In Microsoft's case, this consensual illusion lasted for two decades. What blew it apart was the fallout from Microsoft's ruthless destruction of Netscape in the mid-1990s, when it became clear that the company's behaviour contravened US anti-trust laws and the justice department launched an anti-trust prosecution. The suit was greeted first with incredulity and then with outrage at Microsoft - a mindset unforgettably exemplified by Gates's videotaped testimony, when he behaved like a sulky teenager under interrogation by an uncool headmaster. For many people, Microsoft's response to the anti-trust suit suggested the overweening arrogance of kids who thought that   being smart and successful somehow exempted them from the restraints that govern ordinary mortals.But in fact it was a symptom of a deeper problem - Microsoft had no political antennae. It had nobody on the ground in Washington, networking with legislators and their staffs, listening to the gossip, shooting the breeze - and reporting back to base. In fact, in 1995 the company had just a single lobbyist - and he was based not in Washington but in Chevy Chase, Maryland.The shock of the anti-trust suit gave rise to a major rethink in Redmond. From having virtually zero lobbying capacity Microsoft went to retaining more lobbyists than all but the biggest US corporations. More importantly, it began to use campaign contributions in a targeted way. The anti-trust case reached its climax towards the end of the 2000 presidential election.Bush declared that he did not favour breaking up the company, whereas Al Gore hinted that he would back the justice department's demand for restructuring. At that point, Microsoft realised that it needed friends in high places. According to Roeder, in the seven days before Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's ruling against Microsoft, the company donated more soft money to the national political parties than it had given to federal candidates and political parties from 1989 to 1996.Given that the Bush administration backed off and Microsoft was not broken up, this was clearly   money well spent. But it was probably the tip of the iceberg, because Microsoft also began to spend lavishly on local politics and undeclared 'indirect' lobbying activities aimed at changing the climate of opinion towards the company. It has, for example, become a prime funder of ostensibly 'independent' think-tanks and other outfits - including the National Taxpayers Union (which attacked state attorneys-general who supported a break-up of Microsoft in the anti-trust proceedings), the Association for Competitive Technology and Americans for Technology Leadership.Microsoft has also astutely cultivated the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation with minority scholarships - thereby engendering support from unexpected political quarters.'This shows the maturation of Microsoft and Bill Gates in Washington,' says Professor James Thurber, a political scientist who studies interest groups.Obscuring the money trail that leads back to the vested interest is a well-worn Washington tactic. 'They are going full blast in all dimensions of lobbying - coalition building, grassroots, top-roots, contributions to charitable organisations,' Thurber says. 'It doesn't surprise me. It surprises me it took this long.' Microsoft may be gambling on a Kerry victory, but it has been spending enough to ensure an each-way bet. And, should the result go Kerry's way, by the time he gets around to repealing that tax break the money will have gone.
Ze Frankwww.zefrank.comThree years ago a 32-year old former art director from New York decided to illustrate an online party invite with some videos of himself doing a selection of daft dance moves. He sent it to 20 of his friends but within weeks - thanks to the burgeoning blog scene - 600,000 people per day were watching him "Ride The Pony". Since then Ze Frank, as he likes to be known, has evolved his webspace into an unmissable gallery of wonder. One of many Educational Videos, Impress Your Date advises men meeting prospective partners at restaurants to smear mustard on their finger tips so as to suggestively lick it off, while hours can be wasted making clothes from toilet paper, playing with food or fooling around with the cunning interactive toys and games he's developed.Leonard Rossiterwww.leonardrossiter.comYou don't have to be sexy, or alive, to have an obsessive fan willing to give up mountains of time to build a web shrine in your honour - as this magnificent website on Leonard Rossiter, who died in 1984, demonstrates. Split into three domains, this site houses The Official Reginald Perrin website (highlights include a list of every time Reggie's boss, CJ, says "I didn't get to where I am today..."), A Complete Guide To Rising Damp and The Life And Career Of Leonard Rossiter. Often regarded as one of Britain's greatest-ever comedy actors, there's lots of reminders here of his work beyond his two famous sitcoms - including a full version of Le Petomane, Rossiter's short film about the infamous Victorian performer who built a record-breaking stage show around his ability to fart at will.Keira Foreverwww.keiraknightley.cjb.netKeira Knightley, who plays Guinevere in the recently released epic King Arthur, has come a long way since she played a nine-year-old tyke in a 1995 episode of The Bill. As befits an actress recently voted (by Tatler) the most desirable single woman in Britain, she has a vast army of online admirers eager to document her every media move. Sample Keira fever at this scarily obsessive site, which as well as all the normal stuff like wallpaper, trivia (according to legend she asked her mum to get her an agent at the age of three) and a filmography, also includes a frightening gallery of screen grabs, pencil-drawn fan art and, pleasantly, a word search.InterconnectedSadly the South Beach diet (http://southbeachdiet.co.uk) doesn't include a chapter on biscuits, which rules it out for most of us.Thankfullywww.nicecupofteaandasitdown.comdoing sterling work reviewing the latest crumbly comestibles. Further fattening fare can be located atwww.pieman.comwhere you can keep abreast of breaking news in the fast-moving world of pies as well as purchasing T-shirts bearing the legend Steak And Kidney.The darker side of bad food is explored at the Dead Men Eating Weblog (http://deadmaneating.blogspot.com) which documents the final meal requests of the recently executed in American prisons. Coleslaw seems alarmingly popular among those on death row. Prisoners looking for something a bit more exotic should visit Bert Christensen's Weird &amp; Different Recipes (http://bertc.com/recipes.htm) an order of pumpernickel pus lumps would surely buy an extra day or two.
David Pogue has reviewed the new multi-wirelessHP iPaq H6315in The New York Times."For distances up to 30 inches, the iPaq can beam information, like your electronic business card, to another palmtop using an infrared transmitter. For distances up to 30 feet, it has built-in Bluetooth circuitry (more on this in a moment). For distances up to 150 feet, it has a Wi-Fi antenna. And for transmissions around the entire planet, the iPaq has one other trick up its sleeve: it's also a cellphone. If your office can't reach you on this, then you must be on the International Space Station."
"Top Web search engine Google Inc began taking bids on Friday for the public auction process it will use to sell as much as $3.3 billion shares to the public for its planned offering in mid-August," reportsReuters."A Google spokeswoman confirmed thatwww.ipo.google.comhad gone live, where bidders can apply to get an identification number to participate in the so-called Dutch auction."Comment:Don't all rush at once: it says: "individual investors who are notU.S. personsshould not expect to be eligible to participate in this offering."
This is the Guardian gamesblog, so excuse the cliché, but we need more leftie video games. At the moment the right is having all the fun. Recently we've seenFull Spectrum Warrioron Xbox - a game based on an official US army training tool. And coming soon is America's 10 Most Wanted - a first-person shooter lets you hunt down the likes of Bin Laden. Great.Most games developers may look likeMichael Moorebut very few of them are acting like him. Even Monty Mole on the ZX Spectrum had a political message. If this 8bit classic could mix caricatures of the striking miners into an innocent platform game then just think what could be achieved by left leaning developers on Xbox or PlayStation 2? Potential titles could include Tomb Raider: Sustainable Tourism edition or maybe Super Mario: Plumber for the Poor. Even the New Labour angle would be interesting. We could have True Crime: Tough on the Causes. Or maybe Championship Manager: NHS edition.In reality being liberal just isn't as much fun as veering rightwards. In videogaming land it is still more enjoyable to shoot first, ask questions about childhood later. And actually, Full Spectrum Warrior is a decent title. Players get to control two squads dropped into the fictional country of Zekistan. Whether teaching players military tactics is a good thing remains to be seen, but at least brainpower is needed to get a winning strategy. A lack of non-combatants means there is no "collateral damage" - which is useful given the trigger-happy nature of your men - but there is no doubt this would have been less enjoyable as a peace-keeping game.Even classics likeCivilizationaren't exempt, teaching players that the best way to "win" is to develop bigger and better weapons to crush opponents.Are there any games that are politically correct, yet fun to play? Maybe, as Keith says, mobile games are where they will appear...
Yesterday the Daily Mail invited readers to visit its online chatroom and respond to a typically ferocious anti-videogame rant, which took up two pages of the newspaper. Strangely, by 5pm the same evening, the 'should violent videogames be banned?' thread had been removed 'pending review', much to the confusion of those who were involved in what seemed to be a lively and mostly intelligent discussion. Could the reason perhaps have been that general opinion was very much against the proposition? Not to be silenced, however, visitors have started thethreadagain, and it's worth a look – in stark contrast to the paper itself, you should find some in-depth, well-considered and informed responses to a tragic incident. Unless it's all been removed for 'review' again...
Kirby &amp; The Amazing MirrorGame Boy AdvanceIn the pantheon of Nintendo characters, over which Mario reigns with a cartoon fist of iron, Donkey Kong, Pokemon and even Pikmin come higher in the pecking order than stupid, pink cloud-thing Kirby. Although he's had his franchise revisited over the years, outings tend to be the black sheep of Nintendo's family, his nadir being Kirby's Air Ride, a sad, misguided attempt to recreate Wipeout-style gameplay with pastel-coloured cloud creatures replacing hover cars. Kirby &amp; The Amazing Mirror is a return to more traditional platform-hopping fair, with Kirby and three chums swallowing enemies to inherit their powers and occasionally co-operating to overcome bigger monsters. Although not as offensive as Spyro the Dragon, this is still pretty muted stuff with little of the flair and imagination of the forthcoming Mario vs Donkey Kong.&#183;Nintendo, £35Sold Out GamesPCOld PC games never die; they just disappear for a few years before being wheeled-out at &#163;4.99 by Sold Out. As with all bargains, you have to look reasonably carefully at what your fiver is buying you, but there's certainly joy to be had here for very little money. The conveniently self-explanatory Next Generation Tennis and Matt Hayes Fishing are unlikely to cause missed sleep or relationship break-ups, and, along with so-so real-time strategy game Z: Steel Soldiers, are the runts of this litter. Undoubted pin-up of the batch is Startopia, a chronically underrated game in which you take over sections of a vast alien spaceship by making bits habitable for your various extraterrestrials and their friends. Deep, engrossing and open-ended, this has lost absolutely none of its charm.&#183;Sold Out, £4.99Microsoft Train Simulator: West Somerset RailwayPCAlong with simulations of rally cars, jet fighters and whole war zones, there's Microsoft Train Simulator, allowing you to face the rigours of rail travel as a driver and, inexplicably, as a passenger. To go with the provided routes around Britain, North America and Japan you can now also experience the 23-mile West Somerset Railway in all its incredibly peaceful glory thanks to this add-on pack. With a 25mph speed limit there are no moments of nail-biting tension as you ferry passengers from Minehead to Bishops Lydeard, but for the aficionado there's plenty of scope for adjusting steam pressure and experimenting with braking distances. Incorporating its own set of audio to recapture the mellow sounds of steam travel, this is less game than bizarre ambient experience and will appeal to those for whom steam trains are about more than just repeat showings of The Railway Children.&#183;Just Trains, £20
Political satire is not what you'd call a fundamental element of today's electronic entertainment – unless you consider the karaoke sim Sing Star a devastating comment on our obsession with fame, or GTA Vice City a damning indictment of eighties materialism. But mobile phone gaming may change all that. Comparatively cheap and quick to produce, downloadable Java games can respond to current events in a way that would be impossible for console titles. And what better target than the current US presidential race?So far two mobile game companies have risen to the challenge. US mobile entertainment publisherSorrentis just about to release its highly amusing Bush vs Kerry Boxing, in which you guide your favourite candidate through three rounds of beat 'em up action. "While the candidates deliver verbal jabs through the press, you can step into the ring as either George W. Bush or John Kerry and attack the other presidential hopeful with your own jab...followed by a Right Wing Cross and a Far Left Uppercut!" proclaims the enthusiastic website description.The part we like best, however, is that once a fight is over, the results are automatically sent from the user's phone to a nationwide "pugilist poll" on Sorrent's wesbite. It seems that, for Americans whoreallywant to show support for their chosen candidate, there's only one option: step into the ring and fight for them!Looking for something with a little more depth? Dutch developerLuna Gameshas just released Election 2004, a nicely designed strategy title where you work toward victory by engaging in TV debates, placing campaign ads and, most importantly, digging for dirt on your opponent. We're not sure if there's a special "I fought in Vietnam" trump card that you can keep pulling out throughout the action, but there ought to be.Unfortunately, neither of these games is easily available in the UK at present, but perhaps it's up to British developers to create their own equivalents. Surely a Blair vs Brown beat 'em up is a must? Or a particularly lascivious version of The Sims set in the FA headquarters? The great thing about mobile games is that they are so throwaway and conceptual – usually, the idea is the important part, not the long-term gameplay challenge (after all, users only pay a fiver for them), so satirical content could and should flourish. Take the lead story in Today's Guardian, concerningthe pope's views on gender equality: surely this provides the basis for a fantastic Missile Command-style shooter in which you must defend the Vatican against incoming feminist ideologies.And if you've an idea for a satirical mobile game, add a comment below and I'll mail it off to a few key developers. You never know, you could be playing it in a couple of months…
It's the end of July, so obviously there are stacks of games out this Friday. Ahem. The games industry continues to ignore the summer months, reasoning that potential purchasers are all outside or on holiday. This is nonsense of course - for a start the kids are off andobesity figuresshow that far more of them like to play games than run around outside. And who can blame them, what withskin canceron the rise.Then there are the parents, who take time off to look after the children. What better way to relax after a hard days parenting than winning the premiership atChampionship Manageror recreating history in Medieval: Total War?This summer has been as quiet as ever with the two biggest releases being thescandalously unfinishedDriv3r and the surprisingly half-decent Spider-Man 2. This week's releases list is quiet even by recent standards:Formula 1 2004 (PS2)is probably the pick, which says it all. It includes all this seasons' drivers and tracks, but is unlikely to convert non-petrolheads. There's even some token online action, although it is limited to downloadable cars to practice your times against.The Suffering (PC)is one of the games highlighted by the Daily Mail's hysterical piece today. It's not bad in a cheesy horror kind of way - think cheap splatfest set in a haunted prison - and may grab a few extra sales due to the Mail's coverage.Splinter Cell: Pandora's Tomorrow (GC)is an increasingly rare example of a third party game for Nintendo's Gamecube. Luckily then it's a decent one. This is a graphically impressive stealth game that is worth picking up if you don't have the superior Xbox version. Talking of which...Wings Of War (Xbox)a WW1 air combat game that has had zero PR and only costs £20 (most new releases are £30+). So hopes aren't too high, although a lack of review code means we remain in the dark.Let's hope next week is better. Top billing probably goes to Catwoman which is due out then. My review will be in next Thursday's Online.
Xeni Jardin from BoingBoing provides a round-up of the online social network scene in Q&amp;A format. Among those answering questions are Danah Boyd, Joi Ito, and Feedster boss Scott Rafer. Starthere
"A special day, once a year, to acknowledge the worthiness and appreciation of the person occupying the role, especially as it is often this person who really keeps the wheels of your company turning," says theWeb site.
"Worldwide personal digital assistant (PDA) shipments totaled 2.75 million units in the second quarter of 2004, a 12 percent increase from the second quarter of 2003, according to preliminary results by Gartner, Inc. The year-over-year growth rate broke a string of 10 consecutive quarterly shipment declines," reports Gartner in apress release."In terms of PDA operating systems shipments, Palm OS continued to lead the market with a worldwide market share of 41.7 percent in the second quarter of 2004, but its market share was down from the second quarter of 2003 when it accounted for 51 percent of the market. Windows CE's market share in the second quarter of 2004 reached 36.6 percent, up slightly from the same period last year when its market share totaled 36.3 percent. RIM's share of the PDA OS market increased to 18.6 percent, up from 5.3 percent market share in the second quarter of 2003."Comment:Sales of Sony PDA's plunged from 272,638 units to only 174,804, which put it only just ahead of Dell (147,500 units). However, RIM's shipments of BlackBerrys boomed from 131,100 to 510,000 units, only just behind HP/iPaq (529,773).
No one could claim the mobile games industry isn't moving forward. Last year, there were Space Invaders and Pac-Man clones everywhere, now developers have moved onto the mid-eighties home computer scene for inspiration. And with its conversion of platform classic Jet Set Willy, Jester Interactive has taken authenticity to the extremes - by including many of the bugs present in the original Spectrum code…If you can recall the early eighties (come on, pinstripe jeans, Tiswas, new romantics, mass unemployment), then you'll remember Manic Miner and Jet Set Willy. These surreal, heart-implodingly tough platformers, written by the elusiveMatthew Smithfor the Spectrum 48k, were at the vanguard of the computer gaming revolution. Those of us in our early teens at the time spent many a maddeningly frustrating hour trying to direct a tiny man in a bowler hat past giant chickens, psychotic penknives and enormous Monty Python-style feet, descending from the ceiling to crush us for the fourteenth time in succession.Last year, developerJester Interactivebought the rights to produce mobile games based around these two seminal titles. Manic Miner is already out, while the finishing touches are now being applied to its superior follow-up, Jet Set Willy. Superior, that is, apart from one fundamental element. It was impossible to finish. A bug meant that the final screen was inaccessible, and desperate players could only complete the game by entering a POKE, an old skool version of the cheat code, before loading.And this was only the tip of a quite substantial 'bug-berg'. Jet Set Willy, in fact, was teeming with bugs, like some kind of programming version of a council flat in Tower Hamlets. But has Jester removed this element for its Java update? Are you crazy? That was part of the fun!"It still does contain quite a few of the original bugs," confirms Jester's Carl Woffenden, who has programmed the conversion. "Without them, the gameplay changes too much, and it would require alterations to the rooms or object placement. It's still possible to jump through solid objects, stick to the walls, etc.,butWilly doesn't have infinite death scenarios or die unexpectedly after entering certain rooms. I think it's a nice balance, and should satisfy both newcomers and the hardcore purists (of which quite a few are beta-testers)."Bugs as enjoyable gameplay elements? Sounds insane - especially if you've played Driv3r. But, if they're part of the tapestry of a game, Carl reckons they're vital to a totally authentic conversion. "I'm aiming for a version of the game that plays exactly like the Spectrum version - development started with disassembling the original code and designing the update from that. Every element, from the way Willy moves to how the ropes swing has been replicated, and feedback so far from the Manic Miner/Jet Set Willy community is that it's just like playing in a Speccy emulator. The bugs that prevented the original from being completed have been removed, though!"Whoa, back-up there! 'The Manic Miner/Jet Set Willy community'?! Yep, it seems plenty of people have been unable to let these treasures go. Members of theManic Miner and Jet Set Willy Yahoo Groupare right now developing their own sequels to the originals, in a quaint retro mirroring of the current first-person shooter modding community. The ever-fascinatingRetro Gamermagazine recently ran an article on the phenomenon.Anyway, the mobile gaming nostalgia bandwagon is rolling on. Jester also has the rights to the back-catalogue of cult 8bit developer Hewson, and Carl is now working on a mobile conversion of Commodore 64 legend, Uridium. "It's a rock hard side-scrolling shoot 'em up, and is one of the first games to really amaze me on a home computer - and frustrate at the same time!"Also,Kujuis set to convert two of Sensible Software's legendary Amiga titles, Cannon Fodder and Sensible Soccer, to mobile phones.More will follow. The eighties provides a rich catalogue of simple yet well-crafted and idiosyncratic games – perfect for mobile platforms. And it must be much cheaper to snap up these cobweb-covered licenses than going for blockbuster movies - even if youdohave to spend months agonising over what constitutes a bug and what a gameplay feature.And for mobile developers considering a plunge into the mineral-rich waters of eighties gaming nostalgia, here are five titles we'd love to see on our Nokia 6600s. In no particular order:1. Skool Daze 2. Paradroid 3. Mission Impossible 4. Sabre Wulf 5. Forbidden ForestNow get to work!
Two high street retailers have taken a violent computer game off their shelves after the parents of a murdered teenager claimed that it had influenced their son's killer.The parents of 14-year-old Stefan Pakeerah, who was stabbed and bludgeoned to death by his friend Warren Leblanc, blame the game Manhunt.On Wednesday Leblanc, 17, of Braunstone Frith, Leicester, pleaded guilty to Stefan's murder in February.After the hearing at Leicester crown court Stefan's parents said that Leblanc had killed their son because he had become obsessed with Manhunt, in which players score points for brutal killings.Their fears were echoed by the NSPCC, and two shops - Dixons and Game - withdrew the game from sale yesterday.The Dixons Group said: "We believe that immediate withdrawal of the game is the appropriate step in the circumstances. We are doing so in consultation with the manufacturer." Game said it had taken Manhunt off its shelves "as a mark of respect".The company which makes Manhunt, Rockstar Games, expressed its sympathy for the Pakeerah family.But it added: "We reject any suggestion or association between the tragic events and 
 the sale of Manhunt. There is a clear certification structure in place and Manhunt was clearly classified as 18 by the British Board of Film Classification and should not be in the possession of a juvenile."We are naturally very surprised and disappointed that any retailer would choose to pull any game as this is a legitimate game which has been classified by the authorities."Stefan's father, Patrick, described the retailers' action as "a good start"."In my opinion this game has contributed to Stefan's death, so games like this should not be sold to minors, or anybody for that matter."You are supposed to get some sort of pleasure from playing this game - but it's not pleasurable to go around killing people."The fact that they have taken it off their shelves is a good start. I think other high street stores should follow suit."Manhunt is the latest of the of ultra-violent computer games.Other controversial titles on sale are Hitman: Contracts, which is billed as an exploration of "the dark psychology of killing for a living"; The Suffering, in which players stay alive by executing fellow inmates at a high-security prison; and Doom III, in which the only way to survive is by killing legions of hellish creatures.
Amazon.co.uk was last night criticised for refusing to stock a controversial book which examines the links between George Bush's circle and rich Saudis.Major bookstores including Waterstone's and WH Smith are carrying House of Bush, House of Saud, which was published in Britain yesterday after becoming a bestseller in the US.But the book's publisher, Martin Rynja, expressed concern and bemusement that the work by Craig Unger, which inspired some of the more sensational allegations in Michael Moore's film Fahrenheit 9/11, will not be available on the British version of Amazon, the online bookshop.Mr Rynja, of Gibson Square Books, said: "I can only presume Amazon fears it will be sued, but the book will be available in stores across the country. Amazon is clearly not made of very stern stuff."He added: "This is an important book which has created a lot of debate in the US - it has done just what a book is supposed to do. I think booksellers have a duty to disseminate information. Amazon is withdrawing from that responsibility."Mr Rynja said brief details about the book did appear on Amazon.co.uk earlier this month after the site automatically picked them up from a master database.But after he contacted Amazon to try to update the details, references began to disappear from the site. "It was very disconcerting," he said.This is the latest twist in the saga of the book's British pub lication. A subsidiary of Random House had originally planned to publish it but pulled out amid fears it could be sued for libel, and the independent publisher Gibson Square stepped in.Another curious feature of the case is that House of Bush, House of Saud is available viaAmazon.com, the US site of the internet bookshop.Reviews carried on the US website describe the book as "exceptional", "incisive" and "required reading". One enthusiast said: "Read this and vote accordingly."In theory if someone in Britain buys the book from the American site the company still could be taken to court in Britain, because a litigant could argue that it had effectively sold the book in the UK.This is not the first time that Amazon.co.uk has refused to stock a book deemed controversial.Last year the site stopped selling Telling Lies About Hitler, an account of David Irving's libel battle.A spokeswoman for Amazon.co.uk refused to explain why the site would not stock House of Bush, House of Saud, saying only: "Due to legal reasons,we are currently not listing this title."House of Bush, House of Saud focuses in part on alleged business links between people close to George Bush and the families of a Jeddah-based Saudi billionaire and other rich Saudis. The billionaire has issued a number of libel writs in the UK.The author, Unger, has said his book explores issues beyond the "comfort zone" of the mainstream American media.
Nothing like a beige box in Extreme Tech's case-modding competition,here. Definitely crazy.....
Although the testing phase has been going for some time,Sociolotron, an S&amp;M virtual world, is starting to make a few waves in non-hard core (excuse the pun) gaming circles. Thanks to an explosive article inWireda few weeks ago, all hell has broken loose on the subject of "right to rape" in virtuality across traditionally liberal avenues of electro-communication.Sociolotron is a Massively Multiplayer Online game, like the fiendishly popularEverQuestand the female-friendlyThe Sims Online, but instead of online morality drawing the line where offline sets the precedent, in this game anything goes.I was first introduced to it by Ren Reynolds, ethical philospher and contributor toterranova. He claims he plays it "just for research". We were chatting women in gaming and this came up. I was, expectedly, horrified. Rape online? Brilliant. No, really. WheredoI sign up.So what did I do? I went to have a look. As you do.Without going too deeply into the site, I realised that this game was probably not for me. I'm the squeamish type, you see, and the spread-eagle avatars on a poorly-rendered background of the entry screen that shouted "MAN MADE THIS" didn't really appeal to my closet feminine side.A little dig deeper and I found a title that has elements of an interesting potential, if it wasn't for all that pesky sexual violence. For example, there's birth, illness and death. Haven't come across that yet, especially not the birth bit. Crime, including rape, is punished in a similar system to our own. You do bad, you get caught, you're tried and you go to jail. Hmm, appealing. Morality is the EXP of this game, and competition is your morals vs. theirs. Yes. Original.There is something to be said for an environment which allows you to catharsise your offline demons in a safe space. However, I'm very pleased that Sociolotron has giant letters that say "This is only a game. If you take this offline you fool you will be subject to the laws of the land. Don't be a numpty."With all the talk amongst some circles of internet philosophers, economists, politicos and legal-eagles suggesting that virtual worlds are a reflection of offline society, it'll be interesting to see what kind of us we reflect inSocolotron. You'll have to tell me, though. I'm too much of a weenus to find out.
Bluetooth BiplanesMorpheme,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Two-player mobile gaming via Bluetooth is still a relatively new concept - it needs simple, well-made and enjoyable titles to encourage newcomers. And you can't get much more simple than this 2D flight shooter pitting two second world war biplanes against each other in a restricted aerial arena. The object is to shoot your opponent down while avoiding his fire - the first to 10 kills is the winner. Controlling your ancient aircraft requires timing, speed control and swift, skilful movement - it's easy to get hold of the basics, but later, there's enough depth in the control system to allow for a range of strategies. If you have a friend who also owns a Nokia 6600 or 6230 (the only handsets that support the game), you can challenge them to fraught air combat. This simple concept is so cleverly conceived, the war may drag on much longer than you planned.Michael Vaughan CricketDistinctive Developments,&#42;&#42;&#42;From the developer of the highly successful Fifa Mobile International Edition series comes this interesting attempt at a cricket simulation -timed to cash in on England's assured performances against the Windies. The menu offers a range of options, from condensed mini-challenges to full tournaments. Playing the game is akin to a more tactically demanding take on scissor-paper-stone. Batters are shown an icon revealing where the ball will bounce and the direction it is heading. One of eight shots can then be selected, then it's all down to timing the swing. When bowling, players choose a delivery style, then aim using a moving marker. It feels random at first and the main display could be improved. Persistence is the key, however, and fans will find this a fair diversion when rain stops play.
SmartphonesDialling intuitionTaiwanese manufacturer Mitac has lined up an imminent UK launch for its Mio 8390 smartphone. A light (125g) clamshell handset with a 2.2in 64K colour screen, the 8390 features a 200MHz Intel XScale processor and uses Microsoft's Smartphone 2003 operating system. In addition to Microsoft applications such as Outlook, Pocket Explorer and Windows Media Player, the phone sports a VGA camera, an MMC/SD card slot, Java and voice dialing, but no Bluetooth. It also features Microsoft SmartDial, which guesses the name of a person a user is trying to dial as each letter is inputted.www.mio-tech.beDigital camerasTrailblazerSony has thrown down the gauntlet by unveiling a compact model capable of taking 7.2 megapixel images. Due in September, the Cyber-shot P150 also incorporates a pop-up Carl Zeiss Varrio-Tessar 3x optical zoom lens and a 1.8in LCD monitor. Sony is also claiming a breakthrough in battery life, with the camera able to shoot up to 320 images from one charge. Other facilities include MPeg video movie capture, automatic and manual expo sure, macro, Flash and self-timer options and compatibility with Memory Stick and Memory Stick Pro storage cards. Sony hasn't confirmed a price.www.sony.co.ukHardwareMedia notebookToshiba is hoping to cement its position in the multimedia PC notebook market with the launch of its Qosmio series of laptops. Designed primarily as entertainment devices, users will be able to instantly access the Qosmio's AV features, such as TV, audio, DVD and TV functionality, without having to boot up the notebook. The notebooks use the Microsoft Media Center version of Windows XP operating system, which enables users to control AV applications on a PC via a remote control. The first Qosmio notebook, the 15in screen E10, goes on sale in September for &#163;1,500. Models with larger screens will follow.www.toshiba.co.ukSolutionsRead all about itT-Mobile is to offer owners of Symbian smartphones, such as the Nokia 7610, right, and Sony Ericsson P900, a "newspaper" pushed to their phone twice daily. It is stored on the handset and read offline. Slated to cost &#163;6 per month, although it is free until October, the News Express service features news, sports and entertainment gossip along with regional weather maps of the UK. T-Mobile, which will extend the service to Microsoft and Java-based phones next year, also hopes to offer phone versions of existing newspapers.www.tmobile.co.ukReal ups the anteRealNetworks, maker of the Real media-playing software, is attempting to crack the stranglehold Apple enjoys over music on its iPod music player. Software called Harmony will let users download copy-protected music from RealNetworks and transfer the files to   the iPod. It is the first time encrypted music has been available for iPod users from a company other than Apple.Until now, iPod users have had to use Apple's iTunes software to convert music into the right format for the top-selling music player. iTunes only supports copy-protected music sold by iTunes music store, which launched in Europe last month.Unlike Microsoft, which has sold licences for its WMA format to dozens of device manufacturers and music stores, Apple has kept its format proprietary, although it is making an iPod-based music player for HP, and this week announced a deal with Motorola to bring iTunes music to mobile phones.But Real's move ups the ante in the digital music race. Just as in the battle between Betamax and VHS video players, ownership of the winning digital music format is regarded as vital.Apple has the top-selling music player in the iPod, and the top music store in the iTunes music store, but is likely to face a strong challenge from Microsoft later this year, when the software giant launches its own music store.www.apple.com/ituneswww.real.comStat of the week:Text messagingNothing seems to dampen Britain's love affair with text messaging. Helped by events such as Euro 2004, more than 2bn messages were sent around the country last month. Sceptics will note the figure has remained stable since the start of the year.
Saturday was a huge day for Apple lovers for it marked the UK debut of the iPod's little sibling the, four gigabyte (roughly 1,000 songs) iPod mini. Originally slated for an April launch, the popularity of the player in the US, where it went on sale in February, meant there weren't enough units to meet the demand on either side of the Atlantic.Four months on and it appears there still aren't enough iPod minis to go round. For example, in newspaper advertising on Saturday, Dixons mentioned the iPod mini would be on sale but added a cautionary note that stocks were very limited.You couldn't guarantee securing one even if you had pre-ordered it. A spokesperson for Amazon confirmed that "not everyone who had pre-ordered one had received them". Amazon's website now grimly informs prospective mini buyers they can expect a wait of between four and six weeks. Apple's own site says four weeks. Several smaller retailers didn't receive any players.So is Apple playing fast and loose with UK consumers? Oliver Irish, acting editor of gadgets monthly Stuff, thinks not. "It's a strategy of Apple to not make products widely available to create a mystique about them. When consumers can't get their hands on a product, they want it more."Asked if it was downplaying the iPod mini because it was short of stock, Apple denied it.Ironically, there is one iPod that's very easy to get hold of and that's the fourth generation full-size iPod that Apple unveiled last week. The 20GB (5,000 songs) version, which is smaller, has better battery life and features other enhancements over the previous iPod, retails for a much reduced price of &#163;220. However, it doesn't feature the recharging/transfer cradle and the remote control of its predecessor. Add these to the package (they each cost &#163;29.99) and the cost of a fourth-generation iPod is &#163;280, roughly the same as a third generation player.Come September and Apple will face its first real challenge in the digital audio market in the guise of the Sony NW-HD1. If the players are judged solely on their hardware, the Sony, with its greater battery life, smaller size and remote control and cradle, is at least the equal of the iPod, especially if, as predicted, it comes in at the same price as the Apple player.But the iPod's compatibility with Apple's popular iTunes music download store should ensure it remains market leader for a while yet.www.apple.com/uk
This week Motorola unveils the V3, the lightest and slimmest handset it has ever released. It folds to a length of just 55mm.Fashioned from aircraft-grade aluminium, the V3 comes with a magnesium casing and a pair of real glass screens. This makes the phone robust and extremely light: it weighs just 95g. To accommodate many of the features you would expect in a high-end handset, the V3's components have been moved sideways, meaning that for all its slender charms, it is a lot wider than other handsets. And Motorola's signature "stubby" antenna is now hidden.It's far from the smartest phone on the market - with its VGA camera and 4x zoom, it's just a souped-up version of the V600. The V3 does offer a large display, a class 1 Bluetooth range of up to100m and the best speaker-phone I have heard. But its real delight is the keypad, fashioned from a nickel-plated copper alloy, which illuminates at night with electric blue lights. It is out in September, priced around &#163;350 without contract.
The trend towards outsourcing call centres offshore seems unstoppable. Major banks and financial services providers, including HSBC, Lloyds/TSB and Norwich Union, have moved some or all of their call centre operations to India, attracted by the large savings: Indian call centre salaries start at &#163;1,500 a year, compared with &#163;13,000 in the UK. Yet there are signs that cracks are beginning to appear in the model. Could it be that firms are moving their call centres exactly when the need for them is diminishing?The trade unions are strongly opposed to offshoring; both Amicus, the largest manufacturing, technical and skilled persons union, and Unifi, Europe's specialist finance sector trade union, which are about to merge, have campaigned against it. But there is also evidence that customers dislike dealing with offshore call centres.Richard Pym, chief executive of Alliance &amp; Leicester, which has decided to keep its operations in the UK, has claimed that customers of other banks were switching to Alliance &amp; Leicester because of dissatisfaction with offshoring. His view is backed by a survey by research firm ContactBabel, which found that more than a third of callers to India have to ring back another time, compared with only 10% of callers to the UK. "It stands to reason that when you're dealing with information 4,000 miles away, there are going to be more obstacles than if the company was on your doorstep," says David Fleming, national officer for finance at union Amicus.Some firms have found that the   cost savings are not as great as anticipated: salaries are rising, and the high turnover in Indian call centres (between 30% and 50% a year) means the cost of recruiting staff eats into margins.The analyst firm Meta Group last month published research showing that many firms choose to offshore in the belief they will achieve cost savings of 40%, when the real figure is nearer 15%. Firms that have pulled operations out of India include Capital One, Lehman Brothers and Dell, which announced that customers were unhappy with the quality of technical support they received.Another reason offshoring is   looking outdated is that a much cheaper model - the web - is finally coming into its own.Allowing customers to carry out their own transactions over the internet is vastly cheaper - online bank Smile estimates that an online customer costs only a tenth of a branch one, and a third of a telephone one. And people are flocking to the web: Egg, a pure online bank, founded in 1998, has 3m customers, while Smile, founded in 1999, now has half a million. The popularity of online banking has increased even among the traditional bricks-and-mortar banks: Barclays has 4.2m online customers.Firms are increasingly using what   Neil Laver, group marketing manager at Microsoft, calls a "carrot-and-stick" approach to get people online. On the one hand, online banks pass on some of their savings to the customers, in the shape of higher interest rates and lower overdraft charges.On the other, people are forced online by the disappearance of other channels, such as the closure of high street branches. Laver points to the fact that Amazon, for example, offers next-to-no telephone support. In the travel sector, online booking is increasingly the norm: airline EasyJet recently announced that 98% of its bookings are made online, and a new   bus service called Megabus offers only online ticket sales.The conventional wisdom is that a large number of people still prefer face-to-face or telephone contact over the anonymity of online transactions. David Roberts, chief executive of the Corporate IT Forum, a collaborative organisation for corporate IT departments, believes this is changing: "Even most primary schools nowadays have some means of electronic communication, and most children seem to have email addresses; it is inevitable that more activity takes place from the home electronically."Laver points out that as employees gradually adapt to a self-service model at work (changing their own address details, for example, instead of calling the HR department), they become more comfortable with interacting online. He argues that the advantages of using the internet make the move towards online support and purchasing an inevitable trend: "One of the frustrations of telephone support is that it's difficult to articulate what your exact problem is, and the interactive process ... to determine what the problem is can be time-consuming."It now seems to be a question of when, rather than if, the web-based model becomes predominant. The move will be driven partly by the greater familiarity of a younger generation with the internet and partly by technology. Already half of all UK households now have internet access, one in five of which has broadband. Laver believes we could reach the tipping point in five to 10 years: "The cost of communicating in real time is dropping dramatically and that's being driven by broadband."
"PlayStation 2 shipments are down 65% year-on-year, according to the latest batch of Sony Corp's sales figures, and as such has reported a sales decrease in its games division of 20 billion yen," reportsIndie Games News."Shipments for PS2 declined to 710,000 for the April to June 2004 quarter, down from nearly 2 million a year ago. Sales in the games business decreased 16% to 105 billion yen, from 125 billion yen in 2003. The firm also posted an operating loss of 2.9 billion yen for its games business, down from profit of 1.8 billion a year ago."Comment:There's a fuller account of Sony's results from AP:Sony's profit soars in latest quarter.
"Apple Computer Inc on Thursday said it is investigating RealNetworks Inc for releasing software that allow users to transfer songs purchased on the RealPlayer Music Store service to Apple's iPod," reports Reuters."'We are stunned that RealNetworks has adopted the tactics and ethics of a hacker to break into the iPod, and we are investigating the implications,' Apple said in a statement."RealNetworkshas now responded.MacCentralreports Real saying: "Harmony creates a way to lock content from Real's music store in a way that is compatible with the iPod, Windows Media DRM devices, and Helix DRM devices. Harmony technology does not remove or disable any digital rights management system. Apple has suggested that new laws such as the DMCA are relevant to this dispute. In fact, the DMCA is not designed to prevent the creation of new methods of locking content and explicitly allows the creation of interoperable software."
"Average Joes and Janes will be able to digitally mingle among celebs such as Electra and Tom Arnold — albeit in the guise of Hugh Hefner — when the Playboy: The Mansion video game hits stores this winter," reportsAP."In the game, players don the pajamas of Playboy impresario Hefner and are given the task of building the Playboy empire by developing contacts, keeping the bunnies happy, selling magazines and, of course, throwing lavish parties."Featured celebrities include David Copperfield, Willa Ford, Jose Canseco, Uncle Kracker, Andrew W.K. and Melissa Joan Hart. But gamers shouldn't expect to have their way with the stars. 'There are some things some celebrities won't do,' senior developer Brenda Brathwaite told The Associated Press on Tuesday."
As parliament came to a close on Friday, the last thing Britain's hardworking MPs wanted to think about was more work. And yet, as they packed their bags, a small, but growing number will be taking their laptops. With next year's general election in the forefront of their minds, Britain's small band of blogging MPs will have nothing but a summer of hard graft in front of them.Although practically every MP now has an official website, the sad truth is that virtually none has attracted many people. You could fit the audience of most MP's websites into a church hall and still have room to play football. Online campaigning in Britain has been tagged as "the dog that didn't bark", as voters have stayed away from the hundreds of MPs' websites launched over the course of the past two parliaments. It is easy to see why. Most MPs websites are among the most boring on the internet.Maybe it was because parliament was winding down for the summer recess, but this month finally saw a burst of activity from Britain's blogging MPs. A blog - short for weblog - is the term used to describe a loose collection of pages that can be most   simply understood as a form of online diary. But blogs differ in two significant ways from their printed predecessors. First, blogs are instantaneous. Second, they allow readers to annotate each entry (often called postings) with comments, questions, opinions and even abuse. According to recent ratings by Technorati, there are an estimated 3m blogs floating around the web. But until recently, few were published by British politicians.If you think about it, MPs should be natural and prodigious bloggers. Many keep meticulous diaries and the memoirs of Tony Benn, Richard Crossman and Alan Clark have been deeply revealing of politics and parliament. But when it comes to the online form of diary writing - which involves no form of payment - our politicians have been more hesitant.Last Monday, the Hansard Society celebrated its 60th anniversary with a look into the future. Established by a group of cross-party MPs, including Winston Churchill and Clement Attlee, to safeguard parliamentary democracy, the independent charity published the first report on political blogging. Political Blogs - Craze or Convention, by Ross Ferguson and Milica Howell, offered a cautiously optimistic analysis of political blogdom. It said that political blogs have the potential to "increase the transparency and accessibility of parliamentarians and their work". Although the report criticised political bloggers for often failing to "connect with the public", and for the lack of quality in the debates they inspire, the report still managed to whip up a vision of Britain where politicians re-engage the apathetic electorate armed with "an array of new media tools"."Although the public might think otherwise, a lot of MPs do not have a great deal of money," explains Ferguson. "Most are short-staffed and short of time but the blogging platform is going to be really useful to MPs because it cuts down the price of the maintenance costs of their websites. Blogs costs virtually nothing."In May last year, Tom Watson became the first parliamentarian to publish a weblog. It quickly turned the MP for West Bromwich East, a hitherto unfamiliar backbencher, into something of a new media star. His blog - the 12th most popular weblog in the UK - is renowned for its chatty style, which concentrates on his life in parliament as much as Watson's political leanings. It has attracted a dedicated coterie of regular readers who annotate his comments, often promoting lively debate.Watson's blog has inspired others to follow suit. Less than 18 months since his initial posting, he has been joined by three "blogging" MPs: Clive Soley and Austin Mitchell of the Labour Party and Liberal Democrat Richard Allan. Hardly a revolution, barely even a trend, but don't consign the blog to the political borders just yet. The blogging MPs have recently been joined by Simon Hughes, the liberal candidate for London mayor and by dozens of local councillors and a smattering of parliamentary candidates. Britain's so-called "blogosphere" may still be small, but it is definitely growing, and many MPs are expected to join the party by the time parliament reconvenes in September.One recent recruit is the Liberal Democrat Richard Allan, MP for Sheffield Hallam. He spends about 15 minutes a day writing a fairly acerbic weblog. Although he admits online campaigning remains an "extremely marginal" electoral activity, he says it gives him valuable feedback on his performance. In a recent speech in parliament, he said he thought the next general election would be the first to be blogged. But does he think blogs can cross over to the mainstream? "I think it could go either way," he says. "To be perfectly frank, when I talk to colleagues, they are   concerned about their reputations and by being too honest. MPs are worried &#91;about blogs&#93; because they don't want things taken down and quoted back at them. But a blog only works if it is personal and honest."The great joy of the internet is that both I and my opponent actually can buy a framework for blogging," he adds. "For &#163;5 a month, it puts us on even terms, in terms of technology and expense. Where we compete is on the content, where we should be competing. It's about the quality of our minds and our ability to produce good material and ideas that matter."Although a Conservative MP is yet to join the fun, at least two of its parliamentary candidates have launched blogs. The prospective candidate for North Norfolk, Iain Dale, has been blogging since December. He signed up for a free account at Blogspot. com, paid a &#163;15 supplement to get rid of the advertisements and off he went into blogdom. "When you are a candidate," he says, "you are up against an MP who's got a lot of taxpayers' money to spend on promoting themselves. Any candidate has to use every means available to them to get their message out. If you can do it without filtering it through the media, so much the better."According to Dale, who owned the specialist Politicos bookshop in Westminster before he recently closed it, the main thing to remember about blogging is the discipline of keeping it up to date. The second thing to remember is to be "slightly careful" about what you say. He's no Alan Clark, but the local press and even the Sunday Times have picked up on his blog's postings.The British political weblog might be less than 18 months old, but it can also be a weapon if it falls into the wrong hands. Although none of the parties publishes an official blog, party activists publish them on behalf of rivals. And now, in a further twist, Tim Ireland, an Australian-born programmer who successfully campaigned to get Tony Blair to have a public email address, hosts a blog "dedicated to stalking one of our finest Conservative MPs"."With the technology available, it's very, very easy for anybody to get online with a free weblog and to source all of the information they need to track their local MP," says Ireland. The power of the blog can be illustrated by Ireland's blog dedicated to Tory MP Tim Yeo. Ireland's blog is the first entry in Google for the MP for Suffolk South, higher than the official profile on the Conservative Party site and the most likely place a prospective voter is likely to visit.What's more, a number of bloggers have taken Ireland's suggestion. Now, MPs Jim Cousins, Sandra Gidley, Boris Johnson, Alan Milburn, Sarah Teather, Nick Raynsford and Lewis Mooney all have blogs dedicated to them and most are not friendly. The moral is: if you don't launch your own blog, someone might do it for you.According to advocates, by the time of the next general election, political blogs could be a part of the political furniture, as the soapbox was once. Well, very nearly. Sources inside the Conservative Party say blogs will feature as part of its general election strategy. Even the venerable Dods - in effect the in-house publisher of parliament since 1823 - is trying to get in on the act with Constituency Forum, a pilot scheme that incorporates elements of blogging. Dods maintains 403 websites of 659 MPs.It used to be said Britain was five years behind the US in terms of internet development. Using the political weblog as a measure of success, it could be argued the lag is far less than that. Britain not only has elected representatives regularly blogging, it also has a range of political web applications that compare with groundbreaking US sites such as MoveOn.org, MeetUp.com and Bushin30seconds.org, which have done much to re-engage the web-literate sections of the US electorate in the run up to November's presidential elections.But despite increasing enthusiasm, none of Britain's political bloggers holds high office. In France, Dominque Strauss-Kahn, hotly tipped to be the Socialist's candidate in next year's presidential elections, publishes a wonderful weblog, complete with pictures. In Iceland, one of the most advanced information societies in the world, several government ministers publish blogs. Even President George Bush has a weblog.However, like the dozens of blogging senators and congressmen who also publish blogs, he gets his staff to write it for him.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so
Codename PanzersPC, &#163;34.99, StormRegion/CDV,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;German developers and publishers have been understandably shy of second world war themes. You won't find any Nazi regalia, of course, apart from occasional (and subtly altered) metal crosses - but neither will you find zombie worshippers or S&amp;M fetishists hatching evil plans. Trust the Germans to give us an ideologically neutral wargame at last, and Panzers is all the better for it.Veering on the side of arcade action, Panzers is a real-time strategy game without the resources. At the start of each of the 30 sprawling missions, you get points to spend on around 50 units or weapons - the better your achievement in each level, the more you get. The units retained from previous levels grow in experience and become more effective in action. After that, it's a question of using your limited squad to wage war in occasionally stunning detail.Be warned, though. Some of the siege levels throw hundreds of enemy tanks and soldiers at you, crawling out of the fog for what seems like forever. In terms of atmosphere, Panzers leaves even the recent (and excellent) Ground Control 2 in its wake. You also get three very large campaigns, set around German, Russian and Allied forces, and loads of multiplayer and skirmish options for online play.On the minus side, the AI (artificial intelligence) needs immediate patching to prevent one unit being able to lure a whole army into a trap. But otherwise, this is an addictive and accomplished game.Mike AnderieszIndyCar Series 2005PlayStation2, Xbox, PC, &#163;39.99 Codemasters,&#42;&#42;&#42;This year, there are more British drivers competing in the US IndyCar Series than there are in Formula One - four, to be precise, namely Dan Wheldon (a genuine title contender), Dario Franchitti (a Scot who is something of a celebrity Stateside, as he is married to actor Ashley Judd), Darren Manning and Mark Taylor. Consequently, there is much interest in the formula, and Codemasters, with its enviable reputation for crafting fine racing games, has weighed in with its take on oval racing.It is not one of its better efforts. Although well crafted, the oval racing format, which rewards precision above all else, makes for a repetitive gameplay. IndyCar 2005 strives manfully, though, to provide a realistic experience, and you do get a great sense of what it must be like to take banked corners at 220mph.Wheldon narrates a training programme that is hard to complete, but teaches you all the techniques the professionals employ. Many of the top tracks in the US and Japan are faithfully reconstructed - most notably Indianapolis. The Indy 500 forms the game's centrepiece, and you can even participate in a truncated version of the week-long qualifying events for that legendary race.Ultimately, though, the samey   tracks and suspect AI count against it. But it can be played over the internet on all formats, which gives UK gamers the chance to take on the Americans at their own game. Hardly essential, but the most dedicated petrol-heads will find it satisfying.Steve BoxerGorky Zero: Beyond HonourPC, &#163;19.99 JoWood,&#42;Gorky Zero is a low-budget European stealth game. Go in with guns blazing and you will quickly be reloading, crouch down and sneak around and you may get out alive. Much in the mould of Splinter Cell and Metal Gear Solid, Gorky sets you as a secret agent with a penchant for gadgets and hiding in shadows. Sent off to the Ukraine, your aim is to infiltrate a base and quiz a few scientists.Unfortunately, there are so many flaws that even fans of the genre will struggle. The camera is the worst culprit, offering a restricted field of vision that grates the nerves. Also lacking is the AI, as enemies fail to notice gunfights feet away while detecting your breathing from 50 yards. This inconsistency reflects a general lack of polish. The graphics are a couple of years off the pace, particularly the ropey animations. It may only cost &#163;20 but stealth fans needn't sneak to the shops for this.Greg Howson
Late adopterIs there a really helpful book I can buy my 81-year-old dad for his birthday to help him decide whether to take the plunge and get a computer? He's never used one, but is smart and thoughtful and reads loads.Lynne MorganJack Schofield replies:The great days of introductory computer books - such as the Reader's Digest Beginner's Guide To Home Computing - have gone, because they go out of date too quickly and anyway, few people really need them. There are paperbacks aimed at older readers, such as It's Never Too Late to Love a Computer by Abby Stokes (Workman Publishing) and The Senior's Guide to PC Basics by K Neville (Gateway Press), but I have not read either.However, nowadays I think people tend to start computing because they are pursuing another interest such as music, digital photography or genealogy, or they just want to email or video-chat with distant relatives. In that case, it might be better to buy your dad a book about how a computer can help with his current interests. Alternatively, for mental stimulation, there's nothing better than Ray Kurzweil's The Age of Spiritual Machines (Texere Publishing), a follow-up to The Age of Intelligent Machines. I don't believe Kurzweil's thesis, but he raises some of the most interesting questions that technology could face over the next 15-50 years.Broadband sharingWhat is the cheapest way to share a   broadband connection? In our house, we have six PCs and we would like to be able to use broadband simultaneously.Simon PriestJS:The cheapest solution is an ADSL router and lots of good quality Cat5 Ethernet cable. Although 4-port routers are common, there are also 8-port versions suitable for home and small office use. Alternatively, you could connect an 8-port switch to a 4-port router. This could save a lot of cabling, if several PCs are grouped together some distance from the DSL phone socket. You could also use Wi-Fi for some PCs, but wireless network cards are an extra cost if your PCs have a built-in RJ-45 Ethernet socket. Most do nowadays.Startpage 6.AQMy AVG anti-virus software frequently detects the Startpage 6.AQ virus in DLL files in Windows XP, and a full system test always reports the files as healed. The virus monitor then keeps finding more. And so it goes on ...Steve MaundJS:It's never a good idea to rely on one anti-virus program, so also run checks occasionally at online sites such as Trend Micro's Housecall and Symantec. Try these and see if one of them will find and remove Startpage 6.AQ for good. If not, it is a Trojan rather than a virus, so you could try the online Trojan scanners athttp://scan.sygate.com/pretrojanscan(but Startpage 6.AQ is not on Sygate's list) andwww.trojanscan.com.If all else fails, Simply Super Software's $24.95 Trojan Remover should work. You can download a 30-day trial version fromwww.simplysupcom/tremover. If it doesn't, zip an infected file, password protect it with the password INFECTED, and send it with a description of the problem tosimplysupsupport@aol.comusing the Subject line "File For Analysis". However, if AVG is the only checker   that keeps finding Startpage 6.AQ infections, it could just be a bug in AVG.SmoothieA couple of years back, I came across a feature of Windows XP that allowed you to make the text on your desktop smoother and less pixelated, but I can no longer find it...Nick SpillerJS:Right-click the desktop and choose Properties from the menu. Click the tab marked Appearance, then the button called Effects. Finally, tick the box that says "Use the following method to smooth edges of screen fonts" and choose either Standard or Clear Type.Backchat&#183;Many readers (and some Guardian writers) have been victims of rogue diallers, which divert your internet connection to a premium rate or international line. Peter Baker says he has installed stopITnow modem protection software downloaded fromwww.stopitnow.com.au. It costs $16.95. It also allows you to set a limit on how long particular connections can be used, or to prevent all internet activity, so it could be used as parental control software.&#183;On July 8, I suggested using Firefox as an alternative browser for Windows. Although it does not work with all IE-oriented sites, Will North points out that there is an extension for Firefox, IEview, which "makes it a matter of a mere right-click to open any link in Internet Explorer, rather than Firefox"http://ieview.mozdev.org.&#183;Last week in Web watch, I mentioned Startup Inspectors for Windows. Tony Franks recommends Mike Lin's Startup Control Panel, fromwww.mlin.net/StartupCPL.shtml
Given the techno-hype about "the death of the book", literary types have every excuse for Luddite tendencies. But the past decade has seen writers enthusiastically embrace the net, whether it is doing research online or checking their last book's Amazon chart position. But few think of writing fiction specifically for the net, says Sue Thomas, head of trAce , an online writing centre based at Nottingham Trent University.Surveys by trAce indicate that only 7% of writers polled had used the net in a creative way. "We'd call them new media writers," says Thomas. "They're making work that is only suitable for the digital environment, works that use Flash, hyperlinks or some element of programming."Part of trAce's brief, Thomas continues, is to educate writers about the potential of the net, to encourage them to create fictional work there. Hence the biannual Incubation conference earlier this month, which featured presentations from hypertext pioneer Ted Nelson and online writers Alan Sondheim and Tim Wright, co-creator of Online Caroline and writer-in-residence at trAce's Writers for the Future initiative. Thomas says the event drew an international multidisciplinary crowd, in which programmers, video makers and sound artists mixed with writers and poets.However, the UK literary establishment was thin on the ground. Print novelist Kate Pullinger premiered The Breathing Wall, a new media fiction on CD-Rom that uses a breath-driven interface, which she created with Stefan Schemat and Chris Joseph. It was funded by the Arts Council and supported by trAce. Aside from that, it was the more experimental of British writers who made the trip.So why wasn't the mainstream publishing world there? Is it that they don't see how to make money from online fiction? Thomas says the absence of a business model for creative work online is a problem. It also may be the reason avant-garde writers are comfortable online - they're used to working without a financial safety net.Thomas says many established writers don't realise they could do interesting work online. Others recognise they don't have the required design/programming skills. So they need to work with others. "A lot of writers aren't good at collaboration," says Thomas.That said, some well-known novelists are using the net to open up the writing process. The Orange Labyrinth site tracks novelist/broad caster Kate Mosse as she slaves away on her novel Labyrinth, due next summer, and also hosts a thriving community of writers and readers. However, though it features research notes, you won't find the novel there."My motivation was not to share my work with other people - it was to share my creative process," says Mosse, who admits her embrace of the net only goes so far. "People do read lots of things online but I remain unconvinced that people are going to want novels online. The net can add to the excitement generated about books but won't replace it."True enough, though the way to tell stories online is not simply to import forms from other media (eg, put a print novel online) but to do something that works with the potential (and limitations) of new media.Some younger print novelists are beginning to do this. Take American Ned Vizzini, 24, whose teen novel Be More Chill has just been published in the UK. Faust re-mixed for the age of invasive teen marketing, it casts Mephistopheles as a sentient quantum computer, known as a "squip", which takes up residence in the mind of a dorky teenage boy and advises him how to be cool.To publicise his novel, Vizzini worked with a friend to create websites that pretend squips are real.   Google the word squip and you will see links to 15 or so sites with names such as SquipNews and Mothers Against Squips, which was created by a fan. In other words, Vizzini hasn't just extended his novel online, he's opened it up, so readers can add to the story. "It's a little world we've created - the squipiverse," says Vizzini.One writer exploring what the net can do for storytelling is Tim Wright. As part of his residency at trAce, Wright is creating In Search of Oldton, a net narrative that works with blogging and user contributions as well as Wright's memories of his dead father. Oldton is the town where Wright claims he grew up, but it doesn't appear on a map. "I call Oldton a 90% true digital story about a town that disappeared off the map and a life that never made it into the digital age. By getting people to submit words, pictures, sounds and movies about something or someone lost or left behind, I'm hoping to build up an online archive/blog I can analyse and reshape (with permission) to create a map of the imaginary town I lost and revive some kind of relationship with my dead father."Oldton sets out to blur the boundaries between fact and fiction and readers and writers. Whether it will work as a story remains to be seen, says Wright. "Maybe the web is   destined not to be a storytelling medium. On the other hand, it's silly for novelists to claim some kind of monopoly on storytelling."TrAce's Thomas agrees, adding that as new media writers stop focusing on technology and think more about narrative, creative work may find a wider audience. Thomas has just published Hello World, an old-style book about net culture from a writer's perspective. Friends encouraged her to publish online, but she says she always wanted to do a book - in part because of the writing, in part because of the audience it could reach. She is publishing a related blog.Thomas is also working on setting up a trAce-sponsored annual prize for creative writing online, which she hopes might encourage established print authors to get involved. "New media writing is a baby and what we're seeing is baby steps - and it falls over quite a lot. But it is fascinating to watch and it is developing all the time."Useful linkstrAcehttp://trace.ntu.ac.uKate Pullingerwww.katepullinger.comOrange Labyrinthwww.orangelabyrinth.co.ukNed Vizziniwww.nedvizzini.comIn Search of Oldtonwww.oldton.comSue Thomas's bloghttp://travelsinvirtuality.typepad.com&#183;Jim McClellan is interactive writer in residence at the BBC Writersroom:www.bbc.co.uk/writersroom&#183;Send comment toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
No consumer product in history is as predatory as the mobile phone. It is barely five years old as a mass phenomenon     and it is still gobbling up other products with an apparently insatiable appetite. This month it emerged that some new     phones hitting the streets in Japan in the summer will have an embedded computer chip that can be filled up with     electronic money - replacing not only the cash in your wallet or purse but most of the plastic cards as well.It may not     catch on because its success depends on how many outlets hook up to it - but its name Edy (it stands for euro, dollar     and yen) suggests it is not lacking in global ambition.Nearer home, Siemens has just launched a phone for cyclists including a built in cyclometer recording speed and     distance travelled. Last week, an Islamic phone was launched complete with quotes from the Quran, automatic Qiblat     direction and prayer times.A list I keep of the functions that can now be found in a mobile phone but which would previously have been bought or     acquired separately has just reached 50 - and I am sure it is far from complete. Some of these functions, such as     calendars, diaries and calculators are not used much because they are not easy to operate, but one day they will be. The     fact that you have a permanent clock on your phone ought to have killed off the watch. It hasn't yet, partly because of     bad design (why isn't there a full clock face on the face of a phone?), and partly because of engrained habits.What of the future? In predicting the cannibalistic tendencies of the phone, one simple rule applies: no one wants to     carry two objects around with them if one will do both jobs adequately. So, say goodbye to digital cameras for all but     real enthusiasts. Mobile phones with 1.3 megapixel cameras are already on sale and Samsung has just released a 3.2mp     camera in South Korea (more powerful than most digital cameras on the market a year or two ago).The same goes for MP3 players, though I have yet to meet a manufacturer who agrees. As phones become more     powerful, with hugely increased memories, they will be able to incorporate most of the functions of an MP3 player.     Whether the phone will take over the iPod or the iPod take over the phone is a moot point - but unification will triumph     eventually.Radios built into mobiles, with no significant extra weight, are starting to give a new boost to radio. It will take     longer for television because of technical problems such as bandwidth and battery life, but eventually they, too, will     become a popular item in phones, as will video cameras that will soon offer an hour of play instead of the     famous-for-15-seconds option.Sooner or later some bright spark will stand back from this dizzy process of convergence and invent a killer application     that spans them all. Which makes me doubly glad I am in the newspaper business because no one is ever going to want     to read a newspaper from a mobile. Right?Last week, China Women Daily launched a mobile version in which major articles will be instantly made available to     subscribers. Ouch.&#183;send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please
include address and phone number. If you do not want
your email address published, please say so
Government efforts to conceal the details of giant computer projects as "commercially confidential" are condemned by the latest parliamentary investigation into IT failings.Civil servants rather than companies are usually responsible for this smokescreen, says the cross-party House of Commons work and pensions committee. "There is an urgent need for more transparency," the chairman, Liberal MP Sir Archy Kirkwood, said.In a 76-page report examining most current wisdom about why big IT projects so often go wrong, the committee comes up with some novel suggestions.One idea is for cash saved by modernising social security processes to go into the pockets of benefit claimants, rather than back to the Treasury. The committee also urges managers to abandon a culture of maintaining that "failure is not an option". Planning for the possible abandonment of a project "should not be perceived as a sign that the project is expected to fail".MPs found "little evidence" that the government takes contingency planning seriously. Systems are often introduced without fall-back arrangements. When the massive new national insurance database called NIRS2 was introduced, the department was "so confident of success that it turned the old computer system off ... with the result that no back-up information was available".Not unexpectedly, the report finds a "lamentable" record on IT by the DWP and its predecessor, the Department of Social Security. The DWP runs some of the world's largest IT systems and has spent   &#163;4.25bn on IT projects since 2001.While pointing out that "some aspects" are improving, the report focuses on one "clearly defective" project, the Child Support Agency's new system for calculating payments. It notes that the &#163;456m system, two years late and over budget, "is still not working satisfactorily on processing new claims". The reasons include the usual suspects of over-optimism and too many changes to the specification. The committee suggests the complex system was mis-sold to parliament as a simplification on its predecessor.Although the report does not spare the DWP's main IT contractor, EDS, it says that politicians must take much of the blame when things go wrong. "Ministers seem to commit themselves to projects that are completely unworkable." Commonsense and sound principles are repeatedly ditched for short-term gain and political expediency, the committee heard."We have yet to see extensive evidence of brave decisions by ministers to re-focus or delay projects." Although civil servants are supposed to sound warnings of risks, they may find it "extremely difficult to say 'no' to ministers".Simpler policies would lead to simpler IT, which would be less likely to fail, especially if it can be bought off the shelf, the MPs suggest. They call for the department to set up a "high level working group" to recommend how policies could be simplified. However the report recognises that simplifying the rules can lead to unfairness and rough justice.Some of the MPs recommendations, such as encouraging early contact between policy-makers and the computer industry, are in tune with current initiatives to improve project management. Others will be contro versial. In particular, the MPs are scathing about secrecy. They agree with one witness who said officials often cite confidentiality as a smokescreen. They note that in hearings, officials were more ready to invoke commercial confidentiality than the suppliers. "It struck us as very odd that of all the stakeholders, DWP should be the one which clings most enthusiastically to commercial confidentiality to justify non-disclosure of crucial information, even to parliament," the report says.However the report includes a statement from the secretary of state, Andrew Smith, on what information about contracts could be published. This includes the money paid to a supplier, the broad outline of a contract's provisions and whether the contractor has paid penalties. Precise details of service levels and amounts withheld are likely to remain secret.In a step likely to be resisted, the committee calls for the publication of Gateway reviews, carried out on projects for the Treasury's Office of Government Commerce (OGC). These are so sensitive that only two copies are printed. Witnesses from government said that secrecy was needed to ensure that reviews are as frank as possible.Some industry witnesses were more flexible, an attitude that the committee found "refreshing". It concludes that the current secrecy is not necessary and calls for the government to release reviews "with appropriate safeguards" so that parliament can scrutinise IT contracts.&#183;Management of Information Technology Projects, House of Commons Work and Pensions Committeewww.parliament.uk
When a drug company offers the NHS several billion pounds worth of a novel snake oil, the authorities demand evidence that it's going to work. The same goes for new medical procedures. Evidence-based medicine is one of the hottest buzz-phrases in healthcare today.Lay people may think it odd, 300 years after William Harvey noticed blood going round in circles, that doctors still get excited about basing decisions on empirical data. We don't talk about "mathematics-based engineering" or "alphabet-based literature".No matter. The important point is that most people agree that the NHS should be run on principles of science, not blind faith. The body set up to scrutinise medical   procedures, the National Institute for Clinical Excellence, is one of this government's notable achievements.One class of innovation, however, largely escapes such scrutiny. IT, of course. The government has agreed to spend &#163;6bn of new money, and roughly the same amount from existing NHS budgets, on electronic health records and computerised processes. While most people can think of ways in which IT could improve the NHS - telling patients more quickly that they are clear of cancer, for example - there is surprisingly little evidence that IT makes people healthier.The Institute for Public Policy Research, a thinktank, has examined 40 evaluations of IT projects in healthcare for evidence that IT is creating "public value". (A modish way of measuring the output of   government investment in ways other than cash.) It found very little: "This is clearly disappointing."Worrying, also. Doctors won't bother to learn to use new IT systems unless they can be demonstrated to improve patient care. "If professionals, patients, policymakers and the public are to be persuaded that spending on IT-related projects is worthwhile, it is important that there is convincing evidence available of the value delivered through such projects."The institute calls for urgent efforts to evaluate the impact of IT and "e-health".In fact, most IT projects in the NHS already start off with good intentions about proving benefits, only to lose them along the way. Evaluations may be rendered meaningless by events out of the organisation's control: a merger, or a new national target, for   example. All too often, evaluations don't happen because the project is so delayed that the research team has moved on to other things by the time there's enough data.Even more depressing is the number of (presumably critical) evaluations that are carried out but never quite see the light of day. And this happened before the arrival of the &#163;6bn National Programme for IT, with its macho culture of delivery at all costs.The IPPR's Jamie Bend says that, although carrying out stringent evaluations may carry a political risk if some projects are seen to fail, it is also risky not to do so. "Under-evaluation would mean little evidence with which to counter the arguments of those who suggest that public sector IT projects are always a disaster."Nice argument. Unlikely to impress the &#163;6bn men, though.&#183;send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please
include address and phone number. If you do not want
your email address published, please say so
Thomas Scott's useful site is, perhaps surprisingly, stillup. It's also a pretty good bet that it is getting more visitors than the British Government's much less entertaining offering,here. However, make sure you don't confuse those two URLs in the event of a nuclear strike on London!Comment:Thomas Scott is also responsible for the wonderfulFluffy the Penguin Goes Skiing.Update:The Guardian's G2 features section published most of the text of this Web site on Friday (July 30),here
This year, there has been something of a backlash against Google. Partly this has been prompted by privacy concerns, and perhaps influenced by the share offering that, on this week's numbers, could make the company worth more than Sony and give its co-founders a paper fortune of some $8bn each.But everyone should be pleased about Google, because we have all benefited from its progress, whether we use it or not.Google's most important contribution has been to raise the quality of web search. This came at a time when some of the best search engines, such as Excite and AltaVista, were neglecting search in favour of becoming portals, and when Microsoft didn't think search mattered. Today, Microsoft and Yahoo are investing heavily in search technology, and we should all benefit again from the increased competition that will follow.Google also launched a useful pop-up blocking toolbar for Internet Explorer for Windows, supported Blogger, the pioneering weblogging site, and launched Orkut, for social networking. Now it has bought Picasa, and is giving away its application for managing digital photos.Google's web-based email service, Gmail, has also had a significant impact, even before its official launch. Its most obvious appeal is that it offers users a gigabyte of storage space, or 512 times more than Hotmail. This is a tremendous boon, not because anyone needs a gigabyte, but because it means you don't have to worry about important email being rejected because your mailbox is full.It was also a good deal for Google because disk space only costs about $1 per gigabyte (which is cheap in terms of customer acquisition costs), and because most people will probably only use 20-50 megabytes. It also blew a hole in the strategies of rival mail services that were using space restrictions on free mailboxes to get people to upgrade to paid services.Soon after Gmail started, I was pleased to discover that the storage in my Yahoo mailboxes magically increased from 6MB to 100MB. This month, Microsoft is in the process of increasing mail storage from 2MB to 250MB, and its paid-for storage allowance has jumped from 10MB to 2GB.There is even an outside chance that corporate IT departments will be shamed into increasing their   users' mail storage allowances from an average 250MB to 1GB. However, it may take some mass defections to Gmail to get their attention.Perhaps best of all, Google has been successful while making the web a better place.For at least half a decade, I have been complaining about over-elaborate web pages that have too many graphics, and too many advertising banners, so they take ages to download. Now Google has proved that you can be very successful - and profitable - with clean, lightweight pages that download quickly and have no ad banners. That has already made Yahoo clean up its page designs, and both Yahoo and Hotmail seem to have reduced the number of annoying banners.Please, go thou and do likewise.Free 1GB emailhttps://gmail.google.comhttp://mail.rediff.com/register.htmwww.spymac.comwww.walla.comwww.picasa.comwww.hello.com
American SegueBlogging has become so pervasive that it seems every record attempt or PR exercise must be immortalised in weblog form. Take American Segue, an expedition across America on a Segway, the transportation device that looks like a cross between a scooter and a skateboard. Spinning Blue, the internet marketing company behind the attempt to travel across the US at a leisurely 10mph, is planning to create "an ongoing online documentary". The clips featuring characters met along the route will be compiled in blog form. Until the Segway sets off on August 5, you can sign up for email updates, or wait until the blog has been launched and sign up for the RSS syndication feed.www.americansegue.comwww.spinningblue.comwww.segway.comLogical moveA man called Jonathan has started blogging. Nothing unusual in that, except this man is Jonathan Schwartz, the president and chief operating officer of Sun Microsystems. It's a logical step for the head of the computer company that's perhaps most famous for developing Java, a programming language. Sun has already set up a space for all its employees to start blogging. Schwartz's first post sets out why he's decided to begin blogging: he wants to get unfiltered feedback from readers and provide them with first-hand comments.http://blogs.sun.com/jonathanhttp://blogs.sun.com/roller/page/jonathanhttp://blogs.sun.comMap the blogOne of the coolest presentations at the recent two-day BlogTalk conference was Mikel Maron's talk about his Flash-based application The World as a Blog. He has created a way of tracking posts from blogs across the globe by getting them to add a piece of coding that identifies a blogger's location. Maron's map of the world flashes up the location of anyone who has just written something that is   syndicated via an RSS feed, including an extract of what they've written, and a link to the blog.Moblogger? No problem: individual posts can be geocoded. The map is marked with a line dividing night and day. Maron also offers free personal or non-commercial use of worldKit, his mapping application for the web. The application has been used for all kinds of projects - mapping the location of blogging communities in Taiwan and the UK, weather patterns, and recent earthquakes across the globe.http://blogtalk.netwww.brainoff.com/geobloghttp://brainoff.com/worldkitChart the unusualNewspaper stories about unusual eBay auctions are never far away. A weblog called Rummaging charts some of the most extreme and unusual items for sale on the site: everything from a commemorative bronze ingot of an Iraqi scud missile launcher to clods of Glastonbury mud. It's an idea that probably has plenty of bloggers wondering "why didn't I think of that"? It's the sharpness of the writing, though, that marks out this blog as a must-read.www.rummaging.orgwww.ebay.co.ukUnConventionalThe biggest event in the US Democratic party's calendar in the run-up to November's elections is under way this week in Boston, Massachusetts. This year's Democratic national convention marks a watershed, because more than 30 bloggers have been given accreditation to go along. It is fascinating to see if their presence is having any impact on the coverage of the event, despite the ego-deflating reality that bloggers represent a tiny proportion of the 15,000 or so media professionals covering the event.Nevertheless, bloggers' power to influence the mainstream news agenda is already well-documented: CNN has caught the trend by teaming up with the blog monitor Technorati to offer a special page devoted to charting what the political bloggers are saying in real time.Meanwhile A-list blogger Dave Winer has created Convention Bloggers, a community site featuring an aggregator, while Feedster is doing much the same. If it's a UK journalist's perspective you're looking for, Guardian Unlimited's Simon Jeffery is reporting - and blogging - from the convention, too.http://politics.technorati.comwww.conventionbloggers.comhttp://politics.feedster.comwww.dems2004.orgwww.guardian.co.uk/weblog/usaNew &amp; notedAlex Ross: the Rest is Noisewww.therestisnoise.comThe Friday Projectwww.thefridayproject.co.ukVoice in the Deserthttp://voiceinthedesert.netfirms.com/weblogSix of the best:Photoblog and moblog servicesBlogplanethttp://blogplanet.netBuzznetwww.buzznet.comExpressionswww.my-expressions.comFotologwww.fotolog.netFotopageswww.fotopages.comMoblogUKhttp://moblg.net
Critical impactYour article reporting the suggested link between file sharing and increased CD sales (Listen to the flip side, July 22) has at least one historical precedent.When I was younger, I used, and still own, a Commodore Amiga. The reason I wanted a "Miggy" rather than its rival the Atari was precisely because of the easy availability of pirated software. I still bought games, in fact very frequently, and usually they were the very best of a very mixed bag (I still have original versions of Civilization and Sensible Soccer, two of the games that helped hold off the advance of PCs). In terms of innovation, the era brought us titles that are still running today - the consistently top-selling Championship Manager was born on the Miggy. However, with new releases selling at &#163;30 a time, piracy helped deliver a continual demand for the machines by supplying free games that could be wiped if they weren't any good or modified to make them more entertaining. That's not to say the good ones weren't pirated too, but piracy helped them reach a wider audience in a saturated market.Perhaps what the music industry is really worried about is the vast amount of dross it's been producing of late. Now that people can download and compare music at the click of a button, everyone can afford to be a critic, and this week's one-hit-wonder can be quickly deleted - rather than hiding at the back of your collection where only your new boy/girlfriend will find it.This also enables you to spend your spare cash on albums that you will   listen to for years and that will never cause you embarassment; the problem is that there's not much new and innovative out there right now. Pop is eating itself - and that's a good thing for anyone with taste.Keith Baker- still playing David Braben's Frontier on a PC via an Amiga emulator.Citizen reportersThe approach to journalism described inHacks of all trades, (July 22)is indeed innovative and potentially revolutionary. However, it is not the first attempt at turning readers into reporters. There already exists a global network of news websites spanning five continents and based in more than 100 cities and regions. It is grassroots, providing open-access publishing to all citizens. It's calledwww.indymedia.org.Indymedia made a big splash back in 1999, and now is rarely mentioned in the press. Perhaps this is because it doesn't have the backing of professional journalists, or see itself as a money-making business, in the way OhmyNews does. On the other hand, its editorial decision-making process is transparent and open to all.Frank JordansLondonFree for allI am impressed with what the Koreans have done and at the same time I wonder what journalism would be like if we were all free to report on the news in our area. I believe the reporting would have to be so well policed, it would cost more than any one company could possibly gain in financial reward. A good idea, but not one I fear we will see on our side of the world.M A HughesGood connectionDavid Prestage is asking for trouble in "using the ear phone jack into the in-line socket on my computer". That involves going from digital to analogue and using a less than optimum   connection. That is bound to involve some loss in sound quality.I use a MiniDisc player with a digital output. Feed that into a PC and you can have digital to digital transfer with no loss of quality. Unless you are fixated on bit rates.Michael KenwardStaplefieldThuggish behaviourI downloaded Blinkx (All eyes on Blinkx, July 15) to explore its capabilities but had to uninstall it after a couple of days as it proved to be such a thug. It kept trying to take over even when not online, and when online it made dozens of proposals that it should be activated (or dialled out?). I didn't discover its capabilities as I was constantly fighting it. Although uninstalled, I sit trembling, awaiting the red logo popping up again.Don LeeHertfordshireHackers' legacyIn response toThe net's sleuths (July 15), I ask that you reconsider your use of the word "hacker". Hackers created early home computers and much of the software that powers the internet. Hackers built the Free Software, Open Source and Linux movements. They created new languages, compilers and hardware drivers.Unfortunately, misuse of the term to mean thieves or trespassers has created a strong prejudice against legitimate hacking. The result of this is the criminalisation of much hobbyist behavior, resulting in laws that put control of computer technology in the hands of a few corporations.Computer technology is in the same state now as print media last century. In the US, we ultimately lost our free presses to corporate and political elites. By demonising hackers, the media is helping to legitimise this transfer of control from the people to the powerful.Jason KrollMassachusetts, USA
Vodafone has become the first mobile operator to introduce a filtering system to ensure subscribers can only access adult material if registered to do so. Content Control is an "opt-in" system that combines a database of adult users with a database of classified sites provided by US-based Cyberian, an outsource content filtering service."We take the matter of child protection very seriously, and we decided this is the best way to ensure access to adult sites is strictly for over 18s," says Al Russel, Vodafone's head of content services. The launch of the service follows from a code of practice agreed in January by all the major UK operators, which included a commitment to install protection systems by the end of the year.The system requires Vodafone's 14m subscribers to register via their phones using a credit card and pay &#163;1 if they wish to access erotic, gambling, adult chat and violent games sites. In practice, the service compares any request by a user with the database of registered users and a list of sites graded as "adult" or "universal" (suitable for children).The service's success will be closely watched by other operators and even internet service providerswho want to introduce more protection. Vodafone admits there have been teething problems, such as the blocking of some corporate email and universal sites, but says these have been ironed out.Subscribers with American Express cards are also not accepted. To register, they have to visit a Vodafone shop and provide identification. American Express does not allow its cardholders to register for online content.Not surprisingly, Vodafone is work ing closely with third-party merchants who have most to lose, because they are often the bridge to those providing adult content. In advance of the launch, it wrote to many of them, asking them to classify their sites, but not all those affected were informed. "We didn't know about it until we saw some of our sites being blocked," says Steve Proctor, of content provider iTagg. "The problem has been corrected.""We submitted thousands of sites for the list," says Anil Malhotra, chief alliance officer at Bango, a content aggregator, "but a lot of the content providers need to wake up and understand how this impacts on their business. For example, any content that is hard to physically check, such as games and video applications, will be classified as adult. They also need to ensure adult content cannot be accessed through universal content."Vodafone says the hardest technical issue has been having enough capacity to check all requests against the database of opt-in users, but it stresses that parental control is often inadequate. "We can't assume parents understand what protection is needed on a mobile, with the increasing growth of adult services, so we needed our own system," says Russel.The system is only in place in the UK, but Vodafone says it is looking at implementing it in other countries.Operators such as T-Mobile, Orange, O2, and 3 are expected to follow suit, but Vodafone says it is concerned that some may not operate an opt-in service. Murray says Vodafone shares the concern expressed by John Carr, a spokesperson for the Children's Charities' Coalition on Internet Safety, who says that other methods are inadequate.T-Mobile says it will have an opt-in system in place by the end of the year, but is stressing parental awareness too. "A parent who opts in needs to be careful about allowing a child to use his phone - there has to be an element of parental supervision," says T-Mobile. It will allow subscribers without credit cards to opt in after it checks them with credit reference agencies.Later this year, an independent body is being set up to adjudicate on content - a kind of censorship board for mobiles. This will allow operators to defer content judgment decisions and avoid being seen as censors.But how well will the service work when more users are accessing the internet on their phones using HTML browsers instead of Wap-enabled browsers? Bango's Malhotra agrees it is going to be much more difficult. "Expectations must be realistic. This is like installing seat belts in a car: Vodafone is trying to do it right and will be learning how to take it further when wider access to the internet on mobiles is more commonplace," he says.Malhotra believes the area is full of pitfalls for the operators. "I believe Vodafone is going it alone because a collective system among the operators would look like a cartel that is deciding which sites to filter. I also think the creation of an independent adjudication body is delayed by concerns over legal liability." Vodafone says it knows of no such concerns.Child protection groups have been lobbying for controls that reduce the possibility of the sort of exploitation that has occurred on the internet. Vodafone's service has been praised by the Coalition on Internet Safety and the Internet Watch Foundation.
Linux is coming to the rescue of ITV plc, which was in a mess, from a technology point of view. ITV plc was formed two years ago through the &#163;2.6bn merger of the two biggest independents, Granada and Carlton, but what was rational for separate companies and their subsidiaries resulted in expensive incompatibilities in the merged operation.But Linux is enabling the new company to move to a cheaper, common platform.According to Nick Leake, ITV's director of technology operations and infrastructre, ITV is moving most of its servers to Linux and would like to move its desktops, too. However, it plans to standardise mainly on Windows XP and Citrix for the next five years."We had servers that had cost hundreds of thousands of pounds only a few years ago. We took them out and replaced them with &#91;Linux&#93; servers with half as many processors, and the hardware cost of those servers was less than the hardware maintenance bill of the ones we were taking out," says Leake. "And with half as many processors, we were getting a 20 to 30% performance gain! The economics of that are quite compelling."It was the move to Intel hardware that brought the major cost benefits, rather than the move to Linux. However, ITV's back-end servers   were running a number of what he politely calls "minority versions of Unix", including Tru64 on DEC Alpha systems. But Leake didn't want to consolidate on a minority version of Unix, and moving from Unix to Linux was, he says, "a lot easier than having to rearchitect and rebuild &#91;applications&#93; to run on a Windows platform".Where applications already run on Windows servers, they will probably stay there, unless there is a strong business case for change. "It's not about religion, it's not a jihad," says Leake. "We're not out to push Linux: we're in it for ourselves, to save money where it works for us."Still, success on the server side has encouraged Leake to look at using Linux on the desktop, and he already uses it at home. "We've had people working on Linux desktops, from an experimental point of view, for six to 12 months. What works really well for us is to have a Linux desktop with a Citrix client, because we already have a Citrix infrastructure to support our home workers..."But we're not going to roll that out at the moment," Leake says. "If we're going to lock &#91;the desktop&#93; down for five years, we can't lock it down on Linux: it's not in that position. But in five years' time, we've got to be thinking about Linux, Citrix on Linux, and whatever else is out there."For the next five years, the strategy is to run mostly Windows XP and Microsoft Office either on PCs, or run them from servers using the Citrix "thin client" approach, or both. (With Citrix, the Windows software runs on the server while the client computer just displays the output. The client can therefore be a Windows or Linux PC, a Mac, or even a handheld such as a Psion.) Leake reckons this approach is less disruptive for the merged company, and cheaper."Once you've bought your Microsoft licences, you own them. Why do you want to write them off when &#91;the system&#93; works very well and everybody knows how to use it? It will be more of an issue in five years' time, if you have to upgrade to a new version of Office, and that's going to cost you a huge amount of money."In five years, however, Leake says ITV is thinking of moving to a "heterogenous environment" where staff get the system most suitable for their needs. That could be Windows, Linux PCs or Macs, running Microsoft Office or Open Office, with or without Citrix."As long as you get interoperability between the products," he says, "that gives us the ability, in five years' time, to not have to license the entire estate" to one supplier.
No stringsT-Mobile is offering a combined 3G, GPRS and Wi-Fi package to allow mobile workers to use the best available wireless connection. The cards fit any device with a PC Card (PCMCIA) slot to offer seamless roaming between 3G and GPRS networks, selecting the fastest link available. Alternatively, users can take advantage of T-Mobile's network of Wi-Fi hotspots located in Starbucks, Texaco and key flight terminals. The multimedia package costs &#163;199 with ongoing charges of &#163;70 per month for unlimited data access. Initial 3G data access speed is 128kbps, but this will be raised incrementally to 384kbps in coming months, the company says.www.t-mobile.co.ukFemale supremacyAurora Gender Capital Management is the UK winner of Hewlett-Packard's Business Vision Award 2004. Aurora provides services and software to provide businesswomen with resources to help further their careers. The competition for small businesses looks for achievements in innovation, the use of technology, marketing and promotion, and business success. HP says that Aurora excelled in all four categories but showed particular skills in using technology to drive the vision of its founder, Glenda Stone. The winner will receive prizes worth over &#163;5,500 from HP, MasterCard and BusinessWeek, and will go on to the European finals in August.www.auroravoice.comwww.easyconnects.org.ukLess contentionFreedom2Surf has launched a new business broadband SDSL service that, it claims, can substitute for expensive leased lines. It has a contention ratio (users competing for the same bandwidth) of 5:1 compared with BT's ADSL contention ratios of 20:1 for business and 50:1 for home users; and 1:1 is also available. Prices are &#163;225 for 1Mbps and &#163;292 for 2Mbps, plus a &#163;499 activation fee. (All prices exclude VAT.) Potential customers can check the availability of SDSL athttp://www.adslchecker.bt.comProtein packedNanoMagnetics, a UK start-up, predicts that its DataInk technology will vastly increase the capacity of disk drives and removable magnetic media storage devices. The company predicts that the density of these devices could go up to five terabits per square centimetre. DataInk is based on apoferritin, a protein for storing iron that is found in humans and other animals. The iron in the12 nanometre diameter "glob" is replaced by a cobalt-platinum alloy and the resultant solution is sprayed onto a disk surface. NanoMagnetics claims that a 1.8in floppy disk could equal the capacity of a 4.7GB DVD disc.www.nanomagnetics.com/data_storage.aspOpera listensOpera Software is giving voice to its latest web browser. Opera 7.55 for Windows is the development platform for a general speech-enabled browser that will appear later this year. It uses the IBM Multimodal Toolkit for WebSphere Studio, an open source Eclipse-based tool, to add speech recognition to applications for devices such as smartphones, handhelds and cars. Users will be able to talk into applications and hear their results through the built-in IBM ViaVoice software. Multimodal applications will also be capable of keyboard, mouse and stylus operation, so users can choose the best means of working according to their environment.www.opera.comEgov TVSouth Yorkshire residents can now use their satellite or cable TV to request repairs to council housing, find out why their wheelie bin hasn't been emptied, or check the location of local speed cameras. The interactive e@syconnects TV service, launched last week by a consortium of local authorities, aims to reach those with pay-TV but without home computers. Later this year, users should become the first in the country to book, check and if necessary cancel GP appointments through an interactive TV service. E@syconnects is being publicised with a leaflet sent to all South Yorkshire households.www.easyconnects.org.uk100Mbps schoolMerchant Taylors' School in London is installing a 100Mbps broadband internet link, which it believes is the fastest of any UK private school. Chris Roseblade, deputy headmaster for information systems, says it will be used with the school's Sony Virtuoso language lab and for video-conferencing, allowing lessons to be shared between the boys-only school and its girls-only counterpart, St Helen's. The link, provided by Equinox Converged Solutions, could also connect it to state schools. "We offer Latin and Greek to A-level, and there may be pupils at state schools who could benefit from classics teaching," says Roseblade.
What are the aims of Creative Commons?Creative Commonsis a response to what we think is badly functioning copyright law, making it extremely hard for people to legally use the power of the network to build on and share creative work. We built a system that makes it easy for creators to express their desire that others be able to share their work, but still insisting on some rights. It's an attempt to unleash the creative potential of the internet.Almost "open source" for content?That's exactly the way to think about it, although it's maybe more "free software for content". Our idea builds on Richard Stallman's idea withGNU General Public License, which basically says "OK, we're going to use copyright law to guarantee that software is open for people to build upon". It's the same thing we're trying to do with culture - not because we're opposed to people making money on top of content, quite the contrary. We just think a more flexible system is crucial if we're going to realise the potential of the network.Are we at a crucial stage in the evolution of digital rights?Absolutely, because in the next five years, companies are going to be deploying very powerful technologies that will be used to lock up content and restrict how it can be used. These restrictions will effectively stop you being able to remix or spread culture in any way other than how the owners want you to.How would that impact net culture?A brilliant Swedish sitewww.atmo.sehas a funny clip called Read My Lips, which is Bush and Blair singing Endless Love. Technically, these acts of recreation are illegal. The network enables that now. What we're seeing is a transformation of the network that is increasingly going to make that impossible.Are people like yourself and the Electronic Frontier Foundation finding it difficult to get that message out?The biggest mistake in this debate is to think business is on one side and the rest of us on the other. The biggest winner from free culture would be business because it would encourage an explosion of technology to support this creative activity. The proof will happen in Britain - if the BBC releases a wide range of content under its Creative Archive, then more people will buy   faster computers to make it easier to do this remixing. More people will demand broadband technology so they can access and use this content more easily.How do you see the RIAA's war on file sharers?It's a little unclear. We really need a willingness to step back from these wars and think about ways to wage peace. This would mean updating the law to the technology of the 21st century in a way that protects the rights of IP holders but doesn't render computer use an illegal activity. That's going to take a lot of political will and I don't think we see it right now. That is what's really concerning me.Visit:www.lessig.org&amp;www.free-culture.ccLawrence Lessig's bookmarkswww.eff.orgwww.publicknowledge.orghttp://archive.scripting.com/dir/http://joi.ito.com&#183;Lessig's book Free Culture is out now&#183;send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please
include address and phone number. If you do not want
your email address published, please say so
"NASA has chosen Silicon Graphics Inc. to assemble a 500-terabyte supercomputer based on more than 10,000 Intel Itanium chips. The configuration, for applications in space exploration, global warming research, and aerospace engineering, will be one of the world's largest Linux-based supercomputers. Called Project Columbia, NASA's Advanced Supercomputing Facility will experience a tenfold increase through the project. The integrated 512-processor SGI Altix systems -- there will be 20 separate installations -- will be called the Space Exploration Simulator," reportsInformation Week."In a statement, Silicon Graphics said of the partnership with Intel, 'The present collaboration builds upon the highly successful eight-year partnership that last year developed the world's first 512-processor Linux server -- based on standard, off-the-shelf microprocessor and open-source technology'."
"This survey compares 10 web sites through elements of their layout: styles, page construction and elements… The survey seeks similarities and differences between those well known web sites, built by famous, talented designers...." writesFrançois Briatte.Comment:OK, most blogs are much the same. It would have been more interesting to get them all to design a sample page for a fake company or, even better, a worthwhile charity, then compare the results. Or at least compare Web sites that they had designed....
Journalist Donald McNeil Jr has tested "the new sleep lab at Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn" forThe New York Times. Next week he triesa CPAP machine.
