It's the time of year when  everyone in the press starts  mouthing off about what  they think's going to happen  in the coming year.  Well, undergarments to that -  predictions are notoriously inaccurate  and there's always  someone ready to point out  that you were completely  wrong. Instead, here's a top 10  "wants" list - from me to the  business and IT community of  what I'd like to see during the  year:1.A handheld computer that  isn't taken off the market  about 10 minutes after I've  bought it, and which already  has sensitivity to any forthcoming  networks the manufacturer  knows perfectly well  are due for an imminent  launch. In other words, no  sneaky persuading everyone  that Bluetooth and GPRS are  fine when they have a WiFi or  3G version in the warehouse  waiting to pounce.2.Failing that, a sensible  trade-in or upgrade path on  products manufacturers know  will be obsolete within less  than 12 months (mental note:  I must patent this idea, I  might call it 'renting' or something  similar).3.Late payment legislation  with teeth. Sharp ones, that  can be persuaded to bite when  a large client is threatening to  hold up your VAT bill/tax payment/  mortgage (delete where  applicable) but which won't  put them off using you ever  again. (Perfect clients who  cough up and don't manage  their own cash flow at the expense  of your own would be  ideal of course, right after the  porcine aviation lessons).4.A registration scheme for  sole traders wanting to trade  under a name other than their  own. Let's be clear about this;  the vast majority of self-employed  people, of whom I'm  one, are honest and have a lot  of integrity. However, if an unscrupulous  trader decides to  set up a business under another  name there have been  instances under which they've  been able to "vanish" quite  quickly - and because nobody  has registered any directors  under the trading name,  they're difficult for creditors  to find if things go wrong. It's  in nobody's interests to increase  the paperwork burden,  but if someone were to decide  we were regulated a bit more  than we are now - maybe  having to sign some sort of  register undertaking to self-assess  on time etc - we'd at least  be a bit traceable and therefore  accountable.5.An end to the Inland Revenue  being allowed to insist  self-employed people pay  them thousands "on account"  for what they'll owe when  they've actually earned the  money. At the end of this  month millions of us will hand  a fortune over to the Revenue,  only a portion of which will  apply to monies earned in the  year for which we're self-assessing.  The rest is payment in  advance and it's frankly  money we won't actually owe  until next year, but they can  still chase us for it. You can file  my objections either under  "interest-free loans to HMG"  or "they're not going to stop  this no matter how much you  complain, get over it".5a.An end to self-employed  people whining in newspapers.6.Some sort of consensus on  what "broadband" actually  means when people are trying  to flog it to you. I had a piece  of mail from Tiscali the other  day to tell me they're increasing  my bandwidth from 256K  to 512K, free of charge -  which is fine, and for my  needs the 256K was probably  enough anyway (frankly it was  the fact that it was always on  and affordable that sold it to  me in the first place). But for  other people with more intensive  needs it looks more like  "midband" than broadband. I  don't believe I'm asking for yet  more jargon to clog up our  language, but we're soon going  to need some way of describing  a connection that's always  on but isn't as fast as you  might expect in the office.7.WiFi or some sort of equivalent  on trains and other transport.  En route to Cardiff this  month the weather was  stormy thus not helping the  atmospherics, and although it  couldn't be argued that my internet  connection didn't work  at all, it didn't half go sleepy a  few times.8.An acceptance that business  is about change. Most  people seem to realise this, but  many - particularly in the US  - develop a blind spot about  this when someone starts talking  about call centres in India.  Then nationalism overtakes  common sense. The counterargument  is to look at Holland,  where Philips ceased its  manufacturing in the 1970s.  There was an outcry, Philips  was condemned as unpatriotic  and now - you've probably  guessed - employs more people  in Holland than ever before.  They are in areas other  than manufacturing - product  design, marketing, whatever  - but the total number of  jobs recovered and could only  do so because the company  adapted to change and survived.  Had it kept to a more  expensive cost base it would  have been at far greater risk.9.A fair price for software -  which doesn't actually mean a  cheaper one. You buy a scanner,  and it has some image  handling software with it. You  buy a digital camera and once  again, it has image editing of  some sort sold with it as standard.  So you install, you uninstall  when there's a problem,  you find that all your default  programmes that should kick  in when a picture's opened up  fail to work because the settings  have been overwritten.  It's a nightmare. And it's because  people - more consumers  than businesses, but it  applies to smaller businesses  too - think they might as well  install this thing since it was  free. I'd honestly like to see all  software priced so that people  had to think about it before  buying and installing it.10.Ten day weeks would be  useful, as well as longer and  cheaper holidays...
Wireless choiceLaptop manufacturers are launching faster portables based on Intel's latest technology, Sonoma, this month. The technology builds on the Centrino wireless chipset but extends support from the standard 802.11b Wi-Fi to include the 11a and 11g versions. This will allow greater flexibility and provide more performance for mobile workers. Sonoma also takes the chipset into a new area of integration between the processor, its bus interface and the wireless components. To allow the best use of the new PCI Express bus for data transfer inside the computer, Intel has increased the speed of the data bus in its Pentium M processor from 400MHz to 533MHz.http://tinyurl.com/6ocz9Broadband supportMichael Eavis, organiser of the Glastonbury Festival, is launching a &#163;2.3m project to enable businesses and communities to make the most of broadband in the Mendip region. Connecting Somerset will be a two-year project aiming to help more than 1,350 small and medium-sized businesses, 30 communities and 600 people understand the benefits of broadband. From April, specialists will be available to recommend ways to help improve competitiveness, productivity and customer service. The initiative is funded by the South West of England Regional Development Agency, Somerset County Council, Somerset's five district councils, the European Social Fund and Business Link.http://masl.to/?H2136225ASupporting gridHewlett-Packard, IBM, Intel, Nortel, Sun Microsystems and Univa are forming the Globus Consortium to boost uptake of the open source Globus Toolkit for grid networks. Univa, the authors of the toolkit, are members of three other organisations aimed at developing the grid computing market. Where the other groups are involved in development and education, Globus will market the toolkit to business enterprises. The consortium will launch Version 4 of the toolkit in April. This will add the support for identity and enterprise resource management systems needed by enterprise networks.www.globusconsortium.comSymbian virusA Trojan horse program could render some Nokia mobiles useless by preventing them from making calls. Gavno, which poses as a downloadable patch file, has been discovered by SimWorks International, a Symbian anti-virus specialist. Although no users have reported infections, SimWorks says the 2KB virus works and could infect Nokia 6600 and 7610 models. Gavno only affects phones using Symbian version 7 with the Series 60 graphical interface: other combinations are immune. Aaron Davidson, the chief executive of SimWorks, says Gavno may render a phone impossible to repair. It disables all applications and often causes the phone to continually reboot.www.simworks.biz/news/Gavno.pdfPower struggleSony is licensing power management technology from Transmeta, the loss-making American chip company. The LongRun2 system features dynamic adjustment of speed and voltage to elongate battery life and reduce processor operating temperatures in portables. The technology, which is also licensed by NEC and Fujitsu, was developed for the next Transmeta Efficeon processor, which has yet to materialise. Transmeta appears to be relying on technology licensing deals to pull it through troubled times as it begins to distance itself from chip production. The company was formed to offer power-efficient processors for mobile devices such as notebook PCs, but failed to capture the market before Intel and other manufacturers moved in.http://masl.to/?G3431625AOne-chip phoneTexas Instruments has launched a Digital RF processor (DRP) that integrates most of the functions of a mobile phone on a single chip. That includes processor, memory, power management and RF (radio frequency) functions. The announcement was made with Nokia, which will use the chip to develop smaller, cheaper entry-level mobiles, which could be attractive in fast-growing markets such as India and China. TI is also developing single chip solutions for other uses including Wi-Fi and GPS.http://masl.to/?O1234225ASpam stoppersSymantec has launched two network appliances designed to help companies and ISPs bring the flood of email under control. The company claims the "Symantec Mail Security 8100 Series is the industry's first solution ... designed to reduce the overall mail volume entering a network by shaping traffic at the TCP protocol level". The 8200 Series email appliance combines Brightmail anti-spam and Symantec anti-virus technologies with a firewall, content filtering, encryption, anti-forgery and archiving functionality in one system aimed at medium-sized and large businesses. Both should be available next month.
IT departments have been centralising services and applications, using new data centres to increase efficiencies and save money. Email systems have become central hubs, for example, rather than networks of local servers. Now the same is about to happen to telephony using Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP). In the week US VoIP giant Vonage finally brings its service to the UK, it's a good time to see if VoIP is right for you.VoIP phones have been around since the 1990s, and organisations have used them to switch to one voice and data network, instead of having separate networks for phones and computers. This has led to massive deployments of IP handsets - Cisco has shipped more than 4m IP phones, with Lloyds TSB rolling out more than 70,000 in its network.But early VoIP solutions were often proprietary, rarely operated outside a corporate network and weren't easily integrated with business processes and applications. Now the arrival of open standards such as SIP, the Session Initiation Protocol, have made it easier to put together a VoIP system.SIP can handle more than just voice calls: you can manage instant messaging, presence, conferencing and event notification. Presence (knowing whether or not someone is online) could completely change the way we work with telephones. With a traditional phone, you have no idea whether the person is going to be there. Presence makes the phone part of an integrated communications tool that mixes instant messaging, email and voice. With a softphone, you can IM someone to let them know you want to talk, or even switch from   voice to IM to web conferencing and back, in the middle of a conversation.VoIP has enabled many businesses to converge their telecoms and data networks, moving voice traffic on to the Wan (wide area network). This reduces costs and allows companies to use centrally managed IP PBX (private branch exchange) systems, rather than a PBX at each site. But VoIP isn't just for internal phone calls. Corporate VoIP networks can connect directly to the public telephone network, and you can work with a VoIP network provider to make your calls as cheap as possible.On a smaller scale, UK users can get free calls to American 0800 numbers by using softphones such as the SIP X10, and they don't even need to subscribe to the service. Some VoIP providers, such as Vonage, will also supply an international virtual number. With a US number redirected to your VoIP system, US customers could call you without paying for an international call.Small businesses and home offices can set up their own VoIP networks with the new generation of SIP-based hardware. Zyxel is selling ADSL routers with two VoIP ports that work with existing phones, along with VoIP adapters that connect to any network (if you already have a router). All you need to do is subscribe to a SIP service provider, or add your own corporate SIP gateway.Adding VoIP to a DSL router makes it easy to provide a service to home workers, or to small (one or two person) branch offices. It also makes it easier to employ staff who might normally be outside your organisation's catchment area. For example, Wayfarers, a Guernsey-based travel   agency, is using VoIP to employ qualified staff from outside the island. Home users and remote workers don't need to worry about managing VoIP, as Zyxel's systems can be configured centrally.An open source alternative is Asterisk, which turns a Linux server into a business telephone exchange. Asterisk supports most common VoIP protocols, including SIP, and you can also use it to manage voice mail and your telephone directory. It will even act as a gateway between your private VoIP network and the rest of the telephone system, connecting your VoIP users to the outside world.Traditional phone manufacturers are also looking at voice and data convergence. Polycom is launching SIP-aware IP phones that will work with common SIP servers. As well as a conference phone, there is an SIP video conferencing system.You don't need any hardware for SIP, which is built into Microsoft Windows XP or easily added in software. Softphones running on PCs with headsets and handsets can replace the traditional telephone handset, and a Bluetooth headset turns any laptop into an extension that can be part of an internal telephone network from anywhere in the world.VoIP specialists Mitel equipped staff with softphones, which add collaboration and presence functions - turning an hour's delay at an airport into productive work. Mitel's vice president for strategic marketing, Simon Gwatkin, describes VoIP as "changing the way people communicate to match the way they work".Any application can use SIP. The latest version of Microsoft's enterprise IM client Windows Messenger   (not the consumer-oriented MSN Messenger) supports SIP voice connections. While you have to use a slightly odd format to connect through SIP gateways, Windows Messenger is an interesting example of how SIP connects services that might have been seen as rivals.Open SIP-based VoIP services behave just like email and the web, so spam, phishing and viruses are risks   to be considered. High speed network connections make it relatively easy for a spammer to fill voice mail boxes with the same messages we find in email. Borderware's SIPassure firewall appliance is a secure proxy server for SIP-based networks that can help manage your voice traffic, keeping voice mail clear, as well as protecting conversations from eavesdroppers and impersonators.
Since the death of Princess Diana, the prevailing media myth about the British has been that we have become emotionally incontinent, ready to pour out our feelings at the drop of a hat. The truth is somewhat different. Research last year for the marketing agency DNA found that a third of British people feel uncomfortable seeking advice on difficult subjects such as dating, sexual problems and drug addiction.The Samaritans confirm this, particularly among the young. "Our research has shown that young people worry a lot about contacting the Samaritans - that their problems aren't severe enough, or they're too embarrassed to speak to someone on the phone," says Sarah Nelson, a spokeswoman. To tackle the problem, the Samaritans two years ago launched an anonymous email service. From their website, users can send an email, which is put in a central queue and routed to one of the Samaritans' trained advisers.Last year, 200,000 of the 4.8m contacts to the Samaritans were by email, and Nelson is convinced the service has drawn in people who wouldn't call the helpline. "Using email helps them feel we'll answer it when we can, that they're not being a burden to us." Strikingly, while a quarter of the phone calls come from people who mention suicidal feelings, half of the emails do so.Most charities dealing with sensitive subjects such as depression or marital breakup now offer phone helplines or face-to-face counselling, yet they have been slow to exploit the potential of the web. There is good reason for such a cautious approach. The Samaritans wanted to make sure their service was absolutely secure   and that they could respond to demand; they have only recently begun to advertise the service, having acquired funding from Vodafone.Similarly, Relate has taken a low-key approach to its online counselling service, starting small and building it up gradually to ensure quality of service. Launched two years ago, the service has not been advertised, but still attracts 120 clients a month. The Relate service is also anonymous, which has affected the kind of client they attract. Queries from people experiencing domestic violence are more common, says Louise Barrack, Relate's website editor, as are queries from single men and older people. "We had a number of clients even in their 80s using the service. We don't have that age group coming for face-to-face counselling quite so much, so they obviously feel comfortable using an online service."Yet the demand for advice online is potentially huge. The web-based charity Youthnet UK realised the need for an online service when it was contacted by EMI to say that a number of artist sites were receiving emails from distressed young fans confiding their problems. It piloted an anonymous web-based advice service for 16-24 year olds, using partners such as Brook and Shelter to answer a wide range of problems from sexual health to housing.The principle of using the web for dealing with difficult subjects can be extended to awareness campaigns. Last year, DNA ran a much-noticed advertising campaign for the British Heart Foundation (BHF), which showed fat dripping from a cigarette. The campaign directed people to a BHF website about smoking, from where people could apply for email   or text message reminders, create their own "giving up smoking blog" or join discussion boards. "Some people in research groups said they had found it difficult to pursue the idea of giving up smoking because they didn't want to be seen to fail by family members or friends. The website gives them somewhere they can go in their own time, and if they can see personal support such as a message board, it allows them to do it more discreetly," says Alastair Law, the BHF's website editor.The BHF's experience shows that the traditional model of dealing with problems, where an expert or authority figure gives advice, and a client accepts it, is not cast in stone. "It's been so powerful because it takes a message that is potentially difficult and less palatable, and extends it to say to the user, 'We're here to help you along the journey you decide to take'," says Chris Perry, managing director of DNA.Some new technologies have yet to be tapped, though the Samaritans are thinking about offering an instant messaging service, while YouthNet is excited by the potential of mobile phones and digital TV. Yet one of the most striking things to emerge from the organisations' experience is that many of those seeking help have found comfort simply in writing the email. "Writing is a very therapeutic and cathartic way of expressing your emotions," says Nelson. "For a reasonable proportion of people, it's been the writing of the email itself that has been an important part of the help-seeking."LinksThe Samaritanswww.samaritans.org.ukRelatehttp://www.relate.org.ukBritish Heart Foundationwww.bhf.org.uk/smokingYouthnet UKwww.askthesite.org
I'm standing in a London square, clutching an odd electronic device, looking for a hidden box. I suspect the box is buried near the lime trees to my left; perhaps under the statue of Mahatma Gandhi. The contents of the box could be toys, notebooks, Pot Noodles or edible underwear. Who knows.Welcome to the world of geocaching, a hobby sweeping the more hi-tech parts of the globe. It involves tracking down useless, fiendishly concealed stashes of stuff with the aid of an electronic navigator. And when you find the cache, you hide it in the same place, perhaps after swapping the baubles inside for gifts of your own.Geocaching started in 2000. It became possible because of two technological advances. The first was the advent of hand-held satellite receivers. The second was the decision by the US government, in May 2000, to stop the deliberate degradation to civilians of satellite GPS signals (they had been blurred at the behest of a paranoid Pentagon).GPS (global positioning system) enables a satellite receiver to locate itself, in latitude and longitude, by computing the time difference between signals from different satellites. As there are dozens of satellites above the earth and it only takes three to triangulate a location, these locations can be determined within a few feet. Similarly, if you have the GPS coordinates of another object - a pub, a pyramid or a pointless box - you can navigate yourself until you are standing practically on top of it.The day after the US government's announcement, Dave Ulmer, an American computer engineer, suggested the idea of hiding stashes for others to locate using GPS signals. A few hours later, he concealed the first geocache, up Mount St Helens in Washington State.Via the internet, the idea took hold. Thousands of caches have been hidden, from Boston to Buenos Aires. All have been recorded online, sometimes cryptically, for the sole purpose of teasing the GPS-equipped locator.How do you go about geocaching? First, if you live in an advanced geocaching country such as the US or the UK, visitwww.geocaching.com. This website has a facility whereby you can key in your location, by postcode, and it will tell you the detailed whereabouts of your nearest stash.For my first geocache, I start close to home. Typing my Bloomsbury postcode in to the website, I see the nearest cache is a tenth of a mile away. However, this stash is a "virtual cache", which presumably means it doesn't exist.The next nearest is the Gandhi Peace Cache, a short walk northeast. Turning on my new GPS navigator, I key in the global coordinates. As I set out from my flat, it tells me I am 10 minutes at walking pace from finding the cache.Using the directional arrows of the navigator, it takes me just a few minutes to reach the bronze statue of the Mahatma. The navigator is informing me that the cache is within a radius of about five feet. But what do I do now? People are already glancing over, as I gaze obsessively at my handheld gizmo. I'm not going to risk arrest by overturning a sacred Indian peacemaker.The same problem greets me at the next three caches. I love the way these GPS navigators tell you where you are, and where to go. I also love the challenge of tracking the GPS coordinates through city streets. But when I get to the neighbourhoods where the caches are secreted, I'm either too embarrassed to start scrabbling or I can't find the damn things.Finally, a week later, I luck out. It happens down a small side road in Ealing. The cache is only a tiny Tupperware box, hidden under dried leaves, containing a dog-eared copy of the Da Vinci Code and a plastic llama. But that doesn't matter. Leaving a little note in the box, I rush home to record my giddy triumph on geocaching.com. I'm hooked.&#183;Visitwww.gps4less.co.ukfor information about geocaching devices and software.
emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say soPress releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
I am off to Paris tomorrow for the Nintendo DS launch event. It should be a big one - 180 retailers and journalists are going from the UK alone. Nintendo will be announcing their DS European launch plans, including price and date. My prediction? £99 in late February. Interestingly though, Nintendo have announced aprofit fall of 43%in the last quarter. Disappointing recent sales of the Gamecube are one thing but Nintendo Senior Managing Director Yoshihiro Mori points out that DS game sales are also an issue. "DS software is not selling because users are playing the pre-installed PictoChat game. Even if they buy a game, multiple players can use it to play against each other, eliminating the need for each to buy their own game," he said.Nintendo are still profitable though, unlike some of their competitors. They've sold 2.84 million DS machines since the Japanese and US launches in the last six weeks of 2004, although the Gamecube has suffered, especially in Europe. GBA sales are still doing well though - in the DS launch week in the States, over800,000 were sold- so clearly a lot of punters are satisfied with the less powerful GBA.Anyway, I will update from the event tomorrow. I'm looking forward to my first ever Nintendo press conference without lardy US journalists whooping at every announcement.
This USA Todayreport has just come to my attention. It describes how car company Ford is dumping desktop phones in favour of mobiles.For some workers, the desktop telephone is joining the adding machine and typewriter on the list of obsolete office equipment.In a move that other companies might soon follow, Sprint announced Monday that about 8,000 employees at Ford Motor will jettison their desktop phones and use cell phones exclusively.Ford joins a few mostly small or midsize businesses around the nation that have gone wireless. More could be coming.Buildings at the Ford complex will be modified with extra antennas to make sure there are no dead spots. And costs, for equipment and airtime, are expected to be about the same as for the current combination of land lines and pagers.Arising from this are two points - the first is that it just shows how embedded the mobile phone is in our lives now that companies are doing this.The second is that, if the costs "are expected to be about the same", then telcos will be very happy. After all, getting people to swap to proprietary mobile phone networks will means it will be much harder for people to switch to VoIP... which does offer far cheaper costs but generally needs that physical connection.
A veritable treasure trove of web weirdness over atWikipedia's "unusual articles"section.Including plans by the US to usebomb-dropping batsduring world war two, the so-called"Exploding Head Syndrome"and an article on the belief by some fundamentalist Christian groups thatPokemon is Satanic.Worth a browse now and again, I'd say.
I'm heading up to Liverpool today to kick off a week or so of speaking engagements. Tonight I'm addressing a public audience atFACTduring their Darkly Comic series on thetopicaltopic of the social life of virtual worlds. I'm following in the footsteps of journalist-cum-virtual traderJulian Dibbellwho wowed audiences with tales of his 12 months as anUltima Online eBayer, selling in-game items (currency, property, armour, weapons) for real dollars, earning the approximate equivalent salary of aUS secondary school teacher. How'sthatfor real value from virtual trade? I won't be stepping on his toes, however. The crux of my talk will focus on personal identity in gameplay and the social systems which have emerged from years of in-game interaction.While I'm there, I plan on seeing a bit of game-inspired artwork courtesy ofEddo Stern.Unfortunately Friday'sDigiPlay 4event in London is already sold out, but it's taking place at the Institute of Education, with some of the same group who released theOctober 2004report arguing for the benefit ofgames in the classroom. The topic of the panel I'll be speaking on?Gender, games culture and games education. This will be a good starting block to consider the role games-related degrees have in the industry, a topic which will be covered in detail at theAcademic Insightssession at the Game Developer's Conference (the thinking person's E3).Finally, I'll be revising the social life of virtual worlds topic at theAnimexanimation festival in Teeside on Monday 31st. This is the second year they're running their Game strand and the lineup looks great. Lots of women reprazenting, as well as games design luminariesChris CrawfordandErnest Adams. Plus plenty of animation to satiate my hunger for moving animated image!After that, I have a PhD to do...
Internet company Google yesterday announced plans for a new service allowing users to search video content, which it claimed would revolutionise the way that people watch TV.The company, which is branching out into new areas following its flotation last year, has launched a test version of Google Video that will allow users to search US programming from ABC, PBS, Fox News and others.It automatically searches transcripts of the footage and brings back relevant shows. Initially, clicking on the results will only bring up still pictures and excerpts, but Google said it was working with its partners to provide full video playback.Based on experience in the US, analysts have predicted 2005 will see the line between television and the internet become blurred as broadband connections become a mass market proposition and converged devices such as Microsoft's Media Centre take off. As such, internet companies are battling to become the gateway through which people find archived and upcoming shows."What Google did for the web, Google Video aims to do for television. This preview release demonstrates how searching television can work today," said co-founder Larry Page."Users can search the content of TV programmes for anything, see relevant thumbnails and discover where and when to watch matching television programmes. We are working with content owners to improve this service by providing additional enhancements such as playback."The announcement is the latest in a series of product innovations from Google aimed at building on its lead in internet search. In December it announced plans to allow users to search millions of books - both commercial and out of copyright - and buy or view them online.Yahoo! is developing its own video service and will show content from BSkyB, Bloomberg and the BBC, among others. Last month another search engine, Blinkx, became the first to offer a video search service.It already allows users to search 15 video services, including the BBC, ITV and Sky News channels. It claims to have already built up an archive of 42,000 hours of footage and recently signed a deal to feature Fox News content. Mark Opzoomer, the former Yahoo! Europe chief who joined Blinkx last year, said the video search arena would soon become as competitive as that of text and image search. "It's all blurring together so you get what you want, when you want it," he said.The BBC has also been working on its own online video projects for some time. The interactive media player, which will allow users to watch any programme broadcast over the previous seven days, is expected to launch this year. It is also developing a digital archive and has plans to become the trusted portal through which people find TV shows and other video content.
Top videogames import site Lik-Sang recentlyreportedon two new Dreamcast releases, Inhabitants and Maqiupai. Naturally, these aren't products of the mainstream industry (which deserted the Dreamcast a long, long time ago - in fact while I was still editing a magazine dedicated to the bloody thing), they come from the still thriving DC homebrew scene, a worldwide network of coding enthusiasts who develop and distribute their own apps for Sega's groundbreaking 128bit games console.Of course, homebrew development isn't exclusive to the Dreamcast console (check outConsole Visionfor the latest news), but the combination of accessible architecture, cult appeal and a decent amount of RAM have made it something of a bedroom coding superstar. How typical of Sega to create a machine that could only ever be fully appreciated by a faithful and dedicated minority.You can find out more about homebrew Dreamcast projectshereandhere.All too retro for ya? Well, the homebrew scene has already begun analysing the PSP, discussing the possibility of uploading games onto a Memory Stick and then running them on the sexy handheld. Sony's anti-piracy controls are likely to prove a significant obstacle, though. If you're interested in running homebrew games, emus or classic game conversions while on the go, formats like the N-Gage and Tapwave Zodiac are your best bet at the moment. Head over tothis sitefor C64, Spectrum and Mega Drive emulators, and N-Gage conversions of Doom and, erm, Frogger!
Spam was on the menu at the high court yesterday, when a judge had to decide whether luncheon meat should triumph over electronic junk mail.SPAM (Hormel Foods, the makers of the pink stuff, who prefer upper case) had gone to court to stop a company using the word spam (lower case by default) in the title of an email filtering software programme.SPAM is on a roll, as well as frequently in a roll; residents of Guam in the north Pacific eat 16 cans a year each; and British sales, worth &#163;13.3m, are rising by 10% a year, with a boom expected as a result of a television advertising campaign.But in London, deputy judge Richard Arnold QC decided that Hormel, makers of SPAM since the 1930s, should not be allowed to stop Antilles Landscape Investments NV from calling their filter product Spambuster. The ruling could also clear the way for other companies to use spam in titles of similar products.The judge ruled that Hormel's attack on Spambuster was an abuse of process, because the company had fought and lost a similar battle with Antilles at the Trademarks Registry.He rejected a bid by Antilles to have Hormel's trademark revoked on the grounds that   SPAM (or spam) had become a generic name for canned meat.He found that the SPAM name, usually said to be a contraction of spiced ham, was listed in dictionaries as a trademarked product and had not become a generic term. On its website, Hormel explains how the name of its product was hijacked by Monty Python.Hormel said it did not object to the use of the word to describe junk email "although we do object to the use of the word spam as a trademark and to the use of our product image in association with that term."
Hewlett-Packard (H-P) is considering stripping chairman and chief executive Carly Fiorina of some of her responsibilities in frustration over the performance of the business.Directors at the computer and printer maker discussed diluting Ms Fiorina's role at a meeting earlier this month, according to the Wall Street Journal. Under the plan, three executives would be given more authority and autonomy over key operating businesses.Ms Fiorina, 50, was the first outside chief executive at H-P when she was hired from Lucent Technologies in 1999.Her tenure has so far been marked by considerable successes. Before she was recruited H-P had missed targets for nine straight quarters. Ms Fiorina streamlined the business, cutting jobs and pulling   units together. She also overcame opposition from Walter Hewlett, son of founder William Hewlett, to beef up the firm's PC business through the $19bn (&#163;10bn) acquisition of Compaq in 2002.Last year, the company reported profits of $3.5bn, up 38% on 2003. Revenues at $80bn were 9% higher than the previous year. The share price though has lagged behind rivals, and is down 55% since Ms Fiorina's arrival.The report in the Wall Street Journal cited insiders who said her job was not on the line. They claimed the move was not aimed at curbing her power but making H-P nimbler in meeting customers' needs and responding to competition.A company spokesman declined to comment on the report. "Boards discuss a wide range of topics consistent with their fiduciary responsibilities," he said.Referring to an earlier announcement about merging H-P's PC and printing units, he added: "The board discussed structural changes at its recent meeting and these were announced on Friday, January 14." - David Teather
Talk about bitter break ups. According to variousreportson the web, a Japanese woman has deleted an ex-lover's account in the Massively Multiplayer Online GameLineage. While no suit has been filed for the destruction of virtual property or the potential financial loss incurred by the male ex-partner, she has been arrested for the illegal use of a username and password.If you can read Japanese, you can find the storyhere. Alternatively, check out the lively debate on the subject atTerra Nova. There you can also read about another incident, involving the tragic tale of Kayla and GarrettH.It's true. You should never trust a woman scorned.
It's been a busy few days for mobile game announcements, so for your convenience I've rounded up all the action into one post. Conversions of Splinter Cell Chaos Theory and historical strategy classic Civilization lead the way…Splinter Cell Chaos TheoryGameloft's mobile translations of the Tom Clancy console titles have been among the best phone games available, and this looks set to continue the good work. Following the story of the Xbox and PS2 title, you're once again in the silent shoes of Third Echelon agent Sam Fisher as he tip-toes around the world searching for a programmer who has the power to crash the Asian stock-market, blackout New York and hijack control of ballistic missiles – all with a single algorithm.Gameloft is including a range of weapons, gadgets and stealth moves, and is also planning a more complex gameplay experience, offering a variety of ways to complete each level employing stealth, direct action or even acrobatics. The visuals are stunning for a Java title, with detailed animating environments and well-designed character models. Clear some space in your handset memory for March 31.CivilizationKorean company Com2Us is working on this translation of the PC strategy classic, and the above image is an exclusive (but very small) screenshot of the English language version. They're not giving too much away about the translation, but surely some major compromises will have to be made with the epic gameplay. Judging by the company's press release, however, it seems the structure of the game is intact, with the player becoming an empire builder engaging in wars with other races, sealing pacts, trading and exploring. Com2Us has a three year deal with Atari to convert Civilization titles to Java and other mobile platforms, so this re-make of the original Civilization should be just the first step in an interesting conversion endevour. It's due toward the end of the year.Nate Adams Freestyle MotocrossDigital bridges has just announced this 2D motocross sim, endorsed by the Summer X-Games gold medallist. Currently being developed by Austrian mobile games studio, Xendex, the game features a range of mountainous courses to traverse and a highly realistic physics engine, giving you intricate control over the rider's balance as the bike leaps and wheelies over the difficult terrain. It's due for release in April.Robots et alTwentieth Century Fox announced yesterday that it has signed a two-year deal with Sorrent, giving the latter exclusive rights to develop mobile games and other content based around the studio's forthcoming movies. First up will be Robots, followed by Kingdom of Heaven, Mr. and Mrs. Smith and Ice Age 2: The Meltdown.
There have beenlong-standing rumoursof a Google web browser, but the latest twist in the story is that the lead developer on Firefox, Ben Goodger, isnow being paid by Google.As of January 10, 2005, my source of income changed fromThe Mozilla FoundationtoGoogle, Inc.of Mountain View, California. My role with Firefox and the Mozilla project will remain largely unchanged, I will continue doing much the same work as I have described above - with the new goal of successful 1.1, 1.5 and 2.0 releases.I remain devoted full-time to the advancement of Firefox, the Mozilla platform and web browsing in general.Add this to the "evidence" so far: (AMozilla developer dayat the Googleplex; the domain namegbrowser.comand thehiring of former IE builders.Something's going on: is it Google simply protecting Mozilla from competitors, or is it a more complex situation?(thanks toBenfor the tip)
Guy de Jonquieres (how's that for a name, eh?) makes some salient points in an editorial in today'sFinancial Times. The web article's subscription only, so I'll give you a taster.Some commentators predict China may rival US information technology leadership in only a decade... Since the late 1980s, the number of science and engineering doctorates awarded in China has exploded. It now has more researchers than Japan. Its annual research and development spending, though still well below US levels, is rising five times faster, while the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development says China's biggest exports are now high-tech products.But those dazzling statistics mask an often more mundane reality. The bulk of China's "high-tech" exports are actually low-margin commodity products such as personal computers and DVD players, assembled from imported components that account for most of their value.He is also cynical about those who say this is merely a build-up to the real thing, a prelude to China's impending control built on the back of a huge population and high brainpower. "R&amp;D effort is only a rather crude measure of input," he says. "China still has much to prove".Of course, with the sale of IBM's PC arm to Lenovo recently, there has been a lot of speculation over China's high-tech future. With Japan sliding, it looks like there's a mantle ready to be taken - but really, it is South Korea that is the powerhouse we should be taking notice of.
A man who sent hoax emails to the families and friends of people missing in the Asian tsunami disaster falsely confirming their deaths was jailed for six months yesterday.Christopher Pierson sent 35 emails to relatives in what he described as "10 minutes of madness" early on New Year's Eve after getting their details from the Sky News website.In a message purporting to be from the British government, he told recipients that 3,200 British tourists had been killed and that they would receive official confirmation of the deaths within 48 hours.Sentencing Pierson at Bow Street magistrates' court, London, yesterday, district judge Daphne Wickham told him: "The emotional hurt through which you put over 30 people that week ... is indescribable."Pierson, 40, from Ruskington, Lincolnshire, wept as the court heard how he had created a false email address. He sent a message purporting to be from staff at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office based in Thailand. It stated: "The UK government regretted to inform the recipient that the missing person they were inquiring about was confirmed dead."A police inquiry was launched after three recipients contacted Sky News, and Pierson was arrested the same evening after officers traced him through his AOL account.Pierson, a father of three, at first denied knowledge of the emails. But examination of his computer showed he had created the address.Pierson pleaded guilty to one count of public nuisance and a charge under Section 1 of the Malicious Communications Act earlier this month. Yesterday he pleaded guilty to a further charge of obtaining property by deception and asked for two unspecified related offences to be taken into account.Andrew McArthur, for Pierson, said his first son was stillborn in 1991 and he was now caring for a diabetic son and elderly relatives. An image of a dead child tsunami victim affected him so that "he somehow saw that by sending these emails he was providing some sort of closure to ... families".
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation was formed in 2000 and has so far committed grants worth $7.5bn (&#163;4bn) to various projectsMay 2000Gave $210m (&#163;112m) to create a scholarship at Cambridge University to provide places for overseas studentsDecember 2000Pledged $189m to the Boys &amp; Girls Clubs of America to provide computer access for underprivileged childrenJanuary 2001Donated $100m to the International Aids Vaccine Initiative to fund researchJuly 2001Gave $4.2m to British libraries to provide computer access in deprived areas such as Hackney, Barnsley and SunderlandNovember 2002Donated $100m to fight HIV/Aids in IndiaOctober 2003Visited Mozambique to announce a $168m donation to combat malaria in AfricaOctober 2003Gave $25m to GM research to develop vitamin-enriched seeds to help those in povertyFebruary 2004Donated $82.9m to the Aeras Global TB Foundation for research into developing a tuberculosis vaccine
Microsoft decided yesterday it would not appeal against an EU court ruling forcing it to share some of the secret protocols behind its operating systems with rivals and offer a version of Windows without its Media Player audio-visual software.The US software group, which was fined a record &euro;497m (&#163;345m) last March by the European Commission in a landmark anti-trust ruling, said it was "working constructively" with the commission on a "full and prompt" implementation of the sanctions imposed by Brussels.Microsoft, which has been accused of seeking an effective monopoly for its Windows operating system, is keen to reach a negotiated settlement with the EU after paying off the bulk of its litigant rivals but has made no further approach to the commission since its request for talks was rebuffed before Christmas.It argues that a full-scale hearing will take so long that market developments will render the outcome meaningless and result in a lose-lose situation for the two protagonists. It hopes the European Court of Justice will proceed to a full hearing later this year.It said: "We remain very optimistic as we move forward in this process and are encouraged that the December court order noted that a number of Microsoft's arguments could provide a basis for overturning the EU's decision."On December 22 Bo Vesterdorf, president of the Court of First Instance, the EU's second   highest court, rejected the software group's appeal against the commission's "interim measures", or sanctions, and ordered it to implement them immediately.It is understood that rival manufacturers have begun negotiations with Microsoft over the terms, including the fee, of the licences they need to ensure inter-operability with Windows on PCs, but these are far from complete.The first versions of the operating system without Media Player have been shipped to PC manufacturers such as Dell and should be available in European shops next month at the same price as enabled PCs.Mr Vesterdorf indicated last month that, prima facie, some of Microsoft's arguments against the commission were "grounded," encouraging it to believe it can win the full case, but the commission believes this is normal at interim hearings and is determined to impose its will on the software group.It refused to comment yesterday on Microsoft's decision, which came as no surprise, but, amid accusations that the group headed by Bill Gates has been lobbying the Bush administration for retaliatory measures against European firms, it wants to press ahead with the full case. This may not be concluded until 2007 or 2008.Microsoft argues that Windows without Media Player is "degraded" and will damage both consumers and software manufacturers. The company's backers suggest that Europeans will be forced to pay billions more for PCs.
WhatSpread Firefoxcalled The March to 10 Million Downloads of the Firefox browser has already passed20 million. This is several times the number of Mac OS X users, and in a couple of years, at the current rate, it could be approaching Windows XP SP2....Of course, there's no reason why the adoption of Firefox shouldn't speed up. The almost universal penetration of Macromedia Flash illustrates that there's really no barrier to Windows users downloading whatever software they like, despite the opinions of the US Justice Department.
Picked up a copy of theLondon Evening Standardthe other day. Hadn't seen it for a while, and forgotten how an urban paper can have such suburban attitudes. I also noticed they had a entertainment section - "Staying In" - which highlighted the latest books, DVDs etc. Amazingly games were included too, but it was interesting to see the headings. They included "Must-see DVD", "On Radio" and "The CD to hear". And the the games one? "For the Games Addict". Yup, that's right, watching DVDs and listening to music is just something you do, but to play games you have to be an "addict". Sheesh. Maybe, I'm being over-sensitve, but this kind of thing does grate.
The Timeshas caught up on the rumour that Google is planning a Voice over Internet Protocol service:The company behind the US-based internet search engine looks set to launch a free telephone service that links users via a broadband internet connection using a headset and home computer.The technology that will enable Google to move in on the market has been around for some time. Software by the London-based company, Skype, has been downloaded nearly 54 million times around the world but no large telecommunication firms have properly exploited it.BT, which connects seven out of ten British households, has developed its own internet-telephone service. However, the telephone giant, which has the most to lose if the new technology takes off, has been reluctant to promote it heavily.But Google is "playing it cool", saysVNUnet:The rumours were fuelled when the company posted a job ad last week seeking a 'strategic negotiator' with experience in the "selection and negotiation of dark fibre contracts both in metropolitan areas and over long distances as part of the development of a global backbone network".The notoriously secretive Googlists said "we are not aware of any moves to enter this arena", but that doesn't necessarily mean that there's not behind-the-scenes movement.And nothing on theGoogleblog, unsurprisingly.
The metaphor for overriding issues which, for reasons of sensitivity, go undiscussed, is "the elephant in the room". In television policy-making circles, the elephant on top of the TV is the switch-off of the analogue signal and the conversion of 75m television sets to digital by 2012.It is the most important audiovisual change for consumers in a generation, with significant financial and social implications, yet the level of debate over its implementation has been remarkably low.Here, for instance, is a fascinating thought about switching Britain from analogue to digital: the power needed for the digital set-top boxes could require the entire output of the UK's wind farms and would cancel out 5% of the nation's Kyoto emission reductions. Watching Freeview is killing the planet.These estimates come from a controversial presentation to the Oxford Media Convention last week by Chris Goodall, a partner at the research firm Enders Analysis. The panel at the convention proved to be far livelier than one might have thought. Debates about the switch-off date for analogue are usually accompanied by stifled yawns and plenty of coffee.Other contributions included Goodall's inflamatory estimate of the overall cost to homes of switchover - somewhere around &#163;5bn - while the cost of the sale of the spectrum is unlikely to exceed &#163;2bn; in other words, an unproven cost-benefit analysis.All these issues are either debatable or resolveable (for instance, requiring set-top box manufacturers to improve energy efficiency), yet they have received little public airing. But the timescale for the introduction of digital is tight. The government aims to have all homes converted by 2012, but the timetable for some regions starts in 2008.The debate at Oxford demonstrated that, in a world where it is impossible to walk down the street without tripping over a new-media strategist or policy adviser, it is bewildering to think that we are stumbling towards digital without a clear rationale or transparent balance sheet.Jeremy Klein from the consultants Scientific Generics has researched public attitudes towards digital switchover and found that, while a significant number are resistant to change (2.5% of largely older, poorer viewers feel it would be unaffordable and incomprehensible to them), most now view it as inevitable.Paddy Barwise, from the London   Business School, described the introduction of digital as being rather like Donald Rumsfeld's celebrated declaration on WMD in Iraq: "There are the known unknowns ... but there are also unknown unknowns". This is remarkable, considering how much paper and carbon dioxide has been expended on the subject of renewing the BBC's charter. The world and his dog has produced a consultation paper, yet digital switchover has potentially far more impact. Barwise thinks it is "just possible" that the 2012 deadline could be met - particularly if the prospect of cheap personal video recorders can be harnessed. Addressing the practicalities of "how" still leaves the knotty issue of "why".Most interestingly, it seems that the Treasury - consistently cited as the reason for the move to digital, with its imputed hopes for a 3G-style mega-auction - is actually rather ambivalent about the idea. It seems that current Treasury thinking is that the benefits and costs are at best finely balanced. This is hardly the driving imperative we once thought, neither is the idea that we will use our television sets for all manner of e-governance, as the internet races ahead as the delivery platform of choice.Making the case for the switchover has fallen into a yawning interim technology chasm. Digital terrestrial television looks lame compared with broadband digital cable delivery and expensive compared with satellite delivery. It will be only a marginal improvement on our existing system in terms of choice and quality. We may view it as inevitable and pointless in equal measure, and it may perhaps be the first and last example of a technological change led by the legislature rather than the consumer.Goodall's presentation ruffled feathers at Oxford - a good thing, given that the official version of why we are changing is alarmingly unrehearsed. One lighter moment came during the discussion of increased carbon emissions. Jane Humphries, head of broadcast policy at the DTI, remarked: "This is not meant to sound flippant, but the heat given off by the set-top box does mean that households may not use so much heat energy from other sources."Throw another chair leg on the Freeview box. It is going to be a long winter.&#183;Emily Bellis editor in chief of Guardian Unlimited.
You may well have read the purportedTrip Hawkinsemail currently circulating the industry. Hawkins was the visionary who founded EA and published ingenious titles like M.U.L.E and Archon in the early eighties, who virtually created the concept of the endorsed sports title with One-On-One: Doctor J vs Larry Bird. Yet here he apparently was in 2001, defending a derivative, instantly forgettable piece of shovel ware. Now he, like fallen Doom idol John Romero, is ploughing his trade in the mobile games sector. Big fish in a small pond once again.The games industry is getting on a bit now, and so are many of its key 'superstars'. You may not think it, given the proliferation of sequels and movie tie-ins that clog up the charts like that sickly white glue in the veins of heavy smokers, but this is a creative business. No matter how many people are involved in the process, there must be a spark of inspiration somewhere at its core. So what happens when the spark falters, or goes out?Take Doom III. Like every Pink Floyd album after The Final Cut, it is a technical masterpiece, utterly devoid of verve, invention or the sheer folly of youth. Could it be that John Carmack's obsession with amazing graphical effects is similar to the way in which middle-aged rock stars start to 'experiment' with the latest technology and trendy genres – Peter Gabriel with world music, David Bowie with Drum N Bass, Dave Stewart with, oh god, don't even go there. Robbed of inspiration and motivation by years of financial and emotional security, these artists can now only pick at cultural tit-bits, embracing the internet, samplers, sequencers, emerging urban scenes… Desperate old vampires latching onto the plump necks of boys and girls with new ideas.Peter Molyneux is a genius, and deserved an OBE for Populous alone. But Black and White left many gamers cold, and Fable for which he is solely credited time and time again, was the brainchild of Dene and Simon Carter, the founders of Big Blue Box. Molyneux was intimately involved in the project of course, but the Carters have been planning this game for almost twenty years. The Movies and Black and White 2 will need to be vintage Molyneux if the undeclared king of Britsoft is to retain his wobbly crown. They are long overdue – as was Black and White. Molyneux, it seems, has fallen prey to that other foible of the older creative genius: the sprawling development cycle. It took Kubrick two years to shoot Eyes Wide Shut, one of his least satisfying movies. And the less said about The Stone Roses' Second Coming the better.Elsewhere, Deus Ex Invisible War, guided to life by Warren Spector, was generally thought of as a disappointment. Too fussy, cluttered and confused, it was a Phantom Menace to the original Deus Ex's Empire Strikes Back. Over in Japan, Resident Evil creator Shinji Mikamistepped downas head of Capcom's Production Studio 4, a move that some suggest was instigated by lower than expected sales of P.N. 03 and Resident Evil Zero. Closer to home, Martin Edmonson, founder of Reflections, jumped ship in December – just a few months after the critical mauling handed out to Driver 3.Titles like GTA and Need for Speed Underground are changing the way videogame design works. Never before have games been so reliant on, let alone influenced by, 'popular' culture – and not always the mainstream culture of Hollywood movies and chart-topping music, but often by the shifting underground, by adolescent fads too esoteric, too transitory for the old guard to read and decipher. Deeply conservative megacorps like Sony and EA will need to learn lessons from the likes of Nike and Coca Cola if they are to reach these indecipherable urban and suburban tribes. They will need to get in there amongst them. They probably already are. But 'da street' is no place for our game design gods. The kids are atheists nowadays.
Fans of The West Wing who cannot wait for the new series to roll out on Channel 4 can go online to feed their need. The acclaimed US show is one of a growing number of American and British TV series available to download via the internet as the "content pirates", fresh from taking on record companies and Hollywood, eye a new target.Unauthorised online distribution of TV programmes is on the rise, and this month the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) launched a European legal campaign to combat this latest form of TV distribution. But, as the American TV industry mobilises its defences, British broadcasters remain undecided on the level of threat posed to their businesses and how to respond.Piracy is nothing new. But just as VHS counterfeiting gave way to unauthorised copying of CDs and DVDs, so illegal content downloading has moved centre stage. The first target was music, which could be downloaded quickly and easily. Rapidly evolving technology, however, now enables longer content - TV shows and films - to be downloaded faster than ever. An internet trawl reveals dozens of shows - from Friends spin-off Joey, which launches in the UK on Five next month, to Desperate Housewives and 24 along with Channel 4's Shameless, BBC 1's According to Bex and Five's Fifth Gear - listed on sites as "available".Fuelling this phenomenon is BitTorrent, the moving pictures equivalent of Napster and one of a growing number of file-swapping networks. Increasingly, these are being used by individuals who record programmes from a conventional TV broadcast with a computer-based personal video recorder - the sort of technology built into home media centres available on the high street which allows music and TV to be played through a central computer. They then edit out the ads and post online.BitTorrent allows content distributors to create a special file called a "torrent file" that uniquely identifies the content and tells other computers how to get it. This "how to" file is then posted across the net on websites - some of which simply list programmes available to download - or spread virally. When you want to download a programme the relevant torrent file directs your computer to other computers sharing the same programme, and lets you join in. File-sharing in this way means the more people who participate, the faster the download. An episode of CSI, for example, takes just a couple of hours -   a fraction of the time older, Napster-style technologies need. David Docherty, chief executive of Yoo Media and former managing director of broadband at Telewest, believes online piracy is a significant problem. "It's technically becoming quite easy to do. But it's not seen as a big problem because not many people are doing it. Once the technology becomes simpler, however, it's likely to become a serious issue. If people can get something for free then they will."The problem for broadcasters is that if viewers download programmes in significant numbers they may do so instead of watching the same shows on broadcast channels, so potentially undermining the advertiser-funded business model on which most of today's commercial TV channels are built. Meanwhile, advance viewing of imported TV programmes ahead of their official UK TV broadcast reduces the value of the rights British broadcasters pay for hit shows.Last November Peter Chernin, chief operating officer of Fox in the US, spoke out against "digital thievery" and the threat posed to broadcasters by illegal file-sharing of TV shows. Many British TV companies seem less anxious. An ITV spokesperson observes: "As we've little acquired programming we just don't see this as a significant problem." Channel 4 says it is "monitoring" the situation. Five, meanwhile, was unaware of Joey's availability online to British downloaders and is "a bit sketchy" on BitTorrent. But Five's head of legal compliance, Paul Chinnery, says while it does not see piracy as a huge problem it is committed to legally challenging anyone making money out of illicitly exploiting copyright content. "We need to think about a strategy for this now," Chinnery says. "If people steal, which   effectively piracy is, it drains money out of the creative industry and undermines broadcasters' willingness to pay for new creative work. It's a form of theft that can only have an adverse impact on the TV industry."Legal action is the MPAA's preferred weapon and this month it launched a campaign in Europe and the US against BitTorrent and another file-swapping network, eDonkey. While BitTorrent is not illegal, the MPAA is threatening to sue sites that publish TV programme and film-related torrent file details. MPAA is yet to prove its case in court. TV executives, meanwhile, are advised to keep the champagne corked. According to Jean Paul Edwards, media futures head at the media planning and buying agency Manning Gottlieb OMD, BitTorrent is just one of many new media technologies enabling people to share content online. "With large groups of individuals taking part via peer to peer file-sharing networks, it becomes increasingly difficult to shut down."A more effective tactic than lawsuits may be closer co-ordination of international distribution of TV programmes, says Richard Bridgwood, managing director of TV producer and distributor Contender Entertainment. "Narrowing the window between the US and UK airing of shows would cut demand for pirated content."Ashley Highfield, the BBC's director of new media and technology, believes the most constructive response is for broadcasters to beat the pirates at their own game. "Left unchecked TV piracy is a huge problem, addressed proactively it's manageable," he says. "Develop enough legitimate downloading services and digital rights measures and you can combat the majority so it is incumbent on the BBC, I believe, to do just that."Protecting TV content from piracy is one of the driving forces behind initiatives including iMP, the BBC's interactive media player allowing viewers to download BBC programming up to seven days after it was first broadcast; the online creative archive offering BBC content free for personal use; and plans to restrict online access to content by territory - which the BBC successfully trialled with broadband Olympics coverage last year.A combination of different alternatives to unauthorised downloading will be the best way for broadcasters to combat the 21st century TV pirates, Highfield believes, although none he is developing will be introduced until the next Charter period. Until then, it seems, the UK TV industry must gamble on the British viewing public's sense of fair play.
It is often said there are 1.3bn reasons for western brands to sell to China. Now online advertising and marketing agencies are discovering there are 100m reasons to enter a web market that is poised to become the largest in the world. While official Chinese government figures have always fuelled optimism about the size and future potential for its internet market, the first independent figures were compiled at the end of last year by the international web auditor, Nielsen//NetRatings. It found that in one week alone 100 million people were logging on to China's top four portals.This confirmed official statistics that had put the size of the market, at the start of 2004, at around 90 million. This means China's online population is larger than Europe's and four times that of the UK. With growth expected to cause the Chinese market to double within three years, according to researchers at Gartner, the country is due to overtake America (with its current 137 million regular net users) in 2007 or possibly as early as next year.The team at NetRatings is privately hinting this number one spot could come much sooner than the widely anticipated 2007 date. While conducting their research they found that when one looks beyond people who surf every week on China's top portals, there are a   total of 150 million online in China. "People have always wondered why some portals claim to have more users for their site than are officially accepted for the country," Hans Yu, managing director of Nielsen//NetRatings in China, points out. "It's normally put down to accountancy problems but we're finding that the market is actually far bigger than people think when you start to include people who only surf every now and then, perhaps on a friend's PC or at a cyber cafe."It is little surprise, then, that Western advertising, marketing and PR firms have been drawn to China. The advertising market is set to enjoy a growth rate of 18% this year, according to investment bank JP Morgan, which is more than double the average for Asia, and the result of 9% annual growth in the Chinese economy that the government is struggling to prevent from going double digit.China is no longer the "factory of Asia" but has become the world's fourth largest market for luxury goods, accounting for 12% of global demand, according to investment bank Goldman Sachs. While the huge growth in traditional advertising and marketing that accompanies this surge in demand has largely been identified, the emerging opportunity is online. According to Connecting with China, a report published last week, web advertising revenue   growth is running at 40% per year (more than double traditional advertising) and search marketing is expanding at 60%. Two out of the top three Chinese portals, Sohu and Netease.com, are reporting increases of 70% and 60% respectively in advertising income for 2004.Besides the attraction of an online audience expected to be the biggest in the world soon, this is also due to weaknesses elsewhere in Chinese advertising and marketing. Most notably, the Chinese government brought in a law at the start of 2004 to restrict the proportion of air time television channels could fill with advertising. Hence the cost of slots immediately rose by a third, prompting many advertisers, including Nestle and Unilever, to band together and petition stations over rate hikes."Television has become so expensive now," says Stephen Drummond, head of the advertising agency Lowe in China. "They've always been able to claim that   a quarter of the world watches Chinese television so it's got a stranglehold. Print is very fractured between one area and another and there's a strong concern over state control for some titles."That's why online is causing so much excitement. It is seen as independent, young and hip and it's so much more cost-effective than television because the main areas it's going to reach are the developed regions, like Shanghai and the eastern seaboard, that are so expensive to target on television."Even though the recently published growth figures are cause for optimism, they are, of course, calculated from a low base. In 2004 only 1% of all advertising was placed online. However, Goldman Sachs's research is showing that the market will have increased ten times between 2002 and 2008 to a point where online accounts for 3% of total ad spend (itself growing at 18% per year), the same proportion as the UK at the moment."It is a low starting point," says Chris Reitermann, head of Ogilvy One. "But you still can't get away from the fact that it is absolutely massive growth. As the traditional media are finding that their audiences are getting older, the net has the distinct advantage that it's very young and it's where the main audience that the brands want to be attracting can be found." Indeed, the Connecting With China report estimates that 90%   of the country's 100 million web surfers are under 40. Given the expense of buying a PC, or renting time at a cyber cafe, it is not surprising to find that two in three users earn or exceed the average urban wage of $50 per month.Official surveys also show that Chinese consumers on the web are open to western brands and the marketing and advertising machines they bring with them because, after years of more hardline communist rule, they are enjoying the wider choice and better quality they bring. In a recent government survey, for example, 85% said they find foreign brands a "positive step that has forced domestic brands to improve".Christine Straathof, director of Investor Relations at Chinese portal Netease.com, says Chinese consumers are only just getting used to advertising since China signed up to the WTO in the 1990s and opened the door to western businesses. Shops packed with luxury goods and their advertising campaigns are hence seen by the young as a sign the country is moving forwards."Ten years ago there was no advertising, so it's been seen as exciting and different," she says. "Of course, people have started to become a bit bored of it now because you can't move without seeing adverts everywhere. The net's not tainted with that because there's still a high level of curiosity about it. We find the most popular aspects are adverts and   marketing surveys that offer a prize. It's not just the prize that's popular, it's because people are being asked about their buying habits for the first time. The Chinese are so new to being consumers, they find it fascinating."Treating China as a unique market, as well as a huge opportunity, is advice that William Makower, owner of the digital marketing agency Panlogic, cannot stress enough. He has recently formed an online marketing joint venture with a Chinese partner and claims that western new media executives need to apply their experiences to a new arena, rather than expect China to progress along exactly the same lines as the West."In the UK we pushed e-commerce from day one and we're now running branding campaigns online. China is the opposite. As paying online is not always easy, or even possible, and people are worried about paying for goods they haven't seen, we're finding the big brands are starting off with branding campaigns and then expect to move in to direct response campaigns later."&#183;More information on the Connecting With China report can be found atwww.panlogic.co.uk/china
"The EU Software Patent Directive has been or will be scheduled on the agenda of the Agriculture and Fishery Meeting of the 24th of January as an A item, i.e. an item that is to be adopted without a vote. This was announced today by officials of the European Commission and of the EU Council Presidency at various meetings. The entry is not on the official meeting calendar yet," according to the anti-software patent bodyFFII( Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure)."This is the second time that the Council of Ministers has tried to sneak through software patents, using dirty tricks and lies," commentsRichard Stallman.
The spoof ad opens with the suicide bomber leaving his home and jumping into his VW Polo. The bomber parks at a busy London restaurant where carefree diners crowd the pavement. Cut to the terrorist sitting in his car as he pushes the button to detonate his bomb. The blast is contained within the car, saving the diners. The ad ends: 'Polo. Small but tough'.It has to be a candidate for the sickest advert of all time, but also one of the most deceptive. Despite the high quality production values, real Volkswagen logo and the free publicity it is attracting around the world, the commercial was not made by the car giant.Indeed, the firm has expressed disgust at the spoof depiction of a suicide bomber blowing himself up in a VW Polo, and tomorrow it will consider legal action against its creators.The advert was not made for TV but to be flashed around the world on the internet. It is part of a phenomenon of 'viral emails' - not to be confused with computer viruses - that is so popular that this month saw the first 'viral awards'.Most are official efforts by companies and advertising agencies. The VW hoax, however, marks a worrying new trend for them - bogus ads which can be made by one individual that can wreck a firm's reputation.Ford had to distance itself last year from a viral email showing a cat's head being cut off by a car's sunroof. Paul Buckett, a VW spokesman, said: 'Two creatives known to our advertising agency, DDB London, sent in this work on spec. The agency wouldn't have anything to do it. I can only assume the people who made it put it on the web.'We were horrified. This is not something we would consider using: it is in incredibly bad taste to depict suicide bombers.'It gives the impression we've condoned or supported it, and is potentially very damaging to Volkswagen. Our legal department is planning an action and we will decide tomorrow.'The ad is believed to be the work of a duo experienced in spoof ads, known as Lee and Dan, who also make real commercials.Dan told the digital newsletter of media experts Brand Republic: 'The ad got out accidentally and spread like wildfire.'It reflected 'what people see in the news every day. The car is the hero that protects innocent people from someone with very bad intentions. We're sorry if it has caused any offence.'technology@observer.co.uk
There are threehere. There are probably others....
"At Harvard University this weekend, a small group of journalists, bloggers and media thinkers are gathering in a conference,Blogging, Journalism &amp; Credibilityto hash out some of these issues, and kick around the idea of a blogging code of ethics. Should bloggers disclose their sources of income? Do journalists who also blog face conflicting standards?"The Wall Street Journal has published another article about blogging,here.APalso has a story.The convention has anofficial blog.David Weinberger is alsoblogging the conferenceand coverage includes pictures.
As anyone who has witnessed Hollywood award ceremonies knows, the film industry loves nothing better than giving itself a slap on the back.But it does not enjoy a slap in the face - which is what it claims it is being dealt by BitTorrent, a revolutionary file sharing program that allows people to download movies more easily than ever before.BitTorrent (www.bittorrent.com) is responsible for a third of all the traffic across the world wide web. It is the biggest fish in file sharing's pond, with one survey by British firm CacheLogic estimating that it is responsible for 35% of all internet traffic.But the film and music industries claim it is a haven for pirates and illegal distributors. The Motion Picture Association of America - which represents the major Hollywood studios - has issued cease and desist orders against BitTorrent websites in a move which echoes the Recording Industry Association of America's attacks on the pioneering file sharing service Napster.A man was arrested in Hong Kong last week on suspicion of using the program to distribute pirated material. If convicted, he could face up to four years in prison."Pirated copies of movies and software typically appear online within hours of release," says Mark Ishikawa of BayTSP, a provider of systems that monitor intellectual property on the internet.Surveys by BayTSP have shown that thousands of copies of movies such as Collateral, starring Tom Cruise, are available for download on BitTorrent.The program has turned the previous method of downloading on its head. In ordinary file sharing networks, material is downloaded from a single source. This makes it slower - and therefore more expensive - to get files that are in high demand.BitTorrent shares the burden across many computers, so instead of downloading one large item of data, it acquires lots of small pieces from around the internet and then puts them back together to make the complete file.It is the internet equivalent of piecing together a puzzle, and means that the more popular the file, the more sources there are to draw from. This makes downloads faster and cheaper.Critics say that there is little hard evidence to back up the fear being generated in Hollywood. For many, the music industry - which fought tooth and nail against file sharing - has yet to prove that illegal downloading harms sales.In fact, some studies have suggested that downloaders are more likely to buy music than ordinary consumers.Many claim that piracy is most common where there is no legal alternative. Well-publicised legal music download services such as Apple's iTunes have been a success, with download tracks overtaking singles sales. Some believe that all the film industry needs is a similar service to stem the threat of piracy.Yet the industry does not provide any real options for those wanting to view films legally on their computers. This is acknowledged by the MPAA, which espouses the benefits of the internet."The question is how you make legitimate services available without harming your own revenue," says Arash Amel, an analyst at Screen Digest. "It's not cheap to make a film, and if there's a shortage of money then less films get made. It's theartistic and independent films that get hit first even though they're not the ones that usually get pirated."Bram Cohen, the 29-year-old American inventor of BitTorrent, says that copyright holders have failed to realise the benefits of the internet."The MPAA and RIAA would have you believe that they both create and own the sum total of western culture," he says.He admits that illegal materials - or "warez" as they are known - are being distributed by his system. "Obviously there's a fair amount of warezing going on using BitTorrent."But BitTorrent's weaknesses may save it from collapse. The MPAA is focusing on closing down website "hubs" which point to illegal content, rather than attacking BitTorrent itself, which is also used to legitimately download software and music. This marks a departure from tactics used by the music industry, which focused on the program makers.Mr Cohen says he has hardly ever been threatened with legal action, claiming that he got "one cease and desist from a game company once ... but that's it."When the largest BitTorrent hub, SuprNova.org, was blacked out in December under threat from the MPAA, many predicted that it would signal the end of Torrenting.However, the program remains as popular as ever. "Although a number of very large BitTorrent-based websites have been taken down recently," says Mr Cohen, "downloads of BitTorrent have only gone down slightly."For creative industries, the struggle against technology is an impossible one. BitTorrent traffic remains almost invisible, with packages of information being constantly delivered to destinations across the web. But there is an increasing recognition in the film industry that it must embrace change rather than resist it."We need to learn the lessons of the music industry," said a spokeswoman for the UK Film Council. "The film industry needs to look at ways of providing films to download over the internet - but there's still some work to be done on that."
Have you ever spotted this dinky little sports car on the UK's roads and wondered where on earth it came from? This Nissan Figaro may look as though it fell of the Thunderbirds film set, but it was more likely privately imported to the UK from Japan by a dealer looking to make a profit.Along with countless 4x4s, people carriers and a host of sports cars, it is one of a growing number of cars that started life in Japan but ended up in the UK.Last year around 55,000 cars were imported into this country. But are they as good as they look, and, more importantly, should you buy one?The 'grey' market:Technically, most Japanese cars on Britain's road are imports because they've been produced and officially distributed by makers such as Toyota, Nissan and Honda.However, used cars bought on the open market in Japan (usually at auction) and shipped to the UK are known as 'grey' imports, and it is these that are appearing in increasing numbers.Car buyers in Japan tend to keep their cars for a much shorter period than we do in the west. Huge numbers of two to six-year-old cars are auctioned off every week. In the main, they are bought for export - they end up in Russia, the Middle East, Australasia, and, increasingly, here.Importers into the Britain are required to pay the shipping costs (around &#163;600), 10% duty, VAT, and around &#163;500 to get them through the Department for Transport's   Single Vehicle Approval (SVA) roadworthiness test. Once that is completed they can be registered with DVLA and sold on.Particularly popular models are the Mitsubishi Pajero 4x4 (the same as the Shogun), Maxda MX5 sports car, and the Toyota Estima and Lucida MPVs that are a smaller version of the Previa, sold by Toyota dealers here. There is a host of other fun cars - such as the Figaro - that are only sold in Japan.Protection:According to Richard Moore, general secretary of BIMTA, the trade association for car importers, they can be bought for a 10% saving over the similar UK model, but mostly offer a much higher specification."All cars feature air conditioning, power steering and electric everything. They are often in better condition than the UK equivalent, and do offer genuine savings - assuming the buyer applies a little common sense," he said.BIMTA has built up the reputation of imported cars after several knock-backs. Imported vehicles were seen as difficult to insure, poorly rustproofed, and impossible to source parts for if they broke down. BBC TV's Watchdog also revealed that several imported 4x4 were stolen, and featured buyers who had lost their money.BIMTA has responded by offering the equivalent of an   HPI check. For &#163;35 plus VAT it will check the validity, history and mileage of any car imported from Japan. It has backed the scheme by promising to buy back any car found to be stolen after it has been given the all clear by its checking procedure.Evolution:Malcolm Edwards, who runs Japanese Imports, the biggest importer in the north-west, says the early problems are also no longer a concern."The import trade has resolved all those issues. Parts are now available off the shelf, and, in some cases, the market has now gone full circle. Buyers are now choosing to buy an imported model over a UK-registered competitor - in most cases, it will be in better condition, have fewer miles on the clock and have a much higher specification."David Motton, who edits What Car, agrees the market needs to be reappraised in the light of eight years of successful imports, especially now that BIMTA has introduced its checking facility."There is now a lot of information on the web in which owners share information on how to solve problems. One thing to consider if you are thinking of buying one of the serious sports cars is fuel. Japanese petrol has a high 100 octane rating and cars set up for this don't like the UK's basic unleaded, although they should run fine on our super-unleaded. That said, some of the prices are very attractive and there are some bargains to be had."Downsides:In most cases the radio will only work once it has been de-activated and may not show which station is being listened to, and you may have difficulty (or have to pay &#163;500) to get the satellite navigation system to work. The tyres may also need to be looked at closely.Japanese roads are very congested - a car that has lived on a diet of short runs may prove troublesome in the future. Lastly, you may not get a manual - although these can now be supplied in English.Where to buy oneMost imported cars are sold by used car dealers who either import them or buy from trade-only auctions. The Auction Group at Donington racetrack auctions recent imports on Tuesdays and Wednesdays - the latter to the public.Managing director Tim Charlesworth says the big 4x4s are the most popular sellers - closely followed by the people carriers. Three-year-old, low-mileage Toyota MPVs can be bought for &#163;6,000-&#163;7,000.BIMTA's website lists its members who sell to the public and an internet trawl will show several specialist dealers.Pajeros on Japanese Imports' website start at around &#163;5,000 - big automatic diesel MPVs start at &#163;6,000. It is also selling a 1991 Figaro Turbo with leather seats and air con for &#163;4,999.eBay often has recently imported cars on the site, although the buyer has to pay the shipping, duty, VAT and the cost of getting it though the SVA test.Most private buyers won't want to be bothered with the hassle and the potential risks associated with such a purchase.As ever, don't hand over a big deposit without checking the dealer first - Trading Standards will advise if they have had any complaints. Pay by credit card where possible.Buyers should get the vehicle's condition professionally checked - an insurance quote before purchase is a must. Check the prices against UK models carefully and establish how much warranty the car comes with.If in doubt, contact DVLA to check the car is registered and can be legally sold.David Motton of What Car says buyers should also be aware they won't get a big price if they try to trade it into the local main dealer when they want to sell it."The main agent won't want to know and most people will have to sell them privately or to a specialist who understands their value better," he says.Who to contactBITMA, tel 01892 515425Japanese Imports:www.japaneseimports.co.uk, tel 01606-841199DVLA:www.dvla.gov.uktel 0870 240 0010
Britain's retailers endured their toughest Christmas since the slump of the early 1980s as higher interest rates and a cooling housing market kept cost-conscious consumers away from the shops.Bearing out the dire predictions from some of the UK's leading chains, the government's monthly snapshot of spending showed a 1% drop in activity during December.Only online firms escaped a fall in sales, with all other retail sectors declining. Department stores said volumes were down 2.4% on November, clothing and footwear chains were down 1.7%, household goods fell 1.2% and supermarkets reported a 0.6% drop.The British Retail Consortium said it was unsurprised by the weakness of December's trading numbers. Director general Kevin Hawkins said: "The trading environment this Christmas was tough and left most retailers disappointed and nervous about the challenging times ahead."There is no doubt that consumer confidence is fragile, and evidently people are cautious about spending. Uncertainty over the economy, the housing market and interest rates continues to take its toll," he added.City reaction was muted, however, following the pre-emptive warning from Mervyn King on Thursday night that the Bank of England would not read too much into one month's figures.Analysts said the Bank's governor, who had seen the data in advance, had clearly sought to defuse the impact of a poor set of figures. The annual growth rate in retail sales slid from 6% to 3.2% as a result of the December weakness, and the City said that without Mr King's intervention there would have been stronger pressure in the money markets for cheaper borrowing.Interpreting month-on-month data can be tricky, warned the ONS, and a fuller picture of Christmas trading will be available when January's data has been collated.Although most analysts agreed with the view of Mr King and the ONS that a true picture of retail sales will not emerge for a few months, some were saying there were clear signs consumers had tightened their belts this Christmas.Vicky Redwood, of Capital Economics, said: "Sales rose by only 0.3% in the final quarter of the year, which questions the Bank of England's view that the downturn in the housing market will have little negative effect on spending."Some analysts said despite price cuts in the run-up to Christmas, discounting had been less generous this year than in December 2003. The ONS said prices were 1.3% lower in December than a year earlier, compared with 1.5% lower in November. Generous bargains on offer in the January sales reflected retailers' need to attract customers.A breakdown of the ONS figures also showed evidence of a migration to internet buying. Non-store retailing and repair - the category that includes the net - saw sales growth of 1% in December, and a rise of 9.8% over the past 12 months, the fastest for any sector of retailing, the ONS said.Analysts noted that retail numbers over Christmas are always highly volatile since it is particularly difficult to make seasonal adjustments to the data as such a large proportion of annual trading occurs over the Christmas period.The ONS said since this year's weak December data had shown the seasonal factor to be weaker than expected, it had revised sales growth for the same time last year to 1.6% from 0.9%. On a value basis and unadjusted for seasonality, sales growth in December was 17%, the lowest level since records began in 1961.
Flat OutPS2, XBoxFlat Out's central conceit is that crashing into scenery earns your car extra boost. Sadly, many trackside features that look as though they might reward you with nitro are rigidly indestructible, impaling your car and ironically leading to one of the game's few real selling points, that as you crash, your car's driver is propelled comedy rag-doll style through the windscreen to land in a distorted heap on the ground. Make the most of the laughs experienced during these moments - it's the only time you'll be smiling while trying to work out why the lovely car deformation and convincing handling add up to such an uninvolving game.&#183;Empire Interactive, £40Star Ocean: Till The End Of TimePlaystation 2The role-playing genre occupies a peculiar dimension between game and very badly written novel. Because of the extraordinary volume of dialogue necessary for you to wander environments filled with villagers, innkeepers and fellow warriors who each say something slightly different, the majority of what they say is pitilessly inane. The mainly text-based pronouncements of Star Ocean's characters, especially in the first few hours of the game, proffer a George Lucas grade of scripting so poor it actually depletes the soul. Those who soldier further will find a large, complex and eventually rewarding epic, but epic it is and not one to appeal to lovers of literature or those prone to ennui.&#183;Square Enix, £40
Top 20 gamesThe Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), the body that issues ratings and fearlessly defends video-game publishers against the more rabid elements of the press, has released the definitive Top 20 chart for 2004. Keen observers will have correctly pegged GTA: San Andreas for the top spot, but the sub-abysmal Driv3r at No 10 and bizarre Simpsons-meets-GTA driving action game Hit &amp; Run at fourth place are both puzzling additions to the British public's collective games library, with the magnificent Half-Life 2 arriving too late for a look-in. Shareholders in Electronic Arts, who published nearly half the titles in the list, should be patting their pockets.
With a new series of Nip/Tuck (visit fanpageniptuckfans.com), Ten Years Younger's endorsement of having your face stretched and Jackie "Mambo " Stallone (jacquelinestallone.com) gracing Celebrity Big Brother with her landslide features, everyone's talking about cosmetic surgery.To mock bad celebrity ops, go toawfulplasticsurgery.combut they've also launchedgoodplasticsurgery.com. If you're paranoid about your looks, avoidfaceanalyzer.com, which gives you an intelligence rating, gay factor and guess how much you earn from your uploaded photo.More fun can be had at Face Transformer (www.dcs.st-and.ac.uk/~morph) where you can do strange things to your face without having to endure a costly operation at the hands of Dr Nick (geocities.com/CollegePark/Union/2899/drnick).
Gosh we've talked a lot this week. Here's your weekly round up of gamesblog's events.MondayThe Sims to become a TV showEA to take on TVGender bendingEA TV: A predictionTuesdayPSP goes seriousWednesdayHomosexuality and gamingStreetFighter vs. Sensible SoftwareBomberman shifts 500,000 on mobileThe Train TestThursdayOnline reviewsNot so different after allXbox release date announced...Era of Eidolon: Mobile gaming goes MMORPGFridayGames in the classroomPro Evo patch
Weebl's Stuff, a compendium of cartoons and animated games, today beat the British Library's more sober Turn the Pages site to be named the People's Choice website of the year by
BritishYahoo!users.The winning site featuresdancing badgers, acrabwith hypnotic powers and the bizarre adventures ofWeebl and Bob.By contrast,Turn the Pagesallows users to browse some of the most fascinating books in the British Library's collection, including a Jane Austen manuscript, Leonardo da Vinci's notebooks and the Lindisfarne gospels.Praising Weebl's Stuff, Yahoo! said: "This endlessly entertaining labour of love is packed with hilarious cartoons and clever animations."Yahoo! users voted for Weebl's Stuff from a list of 10 sites selected by a panel of judges. The site took 40% of the votes to beat the other nominees.The judges made their selections from Yahoo!'s picks of the day to select winners in 10 categories. Weebl's Stuff was named best entertainment site, while Turn the Pages was best innovative site.The other category winners were:&#183;TimeBank, which enables users to volunteer for charity work and was named community site of the year&#183;Your Amazing Brain, which was named best educational site&#183;Derelict London, Paul Talling's often uncomfortable photographic record of the capital's underbelly, which was named best hidden gem&#183;Gorilla Foundation, which won the pets and animals prize&#183;eggchipsandbeans, Russell Davies' blog on the traditional British greasy spoon cafe, which topped Yahoo!'s soapbox category&#183;The World Wide Panorama, featuring 360-degree images from around the globe, which won best travel site&#183;Ugly Cars, named best "weird and wonderful" site&#183;ComedianBill Baileywon best celebrity site.Salim Mitha, the director of Yahoo! Search UK and Ireland, said: "Our winner and runner-up are so utterly different. It's the perfect way to show that the depth and breadth of the web means there is quite literally something of interest for everybody."
It's taken a while, but Pro Evolution 4 on Xbox Live has finally been patched. Intended to cut down the crippling lag and penalise cheats - who would disconnect the game when losing, so as to not lose ranking points - the patch went live yesterday. My initial trials are pretty positive. Lag has severely been reduced, especially for clients, and players who quit a game before the end now automatically lose. However,Pesfanhas users who aren't happy and claim that the lag is as bad as before. I'll play more this weekend and see if their complaints are justified. Now all Konami need to do is stop every opponent choosing Real Madrid/Arsenal/Brazil - and that's not just because I stick with the Saints every game...honest.
TheBBChas a great article on another step forward towards gaming in academic environments, supportingresearchconducted by the Institute of Education released last October and highlighting NESTA's fabulousFuturelab.While it's argued that many of the chart-toppers are violent (in reality, less than 2% of games receive an 18+ certificate per year), Futurelab and others suggest that interactive entertainment can teach students all sorts of things, from car physics and maintenance to social planning.From the article:"Games teach life skills such as decision making, problem solving," said Martin Owen, at Futurelab.There is evidence that Government is watching this line of research closely, with conferences and studies on the subject sponsored by the Department for Education and Skills. Teacher's organisationBECTAgetting involved as well.
When you read the tech press, you hear a lot about good technology, good inventions. There's a lot of exciting stuff out there for us, as consumers, to get our hands on. But at the same time, we're all a bunch of grumpy old cynics - what we really like is when an invention goes wrong.So I started thinking about some of the most annoying inventions around. Here are some suggestions.Hand driers in toilets:They're simply rubbish. Either they fail to dry your hands or they are so hot that they scald your skin off your hands.Sinclair C5:We've got a lot to be thankful to Sir Clive for. But this isn't it. Perhaps it was very forward thinking, but it's not quite produced the revolution in transport that it promised. (cfSegway)Celine Dion:Many might claimLa Dionis not an invention. But you just look into her steely, robotic eyes and tell me she's not a man-made construct. I dare you.But that can't be all. What are the worst inventions ever?
"Sony missed out on potential sales from MP3 players and other gadgets because it was overly proprietary about music and entertainment content, the head of Sony's video-game unit acknowledged Thursday," reportsAP."Ken Kutaragi, president of Sony Computer Entertainment said he and other Sony employees have been frustrated for years with management's reluctance to introduce products like Apple Computer's iPod, mainly because the Tokyo company had music and movie units that were worried about content rights."Now, Sony's divisions are finally beginning to work together and share a common agenda, Kutaragi said at the Foreign Correspondents Club in Tokyo."Comment:Reality may be dawning if Kutaragi is finally saying the sort of things everyone else has been saying for five years, or since thinking of buying a MiniDisc player, whichever is sooner.Of course, it's always easier to blame someone else, and Sony Music/Pictures are obvious whipping boys. It remains to be seen whether the idea of "working together" will help Kutaragi to work with Sony's successful PC division, for example, instead of attacking PCs all the time.Sony could probably have done a decent job of building a digital hub business around its PCs, TVs, audio products and Wi-Fi etc. Instead, Kutaragi pushed the PlayStation and failed to deliver. In fact, the PlayStation now lags the Xbox in terms of media capabilities and digital home strategy, and can't deliver an experience to match Xbox Live.Kutaragi no doubt has some huge successes on the way with the PSP and PlayStation 3, and will get the credit he deserves for those. However, he should also be big enough to admit that he's overpromised and underdelivered in other areas, and been at least as bad a team player as some of Sony's other divisions.
While to many, mobile gaming still means retro shoot 'em ups and simple trivia games, Danish developer Watagame has managed to produce a massively multiplayer RPG with a persistent online world and over 10,000 subscribers throughout Europe. What's more,Era of Eidoloncan be downloaded to an array of current Java phones and takes up less than 100k of space. And it has a soundtrack composed by C64 legend Rob Hubbard for heaven's sake!Currently, Eidolon revolves entirely around a simple but compelling turn-based combat system. You fight, you upgrade your character, you fight again. But this release is just the first instalment in an epic Tolkien-esque cycle that'll eventually include nine interconnected adventures. The second part, Era of Eidolon: Dagonar, has just been launched, offering an explorable environment and more spells, weapons and skills, while the third, Shirard's Forge, is due in March.We spoke to Watagame CEO Henrik Riis about the logistics of operating an MMORPG across the international wireless telecoms infrastructure – which is just as nightmarishly complicated as it sounds. And the story begins with the sort of bedroom coding yarn we thought we'd left behind years ago…Can you tell us a little about the game's history? When did you start work on it, and what were your key influences?The project started more than three years ago back in the days when phones had monochrome screens and WAP was all the rage. I was intrigued by the idea of creating an online RPG world in a mobile phone – with the device's inborn communicative nature it simply screamed to be used for these sorts of games.It was also very appealing to enter a pristine market and to get the opportunity to start a game company from scratch like in the good old Commodore 64 days. I quickly started gathering a skilled team who shared my interest and we set to work in my apartment in the evenings and weekends - the task being to brainstorm the perfect concept that would work on the meagre phones of the time.All of us being veteran gamers, inspiration came from the classic titles we had fond memories of playing for hours upon hours. Games like Defender of the Crown, Command &amp; Conquer, Heroes of Might and Magic, Baldur's Gates and of course EverQuest. Fuelled by the spirit of these games and obscene amounts of pizza and coffee, we had the basic concept down a few months later and started to build the rules that today still govern the world of Eidolon.And our first prototype was playable on WAP!Have you played any other multiplayer mobile games? Did they help with the development of Eidolon at all?When starting out there was really nothing in terms of mobile multiplayer except maybe a few SMS or WAP-based games offering very limited game play. Later, several titles based on the Java standard came to market claiming to be 'Multiplayer', when, in fact, they only let you post high scores to an online board!Later again, 'real' multiplayer titles started to appear - for example Cannons Tournament from MacroSpace and Tibia ME from Cipsoft. Naturally we tried out these products to see how other developers had overcome the various issues in regards to mobile connectivity and game play. However, we soon realized that "Era of Eidolon" required a different approach as we wanted it to bemassivelymultiplayer and to support low-end devices.The game features a persistent online world - is this world inhabited by all 10,000 subscribers simultaneously?Yes, all players inhabit the world of Eidolon simultaneously; when online via the mobile phone they communicate, fight, participate in tournaments and view high scores. When not using the phone they go to the game web site at www.eraofeidolon.com and participate in forums, create clans and read details about the game story, items and events. Today, the game facilitates approximately 1,000 concurrent online users on a single platform setup and server load is conveniently spread out because of the global nature of the player community.Is the game network and country-independent - Can, say, a T-Mobile user in France exist in the same world as a Vodafone Subscriber from Germany? What technology are you using to bring this about?Yes, from the beginning we stressed the importance of having an inter-connecting game world. We wanted Era of Eidolon to be truly open-for-all and global in its reach – and so far we have succeeded. To create a "closed-garden" game only accessible by specific subscribers or countries is against our game design philosophy.An absolutely vital point in any MMORPG is to ensure a critical mass of players. If you log on to a game world and see only two other players, you will most likely not return. As such, it was pretty straightforward in regards to technology; we use http connections (as supported by the majority of mass-market handsets) for all server communication. Sometimes we encounter connectivity issues with WAP gateways in specific networks that do not allow the game to run, but for the most part we are able to find workarounds.What have been the most difficult elements in creating a persistent online world?Key attention must be paid to areas such as balancing, consistency and story-line – these are the fundamentals in a persistent world. On top of this, we add dynamic content, tournaments and randomized events – all things that make the world 'come alive' and give the player a sense of purpose. Lastly, all the underlying technology must be top notch to ensure a neat presentation of the game world and a responsive and stable user experience. All the underlying elements are invisible to the player, but, nevertheless, represent a major challenge for developers - especially given the slow and high-latency nature of most mobile networks today.At the moment, Era of Eidolon is really all about turn-based combat. You can go to areas of the city to buy spells and items, and to train, but the only interactive area is the 'Arena' where you compete in battle…When designing for the mobile phone platform you must take a number of technological restrictions into consideration. An example is the 64kb download limit applicable on most mainstream handsets today. So instead of trying to squeeze everything into a single 64kb application and ending up with a 'small' game relying on frequent downloads of new content during game play, we decided to build Era of Eidolon as a 'big' game in series of nine individual sections. All nine are set in the same game world and interlink to each other and to the main plot in some way or another. For example the first game will take the player to the town of Orumant where he can purchase items such as weapons and armours and fight online battles in the Arena. Then in the next application, the player can wander into the wilderness, fight monsters, talk with NPCs and solve quests. This part of Era of Eidolon is by some considered a mini version of games like EverQuest.How do you see the series developing as you go along?Lots of news stuff is coming to market this year, I cannot reveal all the details here but can promise lots of new towns and other areas to explore, loads of monsters to fight, new NPCs with cool personalities, on-going quests, online events, trading posts and much, much more!The game supports a clan system, allow gamers to get together and compete in a kind of clan fighting league. How many clans do you have operating in the game? How big are they, and how competitive?The Era of Eidolon community is in general very competitive, with a tough, but respectful tone among the members. At this time a total of 20 clans are competing for dominance – the largest counting 18 members. We can see that the most active clan leaders constantly trim their clans by inviting the best players, which leads to a bit of replacement of the members.Do the development team play the game?The watAgame content team is in daily contact with the community: the team participates in the game with their own characters, they set up polls to find out what new stuff the players want, they organize tournaments and define prizes such as magic rings and other special game items. On a daily basis, the team receives more than 50 in-game messages and e-mails from players asking questions, offering complements and suggestions or telling us to do better on this or that. We believe in having a close relationship with the players because they provide the best input as to how to improve and run the game.Are subscribers doing anything with the game that you didn't expect?Well, it was a big surprise for us to see the effort and time spent by some players in order to cheat the game – we really did not expect people to spend countless online mobile hours trying to advance their characters in 'unorthodox' manners. We obviously discourage and prevent this kind of behaviour as it will eventually ruin the game if left unchecked.How do you see massively multiplayer games developing as mobile technology improves? Will 3G open up fresh opportunities?The technology available for mobile MMORPGs today is very limited. On the device side we struggle with low memory, slow processors, small screens and limited input facilities. On the server and data communication side we have to work with the large number of different gateway configurations embedded in high-latency mobile networks with limited throughput. You can say that we are trying to build a stable game system on top of an unstable infrastructure – not exactly a developer's dream scenario!On the positive side, a number of things are changing for the better. Firstly, telcos around the world are now seeing the big potential of connected mobile gaming and are taking measures to ensure interoperability and stability in the networks. Secondly, 3G infrastructures are being rolled out quite aggressively now, and represent a new era for connected gaming and perhaps mobile MMORPGs in particular. Lastly, we see big changes being driven by improvements on the handset level; all elements of the handheld device are rapidly being improved to facilitate a more exciting and satisfying gaming experience.This industry keeps surprising me - everything moves very fast and often in unexpected directions. I think big studios have a difficult time in an environment like this – it is hard to change directions and ideas every few months. However, being a small studio, we can do it because we are flexible and quick to react to new technologies and new opportunities.And tomorrow I'll post my very short interview with Era of Eidolon soundtrack composer, Rob Hubbard… Yes, C64 fanboys, THAT Rob Hubbard.
For all you console junkies, the next generation race starts now.Sponghave used some clever detective work by sifting through the info on a Need For Speed: Most Wanted press release, to discover that the next NFS game will ship with the new Microsoft machine in late 2005.Then again, those release dates are always slippery. Remember when Halo was going to be released on a Mac in 2000? It didn't get to see a shelf (in the UK at least) until March 2002.
The 2004 year end results for the UK and the US are out, and it appears that we're not so different after all. Lots of sports, lots of action. No wonder the two countries have that "special relationship".One small difference, though, is that the UK spending remainsstrongwhile the US'sfiguresdropped for the second year in a row.Let's give it up gamesblog-style for the Scotland-developed GTA: SA which topped the charts in both countries, selling over 7 million copies by the end of December!The UK charts:1. Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas 2. Fifa 2005 3. Need For Speed: Underground 2 4. The Simpsons: Hit &amp; Run 5. Pro Evolution Soccer 4 6. Sonic Heroes 7. Spider-Man 2 8. Need For Speed: Underground 9. Halo 2 10. Driv3r(source: ELSPA/Chart Track)The US charts:1. GTA: San Andreas 2. Halo 2 3. Madden '05 4. ESPN 2K5 5. Need For Speed: Underground 2 6. Pokemon FireRed 7. Live '05 8. Spider-Man 2 9. Halo 10. ESPN 2K5(source: NPD)
The music industry yesterday claimed that it was winning its global battle against online piracy as it revealed figures showing that legal downloads had risen tenfold during the past year.Trade body the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, said that music fans in the United States and Europe downloaded more than 200m tracks during 2004, up from about 20m over the previous year.The digital music industry is now worth &#163;177m in Europe, a figure expected to double this year. Some record companies estimate that the digital market could be worth 25% of total sales by 2009, compared with the present 1.5%.After being caught out in the late 1990s by the rapid rise in online piracy, record executives said the tide had turned during the last year through a combination of legal action against pirates and the widespread availability of around a million tracks through legal services such as Napster and Apple's iTunes Music Store.Barney Wragg, vice-president of the eLabs division at Universal Music, said that in the coming year labels would come up with new ways of marketing digital music online, such as releasing songs exclusively on the web, and start to exploit their back catalogue of deleted albums. The biggest selling single over the internet last year was Vertigo by U2. The majority of existing CD catalogues released by the major labels, with the notable exception of The Beatles, is now also available online.The number of websites offering legal music around the world has also mushroomed in the past year, more than quadrupling to around 230. Apple's iTunes, buoyed by the success of its digital music player the iPod, remains by far the most popular way of legally buying music online. In the largest market, the US, the Californian company has a 70% market share."At long last the threat has become the opportunity," said IFPI chairman and chief executive John Kennedy, and pointed to new research showing that for the first time as many people were downloading music legally as were copying it for nothing.An IFPI survey showed that 44% of people who down loaded music now did so legally, while the same proportion continued to use illegal services. The number of illegal files downloaded fell by 30m to 870m.But Mr Kennedy said that the industry would keep up the legal pressure, both on individual file sharers and the companies behind the peer to peer software, which allow users to swap pirated tracks.Trade bodies around the world sued 7,000 people during 2004, including the first cases brought in the UK. "There is more litigation to come in more countries in 2005. It's necessary and while it's not always popular, we have to carry on," said Mr Kennedy.A crucial test case against file-sharing service Kazaa in Australia concluded at the end of last year with a decision expected in April. An application against a similar operation, Grokster, will be considered by the US supreme court next month. Record companies are also planning to step up their campaign to persuaded Apple and Microsoft to come to an agreement over their competing standards for downloads.At present, owners of Apple's iTunes can only download songs from the company's own online music store. Microsoft's technology, used by most other download sites including Napster, works with a range of players manufactured by Apple's rivals but not with the market-leading iPod. Mr Wragg said the labels were doing "everything they could" to encourage interoperability between the sites.
January is traditionally a dead zone when it comes to new releases and this year is little different. However, occasionally you'll find a more leftfield effort sneaking out around now. Ireviewed one for Onlinethis week - Project Zero 2: Crimson Butterfly. Anyone who played the original – and that won't be many, considering it sold approx 3 copies in the UK – will know what to expect. This is survival horror at its most atmospheric and comes highly recommended. Elsewhere in the reviews this week, Steve Boxer ran a beady eye over low budget driving game,Ford Racing 3. If you missed the other two, don't worry, you weren't alone, but this is apparently a big improvement. "It is a credible arcade-style racing game that the Ford-obsessed will enjoy," he said, before confirming that his word-rate is significantly higher than mine. "As a happy BMW owner, I wanted to hate it, but could not." The other review this week saw Rhianna Pratchett take a trip down memory lane with – who else – Nintendo. Castlevania andDr Marioare yet more "classic" titles resurrected for the Game Boy Advance. While the more cynical amongst you may think these are tired cash-ins, Rhianna was positively gushing with praise. "Both titles are true classics," she said.
Another Thursday, another fabulous edition of the Guardian's Online supplement for all you dead-tree devotees out there. Good thing it's all on the web too.This week we lead with an examination of howinternet has changed the travel industryforever - and that, even with a recent ruling, travel agents are finding it impossible to stop the web.We also take a look at themobile phone versionof cult conspiracy drama 24, new technology that couldsniff out a terrorist attack before it happenedand we speak toLord of the Rings' conceptual designer Alan Lee.And you wantcommentary? Karlin Lillington talks about thedemise of Media Lab Europe, the MIT-spin off in Dublin; Jack asks when British consumers arelikely to seesome of the ground-breaking technology on show at CES; and Michael Cross wonders whether he may be turning into awild-eyed cypher punk.Of course, there's much more on offer too: justclick herefor a complete listing.
