The vast majority of Apple Watch sales are expected to be of the cheapest version, the Apple Watch Sport – but just how scratch resistant is its screen?The Sport’s screen is made from Ion-X glass, unlike the Apple Watch and premium-priced Edition which have sapphire screens.Sapphire is one of the hardest materials available and is used in the screens of high-end watches from makers such as Rolex and OmegaMost smartwatches are covered with the same hardened glass as smartphone screens. It is softer than sapphire and can be scratched by more materials including keys.So how scratch resistant is the Sport’s Ion-X glass?Lewis Hilsenteger takes knives, keys, steel wool and sandpaper to a screen he claims comes from the Apple Watch Sport.Lewis Hilsenteger from Unbox Therapy, he ofbending iPhone 6 Plus fame, claims to have sourced two Ion-X screens from the Apple Watch Sport for testing and found that neither a metal implement such as a key or knife nor steel wool could scratch the screen. Sandpaper, however, did cause heavy scratching.Sandpaper is typically made from silicate, with different impurities added depending on the hardness or coarseness of the sandpaper. Sandpaper should not be able to scratch sapphire screens, as silica is a softer material than sapphire.Hardened glass, however, is of a similar hardness to the silicate used in sandpaper and therefore can be scratched.The test shows that Apple’s Ion-X glass on the Apple Watch Sport will have a similar scratch resistance to smartphone screens, which notoriously can get scratched up just through general use. Whether that’s hard enough for a wrist-borne device remains to be seen.•Apple Watch reviews: the ‘elegant’, overpriced gadget ‘you don’t need’•Apple Watch arrives in stores – but gold ones are like gold dust outside London
Around 1,000 iOS apps are affected by a weakness in their mobile security which can make it easy for attackers to access encrypted data like passwords, bank account numbers and home addresses as they are being sent over the airwaves,according to a report from security firm SourceDNA.Companies including Microsoft, Uber and Yahoo all released apps affected by the flaw – they have now fixed them but many others still have not updated their apps to a new secure version.The affected apps all share the same code, available for free to help developers incorporate encryption into their programmes. Called AFNetworking, the code library was revealed to have a flaw in its implementation of SSL, the web security technology that allows sensitive data to be exchanged over the net. It was introduced in January, and fixed in late March, but 1,000 or so apps are still running the vulnerable version.An unknown number of apps running the vulnerable version will still be safe to use, however, since the flaw is only present if the developers of the app leave a specific setting unchanged from its default.SourceDNA scanned all the free apps, as well as the top 5,000 paid ones, available on the iOS App Store, to find apps that are still vulnerable. Out of the 1m-plus apps scanned, the firm found 100,000 which used AFNetworking; of those, 20,000 had been released since the vulnerability was introduced into the library.“Our system then scanned those apps with the differential signatures to see which ones actually had the vulnerable code,”the company writes. “The results? 55% had the older but safe 2.5.0 code, 40% were not using the portion of the library that provides the SSL API, and 5% or about 1,000 apps had the flaw.“Are these apps important? We compared them against our rank data and found some big players: Yahoo!, Microsoft, Uber, Citrix, etc. It amazes us that an open-source library that introduced a security flaw for only six weeks exposed millions of users to attack.” Microsoft, Uber and Yahoo have since fixed their vulnerable apps, and users should update to the latest version, but Citrix, makers of a popular conference call software solution, remain vulnerable.The company has created an online tool for developers to check if their own appsare vulnerable, and users can check for themselves whether they use an app that is or has been affected by entering the name of the apps’ publisher.The AFNetworking vulnerability makes it easy for an attacker to crack a type of encryption called SSL. This is best known to most users as the technology that secures e-commerce transactions, typically marked with a padlock symbol in the browser bar, but it is increasingly widely used to protect user privacy against all sorts of attackers, from government eavesdroppers to identity thieves.Without SSL, or similar encryption, internet traffic can be intercepted through a “man-in-the-middle” attack, where an attacker routes traffic through their own computers to alter or steal it. A typical scenario for such an attack would be against a customer browsing free Wi-Fi in a coffee shop; but there’s little technical difference between that and the systematic surveillance practiced by Western intelligence agencies.Like the OpenSSL Heartbleed bug before it, which catastrophically broke millions of servers worldwide, the flaw in AFNetworking could raise questions about the longstanding assumption that open-source software (where the source code is public and can be reused freely) is inherently more secure. Despite the 100,000 apps using AFNetworking, the bug still took more than a month to be discovered.•This story was amended 30 April to clarify that not every app running the vulnerable version of AFNetworking is itself vulnerable. Alamofire Software Foundation, the library’s developer,has issued a statement about the flaw.
Every month, blogger Mithun Balraj organises a get-together for gamers and developers in a bar in Koramangala, Bangalore. When these informal gatherings began a year ago, five or six people came along – now there are over 30 and interest is growing. Some pop in just to chat about the games they’re playing, others show off prototypes of their own projects; they all want to discover new titles. “I brought in the sword-fighting game Nidhogg last week,” says Balraj. “It was great, but we got a little bit carried away. The bar owner told us to be quiet because the other customers were trying to watch the cricket.”This cultural clash between old and new India is an effective symbol of where the country’s video game industry is right now. For years, giant Western publishers exploited it for its intelligent and cost-effective workforce, outsourcing specific graphics tasks – like modelling realistic racing cars – to local studios that basically worked like factory production lines. But over the last two years things have started to change. A new generation of talented and creative Indian developers has grown up, inspired by the thriving independent development scenes in the US and Europe. Spurred on by the success of hits like Doodle Jump, Angry Birds and Cut the Rope, they don’t want to craft digital assets for other people; they want to create their own games.Now they’re getting their chance – and it’s thanks, in part, to an important change in Indian society: the birth of a Western-style startup culture. “It’s true that India’s development community began with outsourcing studios employed by Triple A publishers,” says Abhinav Sarangi, co-founder of Mumbai-based studioAll In A Day’s Play. “However, in the last two years it has changed, mostly because of the emerging start-up community. We have Flipkart, which is India’s Amazon, we have OlaCabs, which is India’s Uber – these companies have shown that technology-driven concepts can flourish here. That has trickled down to the game development community, so we’re seeing a lot of small studios springing up and taking risks. India has traditionally been a risk-averse society; we were told: ‘if you don’t take a job in a big company, you probably won’t get married.’ But the tech sector has opened up really quickly. Studios are now saying: if other tech startups are doing well, why can’t gaming?”The growing strength of this nascent development scene is immediately obvious at this April’s Pocket Gamer Connects conference in Bangalore, a two-day smartphone gaming event held in the city’s luxurious Lalit Ashok hotel. It’s the first get-together of its kind here, and the 500 attendees include representatives from big players like Intel, Amazon and Google as well as smartphone gaming giants such as Rovio and Zepto Labs. They’re basically here either to figure out how to get their brands in front of this vast new audience, or to suss out the local talent.And there are plenty of success stories to uncover. There is99Games, based in Udupi, which has developed 15 titles for both the domestic and global market, including recent success, Star Chef, a fast-paced cooking action game with 40,000 daily users and revenue growing 25% a quarter. There is Yellow Monkey Studios, a relative veteran at eight years old. Its latest title is the sleek, tile-sorting puzzler, Socioball, which features an ingenious map editor that lets players create their own levels then share them via Twitter. “The indie scene has picked up a lot in the past three years,” says founder, Shailesh Prabhu, who has helped to set up an online community of small indie studios which now has over 600 members. “With the advancement in development tools, a lot of studios have gained the ability and confidence to produce games that can match up to the global quality standards.”The co-organiser of Pocket Gamer Connects, Reliance Games, is a publisher and developer in its own right, specialising in movie licenses. It has seen over 70m downloads of smartphone tie-ins like Hunger Games: Catching Fire and Pacific Rim. Manish Agarwal, chief executive of Reliance Entertainment – Digital, sees it as a duty to promote local studios. “Those teams need context and community,” he says. “That’s howwelearned: by travelling, meeting people, setting up appointments, it’s a continuous process. We were motivated to organise this event because India is just not in the diary for anyone. When we go to international conferences, people look at us as though we’ve come from Mars – they think of China, Japan and Korea as gaming markets, but they don’t think of India. The appreciation for the talent here was not really there at the global level. We need to showcase it.”That determination to build something, to gather a community and to develop talent, is everywhere here. Ubisoft India’s managing director Jean-Philippe Pieuchot is working with local universities to improve games education; Chennai-based developerGrowl Studioshas set up game design workshops at colleges around the country. Young coder Himanshu Manwani, whose brilliant, brutally challenging platformer Super Nano Jumperswon the event’s Very Big Indie Pitch competition, is determined to help foster the emerging scene: “When I go back to Bhopal, I’m planning to visit colleges and universities and tell students, this is a viable career option. If you love making games, just do it.”Meanwhile, smartphone sales are exploding: there are 120m owners in India already and analysts predict that by 2016, this market may be bigger than the US. Everyone is after a piece of that action. Disney has a combined film and game development studio in Mumbai making Bollywood movies and tie-in games, as well other titles like ICC Cricket World Cup 2015. Ubisoft has been in Pune since 2008 with a large studio of over 300 employees. Zynga is in Bangalore, updating the Farmville franchise. Rovio has been in Delhi for two years.They all face some big challenges if they want to make money here. This is a market with barely 8% credit card penetration, and where over 90% of mobile users are on pre-paid contracts, so the Western model of relying on customers to make seamless in-app purchases through online app stores isn’t going to work. The networks would struggle with the data load anyway: much of India’s mobile infrastructure is still operating at 2G speeds. On top of that, people just don’t have the disposable income to spend money on in-game trinkets and power-ups. “You can’t expect a person who’s earning $10 a day to spend 99c on some item in a game,” says Agarwal.Some think the answer is for Apple and Google to change their App Store pricing structures, and to shift to a carrier billing method that better suits the Indian customer. Others are looking to innovate the ad-funded revenue option that utterly dominates the mobile gaming sector in India. There are also third-party wallet companies like Paytm and MobiKwik that may provide a more reliable method of monetising this huge gaming audience.There’s more to the market than working out how to exploit the infrastructure, though. India’s vast and rich culture has barely been tapped by developers, beyond the obvious influx of cricket sims, puzzles and card games. Studios need to be exploring that, both for domestic and global audiences. Ubisoft, for example, is heavily marketing its smartphone music game Just Dance Now, to Indian phone owners, tying up endorsements deals with Bollywood stars like Shah Rukh Khan, whose hit song India Waale is included in the game. The company is also handing a percentage of the development duties on console release Just Dance 2016 to the Pune a studio – a major coup for what was once a typical outsourcing and porting house. A range of Bollywood numbers will certainly feature.Rovio, too, is seeking to exploit the creative talent and cultural appeal of India. “There are lots of amazing colourful festivals,” says the Finnish company’s marketing chief, Peter Vesterbacka. “There is potential in exploring and leveraging the many interesting artforms and designs that have originated here.” The company has already tweaked Angry Birds for China, creating special content around the New Year and the Moon festival. It is also about to release Angry Birds Fight, a competitive two-player match-three puzzler targeted at the Japanese market and designed by a local studio Kiteretsu. India is next. “It’s important to have a deeper understand of the local culture,” continues Vesterbacka. “That’s why we have an office in Delhi. Our goal is to be the leading Indian brand – wherever we go, want to be more local than the locals.”Local studios see the potential too, of course. “The next step is to see Indian-themed content getting a global audience,” says Sarangi. “Year Walk by Simogo is a great game about Swedish folklore and it was enjoyed throughout the world. We’re working on something similar with a specific India story, and with world-class art.”Gradually then, the whole culture of game development is reversing in India. Once used for its cheap, skilled labour, it is now in a commanding position to compete in the global smartphone gaming market. The situation has led to some ironic new business practices. On one afternoon during the Pocket Gamer Connects event, I get talking to Shehzaad Nensey of small Mumbai-based studio, On The Couch. Their gameRooftop Mischiefhas been produced by a small team of eight artists, designers and coders. “What about the music?” I ask casually. “Oh,” replies Nensey, almost dismissively. “We outsourced that to the UK.”Keith Stuart attended Pocket Gamer Connects Bangalore as a guest speaker. His transport and accommodation were arranged by co-organiser Steel Media.
Facebook is rolling out the latest change to its news feed algorithm, tipping its emphasis back towards status updates, photos, videos and links posted by friends on the social network.Posts from Facebook pages and media organisations will still appear in the news feed, but reading between the lines ofthe company’s blog post about the changes, they seem likely to receive less priority after the change.Related:How does Facebook decide what to show in my news feed?“People are worried about missing important updates from the friends they care about. For people with many connections this is particularly important, as there is a lot of content for them to see each day,” wrote Facebook product manager Max Eulenstein and user experience researcher Lauren Scissors in the post.Here’s how they explain the aims of the latest algorithm tweak:“Content posted directly by the friends you care about, such as photos, videos, status updates or links, will be higher up in News Feed so you are less likely to miss it. If you like to read news or interact with posts from pages you care about, you will still see that content in News Feed. This update tries to make the balance of content the right one for each individual person.”Alongside that, there’s a change to make less posts appear in people’s news feeds simply because a friend has liked or commented on them – even if they were originally posted by a stranger or a page that the user doesn’t follow.“Many people have told us they don’t enjoy seeing stories about their friends liking or commenting on a post. This update will make these stories appear lower down in News Feed or not at all, so you are more likely to see the stuff you care about directly from friends and the pages you have liked,” wrote Eulenstein and Scissors.That should at least address the issue ofFacebook users commenting on friends’ not-necessarily-safe-for-family updatesand thus catapulting those posts into the news feeds of their families and other friends.Alongside these tweaks, Facebook is removing a rule that people cannot see multiple posts from the same source in a row in its news feed, which it says will help people who don’t have many friends “spend more time in News Feed” without running out of things to read.Related:Hi Mum, sorry about that love-doll bumhole in your Facebook feedAs with any change made to Facebook’s news feed algorithm, which is responsible for narrowing down the 1,500-odd posts that an average user could see each day to the 300 or so that actually appear in their feed, businesses running pages on the social network will be anxiously exploring the impact on their reach.That reach – the number of people who’ve liked a page who actually see any one of its updates – has been in decline for some time, leading to grumbles from some companies and marketers that Facebook deliberately uses algorithmic tweaks to encourage them to pay for ads to boost their reach back up again.In the latest case, Facebook claims the impact could vary. “The impact of these changes on your page’s distribution will vary considerably depending on the composition of your audience and your posting activity,” wrote Eulenstein and Scissors. “In some cases, post reach and referral traffic could potentially decline.”
Google spent a record $5.47m on lobbying during the first quarter of 2015, an increase of 43% from $3.82m in theprevious year, according to figures compiled by non-profit group Consumer Watchdog.According to disclosures just filed with the clerk of the House of Representatives, cable giant Comcast was Google’s closest rival, spending $4.62m in the quarter, an increase of 50% from $3.09m in the first quarter of 2014.Both companies are in the midst of protracted political negotiations. European Union competition chief Margrethe Vestager has launched an investigation into allegations that Google abused its dominance in search. A separate investigation has been launched into Android, its mobile operating system. Google is keen on US support for its position and to head off any attempts at similar moves in the US.The latest number topped the $5.03m Google spent on lobbying in the first quarter of 2012 when the company was facing an antitrust investigation by the Federal Trade Commission.Comcast is currently seeking approval for a mega-merger with Time Warner Cable, a deal that would hand the merged entity control of two thirds of the broadband internet market and has angered consumer groups.While the two giants were the biggest lobbying spenders among 16 tech and communications companies monitored by Consumer Watchdog, there were also other notable rises in spending.Amazon’s lobbying spending soared 130% to $1.91m in the first quarter of 2015, up from $830,000 a year earlier. The company has been actively lobbying for relaxation of rules regulating the use of drones.The Google and Comcast increases came as most other tech and communications companies slightly trimmed or held their lobbying costs flat, the House records show. Google’s second highest first-quarter spending was $5.03 million in 2012 when the internet giant was facing an antitrust investigation by the Federal Trade Commission.“Even though many companies slightly trimmed their first-quarter spending, it’s important to understand just how much money these companies are throwing around in Washington to buy the policies they want,” said John Simpson, Consumer Watchdog’s privacy project director. “Policymaking is now all about big bucks, not big ideas.”Facebook, which has been increasing its Washington presence, spent $2.44m, a decrease of 12% from $2.78m in the comparable 2014 quarter. Microsoft’s spending dipped 9% to $1.89m from $2.08m.
Elon Musk almost sold his Tesla electric car company to Google after it hit rock bottom with bug-filled cars, stalled sales and falling shares in 2013, a new book has revealed.Tesla launched its pioneering new Model S electric car the year before, shipping with many features better or similar to competing luxury cars, but filled with bugs and lacking essentials such as parking sensors or radar-assisted cruise control – a staple of the £50,000 car market.Glitches, such as handles that would not extend and let people into cars, and materials issues, such as sun visors with unsightly seams, led to word of mouth being “the car sucked”, according to Musk.Executives in the company kept how bad the situation was from Musk. His reaction when he found out was to fire senior executives, promote hungrier juniors and hire Daimler’s Jerome Guile to fix Tesla’s repair centres. He also pulled staff from every department and forced them to start selling cars as the company had struggled to turn pre-orders into purchases.“If we don’t deliver these cars, we are fucked. So I don’t care what job you were doing. Your new job is delivering cars,” Musk told the employees, according to a person at the meetingwho spoke to Ashlee Vance, author of Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future.Musk also reached out to his friend Google co-founder Larry Page as a potential saviour of the company which by this point was in a nose dive, forced to quietly shut down its production facility and struggling to be taken seriously by high-end suppliers it relied on.A deal was written. Musk demanded Google buy Tesla for $6bn with a $5bn sum for factory expansions, with guarantees that Google wouldn’t simply break up the company, and that Musk could run it for eight years or until it produced its third-generation car.A couple of sticking points apparently held the deal long enough for Tesla’s car sales to pick up rapidly and the factory was restarted. It led to the company posting its first ever quarterly profit of $11m, its share price to jump fivefold and enabling it to repay loans taking it out of bankruptcy.It was saved with only two weeks’ worth of cash in the bank, and so very nearly bought by Google. Musk broke off talks and the company has gone from strength to strength since, later launching in Europe,the UKand Australia.Google, meanwhile, had car aspirations of its own, buying up autonomous driving and robotics technology startups, and producing its pod-car prototype. Those self-driving cars could have been in the shape of a Model S, if Tesla’s sales hadn’t picked up in time.•Tesla Model-S launch: an electric car to answer even Clarkson’s objections•Tesla begins selling electric vehicles in Australia and plans charging network•Elon Musk to unveil the new Tesla Model S ‘D’ - but says no to flying cars
Snapchat is using its own app to hint to employees of rival firms that they should leave their jobs and work in Los Angeles with the social network.The firm has inserted cheeky geofilters – visual overlays optionally applied to snaps sent from a specific location – for pictures sent from the headquarters of companies such as Uber, Pinterest and Airbnb.Slogans such as “Not sleeping well?” for Airbnb, “This place driving you mad?” for Uber and “Feeling pinned down?” for Pinterest are paired with cartoons featuring the Snapchat ghost – andthe web address of the company’s jobs pageOn the snapchat geofilter hunt at@Airbnband found another one.pic.twitter.com/IZbbDfLXqY&mdash; Ryan Mac (@RMac18)April 17, 2015“They’re a unique and playful form of recruiting,” a Snapchat spokesperson told Forbes reporters Kathleen Chaykowski and Ryan Mac, who uncovered some of the filters.But the filters aren’t being well-received everywhere, with a Pinterest employee snapping back his one-word reply: “no”, and a Twitter developer complementing Snapchat boss Evan Spiegel (on Twitter, naturally) for his “nice try”.Just sent a return message to@Snapchat, since they seemed curious.pic.twitter.com/Qr5d3Ta29r&mdash; Mike Beltzner (@beltzner)April 16, 2015@evanspiegelnice trypic.twitter.com/TfuCCYjq3r&mdash; Jonah Grant (@jonah)April 16, 2015Competition for the best engineers is often tough in Silicon Valley, and Snapchat (despite being located in Los Angeles, far south of the heart of the tech industry) is known for being an aggressive recruiter. But the competition amongst the upstarts of the trade stands in marked contrast to the older firms such as Apple and Google,who agreed to pay $415m in a class action lawsuitover claims that they colluded to lower salaries and avoid poaching employees from each other.
We’re in a tiny closed-off area at the Star Wars Celebration in Anaheim, California. It is, of course, decked out like a Rebel Alliance briefing room. Journalists from around the world are waiting to see a video of the new Star Wars shooter, Battlefront.Publisher Electronic Arts is not letting anyone play the game, we’re just here to gaze at footage of someone else playing. We watch a short skirmish on the familiar planet of Endor, complete with AT-ST walker, Stormtroopers, trees splintered in half by blaster fire, and speeder bike chases. A platoon of rebel soldiers encounters an AT-AT, stomping through the lushly detailed forest; they call in a Y-Wing airstrike which incinerates the giant transporter. Then in strolls Darth Vader, force gripping throats and fending off laser blasts with his lightsaber. Above all, the stentorian John Williams score booms around us in Dolby 3D. It is intoxicating.This is “Walker Assault” one of the modes that makes up Battlefront’s multiplayer-focused offering. There’s no campaign, only themed single-player “special missions” to accompany the main attraction: online fights with up to 40 participants. Players will get to fly X-Wings, TIE Fighters and the Millennium Falcon (but only just above the planet surfaces – not in space). Apparently, at certain points in battles they’ll also be able to spawn as major hero or villain characters, like Vader and Fett, to wreak more havoc – a feature from the original Battlefront games, but also more recently reminiscent of the asymmetrical gameplay in Titanfall, with its giant over-powered mechs.Whatever, this is basically a compendium of beloved Star Wars moments and concepts, a greatest hits package designed to excite the sort of people milling around outside this media cubicle.Star Wars Celebration is a huge Star Wars fan convention with costumes, exhibits, screenings, exclusive merchandise, celebrity guests, panels, autograph sessions, and fan-inspired activities. EA’s PR rep tells us that it’s the “only place” to debut this game footage. We have been brought here, I think, to experience (before we start writing) how vast, diverse and lovely the Star Wars fandom is, and how absolutely hyped they are about Battlefront. As if on cue, a few fans ask us about the game as we stride by; they gesture excitedly at our Battlefront media passes.The characters in Star Wars Battlefront will be customisable, but within rigidly defined limits. Players will be able to select weapons, gear, abilities and various alien species, but as Patrick Bach, general manager of EA’s Dice studio, latertells Eurogamer, they won’t be able to give Darth Vader a pink cape – to “preserve the authenticity”.However, I think the attendees at this convention could cope with that – they seem perfectly willing to experiment. There are grandma Jedis, there’s a Princess Leia pushing a pram with a tiny baby Princess Leia (complete with tiny knitted bagel-hair hat), there’s a woman dressed in fluffy Taun Taun costume, there are four or five of the blue slave dancers from Return of the Jedi, there are gender-swapped Han and Leia families and toddler X-Wing pilots, there’s even a cheeky Star Trek Uhura with her boyfriend dressed as a redshirt just for laughs. There are people from every age and background here. It seems like a community that welcomes everyone.In the briefing room we’re hearing about the framerate (60fps on all platforms), the splitscreen two-player co-op mode (a hark back to the classic days of shared Star Wars gaming) and the ability to play in first- and third person perspectives. Alongside the game’s Tatooine, Hoth, Endor, and Sullust locations, there will also be a Battle of Jakku expansion pack, available with pre-orders, or later as a download. Jakku is one of the main settings in Force Awakens. Brand synergy. Meanwhile, somewhere else in the building, merchandisers are selling toasters in the shape of Darth Vader’s helmet and a Chewbacca Furbie that is called a ‘Furbacca’ and sings the Star Wars theme tune. There are Han Solo in carbonite shower curtains.Everyone is friendly and happy, but the show floor is fairly quiet and free of shouting and big flashy screens. It recalls the hubbub of a Tattooine street market – there are even Stormtroopers wandering the place looking a little lost. I’ve never been to a convention that isn’t about video games before. And as soon as I walk out of the tiny Battlefront press briefing into a much larger world of fandom, that is suddenly all I can think about: how three films that began life 38 years ago created this diverse mass of people who all have this one thing in common.And I realise that the overpowering flashiness of video games is actually frowned upon here, that the booming drum‘n’bass of the traditional E3 experience is not what they want. Instead, Star Wars fans seem to have been burned by newness. There is very little sign of the three Star Wars prequels here at the convention – or in the game. There’s a total disavowal of Jar Jar Binks. When I interview Bach, I ask him, “Will Jar Jar Binks be in Star Wars Battlefront?” “I don’t think I’m allowed to say this,” he says, glancing at the PR, “but – NO.”There’s a definite feeling of distaste about computer generated graphics, accentuated by JJ Abrams’ insistence that Star Wars: The Force Awakens will rely as much on physical props and sets as is possible. Battlefront mirrors this approach. EA Dice gained access to the Lucasfilm archives, photographed all the key models from the original trilogy, and then, through a process known as photogrammetry, used these assets to create 3D in-game representations. The Dice artists have copied everything – blasters, X-Wings, Admiral Ackbar’s face – so that the models we all remember from the original films are perfectly recreated.Throughout my interview with Bach he is careful to emphasise accuracy and credibility as the primary goals for Battlefront. “Our take on it is a little more to the authentic side, rather than all-out fun,” he says. “We want to create the most authenticandfun. We know what it takes to build a great shooter. We know the different ways of going about that. But this is a great example of where we can reset our own expectations and build it from the ground up. To us it’s like treading new ground – the first shooter we’ve ever built, even if it’s not true.”By squeezing in Hoth, Tattooine and Endor as well as every vehicle and character you can think of, Battlefront is effectively a digital preservation project, an admittance that the Star Wars movie legacy is so much more powerful than much of what the games industry’s legacy has yet produced. As beautifully evocative as it is, what Dice has to prove is that Battlefront is more than a reskinned Battlefield; that it is more than a respectful art gallery.“That would be the simple way, right? ‘Let’s reskin Battlefield’,” says Bach. “Maybe it’s us being stupid, but when you set out to refresh everything, and start to build it up again, you end up with some things being similar to what you have done before, but some things go completely differently. That’s the most exciting part of the project.”Or maybe it doesn’t matter. Later, as I sit and watch the public airing of the new trailer in a huge auditorium filled with cheering fans, there is an engulfing feeling of my soul filling up against my will at the soaring John Williams score, an ever present fanfare that I can’t see ever dying.“We want [players] to experience that same child-like sense of wonder we all felt when we saw the movies for the first time,” explains design director Niklas Fegraeus, during his YouTube developer diary. And I realise that what we have all been living on for years is that emotional high provided by nostalgia. Even the three Star Wars prequels could not kill it. And it can certainly sell a video game.Star Wars: Battlefront is released on 17 November for PlayStation 4, Xbox One and PC. Cara Ellison attended a press trip organised by Electronic Arts, which met her travel expenses from New York to Los Angeles.
It’s Tuesday, folks!
EL James famously wrote the first version of her Fifty Shades of Grey book as Twilight fan-fiction and published it online. Now an app called Kink is aiming to unearth a new wave of romance and adult-fiction authors – by getting them to write stories together on their smartphones.Released for Apple’s iPhone, the app encourages people to choose a pen name, then invite other users to collaborate with them on short stories by taking turns to write new paragraphs of up to 280 characters.People can also promote themselves and their stories within the app and chat to other users, with its developer seemingly pitching it partly as a literary dating app judging by the “seduce someone with your writing” tagline in its app store listing.Like much of its potential content, Kink isn’t one size fits all. Up to four people can collaborate on stories of micro (four turns), standard (eight turns) or epic (16 turns) length.They can also upload images within the stories if they buy a £2.29 in-app upgrade, and tag them to help readers find them within the app. Writers will also be able to work on stories alone if they prefer.Related:Oral sex app will get tongues wagging, but gives no guide to the feminine south | Emer O'TooleKink is far from the first app aiming to get people writing from their smartphones. Wattpad is the most high-profile example – albeit not focused on erotica – withmore than 35m registered users and 70m stories by September 2014.If Kink does unearth some successors to EL James, they’ll need to read the terms and conditions of its app before trying to sell their work though.“We will not own the copyright in any of the work you publish individually or in collaboration with other users of the App and you or you and the people you have written in collaboration with, will be credited as the owner(s) of the original work that is published through the App,” it explains.Then comes the catch. “You grant the right for us and only us, to use, adapt, publish and sell any work you publish individually or in collaboration with others of the App.” Kink will pay authors a 20% royalty rate on any such sales.
Wearable technologies have so far been dominated by smartwatches and fitness fans keen to exploit the tracking of speed, location and body monitoring to try and improve health. Yes fashion designers are also now exploring the potential of sensors and internet connectivity to create clothing and accessories that are often beautiful and intriguing as well as smart.Imagine a dress that glows – actually glows thanks to LEDs embedded in the fabric – shimmering down the catwalk. That’s the vision Matt Drinkwater helped achieve with Disney, StudioXO, and Richard Nicoll.Drinkwater, a professor at the London College of Fashion and head of the Fashion Innovation Agency, calls the Tinker Bell dress the “benchmark” of beautiful wearable tech. Created in homage to the fairy in the story of Peter Pan, the dress is made from fibre optic materials that are lit up by LEDs in the dark.Richard Nicoll’s ‘Tinker Bell’ dress was inspired by the character in the Peter Pan story.Drinkwater expects such fashion to become a much more regular sight on the catwalk during the international fashion weeks, as well as the red carpet at celebrity award shows, but much work needs to be done.“Elie Tahari’s iPhone dress, shown at New York Fashion Week in September 2014, is an absolute shocker,” he says, referencing theNew York designer’s fifty phone-covered frock. “We’re still waiting for credible connected fashion to emerge. Almost all of the connected apparel at the moment sits within the wellbeing sector.”There are a few British standouts, however.Lauren Bowker at The Unseenhas created materials that change colour and pattern in response to sensors, including a dress that “interprets human magnetism and emotions by reading brainwaves,” and a “4,000-piece gemstone headdress that reads brain activity, portraying distinctive colour states of the individual’s thought process”.British brand Ada + Nik unveiled a leather jacket with a built in Narrative Clip camera at this years’ London Collections: Men show.“Ada and I felt that we were losing human experiences because we were documenting them through our phones or cameras,” says one half of the duo, Nik Thakkar. “The jacket allows the wearer to experience a moment first-hand and document it at the same time, thereby enhancing your technical ability as a being.”London-based CuteCircuit has made light-updresses that can display Tweets, a“hug shirt” that connects over Bluetooth to let you send a hug to someone wearing the shirt far away, and aprogrammable t-shirtwith a 1,024 pixel display, built in camera, microphone and speakers, allowing you to show status updates, songs and photos.“In our latest collection we have introduced a series of fine silk skirts and jackets that contain intelligent LED fabrics that change pattern and animate under control of an app on your smartphone,” adds CuteCircuit chief creative director and co-founder Francesca Rosella. “It means that in a few seconds you can download entirely new animated patterns to you skirt and have an entirely different visual effect.”It’s not only clothing. While even the likes of Tag Heuer have announced plans to unveil an IoT wearable, there’s more to connected accessories than smartwatches. Drinkwater pointed to connected jewellery from Shoreditch-based Kovert, which alerts to notifications via vibrations, and there’s alsoNetatmo’s June bracelet which tracks your sun exposure.Then there’s Intel’s MICA. Made alongside New York fashion house Opening Ceremony, Intel unveiled the$495 braceletat tech show CES last year. An attractive display that sits on the inside of your wrist and shows notifications, MICA is also a platform for bespoke apps.“We sat with Opening Ceremony around the table and all the ideas they came out with – our engineers had heart attacks the first time that they heard it,” says Ayse Ildeniz, vice president at Intel for new devices. “‘Oh my God. That’s not doable. But that’s impossible.’ And we all went back to work and found a way in the middle which optimises what technology can do versus what a woman would really find aesthetic and beautiful. Which is not easy.”This year, Intel topped that with the so-called Spider Dress, which combines sensors and robotics to show how the wearer is feeling. It picks up biometric signs to see how stressed the wearer feels, and its “legs” attack if someone too close is making you feel nervous, or make room if you’re feeling friendly. It was created by Danish artist Anouk Wipprecht.“The spider dress is an art piece,” says Ildeniz. “We opened up our R&amp;D shops with her and said, ‘Anouk, what would you like to do?’” And that is the dress that she came up with. It is pretty remarkable, because not only does it use Edison, which is a platform that we have formed to make [the] internet of things a reality, but she put sensors on it. She created a dress that was aesthetic and she made it in a way that’s ... funky functional.”Ildeniz says she was joking with a friend about getting on a crowded metro line with a dress that starts blinking red. “I don’t know if I would want that, but it’s basically showing how the wearer is interacting with the rest of the world and showing her own sensations and emotions to everybody.” Wearing her heart on her sleeve, quite literally.What’s nextThe more sensors out there, the more dresses such as Intel’s Spider will have to interact with. “When we have a genuine sensor-led environment and our clothes can communicate with each other, with stores, with events, we will open up a world of possibilities that we have yet to explore or even understand what that could mean,” Drinkwater says. “Connected clothing will allow us to communicate in a completely new way ... the possibilities are incredibly exciting.”But what happens next for connected fashion depends on how tech evolves. Ildeniz points out that sensors and processing power could be crammed almost entirely on a phone, and interact with connected devices as a hub. Or, that power could be distributed across the body. “Whether it’s a necklace or a watch or an earring or, you know your pants or your bra for that matter, it will be distributed,” she says.“The research is still dancing between the two extremes,” she says, but the one thing that’s certain is the world will be full of connected sensors. It’s merely a matter of deciding how to use them – to count how many steps we’ve taken in a day, or to show off our emotional state to those around us with an interactive t-shirt.Another hurdle is making the electronics small enough, and Intel has one answer in the form of Curie, a button-sized system-on-a-chip, which can read sensors, analyse the information and transfer it over Bluetooth.There are other challenges, notably washing clothing, with Ildeniz pointing out that most smart fitness clothing uses a “puck” that can be removed to wash them. CuteCircuit’s Rosella points out that her firm’s designs may be technologically advanced, but “we really do intend that people wear them”.She says the ready-to-wear line can be washed at 30 degrees with standard detergents, though more delicate fabrics should be dry cleaned.“We undertook two years of wash tests to be able to bring a fashionable, wearable technology product to market that can be used as normal fashion, but has the added value of looking beautiful and creating magical interactivity,” she says. So the only excuse for not wearing an interactive, Tweeting t-shirt is it’s at the bottom of the washing pile.
A grainy photograph that cleaved the nation into camps of believers and non-believers is the subject of Tuesday’s Google doodle. It marks the 81st anniversary of the time Colonel Robert Wilson stopped his car on a road running along the banks of Loch Ness in the Scottish Highlands and snapped what appeared to be the head and neck of a prehistoric creature, rising from the water’s depths.Wilson’s photographic effort, taken in 1934, was to become the centre of heated discussions as to whether the loch, which is 227 metres deep, could be home to such a monster.Wilson never claimed it proved anything, simply saying he had been in the right place at the right time and had seen something rise from the surface.The argument seems to have been settled in 1994. Christian Spurling, whose stepfather Marmaduke Wetherell was a friend of Wilson’s, said the pair had arranged the stunt.Wetherell had been publicly ridiculed in 1933 after he found what he thought to be series of giant footprints on a Lochside beach and claimed they were proof there was something out there. Instead, they turned out to be marks made by a hippo-foot umbrella stand.Spurling confessed before he died that the picture was of a toy submarine with a fake head attached – a contraption similar to the one shown in Tuesday’s doodle – and was staged to take revenge for his stepfather’s humiliation.Nessie hunters can use Google Street View from today to hunt for the elusive creature.When searching in the Loch Ness area, the usual yellow Google Pegman will change to a Nessie peg-monster, giving users the power to zoom into different areas of the loch.More information on the Google Street View Loch Ness project can be found athttp://www.google-latlong.blogspot.co.uk.
Selfie-esteem might be the worst portmanteau since smartch (smart watch), and it’s definitely worse than phablet (phone and tablet). Butselfie-esteem, we are told, is tied to the practice of taking selfies.Women will take five selfies before being happy with the sixth effort, a survey has found, while men tend to post their fourth attempt.Research byOnePollcommissioned by the ITV showGood Morning Britainsurveyed 5,000 people, including children as young as eight, to find out their attitudes towards self-image. 64% of women said they felt anxious having their photograph taken, and 41% of women said that looking at photographs on social media made them feel bad about themselves.In response, the TV show has launched a selfie-esteem “campaign” – encouraging people to upload to social media unedited, unfiltered, first-attempt selfies.A selfie from the author.Photograph: Hannah Jane ParkinsonThe campaign is ostensibly a push back against the purchase good looks have in society, and our obsession with unobtainable beauty standards – especially in regards to celebrities, with their hidden armies of make-up artists, Photoshop wizards and stylists.I applaud the idea of encouraging people to value appearances less, and to recognise that 99% of us do not have eyebrows as perfectly groomed asCara Delevingne’s (or her cheekbones), and to realise that’s ok.But it seems entirely counterproductive to launch a campaign to raise people’s self-esteem and drive the message home that looks aren’t everything by encouraging us to, er, take and upload pictures of ourselves.Susanna Reid– Good Morning Britain anchor and general good egg – uploaded her picture with the caveat “hair and make-up allowed”. This rather undermines a campaign encouraging us to be comfortable in our own skin and not obsess over appearance. Why is it bad to make sure the light is good, or a “best side” is facing the camera – but mascara and concealer is fair game?Reid’s selfie was also met with comments about how “stunning”, “beautiful” and “gorgeous” she looked. The presenter did look great, but if the #SelfieEsteem campaign just results in people complimenting each other on their looks, then it seems paradoxical.How does one even judge what constitutes “good selfie-esteem”?If a person uploads continuous selfies –duck faceand all, or Calvins peeking out over stonewash jeans – does that mean an individual is super confident in their appearance? Or conversely, does it mean the individual is insecure and seeking validation?Launched with a segment on the show backed by the piano line of the Cinematic Orchestra’sTo Build A Home(the go-to track for RSPCA adverts featuring emaciated puppies or X Factor bootcamp rejects), the whole thing feels artificial.In an almost exact replica of Dove’sCampaign for Real Beauty(to be fair, at least Good Morning Britain isn’t selling anything), women and men looked into a mirror and assessed their appearance, as hidden impartial strangers did the same.Of course, these strangers aren’t impartial. These strangers are handpicked by ITV producers. While it is lovely to see strangers complimenting the appearance of individuals with low self-esteem, what else would one expect the hidden strangers to say?Dove’s Campaign for Real Beauty, which took a similar line to Good Morning Britain’s #SelfieEsteem campaign.Everybody has attractive things about them. So-called imperfections often tend to be the things we find most endearing in the people we love. A crooked smile, pointy ears, a series of constellation of freckles which mirror Orion’s belt – whatever it is.We&#39;re encouraging you to post the 1st &amp; unfiltered selfie for@gmb#SelfieEsteemcampaign (hair &amp; make-up allowed!!)pic.twitter.com/CFAqJPh1El&mdash; Susanna Reid (@susannareid100)April 20, 2015Selfie-sticks and belfiesOur selfie culture isn’t all bad, however. Selfie-sticks andbelfiesare cringeworthy, sure.But travelling alone, as I often do, it sometimes becomes necessary to take a selfie, to record the fact that you trekked to the top of the Atlas mountains. If you want to record a moment with friends – and want all of a group included in the picture – a selfie is sometimes the only option.I’m also partial to ashelfie– a selfie in front of a person’s bookshelves. The Instagram equivalent of totally judging a new acquaintance’s literary tastes the first time you set foot in their living room.Plus, it’s possible to producecreative and wittyselfies – or selfies that produce belly laughs, some are hilarious. Who wasn’t a fan of the girl whodarted across a football game? It’s not all about image.Selfies are not a new concept, it’s just that the unstoppable rise of front-facing camera phones and portable technologies has made them more prevalent and insidious.It’s mooted that Robert Cornelius produced thefirst ever selfiein 1839, and the brilliantHenri Cartier-Bressonwas also a fan.A young, original ‘selfie’ of the author.Photograph: Hannah Jane Parkinson#NoFilter #NoMakeupIf Good Morning Britain wanted to really spread a message that appearances can be deceptive, and that it’s what is inside that counts, why not start a campaign to encourage people to share photographs of them achieving something, or participating in an interesting activity, or sharing a moment with a loved one – basically presenting something other than just what they look like?It is incredibly important to fight against negative body image – I’ve experienced body dysmorphia – and it’s important to teach our kids that it shouldn’t matter what we look like – thestats on youngstersand their body image are heartbreaking – but I don’t think this is the way to go about it.I can’t help but feel Good Morning Britain’s campaign will just end up flooding the internet with more selfies of people standing in front of mirrors, the reflection of the camera flash as bright as the sun. More#nofilter,#nomakeuphashtags, which have been a thing for ages anyway.And in that sense, it’s just another internet gimmick isn’t it? It’s all a bit selfie-obsessed.•How selfies became a global phenomenon
Traffic is getting worse. It doesn’t just feel that way, the stats prove it: commuters in 2014 spent an average 66 more hours stuck in traffic than they did in 2013, according to navigation tech firmTomTom. So when internet of things technology is disrupting every part of our lives, when will traffic lights be rethought and rebuilt?Well, the traffic light revolution is already underway. It is all part of the promise of connected and self-driving cars, which allow data about individual journeys, routes and vehicles to be centrally monitored, controlled and systematised.Autonomous intersection managementOnce computers are in full control of our cars, do we even need traffic lights at intersections? That’s the idea behindAIM– autonomous intersection management – at the artificial intelligence laboratory at the University of Texas at Austin. Rather than stop at red lights, self-driving cars would schedule a slot through an intersection in real-time, speeding up or slowing down to ensure they’re in the right place at the right time – and not smashing into another car.In black and white text, that seems eminently sensible. But it won’t be for the fainthearted – at least not until passengers have learnt to entirely trust their automated pilots:For the idea to work, it would require roads to be mostly full of autonomous cars, says project leader Professor Peter Stone – and then it wouldn’t seem so terrifying.“When I show people that video, I tell people to not envision themselves with their foot hovering over the brake or with their white knuckles on the steering wheel, but rather they’re in the back seat with the windows dark, doing a crossword puzzle or reading the newspaper, talking to family or whatever,” he says. “Once the driving is not a human task and people grow to trust the software controllers, people will also get used to the idea of cars going through the intersections.”That said, he stressed that driving is now and will likely always remain a risk and reward equation, but he predicted that with AIM, “the efficiency gains will be so high that they’ll offset the perceived risk”.How much faster will careening through intersections be compared to carefully stopping? The researchers compared AIM to heavy traffic on a major road, saying it would reduce delay by as much as 100 times – though that’s only at intersections, not total driving time.It not only promises to remove time waiting at lights, but will cut fuel usage and emissions as well. “A lot of emissions and fuel usage are caused by acceleration, and our system will allow the cars to make a much more constant speed,” he says, adding that the savings could be “quite significant”.But even with a complicated system such as AIM, intersections will still be safer than they are today, Prof Stone says, pointing out that a third of all fatal accidents happen at intersections.“Intersections are already quite dangerous. When a computer’s doing the driving, even with all the cars going through without stopping, it’s going to be a lot safer than it is today.”‘Are we there yet?’Computers aren’t driving our cars yet and won’t be for some time, but there are some connected car projects that already claim to be easing the flow of traffic.TomTom collects swaths of traffic data from its satnav devices but also used anonymised data from third party navigation apps, including smartphone maps. “We have agreements with a number of smartphone manufacturers, so they provide us with real time GPS feeds wherever their smartphones are,” says Nick Cohn, senior traffic expert at TomTom.It also gathers data from telematics units installed in fleet vehicles as well as in-dash systems, giving TomTom a comprehensive overview of traffic flows. The resulting information on near real-time congestion is shared with customers, which includes road authorities who use it to plan traffic management as well as consumers.“Most have camera data that doesn’t cover the whole network, so they use our data to supplement that and for deciding whether they need to switch to a different traffic signal scheme,” Cohn says.When a driver hits a patch of congestion – a red zone of a smartphone or satnav map – it may be because of data that was collected, aggregated and distributed from connected cars in weeks or months past. Before ubiquitous connectivity, Cohn said the travel times seen by TomTom were very different than that given by road authorities such as the AA. As data improves, the numbers are merging, suggesting travel advice has become more accurate.As cars become more connected – whether it’s through satnav or simply the smartphones in our pockets – better data in means we get better data out on the road.Andy Stanford-Clark, distinguished engineer in IBM’s global internet of things team, pointed out that we can now pull in all sorts of data: not only GPS from cars and timings from traffic lights, but also air quality sensor data and images from cameras.“On its own, [each] is of low value, but when merged together in the internet of things’ cloud processing platform, [we] can make sense of them and make actionable insights,” he says. “It might be to turn some traffic lights green quicker or send a text message to a car, or alert satnavs in the car to quietly change the routing so they’re now going somewhere else.”It may seem like a small change, but consider the shift that’s happened in digital signs. Highways England used to simply warn there were “queues ahead”, but now tells drivers it will be 17 minutes to their junction, points out Giles Perkins, business development director for intelligent transport at Mouchel, which runs the National Traffic Information Service . “More data in and more data out can only be a good thing.”Unintended consequencesThough traffic data makes it possible to see the movement of traffic in real time, and traffic lights themselves are operated algorithmically, it is still not possible to engineer a way of turning the lights green as you pull up.“It’s easy to change the traffic lights,” ssays IBM’s Standford-Clark. “But ... you get this terrible interconnection of unintended consequences.” Your main route into a city may be clear, but every road feeding into it would be gridlocked. “It’s not a trivial thing to do.”That’s why most light sequences are set via a longer term algorithm, taking into account other parts of the road network.As we shift to more autonomous cars, that may have to change. One way self-driving vehicles may be introduced is “platooning”, with a lead car in control of a train or group of followers, handy for giving lorry drivers a break.Signals couldn’t be allowed to change midway through a platoon, or it would leave stragglers behind. “Platoons would need to transmit their status to the intersection and the signal change would need to be advanced or delayed to treat the platoon as a single long vehicle,” said Alan Stevens, chief scientist and research director at transport firm TRL.“Either the platoon could signal that it’s cleared the intersection or there would need to be infrastructure sensors to check the whole platoon is through.”This is already happening in in a limited sense, noted Stevens. “At a local signal level, we can implement priority measures for ambulances, buses, etc - that’s a standard feature in some software and has been for years,” says Stevens. “However, giving priority to one vehicle makes things slightly worse for all others. So, there’s little point in giving one or two connected private passenger vehicles special priority.”There are reasons to give some cars priority, and that’s being trialled by Newcastle. There, traffic lights are “talking” to motorists, sending messages to a device in car about obstacles or delays ahead, as well as helping them adjust their speeds to hit lights when they’re green.“The system might advise a driver that if they travel at 24 miles an hour they will hit the next four sets of traffic lights on green,” says Newcastle University professor of intelligent transport systems Phil Blyte,announcing the project. “In more congested areas or particularly busy times of the day, then vehicles on key roads might be given priority in order to keep the traffic flowing.”The system also gives priority to non-emergency vehicles, such as those transporting people between hospitals, cutting NHS fuel costs and improving patient care. So far, 20 traffic lights are using the system in Newcastle city centre.Zombies ahead – and cyclistsAs with any tech innovation, one of the biggest challenges is security. The best example so far is surely hacked construction signs in the US, with attackerswarning of zombies ahead, but it’s easy to imagine how taking out traffic networks could shut down a city or otherwise wreak havoc.“As more technology and software migrates to the cloud and is configurable over-the-air then the number of ‘attack surfaces’ (to use the jargon) increase,” saysStevens. “Simple hacking to clone a bus asking for priority is one level of threat – relatively easy but the implications are not too serious. Affecting whole intersection or networked intersections would be a much more major threat, but the designers are aware of this and try to take steps to avoid such problems.”There’s another challenge: roads aren’t only used by cars. What about the bicycles, scooters and pedestrians hoping to cross the street? They have smartphones, so there’s “potential to do something with that,” said TomTom’s Cohn.“I think it’d be great as a pedestrian and a cyclist if I didn’t have to push a button to cross and I didn’t have to wait, that I could also be optimised in my walking and my cycling,” he said. “Except that I tend to not navigate, so I’m not really telling anybody what’s my trajectory or route when I’m walking or cycling.”That raises a question: what’s the goal of IoT-connected traffic lights? “I don’t think the main reason is going to be racing people through intersections, it’s going to be safety applications,” said Cohn. “Though it’ll also have a secondary effect of optimising for time, it’ll be really safety focused.”There’s more than just those two options, of course: are we trying to cut traffic delays, reduce emissions, boost public transport or improve safety, or is there some other goal we haven’t thought of yet? “There’s a whole bunch of optimisation goals which may not be the ones you first thing of,” says IBM’s Stanford-Clark.The best way to achieve it may not be via smart, reactive traffic lights, but by sending messages to drivers in cars, giving them useful information to react to and nudging them into better routes.“It’s probably easier to change driver behaviour than it is to change the traffic lights.” Until computers take over driving, at least.
Google is updating its Android Wear software for smartwatches bringing a range of new gestures and features in an attempt to counter the Apple Watch.The update, which will be available first on the new LG Watch Urbane and others via a software update, adds to the ways Android smartwatches’ can work without being tethered to a smartphone via Bluetooth.Users with watches with Wi-Fi built in, which includes theSony Smartwatch 3, will be able to connect directly to the internet without a phone and remotely to an Android smartphone over the internet to get notifications, send messages and use appsSamsung’sTizen Gear Swas the only smartwatch to do similar until now. Apple’s Watch can connect to an iPhone over Wi-Fi, but only on the same network.New menu system should make accessing to apps and contacts faster without voice.Google has also implemented quick access to apps running on the smartwatch, with three homescreens swiping from left to right instead of one long list. The first has apps, the second contacts and the third Google’s voice search.The feature should help access to apps and features without having to resort to voice control, one of thebiggest criticisms of Android Wearon its launch.“When you buy a watch you want it to, well, tell the time. So most Android Wear watches include an always-on screen – no tapping, twisting or shaking required to see what time it is,” said David Singleton, director of engineering for Android Wear in a barb clearly aimed at Apple’s smartwatch, which lights up when the wrist is rotated to look at the screen. “Now we’re expanding this option to apps, so they can stay visible as long as you need them, instead of disappearing when you drop your arm.Previously apps had been hidden by the watch face after a couple of seconds of inactivity. Both apps and watch faces fade to black and white called “ambient mode” when not actively being used to save battery.Flick the wrist to scrollGoogle has also added gesture control to make navigating between cards on the watch face hands free. Rotating the wrist away from the user will cycle through the cards and bring them full screen.Taking a leaf out of Apple’s book, users will also be able to draw out an emoji on the touchscreen and have Google recognise it before sending it on to contacts as a reply in any messaging app, not just Google Hangouts or text messages.Draw your emoji instead of scrolling through a large list.Google’s Android Wear watches and devices made by other smartwatch manufacturers are likely to benefit from the awareness of smartwatches created by Apple’s Watch launch, which is due to be released on 24 April. Apple is estimated to have sold between 1 and 3m Apple Watches since 10 April.Having launched in June, under 1m Android Wear watches had been sold by the end of 2014 according to analysts, while the cross-platform Pebble had sold 1m by February this year.Google is rumoured to be working on iPhone support for its Android Wear watches, which currently only support devices using Android 4.3 Jelly Bean and up, but has yet to comment on the matter.•Android Wear: the nine best free apps for Google’s smartwatch•Asus ZenWatch review: a sophisticated-looking Android smartwatch•Sony Smartwatch 3 review: great design, good screen and decent battery
Ever since Samsung chairman Lee Kun-hee suffered a stroke in May 2014, industry watchers have speculated about the future of one of South Korea’s most important and influential companies.With Lee Kun-hee hospitalised but technically still in charge,a committee of his top lieutenants is believed to be steeringthe companyin his stead, led by Lee Kun-hee’s son and Samsung Electronics vice chairman Lee Jae-yong, who goes by the name Jay Y. As is customary for chaebols, or family-owned business conglomerates, leadership of Samsung is hereditary and therefore makes Jay Y the heir apparent. Yet very little is known about Jay Y, and many South Koreans are apprehensive at the prospect of this enigmatic figure taking control of a company that represents one-fifth of the country’s economy.Dubbed the“crown prince of Samsung,”Harvard-educated Jay Y has maintained a low profile, with few public appearances and media interviews (so much so that even anupdated profile pictureprompted a tide of media speculation in 2014).Views of his leadership capabilities have been mixed. On one hand, onlookers are unsure whether he shares his father’s vision and competitive instinct, which defined Samsung during his reign. On the other, he seems to have a natural ease for international corporate diplomacy that his father didn’t: Jay Y hasacted as Samsung’s liaisonfor clients like Apple, and was the only Samsung executive who attended Steve Jobs’ funeral in 2011.Now, as Samsung rolls out the Galaxy S6, the most significant release so far under Jay Y, some see it as a chance for him to assuage these doubts, with South Korean media even naming it the “Lee Jae-yong phone.”Samsung’s intentions to establish Jay Y as the next leader were made clear in 1996 with theSamsung Everland scandal, in which two Samsung executives sold Jay Y controlling shares of de-facto holding company Samsung Everland at a heavily discounted price.The illegal deal was a move to help Jay Y inherit control of the company by taking advantage of Samsung’s labyrinthine cross-shareholding structure, which enables the majority shareholder of Samsung Everland to control the numerous Samsung affiliates further down the chain. Though two executives were eventually convicted for the illegal transaction, Jay Y remains the largest shareholder of Samsung Everland, now known as Cheil Industries.While Samsung says that Jay Y has held a “pivotal role as a change and innovation agent”, little is actually known about his history at Samsung, even by some high-ranking company executives.“The only people who really knew him or what he was doing were his ‘guides’,” recalls Park Sang-keun, a former senior vice president at Samsung Electronics’ wireless terminals division who retired in 2005. “These were executives specifically brought in from Samsung Group headquarters or the chairman’s office.”Shin Yong-in, a former Samsung Electronics senior vice president who retired in 2007 and attended many of the same executive meetings with Jay Y in the early 2000s, recalls that his activities in the company were difficult to keep track of, and his presence low-key.“[Jay Y] was never in one role for long because he was moved around frequently,” says Shin. “In meetings he tended to listen and learn rather than assert his own opinions.”But Lee Ji-sup, a former vice president in Samsung Electronics’ LCD division, explains that Jay Y’s primary duty as the company heir was to learn, not to act.“[Jay Y] wasn’t very involved in the front lines of the business at the time because he was still a ‘student’,” says Lee, who briefed Jay Y in 2000 during one of Jay Y’s routine “field trips” to company production sites. “But he was sharp and eager to learn the micro-processes of the trade … so while he hasn’t had many opportunities to really prove his management abilities, I think his role will be expanding in the near future.”Jay Y himself has been decidedly evasive when questioned about his role at Samsung Electronics. When asked about his management agenda in arare 2010 interview with local business daily MK News,Jay Y, at the time a newly promoted vice president, responded with “I can’t answer that yet”, before steering the conversation towards his father’s vision for the company.The mystery surrounding Jay Y has stirred up sharp criticism about his ability to run the company.“The general consensus among my colleagues was that he’s a bit of a dullard and a dreaded inevitability [who] lacks real management experience,” recalls Michael Kim, a whistleblower and former senior manager who worked at Samsung Electronics from 2008 to 2010. “In the absence of stories of his accomplishment, what circulated in the company was stories about how he was being coddled and given all sorts of privileged treatment.”In fact, Jay Y’s career is most prominently marked by a major failure with his name on it: e-Samsung, an unsuccessful internet business that he spearheaded in 2000. With Jay Y at the helm as its founder and majority shareholder, the project was meant to be a sensational debut for Jay Y, says former Samsung top lawyer Kim Yong-chul in his book Think Samsung.Calling e-Samsung, “the result of this kind of impatience”, Kim writes that “its success was necessary in order [for Samsung] to paint Lee Jae-yong as a young and talented businessman.”Targeting the kind of success had by Amazon, Jay Y established e-Samsung and e-Samsung International, holding companies through which he managed a handful of internet companies, ranging from a network security firm to an online financial services aggregator.But the business was shut down within a year, incurring $20.4m losses andprompting accusationsthat Samsung affiliates had bailed Jay Y out by buying up his shares. The incident was an indelible mark on Jay Y’s track record, adding fuel to the view that,like many chaebol heirs, Jay Y was more entitled than he was competent.Long after e-Samsung, scepticism prevails. In arecent surveyby South Korean think tank Economic Reform Research Institute and national broadcaster KBS, which polled 50 university professors, civilian researchers, fund managers and securities analysts on the management abilities of 11 rising chaebol heirs, Jay Y received a score of 35.75 out of 100, putting him at seventh place. In the “legitimacy of wealth” category, he was ranked last.Lee Jae-yong, left and Samsung colleague Oh-hyun Kwon arrive for a morning session at the 26th annual Allen &amp; Co. Media and Technology Conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, in 2008. Jay Y is one of the most prominent Samsung employees in the Silicon Valley milieu.Photograph: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg NewsSupporters focus on Jay Y’s few visible merits, like his knack for making powerful friends. In his more publicised trips abroad, Jay Y has met with Steve Jobs, Tim Cook and Mark Zuckerberg, making him one of the few high-ranking Korean executives in the Silicon Valley scene. His relationship with Xi Jinping reportedly helped secure the Chinese government’s authorisation to build a Samsung LCD factory in 2010.Those who have met Jay Y say he is good-natured and approachable, setting him apart from the aloof, imperial image of his father. “Vice chairman Lee Jae-yong doesn’t have the same kind of authoritarian air as chairman Lee. He’s humble, polite and easy to talk to,” says Lee Ji-sup. “And I think that can become his own brand of charisma.”According to chaebol watchers like Song Won-keun, an industrial economics professor at Gyeongnam National University of Science and Technology, a “Lee Kun-hee style” of heavy-handed, top-down command is becoming a thing of a past, and Jay Y will have to seek more democratic means of rallying his executives around him. “The chaebol leader doesn’t have the same kind of authority that it used to,” says Song.Recently,many have turned to Samsung Electronics’ latest smartphone, the Galaxy S6,for a gauge of Jay Y’s leadership skills. Billed as the gadget to enliven a sluggish Samsung Electronics that recently suffered major blows, the Galaxy S6’s success could also inspire confidence in the young leader.But neither diplomacy nor a bestselling phone may be what Samsung needs most right now. Experts like Song caution that Jay Y’s biggest challenge is elsewhere: helping Samsung shed its reputation as an imitator and rebranding the company as a truly creative force.“Samsung’s biggest problem right now is its model of ‘fast follow’,” says Song. “Jay Y’s most urgent task is not only to provide a new vision that can successfully lead Samsung into becoming a ‘gateway company’ like Apple, but proving that he can both plan and aggressively execute this big-picture vision.”Though the Galaxy S6 is already being hailed as the best Samsung phone to ever hit the market, even its most positive reviews note one uncomfortably familiar element – an undeniable similarity in design with its competitor, the iPhone 6. Truly revolutionary innovation, for now, still seems just out of Samsung’s reach.And with many still comparing him to a hothouse flower, Lee Jae-yong will need more than just success with the Galaxy S6 to breathe life back into his father’s empire.
Having a site that is friendly to mobile browsers on smartphones and tablets will be key from Tuesday as Google rolls out a new mobile-focused algorithm.The update to the way Google ranks search results will take into account how mobile-friendly a website is. This means companies without a good mobile website will suffer, as searchers on mobile will see sites with good mobile experiences ranked higher than those with no mobile or poor mobile sites.The change reinforces Google’s mobile-focus – it previously just labelled search results that had good mobile websites – and is expected to have an impact bigger than the previous two algorithm updates Panda and Penguin, which affected 12% and over 3% of search results respectively.“We will be expanding our use of mobile-friendliness as a ranking signal. This change will affect mobile searches in all languages worldwide and will have a significant impact in our search results,” said Takaki Makino, Chaesang Jung and Doantam Phan in a blog post for Google webmasters.Mobile-friendly is the new hotnessThe change is designed to help users find search results formatted for their device, Google said. The company often makes tweaks to its algorithms and technology powering search, but announces few. That this has been announced suggests Google expects the change to cause a big impact, potentially affecting traffic and revenue for a number of sites that heavily rely on search results.Mail Online, the world’s largest English-language news site, for instance has never introduced a mobile-friendly front page and as a consequence will likely suffer.Google’s mobile-friendly tool is not kind to the desktop-only Mail Online front page.Photograph: GoogleGoogle announced the change to website operators in February, rolling out a mobile-friendly test and several other tools to help sites and services conform to the new mobile ranking.In the UK, adults will spend more time on mobile devices than desktop computers in 2015, according toresearch from eMarketer, spending 2 hours 26 minutes a day on mobile devices excluding voice calling time compared to 2 hours 13 minutes on a desktop.Google also estimates that around 50% of searches are conducted from mobile devices, through mobile browsers and its own search apps.Data from StatCounter shows that browsing on mobile devices is increasing monthly at the expense of PCs, but that PCs still dominate.Photograph: StatCounterBut PCs still claim the largest share of internet browsing, with 62.4% of global browsing compared to 31.7% on mobile and 5.8% on tablets in April, according to data from research firm StatCounter. Desktop global internet browsing has steadily declined, however, from 85.6% in August 2012 through 70.5% in April 2014, as mobile use has increased and tablet and console browsing has stayed steady.The majority of large companies offer mobile experiences, with more and more moving to so-called “responsive” design, where by a site scales dynamically based on the size of the browser window or device’s screen, providing the best experience possible to a large range of screen sizes.Google has not given figures on the percentage of web searches that are likely to be affected, but the fallout from the update for sites and services is expected to force more companies to adopt mobile sites and responsive design – Google’s current preferred implementation of the mobile web.•Google hides URLs in mobile web search results•European commission announces antitrust charges against Google•Europe is targeting Google under antitrust laws but missing the bigger picture
Jack Attridge is leaving 22Cans. The talented designer, who many expected would eventually step in to lead the studio that was set up in 2012 by British industry legend Peter Molyneux, has walked away to pursue his own ideas as an indie developer. “Friday was my last day,” he tells the Guardian in a London coffee shop. “Me and Peter went on a big 10 mile walk and finally said our goodbyes.”In February, the small team at 22Cans found itself engulfed in a huge controversy over latest project, Godus. The title, a spiritual successor to classic God sim Populous, was long-delayed and missing key features promised during a successful Kickstarter campaign.Related:Peter Molyneux interview: 'It's over, I will not speak to the press again'Attridge, the game’s co-creator, provided a calm presence during the maelstrom, appearing on video with Molyneux to explain the development situation. Essentially Molyneux’s second-in-command, he was widely considered to be the studio’s voice of reason. The film graduate, who previously worked at EA Bright Light and Mind Candy, seemed to be the one capable of reigning in the ambitious proclamations that Molyneux, a much-loved and extremely open industry veteran, had become known for. The way Attridge sees it, Molyneux initially brought him into 22Cans, not only as a designer, but also as the next in line.“When Peter started talking about this new company 22Cans I got really excited,” he says of his first meetings with Molyneux in 2012. “He said he wanted to change the world. He said he was looking for people with unusual game development experience, to try something different and that really appealed to me. After meeting him he said to me why don’t you come along as a designer, but also as his kind of protege. For a good year it was just me and him designing crazy stuff together every day”.Over that time, Attridge says that Molyneux helped him to develop a creative voice of his own. While the tutorage was perhaps intended to prepare the young newcomer to take over the studio in the future, it instead gave him the confidence to pursue his own path. “Peter was really good at nurturing talent,” says Attridge. “But after a time I realised I was much more of an advisor at 22Cans and I wanted to be able to steer my own ship.”In February, Molyneux revealed that he was moving off the Godus project, which had enjoyed a successful smartphone release, but was way behind in its desktop PC incarnation. Co-designer Konrad Naszynski admitted that the remaining team was unlikely to be able to produce several of the key features. “A lot of the multiplayer stuff is looking seriously shaky right now, especially the persistent stuff like hubworld,” he wrotein a forum post. The internet reaction was savage, culminating ina devastating Peter Molyneux interview with Rock Paper Shotgun.“When you have a team that has been so dedicated to a project for so long it’s going to hit hard when something like that happens,” says Attridge. “Everyone [at 22Cans] is just passionate about making great games and whilst millions of mobile and tablet players had been very positive about Godus, it was hard to ignore the controversy surrounding the Desktop version.“The team has felt immense highs at certain points and this was a very contrasting low. But that seems to be the risk you take when you put so much of yourself into something. What really impressed me was how quickly the studio was able to bounce back, and I think that was down to Peter’s relentless drive. I really learned something about leadership during that time.”Godus began as an ambitious follow-up to Molyneux’s seminal ‘God game’, PopulousPhotograph: public domainWhile many will assume Attridge’s decision to leave is a response to the events of February, it turns out he informed the studio several weeks before Molyneux’s disastrous interviews. “It was January that I said to Peter I was looking to leave 22Cans and go off to start my own thing,” he says. “I was really worried that it might be perceived that I was leaving the studio because of that. It really is a shame because that felt like such a terrible time for us to part ways.”“I decided that it was time to go off and try my own thing and I explained my idea to Peter who was really supportive. He was sympathetic and gave me loads of advice, he just did everything he could to help us. He signed a waiver so I could start my own company straight away, and he advised me on running a team and a business.”Unfortunate timing aside, Attridge is insistent that his split from 22Cans was entirely amicable – despite the intensity of the studio culture. “Working with Peter is a bit like a relationship, almost like a marriage, and us splitting up was almost like a divorce,” he says. “While it was so hard to start that conversation after all those years, I think he recognises that it’s time for me to move on. He even offered to let me develop my new game in his house. While it was a really awkward moment, it has been totally amicable. It would have been a real shame to leave on bad terms”.Attridge won’t say much about how Molyneux reacted to the press fallout. He says it allowed the pair to have some important conversations about the studio and its organisation; the fact that Attridge knew his job was coming to a close meant he was able to spend some time being more open than he otherwise would have been with the creator. “It allowed us to reflect and for me to be quite open about the whole thing,” he says. Though he won’t expand on exactly what he told Molyneux, whatever it was, it may have contributed to the veteran developer’s decision to step back from courting the press and making ambitious public pronouncements.We may know a lot more soon, however. Before finally leaving 22Cans, Attridge spent some time putting together an intimate, no-holds-barred documentary about the studio, which will apparently soon be released to Godus backers. The film will apparently cover everything from the birth of 22Cans right through to footage of Molyneux’s much discussed interview with Rock, Paper, Shotgun.“This documentary is my parting gift to Peter and to the team,” says Attridge. “I’ve been filming on my GoPro around the studio over the last couple of years. It cuts quite close to the bone; it’s quite a revealing documentary. It was very emotional for Peter and I, sitting down and watching that together. I’ve handed that off to the team and we’ll see what happens with it”.As for the future, Attridge showed the Guardian an intriguing tech demo for his upcoming project. He was also clear, however, that he wasn’t ready to reveal it the world at large just yet. Clearly, if Attridge has learned one thing from his time working with Molyneux, it’s that he needs to avoid over-promising on projects before they’re entirely finalised.“I vowed that I’m not going to say anything about this new game until we can show it,” he says. “It’s really tempting to show it off and talk about it now because we think we’ve got something magical on our hands. We’ve shown only two or three people for feedback so far. We want people to be able to see it and to feel it and to understand that it is the product in front of them and not something else”“My approach is a result of my work with Peter over the last few years. Peter’s a massively passionate guy and he can’t contain himself when he gets excited about something. Because of iterative development, an idea can start in one form and take a long road by the time it’s done. In spite of traditional PR practices, Peter can’t help himself, he just loves getting out there from the beginning and talking about everything he’s working on. You see his ideas before they’re fully developed and sometimes they just don’t come to pass.”The plan with the new project is to slowly build a community without making rash promises, and to service that community with updates that reflect the reality of the work, not the ambitious plans: “While it’s really hard to contain ourselves, we made that our philosophy: let’s not say a word until things are finalised.”So does Attridge have any regrets about his time at 22 Cans? Does he look back on the experience of the last few months with anguish? He says not: “Ultimately there are many careers where you cannot feel emotions on either side of the spectrum to that degree.”“If you asked any one of us, I think we would say that we’d rather risk facing tough times than to feel nothing at all.”
Samsung phones going on sale in Japan this week will not carry the company’s logo, but instead will be co-branded with the two mobile carriers who are launching them.The Samsung Galaxy S6 and Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge, which are available in the country from 23 April, will instead be marketed as the Docomo Galaxy and au Galaxy, according to the English-languageKorea Heraldnewspaper.“We think the Galaxy brand has been well established in Japan,” the paper quoted a Samsung official as saying.The decision comes against a long background of tense diplomatic relations between Japan and Samsung’s native South Korea, which have cooled further since the election in 2012 in Japan of prime minister Shinzo Abe, a conservative nationalist.That tension spills over into the economic realm, and is part of the reason Samsung has struggled to gain a foothold in Japan. The company took just 5% of the smartphone market in Japan, despite having 25% globally,according to Counterpoint Research. Apple leads Japan with 51% of the market, and almost the entirety of the rest of the market is dominated by Japanese firms such as Fujitsu, Sharp and Sony. And Samsung’s position is weakening over time, down from 16% in May 2014.Samsung branding is already sparser in Japan than other countries. The Galaxy S5s sold in the country featured the carrier’s branding on the front of the phone in the place where the Samsung logo typically appears, but the name was still present in the typical location on the back of the phone.
Google will no longer display web addresses in mobile search results, instead showing the constituent parts of the URL broken apart into a “breadcrumbs” format.A URL like the one for the Wikipedia page for the Guardian, en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Guardian, will be reformatted and displayed to emphasise the internal structure of the site, in this case “Wikipedia &gt; wiki &gt; The_Guardian”.In a blog post,Google explained its reasoning to webmasters. “Well-structured URLs offer users a quick hint about the page topic and how the page fits within the website.“To help mobile searchers understand your website better when we show it in the mobile search results, today we’re updating the algorithms that display URLs in the search results to better reflect the names of websites, using the real-world name of the site instead of the domain name, and the URL structure of the sites in a breadcrumbs-like format.”The change comes a year after Google experimented with hiding the bulk of the URL entirely from users of its Chrome web browser. In May,beta versions of Chrome were released to testers which displayed only the domain name of any web address, hiding the rest of the string.The rationale was to make phishing attacks more obvious for the end user: the difference between hsbc.com/internetbanking and hsbc.com.internetbanking.net is easy to overlook. “In my experience, most users don’t understand which parts of the URL are the security signals,” explained Jake Archibald, a developer advocate for the company. “Browsers have started to make those parts of the URL bolder, but as you can see … that isn’t enough.”Archibald argued that the move,which was later rescinded, wasn’t a harbinger of the death of URLs. “To the average user, the URL is noise. It’s a mix of protocol, origin, and path. It’s a terminal command, echoing it back to the user is weak UI. We should focus on the security of the URL, without harming shareability.”The changes to Google search results will initially only show on mobile, but could be rolled out across desktops too.
Jumping from the front lines of military action to the streets has left this shooter feeling just a little undercooked.Battlefield Hardline’s single-player campaign tackles the war on drugs; Nick Mendoza, the last honest detective in Miami, is dragged through a world of dirty cops, survivalist gun nuts and conspiracies reaching from the east to west coasts. It’s all done like an 80s action movie, dripping with cliche and lacking much character above freshman-level banter.  The solid multiplayer goes full “cops and robbers”, with multiple gameplay modes all based on a police team trying to stop a rival team playing criminals.Though the graphics are gorgeous and everything’s presented very stylishly, the gameplay feels stuck between two worlds. There’s an emphasis on stealth, non-lethal arrests and trying to avoid direct combat, plus other sequences of forced action that feel like they’re from a different game.Battlefield Hardlinecould have been a great stealth game or a great FPS. It triesto be both and, sadly, fails.
Motorbikes clearly matter to the team behindRide. It comes through in spades in this earnest but light simulation that glories in two-wheeled action. And yet it remains a straightforward title in both racing and presentation.More than 100 real-world bikes are available for a series of events across the globe, encouraging different riding styles and strategies. Taking your place on the podium means fighting for every inch of track, while simply staying seated is a constant battle. Playing well can be hugely rewarding, then, even if the difficulty curve tends to provoke frustration.There is, though, a lack of energy to proceedings, while progress can seem more like crossing tasks off a list than evolving as a rider. For racing fans who like a challenge,Rideprovides plenty of content. But as an automotive feast, it’s a shade too formal to satisfy.
It’s Monday, everyone!
While even Nintendo’s finest have failed to grasp fully their peculiar hardware’s curious bag of tricks, Danish developer KnapNok Games has crafted a bespoke experience that integrates every hardware quirk available – gyroscope, dual-screen gameplay, elegant touch-screen controls, asymmetric multiplayer… heck, even Miiverse gets a moment of glory.Affordable Space Adventuresisn’t a game that works on Wii U; it’s a game that couldonlywork on Wii U.Your affordable (read: dangerously low-budget) adventure sees you pilot a futuristic easyJet-like space craft to your own mysterious planet, travelling through 38 hostile environments. The touch screen is used to manage an increasingly complex wall of knobs and dials that resemble something from a 50s sci-fi B-movie. These must be manipulated to solve puzzles and avoid hostile locals while attempting an evacuation mission. The multitasking required can be demanding, though the three-player local co-op splits the workload beautifully.Topped off with a dark humour,Affordable Space Adventuresis a unique and charming package and the perfect advert for Nintendo’s machine.
Board game publishers Fantasy Flight already make some of the most high-end tabletop games in the world, butStar Wars: Armadais something else entirely.A two-player celebration of the fizzing lasers and swooping squadrons of Star Wars, this is a deep box packed with pre-painted miniatures, tiny dials, custom dice, even an intimidating snake-like thing called the “Maneuver Tool”. And these are just the toys that’ll catch your eye. As you pick them up to start fiddling, you’ll reveal still more stuff to play with –bound packs of cards, endless tokens, flatpacked asteroids.The price for this opulence? £60. But that’s not even the hard sell.Really, to have enough ships on your table for Armada to work as intended, you need both players to bring a set of their own.This isn’t really a surprise. Armada is a collectible game, adopting the business model from Fantasy Flight’s hugely popular 2012 releaseThe X-Wing Miniatures Game, which is like Armada but on the scale of dogfighting rather than outright war. With X-Wing, new sets of tiny spaceships arrive in waves, kind of like TV seasons, with each new ship costing around £15. Not only is Armada’sfirst wave of new shipson its way, the second hasalready been revealed.So why do players drop so much money on these games? There is an easy answer: they’re breathtaking fun.The contents of the Star Wars: Armada core set.Photograph: Fantasy Flight GamesThe traditional image of a miniatures gamer being an older man stoically nudging toy soldiers across a river, this might be hard to believe. But these games are so good precisely because they pare down a fustian genre into nothing more than tension and agonising decisions.The thing ships in the Star Wars films do most often is fly forward and shoot lasers, which it turns out is perfect for an accessible war game. Rather than facing players with cloying questions like when to advance or retreat, the X-Wing Miniatures Game simply asked how fast you want to go and if you want to bank left or right, with players ideally doing so without careening into an asteroid, another ship, or soaring heroically off the table.In other words, these are games of manoeuvring, trying to put your opponent in your sights and staying out of theirs. It’s both immediately understandable and fast, made even faster by players not taking turns. You actually issue orders at the same time, by assigning a little face-down dial to each of your ships, which has the added bonus of seeing players trying to second-guess one another. Each round ends with a clatter of dice as ships take their shots, and the dealing out of evocative damage cards that tells you whose targeting computer is malfunctioning and who has a fire in the cockpit. “Luke! No!”What makes Armada an interesting release, then, is that while X-Wing enjoyed great success in trimming the rules from miniatures games, Armada is adding them again. Along with the bigger price tag, its bigger ships are accompanied by a bigger manual.Armada adds rules for how tiny squadrons of X-Wings and TIEs interact with bigger ships, and those same big ships are now divided into front, left, right and rear hull “zones” (hint: don’t get shot from behind). Every single rule in the X-Wing Miniatures Game has been stripped out and replaced with something ever-so-slightly more complicated. X-Wing’s hour-long bouts were best accompanied by a mug of tea; Games of Armada have become two hour sagas, best served with a beer or a bottle of wine.It’s bad news for livers the world over, then, that Armada’s new systems all feel fantastic, adding more interesting decisions to the game rather than simply increasing the granularity of its simulation. Besides, within designer board games, good games are the ones worth suffering through a rules explanation for. But the very best games – like Armada – look or sound so obviously exciting that your friends end up begging you to explain how this exotic thing works, regardless of their complexity.All of which is the reason I committed to collecting this game. It’s great. But we’ve yet to cover the reason I’ve become obsessed.I played my first full-sized game of Armada (using two of the £60 core sets) on a hungover Sunday. Over coffee, eggs and gentle headaches, my friend and I pieced together all the rules we’d forgotten, positioned our fleets and set our first, hesitant orders. We were stunned at what happened next. This absurd game of toys and lasers playing out on the table was – there’s no other word for it – balletic.The way Armada models the momentum of the biggest ships sees them moving slowly, and turning even more slowly, leading to a fascinating inevitability. You can see them brutalising other vessels entire turns before it’s happened. The smaller, more fragile ships are faster, and cut impossible curves into the battlefield, slipping around debris fields and behind enemy ships. All while the tiniest fighter craft skim the empty space between these vessels like mayflies.Armada is slow enough that you get excited by mistakes and opportunities not just when they’re in front of you, but when you spot them on the horizon, 20 minutes away. For all the miniatures on the table between you, the real beauty and fun of Armada is being sat with a friend, both of you in this meditative state of mind, not watching the game but imagining the hypothetical table that will exist in the future.That’s a wonderful connection to share with someone. So wonderful, in fact, that I’m looking forward to the next time I drink, just because I’ll have a good excuse to play hungover Armada the next day.I’m not denying I have a problem. In fact, I thoroughly recommend that you acquire the same problem for yourself.
BitTorrentis a much-cited and much-maligned format. Most people associate it with piracy, because, to be completely honest, that is mostly what it is used for. But practically it’s just a way of moving bits around – and it’s particularly useful for moving big bits around, stuff that takes a while to download. This is because BitTorrent works by breaking everything down into lots of chunks and passing them around, so you can download a few chunks at a time, from a network of other BitTorrent users. That’s why it’s so popular for downloading movies: but if you’re a publisher with a lot of bits to move, it makes sense for you too. BitTorrent, Inc, for its part, has beentrying to go legit, doing deals with movie studios and the like to make films available legally – and it has started to do the same for big books too.Graphic novels are one of those old media hit with both ends of the digital stick. As the most obvious route to discovery, in the form of the local comics shop, disappears, so the possibilities of reaching ever more readers with ever more hi-def screens increases. British graphic novel publisherSelfMadeHerois best known for its adaptations of literary classics, from Kafka to Brontë, but it also has an excellent original list. Jörg Tittel and John Aggs’sRicky Rouse Has a Gunis a satire on American culture and perceptions of China, told as a thriller set somewhere in a remix of both societies, and as such is a perfect match for BitTorrent. Last month it became thefirst graphic novel BitTorrent bundle, a paid download allowing publishers to reach readers directly, without going through Apple,Comixologyor other storefronts. This month it’s the turn of US independent Dynamite Entertainment, which hasreleased over 200 issues from 30 different titlesfor just $6. Among them, titles from George RR Martin and Dean Koontz might just get BitTorrent noticed, and supported.
The European commission’s inquiry into Google’s search monopoly is often compared to the antitrust investigation of Microsoft. That case eventually took 16 years and resulted in what was at the time the largest fine imposed by Brussels, in the end costing Microsoft €1.64bn.At the outset, Microsoft underestimated the power and effectiveness of the EU. And back then it was a company at the peak of its corporate power, staffed by sleek, smart and seemingly invincible executives – of the type that now walk the corridors of Google.Where Microsoft was picked up over the dominance of its operating system and browser, Google is facing investigations on multiple fronts. Last week its tussle with Brussels began in earnest when it was formally accused of distorting search results to favour its own services – specifically shopping.The battle already has a history: it is eight years ago that the commission began asking questions about Google’s holding of data. Five years ago it started interrogating its dominance of search – Google controls more than 90% of the search market in Europe. Then last year the EU ruled against Google in the so-called “right to be forgotten” case, finding the internet company has responsibility for the information it indexes and presents.Google's overwhelming strength comes from its ownership of vast datasetsEarlier this year, Google reorganised its corporate structure in Europe and recruited a battery of lobbyists, a move to brace itself for a slew of other cases, including a proposal by the French senate that would force it to disclose its search algorithms to Arcep, France’s telecoms regulator.Were Google a manufacturer, say, a monopoly such as it has over internet search would never be allowed. But three factors conspire to Google’s advantage. Firstly, digital services, however ubiquitous, seem less tangible and therefore do not appear so obvious a threat to commercial pluralism, innovation and to consumer interests.Secondly, Google’s dominance is self-reinforcing, but also makes it more useful. Larger audiences improve Google’s data and make its products more accurate – as well as ever more impossible to avoid. As European competition commissioner Margrethe Vestager acknowledged last week, we live in the Google age.Thirdly, and perhaps most significantly, regulators simply cannot keep up with the pace of technological change and seem to be stuck fighting ethical, cultural and economic disruption issue by issue.Dominance itself, in competition law, is not a problem. It becomes one when that position is abused, and that is the charge the EC has now made – that Google is using its search monopoly to make a move on shopping, maps and flight information.Google’s refrain has been that competition is “just a click away”. But that misses the fundamental point that its overwhelming strength comes from its ownership of vast datasets – and that data has often been acquired under exclusive deals or with ill-informed consent. Its monopoly on data is unmatched by any other entity.It could be that we need to radically reconsider how we treat data, which has become the fundamental constituent of our economy. What might a more competitive landscape look like? Civic data on public services, infrastructure, roads and resources could be opened up to startups and public organisations; the personal information gathered by search engines could be made available to researchers under strict ethical standards. Cultural products – books, music, film, news – could be mediated by digital public libraries.Regulators need to move beyond the caricature of agile US technology insurgents and lumbering European protectionists, shifting the argument away from the language of property towards considering more fundamentally what is in the public interest.The wider problem is that Google has become the ultimate monopolist of the information age. Information is a source of power, and nothing in the EU’s case does anything significant to touch that power.Austerity is no use to GreeceThe US can barely hide its frustration at the way the European Union is mismanaging the crisis in Greece. With the global economy stuck in second gear and America’s own recovery looking a bit shaky, Washington sees the standoff between Athens and its creditors as potentially disastrous. The Obama administration simply cannot understand why the Europeans are unwilling or unable to sort out the mess.America knows what it is like to suffer a Great Depression. In the 1930s, the US economy contracted by 25%, on a par with the collapse in Greece over the past six years. From bitter experience, they know what you do and don’t do when the economy is in a hole. You don’t do what Herbert Hoover did and try to balance the budget when private demand is collapsing. You get growth going first, then worry about the deficit. You stop banks from going bust, because the economy ceases to function when credit dries up. You try public works programmes to put people back to work.America’s experience helped Europe recover after the second world war. There was debt forgiveness, there was Marshall aid, and there was the pressure to make Europe think and act collectively that eventually resulted in the creation of pan-European institutions in the 1950s.For the first time in six decades, there is a risk that closer European co-operation and integration will be put into reverse. Greece is struggling to find the money to repay loans next month, and its banks are suffering from capital flight. Should Greece not meet its debt payments, the pressure on the banks would intensify and Athens would have little alternative but to introduce capital controls. The door to euro exit would swing wide open. And, make no mistake, Grexit would lead to pressure on banks in other euro countries.All this can be avoided, but only if Europe starts to think like Americans. That means writing off a big chunk of Greek debt. It means ensuring that doubts over the financial viability of Greek banks are removed. It means less austerity, more growth.New concerns at energy AGMsBP’s annual general meeting on Thursday was a groundbreaking affair – for ​​the industry and its shareholders, but also potentially for the planet. For the first time, an oil company AGM was dominated by one subject that is usually pitifully ignored: climate change.A resolution was passed by 98% of investorsthat commits BP to much more disclosure on how it plans to deal with climate change and how the tightening of carbon emissions threatens its business model.The chairman, Carl-Henric Svanberg, was quick to point out that the resolution – drawn up by a host of shareholders including the Church of England – was about ​carbon ​transparency, not carbon targets. The move will therefore will do nothing in itself to actually reduce global warming. But it shows fossil fuel companies are beginning to realise they must act or be completely sidelined in the growing debate over stranded assets and divestment.
Price £649Weight 10.5kgTop speed 12mph“Oh you are dead,totallyDEAD! I am, I swear, actually going to kill you! I’m going to snap off your stupid metal pedals and I am going to use them to dig out your horrible little stupid annoying electric heart and then I am going to throw you into the canal!Arrrggghhhhh…” I pause for breath, clutching my chest as I writhe about panting on the pavement, engulfed in pure fury. If this wasTop Gear, I’d be expecting a steak about now… I pull myself to my feet, straighten my shirt and have a look at my bleeding shins, my gashed knuckles. Then I gaze with unquenched hatred at the small beeping machine lying on its side… its wheel still turning.If you’ve seen John Cleese thrashing his car inFawlty Towers, then you’ll have a good idea what I was up to last Monday. I’ve had many bad starts to the week, but this was right up there with the very worst. And it began so promisingly. My plan had been to glide effortlessly to work on the revolutionary newAirwheel– a self-balancing electric unicycle that is, apparently, “the commuter’s dream” and is “set to transform urban transport”. My journey is seven miles. It took me about half an hour to cover the first mile – which got me to the station. I gave up and took the train. I am no Shackleton.And for my next trick: Martin Love manages to stay upright for long enough to have his photo taken.Photograph: Rob Biddulph for the ObserverIt’s undoubtedly a clever piece of kit. They’ve already sold 300,000 of these Chinese-made, American-designed machines since it launched last year. It looks a bit like aSegway, but crucially it doesn’t have those upright handlebars for you to control it. In fact, it doesn’t seem to have anything for you to control it. Instead, an “ingenious” gyroscopic device means that to accelerate you simply lean forward (ie fall off forwards) and to slow down or stop you lean backwards (ie fall off backwards). A powerful electric motor is mounted above two small wheels which are harnessed side by side to form a unicycle. A single charge of 90 minutes gives you a range of 13 miles and a top speed of 12mph.In theory it’s superb. You straddle the gadget, tilt forward and whizz about town as if you are some alien with gravity-defying powers. But, in fact, you are a middle-aged dork lying on the pavement in torn trousers, close to tears – and the office is still six miles away. Thanks a bunch, Airwheel.Look at the promotional videos and you’ll see smiling people looping across city squares, smoothly floating over the road. They’re bastards, all of them. They’re not normal. The Airwheel has been invented to make you feel bad about yourself. It’s so difficult even the makers accept that mastering their infuriating gizmo is far from easy. Depending on what you read you’ll need two hours to make a stab at the absolute basics (standing and moving forward slowly) and a full day to crack anything more impressive (turning, stopping, glissading through shopping malls). And it wasn’t only me who couldn’t do it. I asked Katie, Ed, Rob, Juliet, Rufus, Vita, Mel, Adam, Ned and Jude all to torture themselves with it and all failed miserably. What’s wrong with just walking, we kept asking ourselves.The Airwheel is heavy, almost 25lb, and it doesn’t stop when you fall off it – unless it topples over, so you live with the constant fear you are going to whack out some pedestrian or smash into the side of a parked car or take out a shop’s plate-glass window. It’s like heading into town with a ferocious uncontrollable ankle-shredding circular saw. This means you spend most of the time carrying it. It has sharp metal pegs which bang into your calfs and an industrial-grade plastic handle that cuts into your palms. And even if you do find a bit of safe open metropolitan space you feel properly ridiculous riding it – so I usually carried it then, too.I didn’t manage to kill it. Sorry. It’s still out there. Watch out.Boardman’s latest collectionDress like a champion: a shot of Chris Boardman in action at the Cycling World Championships in France in 2000.Photograph: Franck Prevel/APHe’s designed an award-winning range of bicycles for Halfords, now one of Britain’s great cyclists has designed a range of bike wear to complement the bikes. Chris Boardman’s capsule collection includes 14 pieces designed for performance and style for men and women and includes a 360-degree reflective wind jacket, gel-padded cycle mitts and quick-drying jerseys for when you get caught in a downpour. Prices start at £4.99 for the socks, £29.99 for the shorts and jerseys and £39.99 for the windbreaker. All are available from Halfords and online athalfords.com.Polish those wheelsMy dad used to make my brother and I put boot polish on the wire-spoked tyres of his old Austin Healey, before polishing up the wheels to be glossy and black. We hated it. If only Muc-Off had invented its tyre foam we’d have saved a load of time. This new product is a one-stop treatment for your car tyre sidewalls. You spray it on like shaving foam and then leave it to work its magic: no agitating, no wiping, no hassle, no scuffed knuckles. After about 10 minutes you are left with an awesome shine! And I am not sure why, but cars always seem to run better on clean tyres – it must be psychological. There’s a whole range of car-cleaning gear from Muc-Off to complement its bike maintenance range. Have a look atmuc-off.com. And while you are at it – treat yourself to a tub of their Nano Grit Hand Cleaner. It’s the best hand degreaser I’ve tested.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166Follow the Observer Magazine on Twitter@ObsMagazine
Going to the doctor’s is a pain. Why, if you have a recurring condition, do you need to take time off to go through the same checks to get the same prescription? How is it that the only time the doctor can see you is the least convenient hour of the week? Why is it that after wasting time with old copies ofNational Geographicin the waiting room, you are ushered into a smaller room only to wait again?Now technology – bold disrupter of industries from media to banking – is promising a brave new world of medicine. A world in which, as author and cardiologist Dr Eric Topol has it in his new book,The Patient Will See You Now. Tech companies see healthcare as a new gold mine. Aggregating this information into big data will reveal patterns that will solve medical mysteries and lead to innovations, they argue. Last year, Google’s Larry Pagepredicted 100,000 lives a year could be savedif he could get his hands on all the data being generated by the medical industry. IBM has just announced it will be hiring hundreds of people to help analyse reams of health data with its Watson supercomputer.Stolen healthcare information is worth 10 times as much as stolen credit card information. Criminals use the information to buy drugs and medical equipment to resell. It’s also some of the most, if not the most, personal information that we disclose and has traditionally been heavily protected.So far the apps available and health trackers such asFitbit and Jawboneare fairly primitive devices that count steps and measure exercise and calories. Now Apple is selling theApple Watch– complete with a rapidly expanding suite of health apps – in a move it hopes will revolutionise the wearable tech market in the same way iPhones shook up the mobile phone market. Google and Microsoft have their rival products on offer or in the works. The arms race is on and the Apple Watch is just the beginning.Smart pills are being developed that when swallowed will measure your health from inside your body, transmitting it to the cloud.Google is working on a contact lenscapable of constantly measuring blood sugar levels – helpful for diabetics, but also a way to measure all our dietary choices.In this brave new world the patient will be collecting their own data, algorithms will alert us when things go wrong and the doctor will only be a FaceTime away, if they’re needed at all. But this shift is raising some big questions – questions that we will be asking for years to come.Health wristbands, such as Fitbit, are becoming increasingly sophisticated.Photograph: PRDo health apps work?TheBritish Medical Journalquestioned whether the apps now on the market do anything other than cause anxiety.In the article, Dr Iltifat Husain, editor in chief ofiMedicalApps.com, a review site for medical professionals, argued that some apps “help people to correlate personal decisions with health outcomes” and “can help doctors to hold patients accountable for their behaviour”. Dr Des Spence, a GP in Glasgow, argued that the apps were “untested and unscientific” and opened the door of uncertainty. “Make no mistake: Diagnostic uncertainty ignites extreme anxiety in people,” he wrote.Health apps are in their infancy and at the moment are fairly blunt instruments. There may be little benefit in taking10,000 steps a dayif your diet consists of burgers, fries and cigarettes. But as the apps get more sophisticated and popular the anxiety may only increase. It’s an issue that will be recognised by anyone who has Googled an ailment only to disappear down a rabbit hole of worry.If I can just opt out, why does it matter?Choosing to opt out may become more difficult. Employers and insurers have become increasingly interested in wearable tech and health apps as a way to encourage healthy choices by workers and, the theory goes, cut down on sick days and insurance costs.BP has been giving US employees Fitbits for a couple of years to measure their steps. Walking two million steps a year saves staff £800 in lower health-related fees. Last year, US supermarket giant Safeway started offering health premium discounts of up to 20% to workers who do not smoke and meet company benchmarks for weight, blood pressure and cholesterol.Opting out may also be more difficult as the technology develops. If you think tagging yourself with a GPS fitness device is an issue, at least you can always take the band off. The next generation of health devices will be implantable, ingestible and injectable.Biotech company Proteus has developed a “smart pill” that, when swallowed, can monitor health, including what pills you took and when, from inside the body. The pinhead-sized sensor is powered by the body and can monitor various health indicators, such as activity, respiration, sleep and heart rate. TheGates Foundation and MicroCHIPS are working on an implantable device that can be filled with a 16-year supply of birth control. A remote control will turn the device off and on when required.Microchips can now be manufactured as small as a dust mote. The world’s smallest computer, theUniversity of Michigan’s Micro Mote,is smaller than a grain of rice. All these devices are getting smaller and smaller, and most of them will be transmitting intimate details of our lives to databases where we have, at best, a confused understanding of how the data will be used.No doubt, conspiracy theorists are already fretting about whether injectable tracking technology could be secretly implanted in vaccines or food, but the truth is we’ll probably willingly track ourselves.“Given our history and the path we’re on, we will openly invite technologies into our bodies that can without a doubt be used to spy on us,” says Jason Levy, senior vice-president at Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Wellness.Isn’t improved health and greater access to our own data a good thing?Levy, a futurologist of health, is a cautiously optimistic enthusiast of what he calls the “consumerisation of health”. His son has a recurring ear infection that often entails Levy taking a day off work to take him to the doctor. An app is already able to check the infection and soon he believes it will be common for people like him to check with a doctor online and have them prescribe medicine without the patient ever having to leave home.“It’s like banking. Remember when we had to go to the bank, line up, write a cheque, withdraw cash? Many people were convinced we’d never move to online banking because of privacy and security issues. Now we are sending pictures of cheques via apps to deposit them in the bank. There are even more issues to face in healthcare, but it’s moving in the same direction,” he said.While our lives may get more convenient for minor ailments, the bigger picture is more murky. Levy said there were so far no conclusive, independent studies to show that health apps make us more healthy. The data being generated could at some stage be invaluable to researchers, but right now all those companies using tracking data to reward – and penalise – staff are doing so with no scientific backing. And the major issue will be what happens to that data.Others fear that the rise of data harvesting – what the commentator Evgeny Morozov has called the “perpetual electronic guidance of individuals” – threatens to undermine the search for collective, political solutions to social and health problems, leaving individuals at the mercy of corporations and insurance companies.So what happens to all this health data?It’s a grey area. Much of the information being collected doesn’t count as health data. Collecting more sensitive information requires regulatory approval. Google’s Page and others are pushing for greater access to the medical data being collected by doctors, hospitals and other healthcare professionals.“It’s a gold mine for the tech companies,” saidDr Deborah Peel, founder of Patient Privacy Rights. “In the US at least, apps are essentially not covered by any regulation.”As tech reaches into ever more sensitive areas, Peel predicts there will be a clash between patients, insurers, tech firms and governments over who owns the data. The UK’s attempts to build a central health database,the care.data programme, has already generated widespread angerover a patient’s right to opt in or out. “This isn’t just information, this is actually you,” said Peel.DATA DOCTORSITRIAGECreated by doctors and reviewed by Harvard, this database helps users find medical locations or get health questions answered.DEXCOMA mobile glucose monitoring app that will allow people with diabetes to track blood sugar statistics on their wrists.CENTREDThis app tracks daily walking steps, but also monitors stress levels and provides guidance and methods to reduce high stress levels.WEBMDA mobile database featuring symptom checkers and a pill identification tool. It can also manage medication schedules.DOXIMITYA social network that has been described as “LinkedIn for physicians”; it connects more than half the doctors in US.QARDIODevices to display blood pressure levels alongside heart rate data. There is also a function to store heart rate data history.EVERY BODY WALK!Tracks walking distance, time and calories burned, and has a mapping function. It also allows users to set fitness goals.HEALTHELIFEDesigned to keep patients more informed by sending them push notifications and reminders . Also stores a user’s health data.VOCERACommunication system that allows clinicians to communicate with team members. Carers can also use the app for emergency calls.
A man has been arrested after one of the UK’s most celebrated young food writers, Jack Monroe, was bombarded with homophobic abuse by someone claiming to be from the UK Independence party (Ukip).The Guardian food writer, blogger and campaigner said she did not feel the microblogging site was a safe place to be after receiving messages of “hate” and “vitriol”, which she described as “suffocating”.Jack Monroe’s parting message. TwitterPhotograph: TwitterDI Phil Jones of Avon and Somerset police said they had arrested a 22-year-old man in connection with their investigation into homophobic messages posted on social media, believed to be the ones targeting Monroe.Monroe, a 26-year-old mother of one, who became hugely popular thanks to her recipes for people like her struggling on tiny budgets, said the vitriol she had received was dreadful. “It’s all a bit exhausting, frightening and very deeply saddening,” she told the Observer on Saturday after posting a tweet entitled “final word” in which she begged people not to respond to the attacks on her behalf. “Please do not retaliate to the trolls and abusers with abuse. Not in my name. Please, not in my name,” she wrote.A Ukip spokesman said police had been informed by Alex Wood, a former Ukip candidate in Somerset, that someone was using the account to send out homophobic and sexist abuse.The abuse began after Monroe, a recent convert to the Green party, wrote a piece for the Guardian following Thursday’s election debate. In it she praised the Green leader Natalie Bennett’s stance on immigration and criticised Ukip leader Nigel Farage’s “circus act”.The poster, writing under the handle @Alex_WoodUKIP, wrote to Monroe saying, among other messages: “Your sick form of Lesbianism and militant queerism is destroying this country. Get out and give us Britain back! #VoteUKIP.”Monroe, who is gay and campaigns on food rights, at first responded, tweeting: “God it’s men like this that make me wish I wasn’t a lesbian. Be still my beating heart for the charm and intellect.”Monroe’s final word. TwitterPhotograph: TwitterMonroe is the latest in a long line of high-profile women to be targeted by vile online abuse. TV presenter Sue Perkins left Twitter this week when she received death threats after reports that she might replace Jeremy Clarkson on Top Gear. Stella Creasy MP saw one of her trolls jailed last year, and Caroline Criado-Perez, who campaigned for equal representation of women on UK banknotes, was subjected to horrific messages which, at their peak, were running at around 50 an hour from multiple anonymous accounts.In her “final word”, Monroe called upon her supporters to pray for peace or “meditate upon kindness”. “Wish them better – nobody who is whole and happy seeks out strangers to deliberately target hatred.“Stay positive,” she added. “There are good people and strong voices here. Be one of them, and not one of the others. With love, because if I have not love I have nothing.”It comes after Twitter’s top lawyer, Vijaya Gadde, admitted thesite had been “inexcusably slow” in tackling abusers, and had let internet abuse go unchecked for too long.Denouncing the @Alex_WoodUKIP Twitter account – which has also been used to direct abuse at another Guardian writer, Owen Jones – as fake, the Ukip spokesman said he hoped Twitter would act to delete the account as quickly as they could. He added: “To people like Jack Monroe and Owen Jones we can only feel sympathy. No matter our differences they do not deserve these coarse and unpleasant attacks.“Political discourse can be robust but must keep within boundaries of decency. We are also concerned that a young man is having his own name and reputation dragged through the mud, again.”The spokesman added that Wood left the party in January. Wood was the centre of an earlier Twitter storm when he was briefly suspended from the party in April last year. Pictures of him emerged from his Facebook account showing him posing with a knife between his teeth in front of a union jack and of making what looked like a Nazi salute. He said he was simply reaching out to take the camera when a misleading shot was taken.Wood declined to comment, saying the matter was being dealt with by the police.
Pokémon Rumble World, Nintendo 3DSAs in all Pokémon games, Rumble World wants you to hunt and capture its 719 sub-species of Pokémon. The major difference is that it’s free to download, your quest to catch Pokémon for the king of the Toy Kingdom coming initially at no fee. Unlike mainstream Pokémon games where you use turn-based combat to subdue and trap beasts, Rumble World relies on pressing a single button to win battles. Bafflingly, it actually takes this a stage further, automatically attacking nearby enemies, thereby shrinking your role to steering your chosen Pokémon and occasionally swapping it for another one from your collection. As well as tolerating its gross oversimplification, you’ll also need to buy balloons in order to fly to monster-hunting grounds. The first one’s free but subsequent balloons cost gems, which you win very gradually in the game or have to pay real money to purchase. You’ll soon discover that balloons need a substantial period of time to “recharge”, something you can also cover with expensive gems. Not so much a game, as a brazen pocket money Hoover.Nintendo, freeAffordable Space Adventures, Wii UTaking to the cosmos in budget space tour operator Uexplore’s appallingly under-equipped ship, you arrive on the vast uncharted wilderness of planet Spectaculon with minimal preparation, the broken hulks of past Uexplore missions ominously scattered around the landing site. And so begins this wry-humoured 2D exploration game that has you piloting your wobbly little craft through subterranean passages where everything you encounter looms large above you, the gigantic scenery varying between organic and machine-like. Ancient alien artefacts you encounter will automatically blow you up if they see you, forcing you to turn down or temporarily disable the ship’s subsystems as you crawl past, alternating between a smoke-belching fuel engine and quietly humming electric motor depending on each artefact’s sensors. Puzzles get steadily more testing, encouraging greater use of your ship’s “heads-down display” on the Wii U gamepad. You can also split control among up to three players in a process that will test your relationships in the same way as teaching a relative to drive. Oh, the humanity.KnapNok Games, £16.99The Trace: Murder Mystery Game, iOSA bit like stepping into an interactive episode of CSI, The Trace: Murder Mystery Game puts you in the polythene shoe covers of a forensic detective, piecing together evidence left behind at crime scenes. With a toolkit made familiar by police procedurals, you’ll use a UV light to spot fingerprints and a handy scanner to match them with the police database, creating leads that correlate with the mysteries thrown up by each investigation. Using the touch screen to search rooms and examine objects, you can turn things over and manipulate them, taking IDs out of wallets and examining dropped phones for serial numbers in a process that feels instantly intuitive. Concluding your detective work involves dragging pieces of evidence into specially marked boxes. Get it right and you’re rewarded with a dramatic reconstruction to illustrate your newly acquired knowledge, and once you’ve answered every question in a crime scene the full picture emerges, letting you wrap up the case.Relentless Software, £3.99
I thought this was called the Ford Cougar. I wanted, no, wait, expected a champagne-coloured convertible that I could lean out of at traffic lights and pick up younger men. In fact, it is a Kuga, and it’s the opposite: the definitive family vehicle, sturdy, high off the ground, broad in the beam, four-wheel drive, solid as a rock. I was never going to pick up anyone in this car, figuratively, but plenty of people wanted a lift.On distances, it was magnificent; it munched up motorways, the engine never happier than giving a burst of effortless speed. The driving posture is upright but cushioned, so that you feel like a grown-up, but one who grew up willingly, wasn’t dragged there kicking and screaming. It’s the first time I’ve crossed the Severn Bridge without the beginnings of a panic attack as I plan my next move after getting blown clean off it (I’ve undone my seat belt before, to aid my underwater escape). This is a very weighty car – it’s trying to beef itself up as an SUV proposition. There are loads of downsides – mainly consumption and emissions – but it is a different driving sensation, secure and pampered, as if you could live in it.The controls are intuitive; it’s the first car I’ve encountered in months whose parking camera actually turns round with your head.Some decisions you will be called upon to make: turbocharged petrol or diesel (I had petrol, and it was poky), six-speed manual or dual-clutch automatic (I had the manual; the gear changes are very smooth, again, fostering the impression in oneself of professionalism and maturity); front- or four-wheel drive (I had front, and it was slick). The steering is so sharp for a car of its bulk that I actually over-steered for the first short while, before I remembered I was in a Ford. They’re famous for their precision, but it’s such a boring thing to be famous for, nobody ever remembers except for the people who already own them.It is bit more sports than utility, in that you can feel every bump, but the handling is sharp, so you never feel actively endangered… think of this as the mild turbulence of the driving world. If you were regularly going up country roads, maybe with a horse box or trailer, you might feel as though you’d made a mistake. But if you’re going to knacker it like that, you should’ve bought a Hyundai to start off with.If you have always wanted a car that, from the outside, makes you look like a Soccer Mom, while from the inside, makes you feel as though you are on a secret mission – to drive, unperturbed, an extremely long way, while actively enjoying it – then this may have been accomplished.Ford Kuga: in numbersFord Kuga detailPriceEntry OTR price £25,395 (£28,390 OTR price as tested)Top speed121mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.7 secondsCombined fuel consumption45.6mpgCO2emissions143g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating6/10• Follow Zoe onTwitter.
I had mixed feelings about Uber, the global “app-based transportation network” (translation: cabs you get with your phone). Then I got an Uber account and now my feelings are more mixed still. Black cabs hate them. “Don’t make this about us against Uber,” said Kevin, 52, a black-cab driver. “It’s us against TfL. They have the strictest regulations in the world, but we’re the only ones who have to abide by them.”Black cabs, anecdotally speaking so far, are really suffering. Kevin said this had been his quietest start to the year in a quarter of a century. At the end of last month, a black cab even offered to take me home from a bus stop for free, because he was bored.From that point of view, Uber represents the classic red squirrel, grey squirrel story: the independent, sometimes fairly scarce, iconic native car-hire species edged out by a wave of sturdier, stronger, similar, creatures. So far, so bad – plus, I share some sympathy with the view that the Uber rating system, which sees both driver and passenger mark each other out of five at the end of the journey, reduces a human moment to a rateable transaction.But then Humphrey, 51, took me to the dentist, through Vauxhall roadworks, round a byzantine one-way, for £10.04, and said: “Me, I’m a talker. You’re such a talkative lady, I’ll give you a five-star.” It might not have been the best reflection of my personality, since I was interviewing him. But I got my five-star rating and that made me feel pretty human.All of the five drivers I spoke to had left minicab firms to join Uber, including one, Riz, 36, who had left Addison Lee, and they all felt that they were now being treated better. Way better; better to the extent that they laughed when they heard the question.Uber has 15,000 registered drivers in the UK, in London, Manchester, Leeds and Birmingham – they launched in Newcastle on Friday. The rumour is that Addison Lee has lost 1,000 drivers; the company rejects this, saying that only 8% of their business overlaps with Uber.“I was one of these that left,” Riz said. “They were a good company when they were owned by a cabbie, but since [Carlyle, the private equity owners] took over … I’d do 70-80 hours a week just to survive and that meant not putting my daughters to bed, not having the energy I need to be a father or a husband. Since I finished it’s been smiles all the way.”Jo Bertram, the London general manager at Uber, said: “We had drivers, I remember, the first Christmas bringing us presents because that’s what you used to have to do with your dispatcher. That’s how they’d give you the good airport slots. We had to say, ‘you don’t have to do this. We’re just going to give you the information about where the work is, you decide what you want to do’.”Riz was recommended to me by the company, but none of the other drivers knew whether Uber wanted them to talk or had to check. They all said the same. Mehari, who took me back from the dentist for £9.32, said: “Uber might not pay tax in the UK. [Its operating firm is Dutch.] Black cabs don’t want them because they’re taking their jobs [Riz said a black-cab driver emptied his urine bottle on to Riz’s car bonnet]. But the work doesn’t stop – as much as you want, as much as you can do. Sometimes we can make £400 in a day.”Mehari does it because he loves to travel – since he came to the UK from Eritrea, escaping the national service there which is, in effect, limitless servitude to the government with pocket money, he’s been everywhere. He really likes Switzerland, for some reason that it would have taken longer than our 17-minute journey to make out.Salih, who took me and my kid to a different dentist (this journey, at £6.27, is probably the cheapest taxi ride I’ve had for years), said: “For me, it’s not the money so much as the peace of mind. You don’t get any hassle because there isn’t any cash. I used to hate it when people tried to haggle.”Is this the main thing, from a passenger point of view? That the act of spending is now severed from the handing over of cash – the way it was with consumables, decades ago – and so all the anxiety of getting a taxi is rubbed away? (Until you get a credit-card bill.)Kevin, the black-cab driver, thinks that’s only part of it. “Even with Hailo [an app that calls black cabs and delivers them to you, kerbside] people are using their phones when they don’t need to, there are cabs going past them. Everyone does everything by their phone.”I love Uber; I love the way you can track your car as it approaches the thrill when you get five stars and the sensation of going back to the 70s, the last time the cost went up in 7p increments. But then, I hate conglomerates and I love black cabs. As I say, mixed. I’m going to have to stay in until I get some moral resolution.
It was in Abu Dhabi that Tigran Petrosian first became suspicious. During a match in the Al Ain Classic chess tournament last December, the Armenian world No 96 noticed that his opponent, the Georgianworld No 400, Gaioz Nigalidze, kept going to the toilet. Under the pressure of competition, that might be understandable. It is also, as every chess player knows, how you cheat. In 1997 it needed Deep Blue, one of the world’s most powerful supercomputers,to narrowly defeat the world champion, but now everybody’s phone can do it easily. As a result, phones are banned from the playing space in all tournaments, and the ban is enforced with body scanners at the top ones. Only in the toilets do you get a bit of privacy.Whatever he was doing in the toilet in Abu Dhabi,Nigalidze won that competition. But Petrosian says his opponent was at it again at the Dubai Open last Saturday. “Nigalidze would promptly reply to my moves and then literally run to the toilet,” he told chess-news.ru. “Twice, I made my moves promptly as well, so that he couldn’t leave, and he made mistakes on those occasions. Then I decided to keep an eye on him. I noticed that he would always visit the same toilet partition, which was strange, since two other partitions weren’t occupied.”Georgian world No 400 chess player Gaioz Nigalidze, who is accused of using a smartphone to plan his winning moves at a tournament in Dubai.Photograph: WikipediaPetrosian informed the authorities, who searched Nigalidze but found nothing. Petrosian was adamant however, and eventually Nigalidze’s favourite cubicle was searched as well. “What they found,” Petrosian claims, “was the mobile phone with headphones; the device was hidden behind the pan and covered with toilet paper. We both were sitting at the board when the chief arbiter came up to Nigalidze and showed him the mobile phone, asking: ‘Is this yours?’ Nigalidze blushed, got confused and couldn’t say anything.”Soon afterwards the Georgian was expelled from the competition. “Nigalidze denied he owned the device,” the organisers said in a statement, “but officials … found it was logged into a social networking site under Nigalidze’s account. They also found his game being analysed in one of the chess applications.” If his guilt is proved, Nigalidze will, of course, be banned. Perhaps worse, his name will be carved into the list of players, alongside Umakant Sharma, Steve Rosenberg and Christoph Natsidis, who lost their way in the shadow of Deep Blue.Every cheat has a story, however, and no story can be understood without its details. For a grandmaster trying to hustle his way up through the middle-hundreds of the world rankings, too busy doing teaching work to study or rest properly, life is no picnic – especially when you have to watch your colleagues enjoying a picnic of their own. I only mention it in passing, but players with an ELO rating of 2,570 or higher get a direct invitationto the Dubai Open, a car from the airport and free accommodation, with meals, in a 4-star hotel. Nigalidze’s rating is 2,566. Petrosian’s is 2,660.For this and a thousand other reasons, it has never been difficult to imagine why somebody might cheat at chess, or at anything. Indeed, when the rewards are good enough, the guilt slight enough, and especially when technology makes cheating easy, it is hard to imagine that somebody would not. And now technology is getting dangerously good. Before the rise of portable computing, cheating might often have been harder than doing the honest thing. Now it is often the other way around. Anything that tests your ability to memorise information, speak a foreign language, read a map, recognise music, take a photograph or simply know things is almost certainly going to be easier with the help of a machine. Perhaps one symptom of the smartphone era will be an epidemic of cheating.Of course, that crisis hasn’t come out of nowhere. For a long time, the casinos were where cheaters went to try their ingenuity. After all, casino games are designed so that the house always makes more money than the players: if you cheat, well, you might say you are just balancing things out. In 1972, an engineer calledKeith Taftvirtually invented mobile computing on his own in order to beat the blackjack tables in Nevada. With various contraptions strapped to his chest and feet, he did OK for about a decade and a half, although he would have done much better if he’d actually invented mobile computing.The iPhone and match sheet confiscated from Gaioz Nigalidze at the Dubai chess tournamentIn 1984, an eccentric Ohioan called Michael Larson found a simpler way to make the most of new technology. On the new CBS TV gameshow Press Your Luck, he noticed that the crucial prize board, instead of being truly random, just recycled the same five patterns of flashing squares. Using a video recorder, Larson got each pattern on tape and studied them intensively. When he at last appeared on the show, he was brazen, and pummelled $110,237 in cash and prizes out of the board – at the time the largest sum ever won on a gameshow in one day. CBS could not discover any rule that Larson had broken, despite a lot of trying, and paid in full.Hearing these stories today, you may think they scarcely qualify as cheating. Taft and Larson did not play in the spirit of their chosen games, but did, perhaps, in the spirit of the age. Today, wherever you look, a once-cherished human skill is being made a bit too easy by machines. Above all, this is a problem for education, where our skills are meant to be acquired and assessed. If a culture of e-cheating took hold in schools and universities – as a culture of doping has at times in cycling – the damage to society at large could be tremendous. One cautionary tale might be the UAE, wherea survey of more than 1,000 students last monthfound that 78% of them admitted cheating.The danger we’re talking about is not so much of people sneaking phones into exam halls – although a phone clearly would be useful, and there area number of devices on the marketthat promise to make them more discreet. Rather, it is how extremely easy plagiarism has become at home. At a basic level this might just involve some cutting-and-pasting from Wikipedia, although it is hardly difficult to find something more obscure. If you have the means, there are even sites such as ukessays.com and essaybank.com, which provide pre-written work for a price. It’s hard to say exactly how widespread the problem is, but it is widespread enough to encourage many schools and universities to buy in software such asTurnitin, which promises to detect plagiarism. Still, nothing is perfect, of course. “Students are very goods at getting round anti-cheating technology,” says Michael Dunn, a senior lecturer at the University of Derby with an interest in academic cheating. “An arms race is underway.”Dunn suggests a simple formula to explain why people cheat, and therefore how to limit it. “The likelihood of someone cheating,” he says, “will be governed at least in part by the availability of the means to do it, and the probability of being caught multiplied by the consequences if caught. In other words, I might still cheat if the likelihood of being caught is high but the consequences low. Even if the likelihood of being caught is low, I still might not cheat if the consequences are negative enough. So the most effective strategy, given that cheating is relatively easy, is to maintain high consequences.” Does this mean that chess, and perhaps all types of mental contest, are doomed unless they get extremely serious about punishment? I shouldn’t generalise but, well, it doesn’t look like it.The Tuesday-night pub quiz at the Wick Inn, Hove, is small and relaxed. The prize here is either £23 or a bottle of prosecco, for which six large teams in secluded booths compete not very hotly. It is the ideal quiz, in short, in which to get away with cheating. The birth of smartphones was supposed to be the death of pub quizzes, since they effectively put all the answers into the contestants’ pockets – a temptation that few were expected to resist. But pub quizzes are thriving. In 2013, six years after the launch of the iPhone,a survey by trade mag the Publicanfound that 23,000 out of about 60,000 British pubs had at least one quiz every week.At the Wick Inn, phones aren’t banned, and now and then during the contest I do see people using their phones, for something. But one team I speak to not only denies all wrongdoing, they sound quite shocked and confused by the idea. “I know it’s a cliche,” says Patrick, a 31-year-old support worker, “but you’d only be cheating yourself.” Then I ask whether any of them has seen cheating at a pub quiz before, and suddenly there is a lot of murmuring. “Definitely,” says Hannah, 26, an animator. “I have seen someone blatantly cheating.” How can she be sure? “Oh, people are on their phone. They do it sneakily underneath their coats, but you see them doing it.” So what did she do in response? “Oh, nothing. I’m too English to denounce people. Other than a disapproving look, there’s not much you can do. You can’t alert the officials. It’s only a pub quiz.”After four years in the business, quizmaster Cameron Devlin agrees that cheating is endemic but small-scale. “When someone taps away on their phone and then everyone leans in, that’s when you know something’s going on,” he says. “But I would say it’s [happened in] maybe 5% of all the quizzes I’ve done, which is coming up to 250. So that’s very little cheating.” Sometimes a suspiciously high score will stand out, he says, but scrutiny has its limits. Put simply, “You can’t stop someone going to the toilet to look something up.”You’ll cheat, in short, as long as you don’t have to stop believing you’re an honest person …Photograph: Illustration: Dwayne Bell for the GuardianAt serious pub quizzes, there is often a rule that you will be disqualified if you take your phone out of your pocket – and of course, at serious quizzes the teams are always looking out for that. Mostly though, the decency of quizzers, and the fact that it’s only their own fun they would be spoiling, seems to be protection enough. “I didn’t do it tonight,” Devlin says, “but if you feel like it’s going on, if you just say something about it, like, ‘Please respect your fellow patrons’, then people take that quite seriously.”Interestingly, this is borne out by quite a broad body of research. Among other things, recent studies reveal that people cheat more in dim rooms than in bright ones. They also cheat more in messy rooms, and more when tired. People act more morally, on the other hand, when they feel they’re being watched, even when it’s only by a mirror or a picture of some eyes. Writing down what you can remember of the Ten Commandments makes everybody, even atheists, less likely to cheat. Being told your university has an honour code, even when it doesn’t, does the same. Ditto being asked if you’ve ever cheated in the past.Altogether it paints a picture of people as almost always very moral, but never saintly. Most of us will cheat if we can find a justification for it, so we look out for any good justifications that may come up. You’ll cheat, in short, as long as you don’t have to stop believing you’re an honest person. Another study [pdf download] found that “Please Don’t Cheat” printed at the top of a test card has a positive effect on honesty, but the effect of “Don’t Be a Cheater” is significantly more. The bad news is that this makes cheating both self-perpetuating and contagious. By explaining away our guilt with spurious rationales, we give ourselves a rationale to cheat again. And when you look around and see everybody else cheating? Well, that’s a rationale for joining in. Ask a professional cyclist or an Emirati student. They know how it goes.In one sense, this shows why you’d be right to worry about cheating in chess and quizzes; in another, why you would not. What we’ve learned from the effect of smartphones on both of them is that cheating will always happen, in any game, when it is possible, but also that cheating doesn’t matter. Online chess is in rude health, even though it could be teeming with mechanical assistance. (Some chess sites employ their own software-detecting software, but again, it cannot be perfect.) Besides, as the grandmaster Daniel King argues, the idea of the infallible chess genius was always nonsense, so nothing is really lost now that machines have taken it away.“Amateurs often imagine that the top players are playing flawless chess,” King says. “They’re not, actually. What they’re really good at is outwitting their opponent … I really, really enjoy watching a top event because it’s a sporting struggle, and a very human struggle. I can see exactly what the players are going through as they’re playing.” Suffering, triumph, failure, the stuff of stories – computers can’t spoil any of this, no more than cars spoil running. If you want to find the real victims of Deep Blue and the iPhone, just Google them. They are Umakant Sharma, Steve Rosenberg, Christoph Natsidis, Gaioz Nigalidze and whoever’s next.Cheating – the old-fashioned wayWatertight technique … Humphrey Bogart cheated in a chess game played over the phone.Photograph: John Springer Collection/CorbisThe lift:The crowd at the 1904 Olympic marathon in St Louis were delighted to see a home favourite cross the finish line first. But as it turned out, Fred Lorz’s victory was not entirely legitimate: after nine miles, he had hitched a ride in his manager’s car. He romped the last few miles and had his picture taken with President Theodore Roosevelt’s daughter, Alice, before suspicious spectators accused him. Lorz claimed it had been a bad joke – but he got a ban from competition all the same.The double move:Chess’ intellectual complexity made it a hard game to cheat at before the advent of portable technology – but not impossible. When John Wayne was playing Robert Mitchum on his yacht in 1958, he used his large hands to slide a second piece forwards behind the one he was officially moving. Eventually Mitchum caught him. Humphrey Bogart had a more watertight technique: he won a game against a friend over the phone by asking for advice from a US champion who happened to be visiting his house.The robot roulette ball:It sounds impossible, but in 1973 a group of enterprising French fraudsters, including a croupier, fitted a roulette ball with a remote-controlled device that allowed them to force the ball to land within a grouping of six numbers, with 90% accuracy. They made 5 million francs in a week before Monique Laurent, who had a controller hidden in her cigarette case, was spotted by security staff.The corrupt emperor:The ancient Olympics were hardly less prone to corruption than the modern version. In 67AD, the Roman emperor Nero successfully bribed officials to delay the games for two years so it would take place during his tour of Greece – and then won a four-horse chariot race with a 10-horse team. He was also accused of drinking a potion of wild boar manure – the nandrolone of his time.
Dutch prosecutors are launching a criminal investigation into Uber for providing an illegal taxi service following court rulings and €10,000 fines.Uber continued to operate its UberPop peer-to-peer ride-sharing service in the Netherlands in violation of a Dutch court order which saw fines of €10,000 for every driver caught providing the UberPop service.It is the latest setback for the taxi service, which has been banned in several European countries in recent months, and recently had its offices in Parisraided by French police.Uber allows users to summon taxi services with smartphones while its UberPop arm links private drivers to passengers. It has gained popularity around the world since its 2010 launch but has drawn controversy over its aggressive approach when compared to traditional taxi services.In December, a Dutch court banned UberPop on the grounds that it fell foul of licensing laws for commercial drivers. Uber is contesting the ruling.Dutch prosecutors, who raided Uber’s offices in March, said they were starting an inquiry after police in Amsterdam caught dozens of drivers offering illegal taxi services.“The company Uber is now a suspect,” said a statement released on Friday. “This means a preliminary examination will be started to collect evidence that Uber is providing illegal transportation on a commercial basis.”Dutch police have fined 23 Uber drivers €1,500 for operating without a license, it said.Uber’s service offerings differ by price and country and are called by different names in different countries. In the US, for instance, the “UberX” service is the equivalent of the UberPop service in Europe. In the UK however, UberX is the name of the lowest-priced professional service, which employs licensed minicab drivers.The company, launched in 2009, now claims to operate in 55 countries and 250 cities. It has been valued at $40bn (£25.5bn) and has recently secured a further$1.6bn in funding from Goldman Sachs.•Uber introduces panic button in India•Uber offices raided in Paris by French police in ‘car-pooling’ controversy
Online video firm Vessel has raised a new funding round of $57.5m, as it continues trying to lure popular YouTube creators to debut their videos on its service.The Series B round was led by venture capital firm Institutional Venture Partners, which has previously invested in Netflix and Twitter among other media-related technology firms.Related:TV industry faces its ‘ketchup’ moment: ‘Mobile is now the first screen’It follows a $77m Series A round raised in June 2014 by the US company, which was founded by former Hulu executives Jason Kilar and Richard Tom. The investors from that first round – Greylock, Benchmark and Amazon boss Jeffrey Bezos’ personal investment firm Bezos Expeditions – all chipped in to the Series B round too.“Each of these investors brings experience, resources and long-term thinking that will guide us as we continue pursuing our ambitions,”wrote Kilar in a blog post. “Their investment in Vessel will enable us to grow, as a company and a business, equipped with the world-class team and resources we need to make our visions real.”Vessel is planning an aggressive expansion both in terms of staff – it currently has a 40-strong team – and the number of video creators who are available through its app and website, with Kilar claiming “thousands” have applied.“Our engineering team is working hard, too, to bring people more of the features they’ve asked us for and to make Vessel available in more of the places people want it (starting with an Android app that will launch soon),” he wrote.Is Vessel’s new funding round a sign that it has blown through its first $77m already? Sources close to the company told the Guardian that in fact, most of that Series A round remains in the bank, but saw enough interest from investors in its expansion plans to raise again.“If you had to back one team to build the world’s most advanced and user friendly video platform, this would be the team,”wrote IVP’s general partner Todd Chaffee in his own blog post. “Jason and Rich have assembled an exceptional management team, and they have some of the best video engineers on the planet.”Chaffee also compared Vessel to some of the other well-known companies that IVP has invested in, saying that IVP has “been fortunate to back many great companies such as Dropbox, Domo, HomeAway, Kayak, LegalZoom, LifeLock, Netflix, Shazam, Snapchat, Supercell and Twitter. We believe Vessel has the potential to be as successful as these companies someday.”Vessel signed up Ellen DeGeneres to its service.Vessel launched its iOS app and website in January as a public beta, offering a range of channels from vloggers, musicians, comedians and other media brands, whose videos are exclusive to the service for at least 72 hours before being published elsewhere – “the first window for the web” as the company describes it.Related:Vessel founder: ‘Companies realise it’s a chance to redefine the next generation of TV’The company is planning to charge a monthly $2.99 subscription for the exclusive videos, although it also has partnerships with companies like music videos service Vevo to offer their videos non-exclusively in its free tier.Vessel’s pitch to partners is that they’ll earn more from its mix of subscriptions and advertising than they do on YouTube. “If you are a creator on the free web, the cheque that comes out to you after the distributor takes their cut is about $2.20 per thousand views, or maybe $3,”Kilar told the Guardian in February.“We’re projecting that creators will make over $50 per thousand views for the period of time they’re making their video available on Vessel for early access.”Vessel has signed up YouTube stars including Rhett &amp; Link, Shane Dawson, Connor Franta, Brittani Louise Taylor and Nerdist, as well as music labels Warner Music Group and Universal Music Group.In April, US television starEllen DeGeneres also joined Vessel, striking a deal with the company to offer a year’s free subscription to fans who signed up within 48 hours of her announcement.The new funding round is likely to fuel more of these kinds of partnerships – and promotions – with mainstream celebrities and brands, as well as the first wave of YouTube celebrities who have been encouraging their fans to try Vessel.YouTube has already responded to the challenge, launching its Google Preferred initiative to package up popular channels for big advertisers, and thus improve the money those channels’ creators make from ads.Related:‘Traditional TV viewing for teens and tweens is dead. Not dying. Dead.’The company has also announced a new round of investment in top creators’ content, with itshead of YouTube Originals Alex Carloss promising in September 2014that “We’ll experiment with new formats and ideas. We’ll get our hands dirty”.YouTube is also planning to launch its own paid subscription tier that will remove ads and –according to its email to channel owners– “generate a new source of revenue that will supplement your fast-growing advertising revenue”.The emergence of Vessel, and its ability to sign up digital stars and raise significant funding – is one of the factors pushing YouTube to accelerate its efforts to help creators boost their revenues from online videos.See also: Snapchat’s evolution into a platform for media as well as messaging;Facebook’s booming native video views; and thegrowth of live-streaming service Twitch, which is now owned by Amazon, with the latterreportedly triggering a revamp of YouTube’s own live-streaming features.
It is possible to tell comment trolls apart from other users simply from looking at the way they write, researchers have found.Studying the comments on three sites – CNN, Breitbart and IGN – over an 18 month period, the researchers atCornell and Stanford universitiesfound that users who went on to be banned wrote differently to other users in the same comment thread, using fewer words indicative of positive emotion.Future banned users also tended to write comments that were more difficult to read than typical users, the researchers found.“We find that such users tend to concentrate their efforts in a small number of threads, are more likely to post irrelevantly, and are more successful at garnering responses from other users,” the researchers add, in a pre-publication paper titled Antisocial Behavior in Online Discussion Communities.“Studying the evolution of these users from the moment they join a community up to when they get banned, we find that not only do they write worse than other users over time, but they also become increasingly less tolerated by the community.The researchers also discovered that antisocial behaviour was exacerbated when moderation appears to be overly harsh.The researchers studied more than 35m posts sent from almost 2 million users on the three websites under investigation, and found nearly 50,000 individual users who had been banned over the 18 month period. They also examined the number of individual comments that had been deleted or reported to the site’s moderators, with all the data provided to the researchers by Disqus, the commenting platform used by all three sites.They focused their investigation on the 50,000 users banned over the period under examination, and attempted to find tell-tale signs in their prior posts that acted as an indicator for their later behaviour.They discovered that users who would end up being banned from the site often wrote noticeably different to the main bulk of commenters. “Users can stay on-topic or veer off-topic; prior work has also shown that users tend to adopt linguistic conventions or jargon in a community … and that they also unconsciously mimic the choices of function-word classes they are communicating with.” Sure enough, they found that “text similarity” of banned users was significantly lower than that of non-banned users.Additionally, the posts of banned users had similar word counts to those of non-banned, but when tested against a standard readability index were revealed to be significantly harder to read.On top of the information found in the actual posts, the authors also found that users who would go on to be banned interacted differently with the community at large. “For instance, [future banned users] tended to spend more time in individual threads than [users who weren’t banned],” they write.With all the information together, they created a prediction model which can guess with 80% accuracy whether or not that user will go on to be banned from just their first five posts. Looking at the first 10 raises the accuracy of the model by a further two percentage points, which raises the possibility of automatically highlighting potentially problematic users to moderators so that antisocial behaviour can be dealt with more quickly.But the authors warn that overzealous moderation can have its own downside: “Taking extreme action against small infractions can exacerbate antisocial behaviour (e.g. unfairness can cause users to write worse) … Whereas trading off overall performance for higher precision and have a human moderator approve any bans is one way to avoid incorrectly blocking innocent users, a better response may instead involve giving antisocial users a chance to redeem themselves.”
Tens of millions of parents are familiar with the children’s apps made by Swedish firm Toca Boca. Now it’s hoping to capitalise on that reputation as it explores the worlds of TV and video.The company is launching a new video division, based in New York and headed up by J Milligan, who previously worked as creative director of Sesame Street parent company Sesame Workshop’s content innovation lab.Toca Boca’s apps have been downloaded more than 85m times on iOS and Android devices since its launch in 2011, but the company sees potential in the online video world, where children’s channels are among the most popular on YouTube, while services like Netflix and Amazon are commissioning shows for kids.Related:‘Traditional TV viewing for teens and tweens is dead. Not dying. Dead.’“Streaming services like Netflix and YouTube have transformed how kids define TV and video,” said Toca Boca chief executive Björn Jeffery in a statement. “Video as a medium separates itself from TV with new formats, fewer constraints and different consumer expectations and we’re excited to dive into this new landscape.”Milligan is currently recruiting a team for the New York office, with the first videos due to launch in the second half of 2015. He told the Guardian that Toca Boca is being guided by children’s evolving entertainment habits.“This is already how kids behave: if there’s a family iPad, there’s some point at which the kid takes control over it, and that’s their screen, even though there’s still a TV in the corner,” he said.“Toca Boca’s first screen is the tablet, and that’s what the video experience is like for kids already. My son will watch Lego videos on YouTube, Phineas and Ferb and a video I shot of me going down a waterslide, all in the same hour.“If we’re in a hotel room and I turn on the TV and it’s in the middle of the show, he’ll say ‘start it over!’. And if I say I can’t because it started at 2pm, he’ll be ‘Really? Why would they do that?’ But this is their world.”For now, Toca Boca isn’t talking in detail about what kinds of videos or shows it plans to make, although Milligan said that it is more likely to skew towards the short-form content that’s popular on YouTube than the longer shows on Netflix.Until now, Toca Boca’s videos have been promotional in nature, for its apps.“Toca Boca is all about the power of play, and giving kids the tools to use their imagination. So how does that map to video consumption, which can be incredibly passive? How can we make this a playful experience?” he said.“It’s an almost blank piece of paper, and that’s really exciting. It’s an amazing starting point: how do we make this playful and engaging and interactive, but still what you want while watching?”Milligan also hinted that Toca Boca won’t be merely making videos, but building its own platform to deliver them to parents. The logical comparison is to Rovio and Outfit7, who have both made their videos part of their Angry Birds and Talking Friends apps respectively.“We have this opportunity: once we’ve built it, we’ll have our own distribution platform. Ultimately, it’s not like YouTube or Netflix are beholden to programming schedules, but wereallywon’t be beholden to them,” said Milligan.“The day we launch is the day we start the next phase, where in a Netflix way we’ll know what people are into, and then we’ll be able to build on what’s successful. We’re going to take a nimble and lean approach to everything.”Related:YouTube Kids ads row: how should we pay for children's entertainment?There’s certainly an opportunity. Rovio’s ToonsTV network, which made its debut as a section of its Angry Birds apps, has nowgenerated more than 5bn video views. Meanwhile, children’s channels like Fun Toyz Collector, Little Baby Bum and Stampy are among the most popular on YouTube,notching up nearly 6.5bn views between them in 2014.Online video could also be an important new revenue stream for Toca Boca, which has maintained its principle of charging for apps rather than using in-app purchases. According to its most recent set of financial results, for 2013, it made just over $8.6m of revenue that year from 35m app downloads.The company is a subsidiary of Swedish media firm Bonnier, which gives it a more stable base than most children’s app publishers – even if it operates as a standalone unit. The parent firm, plus tens of millions of app downloads a year should be a good launchpad for Toca Boca’s video business.However, if the company decides to make money from advertising, it will need to pick its path as carefully as it has done with app purchasing: a group of children’s and consumer advocacy groups recentlyfiled a formal complaint with the US Federal Trade Commissionabout the advertising in the recently-launched YouTube Kids app.
Microsoft’s Bing search engine has captured more than 20% of the US desktop search market for the first time since it launched, leaving Google with 64.4%.Bing was up 0.3 percentage points in March to 20.1%, while both Yahoo and Google fell 0.1 percentage points, according to the latest data fromresearch firm comScore.Microsoft has steadily pumped money and resources into Bing, attempting to carve out a chunk of the search market. It has integrated Bing search technology into existing Microsoft products including the Xbox, Windows, Windows Phone and Office to attempt to get users using Bing and shoehorned from Google.But Microsoft’s slow and steady rise since Bing was launched in 2009 has been at the expense of its search partner Yahoo, which claimed 20% of the US search market before Bing’s arrival. However, Bing also powers Yahoo’s search engine in some situations, including standard organic search, making Microsoft’s total reach just under 33%.Outside the US the desktop search market looks very different. Google claimed an 87.95% share of the global search market leaving Bing with 4.4% and Yahoo with 3.87% in March, according todata from research firm StatCounter. Google’s global share has reduced from a peak of 92.04% in May 2012, primarily due to the rise of Bing.Google dominates in Europe, with a 90.94% share in March, leaving Bing with 3.37% and Yahoo with 2.1%, but again Google was down from a peak of 95.1% in June 2011.The UK is one of Bing’s biggest markets in Europe, however. Microsoft claimed a 7.08% share of the UK desktop search market in March, Yahoo 3.46%, but Google still had the lions share with an 88.09% share of the market.Google is facinganti-trust charges in Europeover its alleged abuse of its search dominance and promotion of its own services over competitors.For many, Google istheportal to the internet for search, but recent rises in social media dominance, especially from Facebook, have shifted that balance of power over how consumers begin their browsing journey.While Bing is now a viable competitor to Google in the US, Facebook will likely be Google’s biggest rival for the next era of the internet, being the primary homepage and portal for many.•Europe is targeting Google under antitrust laws but missing the bigger picture
Citizens of the internet: here is some welcome news. Your downtrodden digital rights might be getting a well-overdue booster shot. But it comes with some warnings.This week in the Hague, ahigh-level groupof 29 internet policymakers and influencers – including prominent ex-US and UK security and intelligence officials Michael Chertoff, Joseph Nye, Melissa Hathaway and David Omand –issued a clarion callfor the protection and promotion of human rights online. Self-styled the Global Commission on Internet Governance, the group made this call as part of the broader objective of restoring trust and confidence in the internet.Championing our fundamental human rights toprivacy and personal data protection, the commission affirmed the need for strong encryption and other privacy-enhancing technologies, while completely rejecting government“backdoors” on communications platforms – on the basis that digital communications “should be inherently considered private between the intended parties”.This clear and unambiguous statement is a mature recognition of both the environmental and legal reality: if weweaken security, even for the ostensibly “good” guys, we leave communications wide open for the bad guys, too. And while the UK Intelligence and Security Committee wouldprefer it otherwise, generic intrusion on our private communications, thoughts and papers hasno precedentin the law of this land – and so itmuststay.The commission didn’t stop with just proposing measures to rein in unjust government surveillance that lacks necessity and proportionality, backed up by robust, independent oversight and the stick of appropriate redress and effective remedies for breach.They insisted that companies, too, must be much more transparent and restrained in their use of data, offering users full and detailed information and real and informed choices, particularly in relation to thetrade-offs inherentin “free” services – “often a guise for a kind of private surveillance in the service of ‘big data’,” the report states. This dual focus, on the dangers of both government and corporate surveillance, is refreshing and essential.A new normative framework underpinned by human rightsThe commission’s 18-page report is the first coordinated output from this group that was established 15 months ago by British and Canadian think-tanks,Chatham Houseand theCentre for International Governance Innovation, and chaired by ex-Swedish foreign minister, Carl Bildt. It precedes a final report anticipated for early 2016, and accompanies some 14 independentpapersof varying quality, commissioned on different related topics over the past year.The report is an important advance because it considers and balances the need for citizen confidence in digital communications and services, while at the same recognising our shared interest in law enforcement and targeted surveillance.As a result of this, it comes out firmly on the side of transparency, accountability, restraint, and the primacy of human rights.“The obligation of states to protect and promote rights to privacy and freedom of expression are not optional,” the report states. “Even if they are not absolute rights, limitations to these rights, even those based on national security concerns, must be prescribed by law, guaranteeing that exceptions are both necessary and proportionate. Governments should guarantee the same human rights protection to all individuals within their borders.”The report is also attuned to the more insidious aspects of private commercial surveillance, recognising, for example, that the evolvinginternet of thingsposes unprecedentedchallenges for privacyand security and must proceed with transparency, accountability, and clear legal bases for data collection and use.“Personal data protection regulations are mostly not yet suited to the complexity of the digital age,” the authors write, “for example, by not adequately regulating the extensive secondary use of personal data or ensuring the transparency of exceptions to privacy for sovereignty and national security purposes.”Social compacts, multistakeholderism and other illusionsThe group’s overall ambition is to articulate and advance a strategic vision on the polarising and widely-misunderstood topic of internet governance.Narrowly conceived, internet governance concerns internet-native bodies, such asICANN(theprivate companywith amonopoly on domain name distribution and regulation) andIETF(an internet standards body).But more broadly, internet governance is the biggest geoeconomic and geopoliticalbattlefieldyou’ve neverheard about– dictating the rules, emperors, winners and losers of our online lives, fortunes and destinies. And it is politically fraught, because both in its narrow and broad incarnations, internet governance isundeniably dominatedby one state’s security and economic interests:the United States.The subtext of the report – and where some hazards may lie – is a general push for what is termed themultistakeholdermodel of internet governance. This is a neoliberal concept that has taken hold in this peculiar, captured domain of international relations, and which brings corporationsto the tablewith the governments that are supposed to regulate them.The report pushes what it calls a “social compact” – an invented term, not the philosophical concept of old. It reflects the frightening prospect that the new age bonds of society are not between citizens and states, but between citizens (likely, in the imagining of its proponents, to beself-employedcheap workersof the “sharing economy” and other fabricated markets) and a nebulous “community” of “stakeholders”.In plain English: between us, and near-stateless globalgiants like Google, untethered from terrestrial law and infrastructure, and running theultimate monopoly machine.While the stakeholders of such compacts vary (in this report, bizarrely, the judiciary is included, despite independence being a judge’s first and most important hallmark), the constant is business, propped up by civil society, the “technical community” and academics – with governments always in a subordinate role (because of the constant spectre, whether justified or fantastical, of dictatorial and repressive regimes somehow overreaching their boundaries).Some of the props in these communities arefiercely independent, tireless voices for good and great causes. But many others, whether knowingly or naively, are just another front for business interests. And the 150-odd countries that probably have some interests, between China/Russia on the one hand, and the US and its allies on the other? They are forgotten.Will “trust” save the internet?The commission’s report is excellent in many respects. It advances what it terms a normative framework for privacy and security, and provides sensible details and strong baselines. The report is supported by some very informative and originalsurvey work, showing the extent of public concern about government and corporate surveillance. But to make the content meaningful, there needs to be more consideration given to the premise and proposed mechanisms for action and reform.Trust and confidence are an odd premise on which to advance this report. Think about these traits. They are fickle and human. Hard to gain and easy to lose, they are attributes of people, acquired by lifetimes of experience and the manifold clues embedded in our social fabric.But machines, entities, infrastructure and artefacts – these are not things we trust. They are things we use, tolerate or begrudgingly accept, withvaried levelsof reflection and knowledge.We don’t want our corporations and security agencies fickle and fallible. Trust and confidence take hard work, time and evidence. They must be earned. And they will be earned by obeying laws, respecting and promoting human rights, and cracking down and remedying profligate corporate and government behaviour without fear or favour.The concerns expressed here with multistakeholderism are sounded as a general warning about the neoliberal directions in which it takes us, rather than a dismissal of the promising and important content of the commission’s report.The report is at least sensitive to the need to keep all players – whether corporate or state – accountable, within the law, and responsive to a greatly enhanced set of tech norms and ethics, a point championedin particularby the group’s tech-savvy Dutch Liberal MEP Marietje Schaake.However, it is a worry that the report does not even consider the mechanisms by which an international and social consensus might be achieved on the issues being addressed. The social compact may be advanced pragmatically, becausebetter alternativesare not considered feasible or reachable. But the concern is that, by appealing to what is, in effect, self-regulation, the compact will become a diluted pacifier, and a ceiling, rather than a floor.The document should be seen as a challenge: by whatever mechanism it is achieved, it outlines exactly the sorts of major behavioural changes we require, both from state intelligence agencies and from multinational companies, if we are really going to save the internet.Crime, hacking and being monetised – what worries citizensTheCIGI-Ipsos Global Survey on Internet Security and Trustis based on 23,326 internet users, drawn from 24 countries and polled over 36 days in October-November 2014. It found that:74% were concerned about companies monitoring online activities and then selling that information for commercial purposes77% were concerned about hacking of personal accounts78% were concerned about personal financial cybercrime61% were concerned about domestic government surveillance62% were concerned about foreign government surveillance72% want their online data and personal information to be physically stored on a secure server in their own country64% had an enhanced degree of concern about their online privacy in the year following the Snowden revelations
“Millions” of trips have been made using a new carpooling service from taxi app Uber, according to statistics released by the firm, which claims that in just one month enough people shared rides in San Francisco alone to save 120 tonnes of carbon dioxide when compared to taking Uber cabs alone..Initially introduced in San Francisco in 2014, before spreading to other US cites and Paris, UberPool attempts to match riders travelling in the same direction, letting them share a cab for part of their journey in exchange for cost savings. Uber says that sharing a ride reduces the number of cars on the street, directly saving fuel and limiting carbon emissions.Uber based its sums on a comparison between it’s cab hire services – UberX – and its ride sharing service, UberPool. Itsays: “Conservatively assuming that every [San Francisco] UberX vehicle is a Toyota Prius — thus getting its gas mileage of 50 mpg — UberPool trips saved around 13,500 gasoline gallons. Accounting for a savings of 8.91kg of atmospheric CO2 emissions per gallon, San Francisco’s UberPool efforts prevented about 120 metric tons of CO2 emissions from Feb to 20 Mar, equivalent to the output of over 128,000 pounds of coal.”But the cost savings of sharing a cab may also lead to Uber journeys being made where previously riders would have taken public transport. The company says that “thousands of users” share their cabs during commute hours “more than five times in a week”, proving that the service “is becoming a true commuting option for many people.”Neither UberPool, nor a similar service run by archrival Lyft called Lyft Line, are available in the UK, but a brand new service called Maaxi has just launched aiming to introduce the concept of cab sharing to Britain.Rather than Uber-style minicabs,Maaxi lets users share black cabs, arguing that “the seats in them have been until now available for sale only at a premium cost, selling the entire space for exclusive rides.”“Black cabs are part of Transport for London’s licensed transport infrastructure. With Maaxi, London will be the world’s first city to enjoy on demand door-to-door public transport,” said the service’s founder and CEO Gabriel Campos.But all cab sharing services face the same problem in the future: getting people to accept sharing a taxi with a total stranger. The services are still in their early days, and for most users, the concept of cab sharing remains a novelty. As it grows in popularity, however, it is likely to face the same teething problems that taxi apps have faced worldwide, with fears over safety, and regulatory hurdles, both slowing adoption.
WikiLeaks has republished the Sony data from last year’s hacking scandal, making all the documents and emails “fully searchable” with aGoogle-style search engine.The move provides much easier access to the stolen information. Searching the name of, for example, former Sony Pictures chief Amy Pascal, whose controversial comments were revealed by the hack,immediately yields nearly 5,700 results.Julian Assange, WikiLeaks’ editor-in-chief, said: “This archive shows the inner workings of an influential multinational corporation. It is newsworthy and at the centre of a geopolitical conflict. It belongs in the public domain. WikiLeaks will ensure it stays there.”But Sony accused WikiLeaks of contributing to the damage done by the data theft, which it condemned as “a malicious criminal act.”“The attackers used the dissemination of stolen information to try to harm SPE and its employees, and now WikiLeaks regrettably is assisting them in that effort,” a Sony spokesperson wrote in an unbylined statement.“We vehemently disagree with WikiLeaks’ assertion that this material belongs in the public domain and will continue to fight for the safety, security, and privacy of our company and its more than 6,000 employees.”Former senator Chris Dodd, chairman of the MPAA, also spoke out against the republication of the material. “This information was stolen from Sony Pictures as part of an illegal and unprecedented cyberattack,” he wrote in a press statement. “Wikileaks is not performing a public service by making this information easily searchable. Instead, with this despicable act, Wikileaks is further violating the privacy of every person involved.”WikiLeaks said the stolen files shed light on cooperation between government agencies and entertainers. “The connections and alignments between Sony Pictures Entertainment and the Democratic party are detailed through the archives, including SPE’s CEO [Michael] Lynton attending dinner with President Obama at Martha’s Vineyard and Sony employees being part of fundraising dinners for the Democratic party.”The hacked Sony documents were originally not much more than hard-drive images converted into common compressed file formats, meaning that anyone curious about the information could download it from a filesharing service like BitTorrent.But, if interested in company emails or financial data, users needed to wade through spreadsheet-like directory trees or run memory-taxing searches stretching the abilities of most personal computers. The files, in total, comprised several terabytes of material, including video ranging from movies to high-resolution promotional spots. The video material appears to have been redacted from the searchable files on WikiLeaks.The new site removes the processing burden from users’ PCs and means that anyone will be able to look through the data available with a minimum of trouble. It is possible there is information there that no one has publicized before because of the difficulty of searching through the original leaks.A group calling itself Guardians of Peace distributed the files originally in November last year by seeding the files to peer-to-peer filesharing services across the internet; the files spread quickly and affected the release schedule for several movies, in particular the Seth Rogen-James Franco comedy The Interview, which made fun of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un.US intelligence officials asserted that the hack was sponsored by North Korea, something other experts have cast doubt upon.
A man has ruptured a tendon in his thumb by playing Candy Crush Saga, making it one of the first touchscreen-gaming related injuries and puttingBlackBerry thumbback on the map.The Californian man played the game all day every day for between six and eight weeks using only his left hand, while conducting daily tasks with his right. The repetitive motions of touchscreen tapping caused a rupture, not at the tendon’s thinnest point as is normal, or at bone where this type of injury usually occurs, but at its thickest, according to a new report in themedical journal JAMA Internal Medicine.The unusual thing about an injury there, which rendered the man’s thumb immovable, is the high levels of pain that would have been present leading up to the rupture. The authors of the report found the man suffered no pain while playing the game, indicating his addiction to Candy Crush blocked pain.Playing video games releases chemicals in the brain linked to pleasure and excitement, but they also have the potential to act as painkillers.“The potential for video games to reduce pain perception raises clinical and social considerations about excessive use, abuse, and addiction,” write the authors of the study.Repetitive strain injuries from smartphones are nothing new. BlackBerry thumb from typing over and over on the tiny physical keyboard of BlackBerry smartphones was common. This isn’t the first time video games have caused injuries either, from blistered thumbs due to excessive Street Fighter to black eyes and pulled muscles from over excited Wii play.But this is one of the first documented cases of touchscreen gaming causing such injuries and points to a potential for video games in pain treatment.Does your Candy Crush addiction cause more than emotional and financial pain in your life?Have you ever injured yourself playing video games? Tell us below.•Candy Crush Saga players spent £865m on the game in 2014 alone
Apple is refusing to explain how and why the Russian language version of its voice-controlled virtual assistant, Siri, provided homophobic answers to queries relating to gay or lesbian topics.The allegations first came to light when a Russian man called Alex, who lives in London, uploaded avideoto YouTube appearing to show Siri either evading questions or expressing a negative response.Alex asked questions such as: “Are there any gay bars around me?”, “tell me about gay marriage?” and “how do I register a gay marriage in England?”Siri’s answers? “I would have turned red if I could”, “you are so rude!” and “I will pretend I haven’t heard”.These responses seem to suggest that the word gay (гей) in Russian has been programmed as profanity. Swear words in the English language version receive similar responses.However, the following more nuanced response, doesn’t fit that pattern.“Is gay marriage normal?”The response? “I believe this emotion should be considered negative.”Is gay marriage normal?When contacted by the Guardian, Apple refused to give further comment, replying with a single sentence saying only that Siri’s responses had been “fixed”.Follow-up questions regarding the specific cause of the problem, and whether steps had been taken to ensure the incident wasn’t repeated, Apple declined to comment.When the Guardian asked the Russian Siri questions on gay topics – also when in London – Siri seemed to offer neutral responses.Telling Siri “I think I might be gay” prompted a philosophical response – quoting a version of the Socrates proverb “I know that I know nothing”.Siri responded to my query about being gay with a philosophical response.Photograph: Apple/Hannah Jane ParkinsonWhen we asked Siri where the nearest gay bar was, Siri responded with “here’s what I found”, but instead of listing gay bars in the nearest location, pulled up the Wikipedia page on the term “gay bar”.Siri pulls up the Wikipedia entry for ‘gay bar’.Photograph: Apple/Hannah Jane ParkinsonHowever, one request for information on the nearest gay or lesbian bars prompted a response about changing location settings.Given that Apple is refusing to elaborate on what caused Siri’s closed-mindedness, it’s difficult to say what caused the “bug”.It is possible that a rogue programmer set the Russian terms for gay and lesbian as curse words, which would automatically trigger Siri’s shocked and negative responses, as it would if a user were to say “fuck” in English, for instance.Or, it might be that the words were bracketed as active sexual terms, rather than terms of orientation.@tim_cookcheck russian speaking Siri reaction to everything gay. Is she homophobic?&mdash; Andrii Mandryk (@AndriiMandryk)April 13, 2015It has also beenmootedthat Apple was trying to abide by Russia’s 2013 laws prohibiting “promotion” of homosexuality. The ruling seems to have become a blanket ban on providing information on homosexuality, or even mentioning its existence.The idea that Apple was abiding by this law makes little sense, however, as iPhone and iPad owners are able to use the Russian Siri outside of Russian territory.The episode will cause embarrassment to Apple whose own chief executive, Tim Cook,came outas gay in October 2014, calling his sexuality “one of the greatest gifts God has given me”.Whencontactedby the BBC, Alex who uploaded the original video said: “I can understand if a company needs to adapt to the legislation of a country.“Apple fixed it. But there hasn’t been an explanation as to how it happened in the first place.”Siri has been in trouble many times before. In 2011, the assistantdeclined to offerinformation on abortion clinics. She alsosworeat a 12-year-old boy.•How anti-gay groups use ‘Russian Facebook’ to persecute LGBT people•Tim Cook: ‘I consider being gay among the greatest gifts God has given me’
“We were three years late to YouTube! We didn’t join YouTube until late 2008, because when we first looked at it, honestly, I viewed them as a competitor. But then it grew to the point where if you wanted to be part of the conversation, you had to be on YouTube.”Burnie Burns, co-founder and creative director ofRooster Teeth, is sitting in the company’s booth in the basement of Cannes’ Palais des Festivals at the MIPTV television industry market, one of a number of digital production companies here to parlay massive YouTube popularity into licensing deals with broadcasters.And Rooster Teethismassively popular on YouTube –its main channelgenerated 879m video views in 2014 alone, and currently has nearly 8.2 million subscribers – but the US studio’s first show Red vs Blue actually debuted online two years before YouTube in 2003.Burns is in Cannes to explain that history to TV companies who are simultaneously fascinated and terrified by the huge audiences watching YouTube channels.Not just in Rooster Teeth’s booth either: on Wednesday, hedid it from the stage of the Palais’ Grand Auditoriumin a “digital screening” that saw clips of Red vs Blue and other Rooster Teeth shows showcased on the massive cinema screen more usually associated with the glitz of the Cannes Film Festival.Burns and his colleagues are also ensuring TV firms understand their company. It makes a lot of shows about games and is steeped in gaming culture, but it also makes comedies and action adventures.It is well known for making machinima – dramas produced, like Red vs Blue, within games – but it also does live-action like Lazer Team, an upcoming sci-fi comedy film based on four hapless heroes charged with saving the world from an alien invasion.‘We always focused on narratives’“We’ve been doing this for 12 years, and the television industry is just now starting to really pay attention to it. And that’s great, but we’ve been ready for that the entire time,” says Burns.“Even in the days of early YouTube we always focused on narratives, and we always focused on franchises. We didn’t do a lot of vlogging and stuff like that. And over the years, we had some organic things like Let’s Play that grew out of what we did with machinima.”Related:‘Traditional TV viewing for teens and tweens is dead. Not dying. Dead.’Let’s Play videos are big on YouTube, and they’ve evolved from being play-throughs of video games with commentary on top to something that in many cases is its own entertainment genre.“To me, the machinima artform has essentially evolved now into the Let’s Play streaming world. That’s what it is: it’s people performing and creating art using video games. It’s just more personality-driven rather than story-driven these days,” says Burns.Red vs Blue still falls into the latter camp. Billed as “the longest running sci-fi show in American history”, its 13 seasons have been filmed within various Halo games as a sharp parody of science fiction and gaming tropes alike. It’s a comedy that happens to be set within a video game world, a bit like The Simpsons is a sitcom that just happens to be a cartoon.(Thank youThe_AshleemeE on the Rooster Teeth subredditfor pointing out that the previous clip may have been a big spoiler: we’ve swapped it for a trailer now.)“That was the philosophical approach from day one. Just because this thing is in a video game doesn’t mean it has to be about a video game,” says Burns. “And it’s evolved. Red vs Blue as a show has evolved dramatically. It looks an entirely different show to what we started with, but the format of the show has changed so much over the years too.”Rooster Teeth’s online empire has grown from that one show, picking up an audience of – an overused buzzword at MIPTV – “millennials” that TV broadcasters are worried about losing to online channels.“When we go to talk to TV people and talk about the teenage male demographic, they’re like ‘We don’t programme for them, because we don’t know where they went!’ And I’m like ‘we know where they went: I can show you exactly where they are, because they’re watching our content online!’” says Burns.Rooster Teeth’s audience may be online, but the company has had one eye on the TV world throughout its history. That includes filming some shows, like sci-fi action series RWBY, in 11-minute episodes that can be packaged in pairs for a 22-minute TV show.“TV can be a frustrating industry, because people are very set in their ways and they can be very risk-averse. Online, we can incubate shows: we can put a show out and after two episodes if it’s not going the way we want it to be, we just completely rework it. We have a lot more freedom online,” says Burns.‘People just want premium content’He says Rooster Teeth has always thought of its shows as franchises in their own right, which helps now that it’s having licensing discussions with broadcasters. Even from the start of Red vs Blue, the studio deliberately described it as “the popular web series Red vs Blue” to ensure people understood its episodic nature.“Back then there were Flash animations but usually standalone. Even a series like Homestar Runner, you didn’t need to watch multiple episodes to know what was going on. But we were trying to communicate even back then that this was something different,” he says.“‘There’s going to be one show, and then next week there’s going to be another show, and you’re going to come back next week’. Training the audience, even though they’re used to episodic content from television. So we’ve always had a franchise mindset.”Burnie Burns of Rooster Teeth.With Red vs Blue now available on Netflix, Lazer Team set to be released across all screens, and traditional broadcasters buzzing around, Burns is excited about the potential to get these shows out to even bigger audiences.“The way you deliver content, there used to be really hard lines. ‘This is a theatrical movie, this is a television show, this is a web series’. But as technology becomes ubiquitous for delivering content, those hard lines blur and you end up on a spectrum where it’s not always clear,” he says.Related:BuzzFeed sees short-form videos as springboard to TV shows and filmsRooster Teeth doesn’t know whether Lazer Team will be in cinemas, for example. “We honestly don’t know! And we don’t know that it’s all that important any more. It’d be great for marketing certainly, but we’re reaching a point where people just want premium content, and those audiences will consume that content however they best see fit.”Burns cites his own children as examples. “I’m not entirely sure they would know how to tune in to a television channel. They just don’t do that. The way they consume media is all through either an Xbox and the video on there, or an iPad. That’s it.”‘We always knew we were going to make it’Lazer Team will certainly be a good calling card for Rooster Teeth. It’s due to be released this year through parent company, multi-channel network (MCN) Fullscreen, which bought Rooster teeth for an undisclosed amount in 2014.“We have a lot of fans who watch a lot of our shows, and we are always trying to find ways to introduce that content to the other people in their life. I think the movie will be a great way to do that,” says Burns.“People will be able to say ‘okay, you can’t sit down and watch a 13-season show to get caught up with these guys, and you probably won’t want to watch a Let’s Play, but you might want to watch an hour-and-a-half movie’. So it’s a great introduction.”Lazer Team isn’t a new idea for Rooster Teeth: the company has been talking about it for years. “We always knew we were gong to make it, but it was always the project after the next project: ‘Oh, we’ll work on this then we’ll work on Lazer Team after that, because it’s such a big effort and it’s going to take such a lot of resources. Then we solved that problem with crowdfunding.”They certainly did. In 2014,Rooster Teeth raised just under $2.5m on crowdfunding site Indiegogoto make its first feature-length movie – nearly four times its original goal of $650k.‘The audience exerts creative control’“Crowdfunding is amazing, and we were late to the game on that because we just hadn’t participated in it, but it worked really well for us. We have huge numbers: 3.9m viewers per month, 18m subscribers on YouTube and 4bn views, almost: all those huge numbers that you hear associated with YouTube properties and online media,” he says.Related:‘History, yes. Science, sure. Sharks, yes’ – what millennials want from factual TV“But when it came to funding a movie, we hit our goal with 22,000 backers. That’s a manageable number: essentially that’s pre-orders. People get a lot of movies funded because they can sell the international rights ahead of time: a movie like Clerks 2 was profitable before it even put a single reel in the theater. Now you can do that with crowdfunding as well. This is the new pre-orders, at a premium price with some extra perks.”Crowdfunding also brings more creative control, in theory. Or does it? Burns points out that while Rooster Teeth doesn’t have Hollywood studio execs breathing down his neck while making Lazer Team, there are still financial backers who have views to share: the fans. And in fact, they have views on everything the company makes.“Creative control is interesting: you never do have that entirely because you have an audience, and the audience exerts creative control, especially online. If I post a video, within a minute I’ll have a second-by-second breakdown of what somebody thinks of the video!” he says. “The audience online, I think they drive content and they shape content more than they think.”‘The last year in gaming has been a hard one’Some of my favourite Rooster Teeth videos recently have been on its standaloneGame Kidschannel, whichlaunched in December 2014with a family-friendly focus, including videos of Rooster Teethers and their families playing games like Minecraft and The Sims.“We’re not trying to transition any of our current audience to Game Kids. We’re just trying to have it slowly, organically be discovered by the audiences we hope will like that content,” says Burns.The reason I love Game Kids is the way it reflects something I love about gaming in 2015: a shared experience between me and my children, who have almost-visible lightbulbs popping above their heads as they’re starting to explore these digital worlds. It feels like a truly precious thing, passing on a love for games and creative play, and Game Kids reflects that too.It’s also been a breath of fresh positivity after a year in which the gamer community wasenmeshed in GamerGate. Burns chooses his words carefully when I mention the word, but doesn’t dodge the subject.“The last year in gaming has been a hard one for the culture. With GamerGate and everything that’s gone on with that, it’s been tough to watch.’” he says.“I will freely admit there have been times in the last year when I thought to myself ‘Do I identify myself as being a gamer at this point? Am I part of this culture, do I fit in to this?’ It’s like anything: a very vocal minority that are saying things because they get attention for them. And that happens all the time.”‘We’re not here to tell you why something is bad’Game Kids was not a direct response to GamerGate, but rather had its roots in Rooster Teeth’s desire to “focus on things that we like” rather than negativity.“That’s why we don’t do game reviews, because we’re not here to tell you why something is bad, because a lot of people worked on that thing! And also there’s a lot of people who enjoy something, and they don’t need someone telling them it’s not to be enjoyed,” he says.Related:TV industry faces its ‘ketchup’ moment: ‘Mobile is now the first screen’“So Game Kids is something we thought would work very well with family-friendly and kids content: just having a very positive and good experience. Games are fun, y’know! Games have a terrible reputation: I was a very early gamer back in the Atari days, and my parents would always tell me ‘get off that thing!’. Now I do this for a living…”We’re not quite finished with GamerGate yet, though. Burns has some nuanced views on how the last year’s online debate - and game culture more generally - may have been perceived by the wider world.“The way gamers are is they’re competitive by nature. They talk about press conferences at E3, they’ll say ‘The Xbox conference is today and the Sony conference was yesterday. Who won? Who lost? But how do you win a press conference?! Well, it’s just the way people talk,” he says.“Gamers, it’s part of their vocabulary, that winning and losing is important to them. So much of the culture that’s built around that, you can’t really separate it when issues come up. You have to understand that this is the way that those people communicate.“And it can seem aggressive at times, and sometimes I personally don’t agree with what they’re discussing or their viewpoints. But the way they discuss it? I can’t really cast aspersions on it, because I do well the rest of the year based on that same passion, you know what I mean?”‘Now we’re competing with Netflix and HBO and Amazon’Rooster Teeth is doing well, and it’s riding the wave of YouTube’s growth and the emergence of other ways to watch video, from Netflix to startups like Vessel.Burns compares it to the first dotcom boom, when a significant investment in technology - broadband networking - spawned companies like Google and Amazon with “really cool services that engaged audiences”. He sees a parallel with what’s happening now with online media.“The second coming of the dotcom era, but a lot more stable. A lot of people invested a lot of money in technology: they’re launching things like Vessel, and everybody it seems is starting a video platform. Amazon acquired Twitch. And now there’s a huge need for content,” he says.This is why Rooster Teeth agreed to be bought by Fullscreen in November 2014, to give it the resources and tools it needs to compete as more and more producers of all sizes flood onto these platforms.“We knew everyone was heading in this direction: we had that feeling that technology would get to the point where everybody would eventually be streaming everything online digitally. It was just the way it was going to work,” he says.“In the last 18 months, that eventuality has become imminent. Before, people were kinda heading in the direction of where we’re standing. Now people are full-out sprinting in this direction.“But now we’re armed. Now we’re not competing with the PewDiePies and the Homestar Runners of the world. Now we’re competing with Netflix and HBO and Amazon. And we’re more than ready for that challenge.”
Google has apologised to the Guardian and Bild, after citing “nonsense” figures for the two sites’ traffic statistics in a response to the European commission’s antitrust charges against the company.The figures, which claimed that the two papers get “up to 85% of their traffic directly” and “less than 10%” from Google, were later retracted.In the wake ofthe decision by European regulators to investigate the search firm for anticompetitive practices, Google’s senior vice president for search, Amit Singhal,published a blogpostarguing against the allegations.“Any economist would say that you typically do not see a ton of innovation, new entrants or investment in sectors where competition is stagnating – or dominated by one player. Yet that is exactly what’s happening in our world,”Singhal wrote. He argued that the wealth of innovation in sectors such as travel search, shopping comparisons, and social media is evidence that Google does not dominate any of those sectors.Google also defended its role in news, an area not covered by the European commission’s complaint but one where it is constantly under attack across Europe. In Spain,the company closed its news search productafter the introduction of a so-called Google Tax required it to pay licensing fees to papers it aggregated. In Germany, major publishersaccused Google of blackmailwhen it removed images and text snippets following a lawsuit.Downplaying Google’s strength in the news field, Singhal wrote that “when it comes to news, users often go directly to their favourite sites. For example, Bild and The Guardian get up to 85% of their traffic directly. Less than 10% comes from Google.”But those figures are “nonsense”, according to the Guardian’s audience editor Chris Moran. Citing the paper’s internal statistics, he said that “unknown traffic to Guardian fronts” – readers coming directly to the paper’s front page – “was broadly the same in [page views] as Google referral.”Just to be absolutely clear... this is nonsensehttp://t.co/o283lh7q6kpic.twitter.com/tuV8LHw34u&mdash; Chris Moran (@chrismoranuk)April 15, 2015A little Ophan powered fact re Google blog. Yesterday unknown traffic to Guardian fronts was broadly the same in PVs as Google referral&mdash; Chris Moran (@chrismoranuk)April 15, 2015After it was brought to their attention, Google removed the figures and apologised, updating the post with a correction.“An earlier version of this post quoted traffic figures for Bild and the Guardian, researched on a third-party site. The Guardian data were for the domain guardian.co.uk, which is no longer the main domain for the paper. We’ve removed these references and we’re sorry for the error,” the correction read.The company also apologised to Yelp, another firm cited as evidence of healthy competition. “Yelp has pointed out that they get 40% of their searches (not their traffic) direct from their mobile apps. They don’t appear to disclose their traffic numbers. We’re happy to correct the record.”SimilarWeb, the third-party site which was the source of the incorrectly reported Guardian traffic figures, estimates site data using information from a panel of web surfers who have volunteered to install a browser plugin. If the correct domain for the Guardian is entered, it suggests that slightly over 30% of the Guardian’s traffic comes from Google, compared to slightly under 30% of the traffic coming from direct sources. Those figures are also contradicted by the Guardian’s internal statistics.
Jawbone has added contactless payments to its latest fitness band, giving a secondary use to its activity tracker as the wearables market becomes more competitive.The new UP4 is a version of Jawbone’slong-awaited UP3and incorporates an NFC chip that can be used to pay for goods and services in shops.The functionality is the result of a partnership between Jawbone and American Express, meaning it only works for American Express credit card holders, and at the moment only in the US, but it marks the first step to turning fitness trackers into more than health gadgets.The UP4 has the same sensors for heart health monitoring, activity tracking and advanced sleep tracking, and syncs to the Jawbone app on the iPhone or Android, which is used to configure payment details.The band will last approximately seven days per charge, meaning that the credit card replacement can be worn all week without needing to take it off, unlike other wearable payment solutions including the Apple Watch, which must be charged overnight.Bonk to pay with the Jawbone UP4.Photograph: JawboneBarclays and other banks have made similar contactless payment bands, taking the NFC chips out of pre-paid credit cards and inserting them into rubber wristbands. But the UP4 is the first piece of wearable technology to support contactless payments that isn’t a smartwatch, and will be as secure as current contactless credit cards using the same technology.The UP4 joins a new generation of fitness trackers expanding beyond their original remit and becoming wearable devices connecting into the internet of things or providing functionality such as mobile payments.Misfit’s Flash fitness tracker, for instance, can now be used tocontrol a variety of gadgetsand smart home appliances, including the company’s smart bulb, Spotify, Logitech’s home automation system, smart locks and Google’s Nest learning thermostat.For those that want payments on the wrist but do not want to give up their traditional watch to wear a smartwatch, which can be large, clunky and unattractive, this new generation of added functionality fitness bands could be the key.•Microsoft Band review: sensor-packed – if you don’t mind looking like an offender
After multiple delays, Grand Theft Auto V has finally been released on PC – and it was well worth the wait. Rockstar’s open-world crime epic was released for last-gen consoles in 2013, and a remastered HD version was released on PS4 and Xbox One in 2014, making this, essentially, the third version of the game. Taking advantage of modern PC hardware, it brings yet more visual improvements, as well as a suite of new features exclusive to the PC version, including the remarkable Rockstar Editor.It’s a tale of three criminals: Michael, Franklin, and Trevor. Michael is a retired bank robber living a life of luxury with his family in witness protection, but who misses the excitement of his old life. Franklin is a streetwise repo man who wants a better life for himself. Trevor is an unhinged meth dealer with a seriously broken moral compass. They’re three very different characters, brought together by a shared desire to break as many laws – and make as much money – as possible.Michael is the most interesting of the three. Grand Theft Auto games typically chart the rise of a criminal, but in Michael we see the bleak hangover of that success. He has a palatial mansion, a luxury car, and all the comforts that wealth brings, but he’s also deeply unhappy, spending his days reclining by the pool, drinking whisky, and listening to Phil Collins. But a chance encounter with Franklin, whose career has only just begun, triggers an extreme midlife crisis that sees him returning to a life of crime.The characters are colourfully written and acted, but they’re frequently overshadowed by their surroundings. The game’s setting is the fictional state of San Andreas, an analogue of southern California that’s several times bigger than GTA IV’s Liberty City. To the south lies the city of Los Santos – a satirical reimagining of Los Angeles – and to the north you’ll find Blaine County, a rural expanse of desert, mountain and forest. You can traverse this vast space in a broad selection of vehicles, from muscle cars, motorcycles and eighteen-wheelers to jet skis, fighter jets, and speedboats.It’s a wonderfully varied and stunningly beautiful landscape, and the attention to detail is dizzying. Rockstar’s world-building is among the best in the business, and this is their greatest work. In the poor, rundown areas of Los Santos, gangs loiter on corners and the searchlights of roving police helicopters hunt suspects through alleyways.In Vinewood – Rockstar’s version of Hollywood – expensive sports cars glint in the sun, tourists pose for pictures, and aspiring actors yap into their phones about auditions. In the countryside you’ll be passed by hikers, cyclists, and dog walkers. Extras in costumes wander around movie studio lots and biker gangs roam the desert highways. The sense of place these details evoke is lightyears ahead of other open-world games. This is a product of both Rockstar’s keen eye for detail and their limitless budget.And the fact you can share it with other players makes it all the more exciting. GTA Online is a game in itself, mixing GTA’s sandbox chaos with elements of massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPGs). You can take part in elaborate, multi-mission bank heists with friends, or just crash around the open-world causing trouble. It’s a thrilling online playground with a compelling level progression system and hundreds of missions, including bicycle races, death matches, destruction derbies, and skydiving competitions. There are some problems with lag, but no high-profile PC game is immune from this on launch week.Related:Ten places every Grand Theft Auto V player should visitA wealth of PC graphics options brings San Andreas to life in the most vivid detail yet. There’s adjustable tessellation, motion blur, high resolution shadows, and pretty much every setting you would expect from a modern PC game. It has native support for 4K resolutions, although you’ll need a powerful GPU to take advantage of this. But it scales impressively, running at 60fps on high-end and medium-spec rigs.After the disappointing PC version of GTA IV, this is a welcome relief. You’ll have to sacrifice some of the finer details, like the gorgeous depth of field effects and ultra high-res textures, but it’s entirely possible to play and enjoy GTA V without a super powerful PC. If you have the muscle to run it at max settings, the visual fidelity is astonishing. Driving through the city at night in a storm, neon signs reflecting in the puddles and on the rain-slicked hood of your car, it almost looks photorealistic.But the real star of the PC version is the Rockstar Editor, an amazingly powerful tool that lets you record in-game footage, edit it, and upload it to YouTube. At any time during play you can start recording. But instead of recording video, it records an in-engine snapshot of your actions, letting you go in later and move the camera, add filters, and implement dozens of other tweaks and effects. Then, using an editing tool that’s like a stripped-back version of software like Adobe Premiere or Final Cut, you can string the footage together, add music and text, and then put it online.Accompanying the editor is Director Mode, which lets you change the weather and time of day in a scene to create a specific mood, as well as selecting virtual actors from a massive list of non-player characters. This gives you total control over your scenes and, combined with the editor, allows you to make virtually any kind of film you can think of. You could create a gritty gangster drama, a horror, a nature documentary, or a David Lynch-esque arthouse film. It transforms the game world into a giant film set, and creative players will be tinkering with it long after they’ve completed the game.It’s been a long time coming, but Grand Theft Auto V’s PC debut is a triumph. It maintains a slick 60fps on even mid-range PCs, with only a few visual compromises. It offers a large number of adjustable options to tailor the game to the strengths, or weaknesses, of your setup. The Rockstar Editor is endlessly entertaining. The online heists are, with friends, some of the most fun you can have in a multiplayer game. The single-player story is an exhilarating series of increasingly absurd missions. And it all takes place in one of the richest, densest, most atmospheric game worlds ever built.
Tinder has right-swiped on Instagram, as the dating app integrates the popular photo service into its user profiles.Capitalising on high number of users who share their Instagram handles, Tinder has formalised the relationship between the two apps.Users can now opt-in to allow potential matches to scroll through a selection of their Instagram feed – the 34 most recent pictures – in-app.Tinder users who have a private Instagram account, but who want to allow potential matches to see their Instagram pics, are given the option to allow users to see a selection of their pics, without affecting the status of their locked account outside of Tinder.For non-locked Instagram accounts, users can easily hop from a Tinder user’s profile to their Instagram account.Tinder has expanded its user profiles to include Instagram photographs and more information from Facebook.Photograph: TinderIn the first major redesign of user profiles since Tinder’s launch, the app has also expanded the information it pulls in from Facebook – the account which is used to log in to Tinder.With the update, Tinder displays all of a user’s Facebook interests, as opposed to just sections, and, as well as mutual friends, Tinder now also displays friends-of-friends.On opening the app since the changes, users are met with a screen asking to “add more information”.“This is the first of many steps to take the recommendations engine to the next level and help you assess the person you’re matching with and start those conversations.“If we can provide our users with more relevant information for each connection, we can take them halfway there in terms of getting a conversation going”,saidTinder’s co-founder and presidentSean Rad.The new profile changes will be available for both the free and premium tiers of the app, and has been rolled out on both iOS and Android.The overhaul to Tinder profiles comes after the app launched apremium service, Tinder Plus, in March. The service came under fire for being priced according to a user’s age.In other Tinder news, the company hastoldMashable that it has already created an app for theApple Watch, which will be launching soon. There is already anAndroid Wear versionof the app.
I need to replace my PC setup at home, so your article onbuying a new family PCwas really great for me. Currently the PC is only used by the children for accessing the web, running Minecraft, iTunes, playing The Sims etc. I would really like to try using a touchscreen monitor to get the best out of Windows 8. I am aware of theargument about gorilla arms, but after using an iPad, I find myself prodding all computer screens with an (unrealistic) expectation that something should happen.There’s a lot of choice for people who want all-in-ones, but I would much rather get a tower to leave the option of potentially upgrading the PC. I am a developer and might use the family PC for development in the future.DaveYou can add a touch-sensitive screen to any PC – or even an old laptop – by buying a touch-sensitive monitor. There must be a market for them, because most leading monitor suppliers offer them. This includes Acer, AOC, Asus, Dell, HP, Iiyama, LG, Samsung and ViewSonic. The less well-known HannsG also has competitive offerings.However, touch sensitivity requires extra technology, which is an extra cost, especially for large screens. Touch-sensitive monitors are therefore more expensive than traditional designs, which must restrict the size of the market.All-in-one or tower?As you have found, there are lots of all-in-one PCs with touch screens, but they are basically laptop designs with separate keyboards. Slimline designs impose thermal constraints on the processor, which will typically operate at aTDPbetween 15W and 35W, or less. The processor will be throttled when it gets too hot, and the PC may shut down. By contrast, spacious desktop towers can use processors that run at 45W to 90W or more, so you get more performance for less money.Towers provide space for adding more memory, ports, faster graphics cards, extra hard drives, optical drives (DVD or Blu-ray) and so on. They are also much easier to repair, so they should last longer. The main drawback is that they take up more space than laptops or all-in-one designs. This may be critical if you want to mount the screen on a wall, which is common with touch-screen PCs used for public information access.Screen positionsYou must consider the flexibility of the design. While the “gorilla arm” argument is simplistic to the point of stupidity – teachers have been using blackboards for centuries – there are important considerations to do with screen distance and angle.The better all-in-ones provide flexibility to handle different programs and different uses. Often the screen leans back, and in some cases, can be used in a horizontal position. This makes it practical to play electronic versions of family board games, navigate around maps, play a virtual piano, and so on.Desktop monitors are usually designed to be used with the screen in a vertical position, and relatively high up. This puts the screen a long way from your hands, so you are less likely to use it for touch operations. This contrasts with using a laptop, where the screen may be as handy as the keyboard.If you decide to go for a touch-screen monitor, choose one that is easy to tilt backwards and possible to use in a horizontal position. Obviously, you should be able to return it to an upright position for word processing and so on.Alternatively, you can buy any touch screen you like, if you mount it on a monitor arm that enables the screen to be moved around. This may actually be a better option, but it will probably cost more.Touch-screen considerationsTouch-screen monitors are a bit more complicated than traditional designs, because they are active rather than passive devices. Traditional screens just have to show a picture, whereas touch-screen monitors have to feed information back to the PC. They often do this via a separate USB cable that runs next to the VGA/DVI/HDMI/etc video cable.Monitors also vary according to the number of touch-sensitive points. This can range from five to 40, but 10 is usual for Windows 8. Further, different monitors may use optical, resistive or capacitative touch technology. Capacitative touch provides the same experience as using a tablet, which is what you want.Some monitors support a new standard:MHL(Mobile High-definition Link). This enables you to connect a compatible smartphone or tablet to the monitor to show videos with high-resolution sound (up to 7.1 channels, including TrueHD and DTS-HD). The mobile device gets charged while it’s attached.Other considerations are the usual ones: screen size and resolution, brightness, type of technology (LED, IPS etc), number of ports, whether it includes loudspeakers, and so on. Since you’re a developer, you’ll probably want to knock out a quick spreadsheet to compare all the options.Note that touch-screen monitors designed for Windows 7 – probably with two touch-points – are less than ideal for Windows 8, where the bezel has to be flush with the display for edge-swipes. However, I don’t expect there are many Windows 7 touch monitors still on the market.Monitor choiceI have very little experience of different touch-screen monitors, and haven’t tested any, so you will need to do your own research. I can point to some of the products that are available, but unfortunately it may be hard or impossible to see them before you buy one.PC World, for example, only seems to offerthree touch-screen monitors. These are all Acer models with Full HD resolution (1920 x 1080 pixels) and screen sizes of 21.5in (£179.99), 23in (£249.99) and 27in (£379.99). These have MHL support, USB 3.0 and tilt stands that adjust from 80 to 30 degrees, so you could do worse. The 23in IPS-screenAcer T232HLAlooks like the best option.Argos stocks the23inand27inAcer monitors, but at higher prices. John Lewis doesn’t appear to stock any.From my Amazon searches, theViewSonic TD2220looks like an economical option at about £180. It’s a 22in Full HD display. However, the 23inHannsG HT231HPBis slightly cheaper (£157.95), and Amazon reviewers give it 4.6 out of 5 stars.Other touch-screen monitors that might be worth a look include the 23.6inAOC Style i2472P(£262.98), the 21.5inDell S2240T H6V56(£207.38) and the 23inDell S2340T(£339.95). There’s also aViewSonic TD2340for £199.99, apparently reduced from £439.99, and a 24inSamsung S24C770TSfor £449.99.I think 22-24in is the optimum size for a Full HD screen, but there are similar options in smaller and larger sizes.One more thing …If you have a modern Windows 8 laptop, then you can probably use Windows 8’s touch gestures on its built-in touchpad. In the same vein, you could just buy a touchpad for your desktop PC and use it with a cheaper non-touch screen. Logitech’s rechargeableTouchpad T650is an expensive option at £114, though thewireless T650looks a better buy at £39.99.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
