Probably not - or not directly. But some  of the same people that have 2 million people tracking their MPs' voting records via the sitetheyworkforyou.comand who, throughfarmsubsidy.org, got the EU to publish full subsidy data, have set upUNdemocracy.com, an attempt to shed light on the inner workings of the UN.The UN has for some time made copies of its resolutions and other information online atun.org, but like a lot of government initiatives the data published is hardly reusable in any meaningful way. URLs are not persistent, and data formats are not open.A small group led by Julian Todd, a "civic hacker" in Liverpool is seeking to change all that by laboriously scraping the data out of the site and republishing it with persistent URLs. That way, even if the UN removes the information it will be retained in Google caches or the Wayback Machine at the internet archive (archive.org). The site also links through to other decisions and debates.When you do that, said Stefan Magdalinski, Tom Loosemore, and Danny O'Brien at the Emerging Technology conference (conferences.oreilly.com/etech) last week in San Diego, some strange voting patterns emerge.The US Congress and the UK parliament have adapted to being televised by now. In the UN, however, "they don't think they're being watched at all, so you see horse-trading in a fairly raw form".The next technical step is to import the XML data they have now into a relational database with a new front end and create tools for action - the UN equivalent offaxyourmp.com.Will this effort by itself fix the UN? Even the team themselves don't think so exactly. But they do think shedding the sunlight of the web on the institution will increase transparency and therefore accountability."Global problems need global hacks," said Magdalinski. "The UN is the de facto world government. It's the only institution we have where governments talk to each other and stuff happens - and it's pretty broken."At the very least, said Magdalinski, the site will help people understand how the UN was meant to function. "It started after a global catastrophe. Now we're heading for another one, with climate change."Once people have a model in their heads of how the UN is supposed to work, it ought to be possible to apply pressure at the national level to push representatives to become accountable."We can't do this by ourselves," he says. "It just needs one guy like Julian in every country." Plus, he says, a cash injection of $50,000 (&pound;24,900) or so to clean up the interface and publish the rest of the data they have, back to 1950. The heavy lifting - parsing the data - is done.&#183;This article was amended on Monday March 17 2008. The article above contained two errors. Stefan Magdalinski, not Mogdalinski, was a contributor at the Emerging Technology conference in San Diego. Julian Todd might be a civil hacker, but we meant to describe him as a civic hacker. These have been corrected.
The BBC's iPlayer launched for the iPhonelast week, but it turned out there was a backdoor which let you download shows without DRM - a subject I mentioned in theTech Weeklypodcast and followed upwith a story today.Thehack itselfwas pretty simple stuff and used the fact that, in order to make compatible with the iPhone, the BBC was actually streaming unrestricted MPEG4s to particular devices. Security through obscurity, I suppose you could call it.By changing your browser's user agent so that itappearedto be an iPhone, you could find the unprotected MP4 stream and download it to your computer.Interestingly, when I contacted one of the people who'd spotted the loophole, he said that he believed technical staff knew full well that the exploit was there : "I've heard that programmers inside the BBC are using the same technique I found to watch shows in house - it's bizarre that the people signing contracts can be so divorced from the technical staff," he told me in an email.Anyway, the BBC have just been in touch to say they've fixed it. Or, more accurately:"We've released a fix to prevent unrestricted downloading of streamed TV programmes on BBC iPlayer. Like other broadcasters, the security of rights-protected content online is an issue we take very seriously. It's an ongoing, constant process and one which we will continue to monitor."They didn't say what the fix actually was, and we'll see how successful it is.New of this loophole was an interesting development, because I think the iPlayer's come on in leaps and bounds since they decided (belatedly) to add a streaming client. It was a relief to see that the team actually dedicating themselves to a system that worked well for users - and finally managing to get the project out from under the BBC's crushing politics and the machinations of their boss Ashley Highfield, the subject of ahighly critical piece I wrote last year.We'll no doubt be following this up. Look out for a short interview with iPlayer chief Anthony Rose in next week's podcast.
Two interesting announcements from mobile game publishers this week have spoken volumes about how far the industry has come over the last year or so. On Monday, Germany'sHandy Gamesrevealed that it would be porting its key games to the Nintendo DS. No specific titles have been mentioned, but the company's brilliant strategy sim Townsmen 5, easily comparable with the DS conversions of Settlers and Age of Empires, must be at the top of the list. This, of course, follows Fountainhead's decision to convert its mobile RPG, Orcs 'n' Elves, to DS late last year.And yesterday, another veteran mobile developer, Gameloft, launched its mobile brain training title, Brain Challenge onto Xbox Live Arcade - the first game of its type on the console. The title offers a daily collection of challenges split into five categories - Visual, Memory, Logic, Math and Focus. The XBLA version also features an exclusive card-based multiplayer challenge.So what does all this mean for the wider industry?Certainly, the technological gap between dedicated handheld consoles and mobile phones is narrowing. For several years, the big mobile manufacturers have been putting reasonably powerful 3D graphics chips into their high-end devices with the likes of Nvidia, ATI andImagination Technologies, all supplying versions of their PC graphics acceleration technologies. And last month, mobile CPU manufacturer Armannounceda new piece of software, which fully utilises OpenGL ES 2.0 to allow the porting of even next generation console titles to mobile phones, albeit in stripped down versions.But really, this isn't about graphics technology, or about pulling down games from PS3. The rise of casual gaming, together with the proliferation of games-capable devices - from iPods to set-top boxes - has created a new language, a new psychology of mainstream game development. Titles like SolaRola, Puzzle Quest, Bejeweled, Tower Bloxx and Tower Defense have a universal appeal that doesn't rely on the traditional games industry's macho notions of continuing graphical advancement. They look great within their own context.Mobile phones, iPod, XBLA, Android - they're all part of a new ecology of game development and distribution. Of course, the big publishers are keen to get involved - EA and Eidos, for example, both have specialist casual/new media departments - but you'll also find the likes of Gameloft and Handy Games taking a more prominent role in the future of platform-agnostic development.The future of gaming as a mass entertainment medium might not be about big, massively marketed event releases, it might be more like the PC casual gaming scene - with genres rising and falling, as fads swoop through cyberspace and across connected handheld devices. It's beensimmering for a while, but now things are really taking off: games, like everything else, are going long tail.
There's an annoucement fromAmanita Design, the indie game developers who published the stunning adventure gameSamorostand its aptly-named follow-upSamorost 2. They're working on a new game calledmachinarium, and their website showcases their typically stunning visuals. Sadly, it'll have to be the stuff of fantasy for a few months as its not expected to be released until the end of 2008 or early 2009.Check out thedesign artfor evidence of awesome talent.(ViaWonderland,)
I prefer the title 'MonkeyMan'Steve Ballmer on stage at Mix 08 "giving up some love for web developers". He surely doesn't need a microphone. But this proves that Ballmer does, indeed, have a sense of humour.Weather forecast: icy, warmingLet Nasa take you on a tour of the "cryosphere" - all the bits of the planet that ontain ice, from Antarctica through tropical glaciers up to the Arctic. Your last chance to see them?Why is your status 'annoyed'?Sarah Lacy "interviews" Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg at SXSW. Lesson: don't ask questions in a chair that puts your chin below your knees.
Film licensed games have historically been terrible — especially those aimed at children — but Spiderwick Chronicles bucks that trend. This is an enjoyable adventure romp that will appeal to young and old alike. The game starts slowly — collecting items and exploring the pretty New England environs — but goblin bashing and platforming sections soon up the pace. Players get to control all the main characters, each with their own skills, and variety isn't a problem. Film clips are interspersed with the action and the game as a whole feels nicely put together. The Pokemon-style sprite collection is annoying - particularly the way you have to "paint" to catch them - and the very young may get lost in the poorly signposted forest. The game is quite short too, although children — obviously the target audience — shouldn't feel shortchanged. Older gamers with an interest in the books and/or adventure-type games will also find much to enjoy here.
Forget Guitar Hero - although the DS version looks promising - Jam Sessions and the rest, this is the Nintendo DS music toy that we want.KORG DS-10- or "Synth Hero", as it should really be called - combines a synth, sequencer and drum module with the touch-screen loveliness of the DS. Check out theOrbital-style demo trackfor an idea of how it sounds. If phrases like, "patchable dual-oscillator analog synth" get you excited then this could be your sleeper hit of 2008. That's assuming it ever comes out in Europe of course - it's currently set for a July release in Japan.
Hackers have managed to circumvent the BBC's anti-piracy systems to gain unrestricted access to the programmes on the corporation's iPlayer internet TV service.The loophole potentially allows millions of people to download television shows on to their computers without any copyright protection.The iPlayer system, which lets surfers watch BBC videos online in a similar way to websites such as YouTube, has proved massively popular since it launched late last year. Shows such as Top Gear and Doctor Who can be watched over the web or downloaded to a computer for viewing at a later point.When developing the iPlayer, however, the BBC agreed to include anti-piracy measures in all programmes in order to appease TV production companies and broadcasting unions. The addition of so-called digital rights management (DRM) software means new shows disappear from the website after one week, and files downloaded on to a computer have a 30-day expiry date. After the limit is reached, the videos are no longer viewable.However, the backdoor in the iPlayer allows users to completely bypass those protections and download unprotected versions of any show on the website.One of the hackers responsible said it took him only 12 minutes to find the loophole and make it work - but that such a simple hack potentially opened up every programme on iPlayer for unlimited downloading."The BBC accidentally opened the floodgates and gave the world DRM-free downloads," said one hacker with knowledge of the breach. "If only it were down to something other than poor design, decisions and ineptitude."The BBC said the system was still in its trial phase, known as "beta", and that it was already working to come up with a solution."This is not unusual or surprising," said a BBC spokeswoman. "We have made it clear the BBC iPlayer on iPhone and iTouch is currently in beta, which enables us to pick up on such issues and find a solution before we roll the service out in full in due course."The iPlayer was launched last year at a cost of several million pounds, and initial reaction to the download service was modest. But the ability to watch online - which was added last Christmas - has proved highly successful: the most recent figures indicate that programmes were viewed more than 17m times between December 25 and mid-February.However, the decision to incorporate anti-piracy protections has angered some campaigners, who believe that British citizens should have unprotected access to shows for which they have already paid with their TV licence fee.
Is there a small machine like the Asus Eee PC that starts quickly, connects to the internet, etc, but has drives? I want to use it for writing screenplays, so it has to be able to run Final Draft.Ivan ChapmanThe Asus Eee PC uses Linux, but it was always planned to have a Windows version, as I mentioned when I reported itsUK launch as the RM MiniBooklast October. RM says the Windows version will have twice the memory (1GB) and storage (8GB) for an extra £60, and its Web site lists this version as beingavailable on April 28. You may be able to get one from another source.However, the Eee PC's 7in screen is small and cramped, so Asus is planning to launch an improved "Windows ready" version, theEee PC 900. If you can wait, this has a wider 8.9in screen, 1GB of memory and up to 12GB of storage for €399 (£305) -- an extra €100. It will be "available in summer this year -- to select countries", says Asus. It does not say whether the UK is "select" or not.You will also need an external CD drive to install Final Draft. If you feel geeky enough, you could also install Windows XP on an Eee PC yourself.Of course, there's nothing new aboutWindows subnotebooks: what's attracting attention now is the price. Lots of cheap machines are appearing, based either on Intel's Classmate PC, like the Asus, or Via's NanoBook design, like the Packard-Bell EasyNote XS. The EasyNote has a 7in screen, 1GB of memory, 30GB hard drive and runs Windows XP.Hewlett-Packard -- which was selling subnotebooks with solid state drives 15 years ago -- also has a Compaq 2133 ultra-mobile on the way, running either Windows Vista or Linux. It's on pre-order atExpansys.But make sure you can work with such a small keyboard and screen. I don't think they are suitable (or healthy!) for extended use, unless you are a small person.Backchat: The consensus on the Ask Jack blog seems to be that keyboards like the one on the Asus Eee PC are a bit small for that and you'd be better off with a "thin and light" laptop. Windows XP or Mac OS would be needed for Final Draft, but OldSkool says he uses Celtx, a free screenwriting program, on his Eee PC. "It's industry standard and I find it functions just as well as Final Draft; it also has a thriving online community." Celtx is available for Windows, Mac OS X and Linux.
You rarely come across a game which occupies a genre of its own, but there is no doubt that Patapon is the first ever rhythm-action-RTS. Then again, it was developed by the team behind LocoRoco, so you would expect it to innovate. As with LocoRoco, Patapon is a super-cute, 2D effort with a well-defined visual identity, but gameplay-wise it is much more sophisticated. The Patapon are a simple warrior tribe, driven from their homeland by the Zigoton, and you act as their God, inspiring them to fight by producing a drumbeat, achieved by jabbing various PSP buttons in time with music. Different riffs generate different actions - initially you just have Advance and Attack, but as the game progresses, you acquire new commands - so the gameplay steadily increases in depth. Visually and musically, it's utterly endearing, and the game is surprisingly substantial - unlike LocoRoco. Great value, and thoroughly irresistible - a must-have for any PSP owner, young or old.
The minister in charge of reforming Britain's public services with IT this week endorsed Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign. "Without a shadow of a doubt," was cabinet office minister Tom Watson's reaction to the Guardian's suggestion that public bodies should make data gathered in the course of their duties freely available for mashups and other re-uses by all comers.Watson, a 41-year-old IT enthusiast and blogging pioneer among MPs who took over the "transformational government" portfolio in January, said that "all his instincts" lay with requiring government trading funds to comply - so long as evidence could be found that this would not damage the quality of their work.He was speaking on Tuesday, the day before the Treasury was expected to publish (amid the Budget) a study into the impact of requiring trading funds to make "raw" information available for only the cost of distribution. The report was expected to conclude that such a move "can be implemented without adverse effects on the efficiency and performance of the trading fund affected".As junior cabinet office minister, Watson is in a unique position to help Whitehall change its whole approach to electronic information. His portfolio covers the 2005 "transformational government" plan for reorganising public services around the citizen, a programme that includes shutting down hundreds of redundant public sector websites.Fourth time luckyHe is the fourth minister to hold the post since the strategy was published, but the first with a demonstrable enthusiasm for IT. He says he cut his teeth programming a Sinclair ZX80 in Basic, and in 2003 launched the first blog by a Westminster MP. His blog (attom-watson.co.uk) gets 600-700 users on a normal day. "On bad days, it's 50,000."This week, in his first public speech in the role, Watson aligned the transformational government programme closely with another agenda emerging from Whitehall, the "government 2.0" proposal set out in the Power of Information report published last summer (tinyurl.com/3ylbhx). Its authors, Ed Mayo of the National Consumer Council and web activist Tom Steinberg, want the government to engage with online communities rather than monopolising information."The Power of Information touches on a fundamental design principle of everything we do," Watson said. He also vigorously denied accusations that the government is being tardy in implementing the report. "Just because something hasn't been announced doesn't mean it isn't happening," he said. For example, the Department for Transport has already set up a data-mashing laboratory as urged in the report. Watson said he would report progress to Parliament "within days".One proposal in the Power of Information, that civil servants should have more freedom to engage in the web, came home to roost this week when an anonymous civil servant's blog, Civil Serf, disappeared from the web after coming under the media spotlight. Watson's response was to float on his  blog a proposition for a code of conduct for civil service bloggers.Partial to philosophyAligning the free spirit of the Power of Information with the centralising instincts of Transformational Government might be more difficult, however - especially in the current climate of opinion over the government's track record in IT. Watson says he will promulgate a philosophy - which he cheerfully admits lifting from the web - of "build small, test, and then iterate, iterate, iterate". Like his colleagues, he says the government IT profession gets a raw deal from the commentariat.When it comes to making things happen, Watson will face obstacles familiar to his predecessors. Large parts of his agenda are the line responsibility of other departments. Policy on trading funds, for example, lies with the department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform and the Treasury. "In the Cabinet Office you don't have a big budget or many people, but you have the power to persuade."Another difficulty is that Cabinet Office IT ministers rarely stay long in post. The good news is that the incumbent is usually someone on the way up.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blogfreeourdata.org.uk/blog
Deep in the bowels of a Las Vegas hotel, a smiley face and the words "Hello World" display on a web page. Applause breaks out. The page is called the Acid2 Browser Test, and the web browser is a preview of Internet Explorer 8, presented by its platform architect, Chris Wilson. "Thank you from the bottom of my heart," says a member of the audience. More applause.This was the scene at last week's Mix08 conference, where Microsoft showed around 3,000 web designers and developers its latest internet technology. The Acid2 page (webstandards.org/action/acid2/) was created by the Web Standards Project to test whether a browser conforms to the official standards for describing page layout, mainly focusing on cascading style sheets (CSS).The reason for the applause is twofold. First is that until now Microsoft's web browser, used by 75% of those surfing the net, has never been close to passing the test. Second, Internet Explorer's poor standards compliance causes significant extra work for web designers.When users navigate to a web page, they expect it to look and work the same irrespective of which browser or operating system they use. Achieving this is hard, since different browsers display the same page differently, with IE often the worst offender. Web developers now hope for a time when they do not have to insert conditional code to account for these differences, but can deliver one standard page to all browsers.Eric Meyer, an independent CSS expert, told the Guardian: "CSS support in IE8 looks thus far to be very, very promising. It's very important, because the level of CSS support in IE7 and IE6 has served as a brake on advanced CSS adoption by authors, limiting them to less advanced techniques and capabilities."War weary webInternet Explorer has a curious history. There were six new versions between 1995 and 2001, the time of the "browser wars" with Netscape. Then the war was over, Microsoft had won, and it didn't release another major version of its  browser for five years - long enough for it to become thoroughly out-of-date.IE's CSS implementation fell far behind that of other popular browsers. In late 2006 Microsoft released IE7, which fixed some problems but still lagged behind its rivals. "Differences between browsers simply waste too much developer time," said Dean Hachamovitch, Microsoft's general manager for IE, speaking at the Mix08 keynote, but not mentioning the extent which Microsoft itself created the problem.I asked Hachamovitch, who has led the  Explorer team since 2003, why it has taken Microsoft so long to address these deficiencies. "It comes down to what we were doing with our time," he said. "Between 2001 and 2003 we were building what you experience now as Windows Presentation Foundation and Silverlight."These technologies display not HTML, the language of web pages, but XAML, Microsoft's proprietary code for creating rich visual content. "In 2003 and 2004 we were making IE secure," he continues, referring to the work that went into the security-focused Windows XP Service Pack 2. Security remained the theme in IE7.The dilemma is that fixing bugs introduces compatibility problems. "You can't just flick a switch and have all the browsers in the world change, or have all the servers and services in the world change," says Hachamovitch. The consequence is that some websites look worse than before, because they detect that IE is accessing them and deliver content that takes into account its presumed peculiarities.Microsoft's answer is to build "compatibility modes" into IE8. The manner in which it does this is controversial. "Our decision was: do we default to the IE7 compatible mode, or do we default to the better standards mode? The experience we had releasing IE7 was that web developers were very slow to modify their sites. We want to keep the web working," says Hachamovitch.Microsoft initially announced that IE8 would behave by default like IE7. Page designers would have to include special code to turn on IE8's standards support. This decision was greeted with a hail of protest, because it might perpetuate a non-standard web. Earlier this month, Hachamovitch announced that Microsoft had changed its mind. "We've decided that IE8 will, by default, interpret web content in the most standards compliant way it can," he wrote on the official  Explorer blog.Why the change of heart? Apparently the key was a separate strategic announcement in February this year, covering what Microsoft calls interoperability principles and promising "open connections to its products, support for industry standards and data portability." According to Hachamovitch, "I read through the interoperability principles and I started discussing them with other senior people in the company. It didn't take that long. We have a more interoperable way, we have a more compatible way."States of neglectIt sounds good, but Hachamovitch's warmth begins to fade when I broach the vexed subject of browser scripting. The context is important. Hachamovitch had already stated that Microsoft spent three years neglecting IE for the sake of a more proprietary technology, which is now appearing on the web as a browser plug-in called Silverlight. This is similar in some ways to Adobe's Flash, and supports rich multimedia effects within web pages, as well as the ability to run applications written in Microsoft's .NET Framework.Silverlight and Flash applications in effect bypass the browser. Web standards advocates are wary of them, because they replace the open web with content that depends on a proprietary plugin. The Mozilla Foundation, creator of the cross-platform Firefox browser, prefers to upgrade the capabilities of the browser itself. A key component of this is JavaScript, the programming language that runs in the browser and which is standardised by ECMA, the European standards body, under the name ECMAScript. Mozilla is keen to see the current JavaScript upgraded to a far more powerful version called ECMAScript 4.0."Why do we care about ECMAScript 4.0? The answer is that JavaScript is the language of the net. We want to keep pushing that technology forward to make it easier for people to build bigger, faster, more secure web sites," Mozilla's vice president of engineering, Mike Schroepfer, told me.I asked Hachamovitch if Microsoft will implement ECMAScript 4.0. He prevaricates, talking about competing demands on the IE development team, and saying: "Right now there isn't really an ECMAScript 4 offering to implement, there is an ECMAscript for discussion."On the ECMAScript standardisation committee, Microsoft has apparently been stalling, coming up with last-minute counter proposals instead of advancing the 4.0 standard. "Sometimes you get political arguments veiled in technical arguments," says Schroepfer. Is it possible that Microsoft is stifling the advancement of JavaScript in order to promote programming within Silverlight instead? I put this to Schroepfer, who says: "I don't know the intentions, I'd rather focus on the actions and say, why can't we work together to take the technologies that have worked on the web for 10 years and move them forward, to the benefit of everyone?"The conversation shows that while Microsoft is clearly serious about implementing better web standards in IE8, the battle for control over which technology dominates the web is not over yet.
The writing stuffIs there a small machine like the Asus Eee PC that starts quickly, connects to the internet, etc, but has drives? I want to use it for writing screenplays, so it has to be able to run Final Draft.Ivan ChapmanJS:The Asus Eee PC uses Linux, but it was always planned to have a Windows version, as I mentioned when I reported its UK launch as the RM MiniBook last October (tinyurl.com/2vr2zy). RM says the Windows version will have twice the memory (1GB) and storage (8GB) for an extra &pound;60, and its website lists this version as being available on April 28 (tinyurl.com/ynr4am). However, the Eee PC's 7in screen is small and cramped, so Asus is planning to launch an improved "Windows ready" version, the Eee PC 900. If you can wait, this has a wider 8.9in screen, 1GB of memory and up to 12GB of storage for &euro;399 (&pound;305) - an extra &euro;100 (tinyurl.com/2eexqv). It will be "available in summer this year - to select countries", says Asus.You will also need an external CD drive to install Final Draft. If you feel geeky enough, you could also install Windows XP on an Eee PC yourself. Of course, there's nothing new about Windows subnotebooks: what's attracting attention now is the price. Lots of cheap machines are appearing, based either on Intel's Classmate PC, like the Asus, or Via's NanoBook design, like the Packard-Bell EasyNote XS. The EasyNote has a 7in screen, 1GB of memory, 30GB hard drive and runs Windows XP. Hewlett-Packard - which was selling subnotebooks with solid state drives 15 years ago - also has a Compaq 2133 ultra-mobile on the way (tinyurl.com/2q6rpy).Backchat&#183;John Gilder wanted to edit PDF files. As Colin Sopp and others pointed out, he'd do better to copy and paste parts of each PDF into Word as unformatted text. Colin adds: "If he has Office 2003, he can print into Microsoft Office Document Imaging (Office Tools) and use the character recognition therein to open into a Word document." Jeremy Ashcroft suggests using GreenPrint's free printer driver fromtinyurl.com/3cg9zt.&#183;Hendrik Woolf couldn't get Total Recorder to work in Vista. Richard Abrahams offered "a 'low tech' solution: use a cable with a 3.5 mm jack at each end to feed the speaker output to the line-in socket and set TR to use this as the input device". Mike Smart says: "Issues concerning Total Recorder's incompatibility with Vista have been resolved in version 6.1." Seetinyurl.com/2ld63a. Nick Eden and others point out that you can often record streaming audio with Audacity, a free open source program (audacity.sourceforge.net/).&#183;On the subject of Firefox bookmarks, Mark Riley and Roberto Tavoni recommend Foxmarks, a Firefox add-on. Mark says: "When I bookmark a site, the plugin stores the change on a Foxmarks server and synchronises with my other computers the next time I switch them on."&#183;Microsoft Office user Stephen Chowns wanted to convert some documents to Adobe PDF format. Mike Dodds says: "Foxit Reader 2.2 for Windows (tinyurl.com/4a4a6) does the trick. It says 'evaluation only' when conversion is complete, but so far there is no prompt for purchase."&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Every day on the train I've been watching an optimistic businessman bury his nose in Timothy Ferriss's forthcoming Four Hour Workweek, the latest manual for productivity junkies. Despite all these manuals, though, most of us remain stuck behind a desk. I always thought that technology was supposed to liberate us from the tireless nature of work. Instead we're becoming the information proletariat, chained to our PCs and digging somewhere deep in the data mines. I wonder what Karl Marx would have made of it all.It's not our fault that we expect something different - after all, it's the future we were sold for years. Everything from microwaves to refrigerators to washing machines have each commanded their own small, labour-saving revolutions: they permanently reduced a job of work for users.Computers slotted into this model, too, since the digitisation of information has allowed many tedious tasks to be drastically reduced. The personal computer lets us do things in moments which would have taken hours before (or even been impossible).Labour-saving devices let you stop spending time on tedious tasks and do something else instead. But now we've come to expect it everywhere we look, and have largely ignored the fact that our dominant new technology, the internet, doesn't work like that. It's not for nothing that the net is characterised as a time sink, because wherever it carves out efficiencies, it usually manages to create extra work, too.Take hi-tech communication like email, instant messaging and SMS. It's faster and easier than ever before, but it doesn't reduce the workload because we simply spend more time doing it (Britons sent more than 50bn texts in 2007, for example - as many each week as they did in the whole of 1999). This reverses previous technological trends: just because the laundry process was now 10 times faster, we didn't suddenly begin washing 10 times as many clothes.The internet is not saving labour, but dividing it up in new and interesting ways. On one hand, we use it to reduce our workload by outsourcing parts of it. This may be in the traditional sense, or it could be spreading a job of work over multiple individuals. The crowdsourcing model is at the heart of some of the most successful websites around; Wikipedia, for example, or Google's search index. Letting the collective action of other people do the work that you might once have tried to do yourself is incredibly powerful and useful, but it doesn't reduce the overall amount of work involved - it's merely spread around.The flipside of this is that we're also prepared to take on large amounts of extra effort when we can see a benefit. Just as we outsource to others, we insource to ourselves - taking on work traditionally handed off elsewhere. Nobody knows this better than the travel industry. High street agencies, once middlemen who would organise your holidays, are now left out of the equation. We are ready to shoulder the burden in order to have more control over what we do and save a few pennies along the way.Jargonauts can call it what they like, but it's basically an information seesaw. A few people get the seesaw to weigh disproportionately in their favour, but most of us are stuck using the internet in both ways, cherrypicking the services that are useful for us but ultimately failing to reduce the overall amount of work we do.William Gibson famously said that the future is already here, it's just unevenly distributed. I wonder whether it might end up being a different sort of future from the one you were imagining.
Doomsday scenarios are so bracing, aren't they? In the past week we've had the government's chief scientist warning that there won't be enough food for us all by 2050 and the European Union saying that we might have to fight Russia for minerals and other useful stuff in the Arctic when the going gets tough. And of courseI suggestedthat the only sensible way to close our electricity generation gap would be to embark on a big nuclear power build. (Thanks for all your replies on that. Some were even polite. In answer to the uranium supply question, there are two points: one tends to find more of something once you go looking for it, and fast breeder reactors can produce up to 100 times more usable fuel than you start with. So I think uranium isn't going to run out, at least until we can build a working fusion plant.)While we're on doomsdays, let's not forget that the possiblity of a flu pandemic - perhaps triggered by a mutation of the H5N1 bird flu virus, leading to an I Am Legend-style scenario where our cities are reclaimed by weeds and wild animals - hasn't gone away; it's just biding its time.So let's quickly examine another doomsday lurking in our not-so-distant future: that in 30 years' time, the internet will stop working. Or at least, the bits of it that run on Unix. (For once, this is a tale where Microsoft comes out looking well-prepared.)This is down to what's being called the "2038 bug". It arises because Unix-based systems store the time as a signed 32-bit integer, in seconds, from midnight on January 1 1970. And the latest time that can be represented in that format, by the Posix standard, is 3.14am on January 19, 2038. (It's a Tuesday. Better make sure your desk is clean on the Monday night.)After that? "Times beyond this moment will 'wrap around' and be represented internally as a negative number, and cause programs to fail, since they will see these times not as being in 2038 but rather in 1901", to quote Wikipedia (tinyurl.com/dzxca).Early examples of problems have surfaced. The AOLserver web server software tries to ensure that database requests will never time out, not by assigning "0" to the timeout (which would have been sensible, programatically speaking) but by setting the timeout 1bn seconds (about 31 years) in the future. It crashed on May 13 2006.But, you say, fretting about this is like worrying about the millennium bug in 1970 - when we were far too busy writing the software to bother about fixing it, which we did anyway in a couple of years, and there wasn't any harm done. And it's true that there are a couple of possible solutions, such as changing the counter to an unsigned 32-bit integer, doubling its potential lifespan (and shrugging the problem off until 2106). But that would mess up programs that try to calculate time differences - which is most of them.The rise of 64-bit systems, with 64-bit counters, puts the problem off a little - about 290bn years, in fact. Yes, lots of us are getting 64-bit machines, and even operating systems. Unfortunately, as with the millennium bug, the risk lies in embedded systems - routers, petrol pumps, even 32-bit file formats that get used by 64-bit systems. Just as with the millennium bug, it will take a lot of expensive investigation to find out just how widespread the problem is.I dropped an email to Paul Sheer, whose2038bug.comsite watches out for any related news. In 2003 he had wondered if 35-year bonds might show some sort of problems (because financial companies often run Unix systems, and such bones would appear to mature in the past). Anything to report, I asked?"No reports of problems in a long while," he replied briefly.Phew. Perhaps we can all relax for another 25 years or so. Now, what's this I hear about an asteroid on a collision course with Earth..?charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk
If you'd spent a day seeing the sights in Beijing, it would be nice to be able to review your trip afterwards by watching an avatar trace your route on a map - with popup photos, if you took any.If you wanted to give other people access, your friends and relatives might enjoy the trip too. And by comparing the routes and photos taken by thousands of visitors, Beijing's city planners would be able to make improvements. They could, for example, highlight the most popular regions, and install helpful English language signs at the spots where tourists typically take wrong turns.This sort of "life experience tracing" is not something you can do in Beijing today, unless you know Yu Zeng and his colleagues in Microsoft Research's Beijing lab, where GeoLife is just one of many projects. It was also one of about 40 shown to the world's press on the first day of TechFest 08 in Redmond last week.This is an annual event described as "the &amp; in R&amp;D". TechFest is where Microsoft's full-time researchers congregate from around the world to show their ideas to Microsoft's developers.GeoLife could, of course, use a version of the wearable SenseCam, developed in Cambridge, which is being used in the company's long-running MyLifeBits life-caching project. But Yu's approach is to use ordinary mobile phones with location detection or increasingly common global positioning satellite technology.  "In the future, phones might be able to detect pollution and other things that we could incorporate," say the researchers.In another small booth a dozen feet away, Feng Zhao from Microsoft Research in Redmond is demonstrating a sensornet - small wireless sensors that work together using mesh networking. "Think of it as a new tool for scientists to do new work," he says. By analogy with a telescope, he calls it a macroscope: "It's a new instrument to view the world."The idea is that you have a lot of small sensors and spread them around the environment to monitor something, such as a glacier. Being practical, Microsoft is using them to monitor some server farms, where heat is a problem.Microsoft Research is run like the world's biggest university computer science department, according to Rick Rashid, the man in charge. In fact, it's modelled on "Carnegie Mellon's computer science department in the 1980s, because that's what I knew", he says. Its focus is on publishing world-class research papers, and Rashid keeps score by counting how many Microsoft papers are delivered at major conferences such as Siggraph.Whether Microsoft Research is really earning its crust won't be clear for decades, when we'll know whether it managed to create a world beyond Windows.&#183;Jack Schofield attended TechFest 2008 as a guest of Microsoft Research
Watching video on a tiny screen has never held any particular appeal for me; I prefer the TV or the cinema. However, the quirky-looking myvu personal media viewer does make the experience of watching video on a portable device if not brilliant, then not too bad.What you get in the box is a slim black piece of eyewear with a pair of attached earbuds, plus a remote control and various connector cables that allow you to hook it up to your portable device - it will connect to pretty much anything on the market that plays moving pictures. Yes, that does include video iPods whose screens are too small to discern anything much.The viewer itself feels flimsy and, let's face it, looks stupid. It looks like a pair of very narrow sunglasses that are trying too hard to be trendy. And you will look like an idiot wearing it - which is, of course, a big disincentive.The viewing experience, though, is really not too bad. The earbuds deliver decent sound and it feels immersive. The picture is OK, colours aren't great and you can't do much to improve it with the rudimentary controls on the remote, but for what it is, it's fine. Yes, this is faint praise, but it's still praise. The flimsiness of the device turns out to be a good thing - it's light and comfortable to wear.The unit's slim design turns out to be pretty handy, too; it leaves you able to see what's going on around you. There is also a small window for each eye next to the screen so that you retain your peripheral vision. However, it's no good if you wear glasses - there's no way to adjust the dioptre, and it won't sit on top of your specs.The best place to use this is probably on a plane, where it would successfully take you away from the misery of being jammed in a small seat with hordes of people around you. You'd look too stupid on the tube or on a train, and while you could probably walk around using it, you'd run the risk of being pointed and laughed at. There are various flavours of this device - if you've got a new iPod, go for the one being sold through Micro Anvika for &pound;149.99 (tinyurl.com/38phw2), which comes with the connector you need for the iPod Touch, Classic and the iPhone, rather than the universal one I tried which doesn't connect to the latest iPods without an additional cable. That's assuming you've got some video on your iPods.The main reasons I haven't bothered putting video on my iPod before is that you either have to buy from the limited selection at the iTunes music store or faff about with ripping DVDs and converting them. With this, there might be a reason.The box claims battery life of around four hours. Remember that video also eats battery power on iPods etc, so it might do you a flight to Ibiza, but not one to New York.Pros:Comfortable to wear; immersive viewingCons:Picture not very tweakable; makes you look stupid; no good with glassesmyvu.com
Walk around the University of Washington's (UW) computer science building and eventually you will cross paths with a researcher whose every movement is tracked by computer. Two hundred RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) antennas have been fitted into the ceilings, and individuals taking part in the trial wear RFID tags round their necks and on their possessions. Their location is followed in real time, but unlike many Orwellian deployments of such technology - where hidden overseers know what we're all doing, but individuals don't - each participant in the RFID Ecosystem can also access the data."Our goal is to ask what benefits can we get out of this technology and how can we protect people's privacy at the same time," says Magda Balazinska, the project leader and assistant professor of computer science and engineering at UW. "We want to get a handle on the privacy issues that will crop up if these systems become a reality."Close encountersBalazinska and a dozen other members of the team have been wearing RFID tags for the past year. The sensor data is collected in a central database and then passed on to applications such as Google Calendar and a Twitter widget called RFIDder (pronounced "fritter") which sends alerts to friends letting them know if they're in a meeting or have sat down to lunch. It also automatically logs every "encounter" event between participants.In April, the project will be expanded to include 50 students, who will be queried on a daily basis on their reactions to the experiment (more details can be found atrfid.cs.washington.edu/)."If someone opts in, they can opt out at any time. The interface also lets them choose a level of access for others to their whereabouts and activities," says Gaetano Borriello, a UW professor behind the project. "We hope if it's useful, it will become part of the building."RFID tags are now being incorporated into biometric ID cards, supermarket distribution networks, Washington State "Enhanced Driver's Licenses" and numerous public transport schemes. Yet regulations regarding the use of commercially collected RFID data are nascent. "It's a wild west atmosphere," Borriello says. "You put your stake down and mine."The question of being tracked by things we own has come to the fore in the past few months. In February, Transport for London's (TfL) Oyster cards drew attention when it was revealed that the Metropolitan Police had made 3,000 requests for passenger journey data in 2006. TfL holds the data for eight weeks for "customer service purposes", but most Oyster card holders only become aware of this if they query being overcharged for a journey.The RFID Ecosystem does have some obvious benefits: if you've lost your wallet, the tags will show you where it is. Another useful application is a "web of things", where PCs, posters and other objects around campus incorporate RFID tags. If a participant wants to get a copy of the music playing on someone's computer, they can scan it with a handheld device and get a link to the content.But these incentives are secondary to the main benefit of the system, which is enabling social networks. Balazinska has the system set so she can't see the whereabouts of her students, but they have access to her data. "I don't know when I'm going to be in my office," she says. "But if I am in they can pop by." Some of her students have used the alerts to catch her on her way out of the building.Student and participant Travis Kriplean says: "Sometimes I forget that I'm carrying a number of tags, and then suddenly come across them. That's when I'm reminded of the location tracking taking place, and it can be kind of a shock."The RFID Ecosystem is based on a network of sensors fitted in hallways but not actual rooms, in accordance with Federal Communications Commission regulations. The ceiling-mounted antennae detect tags up to four metres away and use one watt of power.Probable causesThe system software uses probabilistic activity recognition, associating people, objects and places to guess the most likely event happening. The software has trouble distinguishing between a formal meeting and two people who happen to be standing in the same room, so the team conducts "Experience Sampling" of participants to verify the data and explore their privacy concerns. "There have been no malicious intentions from within the group so far, but we'd like to be prepared for it," Balazinska says.A similar trial has been taking place already this year in the UK, with researchers at Lancaster University in partnership with Carillion construction and BP testing an RFID-based system to monitor the safety of workers on construction sites. Sensor data is used to prevent drill operators from developing the painful condition of "vibration white finger" (caused by using a percussion drill for extended periods), but could also be used for employee monitoring.The majority of current RFID deployments, whether in public or workplace settings, offer limited benefits to their users in return for the potential loss of privacy. Balazinska says: "This will change. The technology allows us to be at different points in the privacy-utility space."Lead graduate student Evan Welbourne says: "Changes can be affected by building applications on top of existing sensor deployments, so they can be harnessed by the users of the system." In the experiment, allowing users to see who had looked at their data had an unintended effect. "Some people were disappointed when they saw their friend hadn't checked up on them," Welbourne says.
Fully inPhormedUp in arms is an understatement (Phorm fires privacy row for ISPs, March 6). I have already been in touch with my MP about the proposed introduction of Phorm by my ISP. I will stop my contract with my ISP and stop buying the Guardian, which has also signed up to Phorm. As a campaigning ethical newspaper, how could you use such a company?Anthony Coulson,BrixhamYour article about Phorm was both interesting and worrying. Could you follow up with suggestions covering who in the ISPs you listed to contact so I can ensure that my web traffic is not tracked this way, and techniques for frustrating this activity.Paul Dearing,LondonI know that Google collects data on our search histories. I can at least rationalise that by thinking "it is a free service that I don't have to use". But the ISPs are taking money for a service that they are changing without notice in ways that I don't want them to and which are ethically, if not legally, dodgy. There are those that argue that Britain is a heavily spied-upon society anyway, but that doesn't mean we should accept each new intrusion without protest.auspiciousdragon.net/57northGoing nuclearNuclear, at the very best industry guestimates, could only possibly save 4% of UK CO2 emissions and at the cost of research and development of energy efficiency and renewables (The real answer is nuclear, not plastic, March 6). This, however, totally ignores any determination to effect energy related emissions from the demand side. Reducing demand directly, or by improving efficiency of energy use, has the potential to make very significant contributions to climate change targets.Charlie Graham,Green PartyCharles Arthur advocates "going totally nuclear" because "renewables - wind, wave, sun - cannot ever meet our growing electricity demand". However, tidal power can do this. In 1966, the Sustainable Development Commission reported to the government that there is no justification for a new nuclear programme because only four or five tidal power schemes can replace all of our nuclear power stations.John Flood,SolihullHas anyone done a serious engineering investigation into whether it would be possible to provide enough electrical power from so-called "renewables"?Geof Davey,St AlbansAt last someone sensible enough to point out that CO2 is just as "deadly" and "toxic" as nuclear waste. But why stop there? Surely wind turbines are equally life-threatening, if you climb up and get minced by the blades. And water can kill you if you drink too much and if you drown in it, so tidal energy is actually twice as deadly as nuclear. In fact, drinking sea water can also send you mad - surely the only rational explanation for environmentalists' blind opposition to a nuclear tomorrow.Simon Gulliver,HoveThe piece is quite well argued and I find it difficult to disagree with the author. But I'm staggered to see that it's in the Guardian, a bastion of the anti-nuclear lobby. It's a good job that it is not on Comment is Free, there would be the most horrendous ranting posts.junkk.blogspot.com/No Flash in the panGlynn Moody spoils an otherwise interesting article (Why falling Flash prices threaten Microsoft, March 6) by stating that you need 8GB to run Windows XP. Wrong. You can buy an Asus Eee 4GB with Windows XP and the useful bits of Office pre-loaded in places like Bangkok. Costs about &pound;200, and works perfectly.John Kanefsky,Morchard BishopColouring my dayThis has cheered me up no end for its simplicity (Putting colour back in the Doctor's cheeks, March 6). There isn't a negative point in here about slumping ratings, falling share prices, BBC deception or phone line fraud. No, this story means I might finally be able to watch Doctor Who and the Mind of Evil in glorious colour.thestage.co.uk/tvtoday&#183;Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
US industry publication Game Developer Magazine has compiled its first annual list of the world's top 50 development studios (tinyurl.com/2vp83z). In an ambitious holistic approach, the writers employed not just sales data, but also review scores and a survey of major developers to ensure that reputation and critical acclaim are also reflected. Not surprisingly, Nintendo's Kyoto studio - creator of the Brain Age and Wii Sports titles - is top, followed by the likes of Infinity Ward (Call of Duty), Blizzard (World of Warcraft) and Electronic Arts Canada (the EA Sports titles).But where are all the European developers? Well, there are none at all in the top 20, which is entirely dominated by Japanese and North American studios. You have to read down to number 22 to reach German developer Crytek, while the first British entry is at number 25 - the Dundee-based Realtime Worlds.The lack of European big hitters is partly circumstantial. The list is based on data from 2007 - a year in which several major studios didn't release titles. In 2008, Rockstar North has Grand Theft Auto IV, which should see the Dundee outfit blasting in to the top three. Meanwhile, Nottingham's Free Radical Design will release much-anticipated shooter Haze in May and Traveller's Tales has Lego Indiana Jones and Lego Batman out before the end of the year. As for the continent, Swedish veteran Digital Illusions will release Battlefield: Bad Company while Dutch studio Guerilla Games finally delivers the much-hyped PS3 trump card, Killzone 2.So, no, Europe hasn't disappeared off the development radar. According to UK trade association Tiga, Britain is the fourth largest game developer in the world in terms of revenue. But there are concerns; a complete absence from the top 20 cannot be entirely blamed on a quirk of chronology. Last week, Tiga warned that subsidies offered to videogame firms by the government of Quebec (including paying a portion of each company's salary bill) is having a detrimental effect on the UK scene - Eidos recently moved its development focus to Montreal to enjoy the juicy incentives already benefiting Ubisoft and EA there.Others reckon the epic scale of next-generation game development does not suit the European temperament - or bank balance. Look at the movie industry, where, broadly speaking, America handles the mainstream blockbusters while European filmmakers concentrate on quirky, offbeat projects. Perhaps the beauty of European development is that it rarely tries to complete with the straight-faced big brand hit factories.There is often a subversive tinge to our games - the amoral hyperviolence of GTA, the wry reduction of Star Wars mythology into plastic bricks, courtesy of Traveller's Tales' Lego Star Wars series, the Ballard-esque celebration of autoerotic car violence in Criterion's Burnout racers. Europe is still playing its own games, in its own way. Next year's top 50 should show the value of this approach.
I prefer the title 'Monkey Man'Steve Ballmer on stage at Mix 08 "giving up some love for web developers". He surely doesn't need a microphone. But this proves that Ballmer does, indeed, have a sense of humour.tinyurl.com/2nsq26Weather forecast: icy, warmingLet Nasa take you on a tour of the "cryosphere" - all the bits of the planet that contain ice, from Antarctica through tropical glaciers up to the Arctic. Your last chance to see them?tinyurl.com/2gn3udWhy is your status 'annoyed'?Sara Lacy "interviews" Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg at SXSW. Lesson: don't ask questions when chin is below knees.tinyurl.com/2ayr96&#183;Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
miCoach does "sportronics"Samsung is entering the "sportronics" market with its miCoach camera phone. The kit includes a heart rate monitor, a stride sensor that fits Adidas shoes, and a website.micoach.com/Virtually running for gold?Philippe Fuchs, president of the French Virtual Reality Association, is running from Paris to Beijing for the Olympics.3ds.com/VplusRBoom Blox for WiiEA says that Boom Blox, the first game developed with Steven Spielberg, will be out on the Nintendo Wii in May.boomblox.ea.comIn another dimensionThe major Hollywood studios are converting up to 10,000 cinemas across North America to show digital 3D movies. Pixar's Toy Story 3 will be released in 3D.tinyurl.com/23k7cbUK IT's OKA National Computer Centre survey says "expenditure on IT is still buoyant despite an uncertain economic outlook".tinyurl.com/2o5lgjStig who?AQA, which answers questions by SMS, says it has now answered 11m, with this year's most popular so far being: "Who is the Stig?"aqa.63336.comDell-ightful ideaDell is the first computer company that aims be "carbon neutral" this year.tinyurl.com/yub2k3Poles apartHitwise reports that UK internet traffic to the top 100 Polish websites has increased by 805% in two years.tinyurl.com/2wo5bt
The dominant technology company of its day finds itself threatened by an upstart competitor that is seizing control of a powerful new network. Microsoft v Google? No, General Electric (GE) v Westinghouse. The continuing Yahoo takeover battle has pushed into public view a broader business conflict that's been simmering for a couple of years. The internet giant Google has been chipping away at Microsoft's hold on the personal computer industry, and Microsoft has been struggling to counter Google's growing hold over our PCs.But this high-tech war is not without precedent. A similar fight between American industrial titans played out more than a century ago.In the 1880s, Thomas Edison's GE ruled the rapidly growing US electricity industry. It supplied the parts and the plans, the hardware and the software that companies used to build their in-house generating stations. Edison's direct current systems provided the power that brought factory machines to life and lit lamps across the country.But George Westinghouse had a different idea. Drawing on the inventions of Nikola Tesla, Westinghouse pioneered an alternating current (AC)network that allowed electricity to be served up by huge central power plants. Manufacturers could now just plug into the grid.Edison fought the new system fiercely. Seeking to spread fears about the high voltages carried by alternating current lines, he sponsored a series of grisly public exhibitions in which animals were hooked up to AC generators and given fatal shocks. He even convinced the New York legislature to begin electrocuting death-row prisoners with a Westinghouse dynamo.When, in the summer of 1890, an axe murderer named William Kemmler became the first convict to be put to death in New York's new electric chair, a newspaper announced the news with the headline "Kemmler Westinghoused". That must have pleased Edison, but his pleasure was to be short lived. Companies soon opted to use the cheaper current pumped out by the big new utilities that were sprouting up on the AC grid.Today, an analogous industrial transformation is under way. This time, it's computing that's turning into a utility service supplied over a grid.Until recently, software had to be run privately, on the hard drives of PCs or in the data centres maintained by corporations. But as the fibre-optic internet has grown in capacity, it has become possible to run software in central plants and distribute it to users over the network. As with electricity, the central supply of computing is in many cases proving more efficient, and cheaper, than private supply.Google has emerged as the Westinghouse of utility computing, the groundbreaking supplier that proves the viability of the new technology. It has been erecting massive server farms across the world to provide a wide range of software programs, from web searching to video sharing to word processing, to homes and businesses. Microsoft, for its part, finds itself in the GE role, hoping its customers will continue to buy expensive software and run it on their own machines.Microsoft is also hedging its bets. It has begun building its own server farms to compete with Google in supplying utility services. And last week it announced that it will begin offering some of its most popular business programs as services delivered over the internet.A century ago, GE managed to change its stripes. When it became clear that Westinghouse would win the day, it abandoned Edison's system and shifted to supplying AC gear to the new utilities. Even more important, it began supplying a wide range of new consumer appliances designed to run on the electric grid. It found even better businesses to replace the one it lost.Microsoft may be able to reinvent itself with equal success. First, though, it will have to meet the challenge posed by Google, a fierce competitor that would like nothing more than to Westinghouse Microsoft.&#183;Nicholas Carr is the author of the new book The Big Switch: Rewiring the World, from Edison to Google.
Swarms of tiny robots that join forces to tackle the job at hand, and repair themselves when they are damaged, are being built by a team of British scientists.The motorised, sugar cube-sized robots are designed to communicate with one other, and will be able to assemble themselves into much larger machines to carry out specific tasks when required.Scientists at the University of the West of England in Bristol are experimenting with the swarms as part of a &euro;10m (&pound;7.5m) project called Symbrion, to build highly-adaptive machines that can transform themselves to suit very different tasks and environments.The robots are expected to operate in dangerous and unpredictable environments, such as searching for survivors in war zones, exploring distant planets and recycling material in toxic waste dumps."Not only will they cooperate, they'll self-assemble and self-organise into artificial organisms," said Prof Alan Winfield, a member of the  team."Probably the most important and difficult part is once they have all connected together, they've got to decide what they need to be."Early prototypes of the robots, or cells, can move around on small wheels, and are powered by on-board batteries and computer processors similar to those found in personal organisers. Electrical connections are used to share power and send commands from one robot to another.The scientists are developing computer software that will give each robot some basic instincts, such as the urge to find others and communicate with them.More advanced versions are planned that will be able to be set a problem - for example, to search for the thermal signature of a body - and then left to work out the best way to solve it.If a machine has to travel a long distance, it could assemble into a rolling ball, before changing shape into a four-legged machine to clamber over rubble, said Winfield. By mimicking evolution, the robot will test different strategies and settle on whichever seems to work best.The principle is similar to an ant or termite colony, where individuals cooperate to such a degree they behave like one large organism, even though there is no central "brain" instructing it what to do."A Symbrion swarm could be released into a collapsed building following an earthquake ... they could form themselves into teams searching for survivors or to lift rubble off stranded people. Some might form a chain allowing rescue workers to communicate with survivors while others assemble themselves into a 'medicine-bot' to give first aid," Winfield added.It could be 10 to 15 years before swarming robots are capable of achieving anything useful, according to Serge Kernbach, a member of the project at Stuttgart university. The first stage of the project aims to develop software for robots to make collective decisions and assign roles to each other.
If you like Sim City, chances are you'll love Imperium Romanum. Hugely detailed, lovingly scripted and packed with historical scenarios, it's a real step forward for such a small developer. The gameplay is all about exploiting resources, caring for your citizens and meeting their demands. Prone to burning down their own houses if not fed, policed and motivated properly, this is no easy task. As always, the main problem is combat. Units can only be told where to go and when to attack, and you can only build one squad from each military building, which is frankly ridiculous. However, combat is only one part of a deep and attractive game with great replay value.
From the newspaper on the train to the magazine thrust in your hand as you leave the station, from the targeted ads that accompany your browsing to the ad breaks that punctuate your TV viewing, advertising-supported content is nothing new. Ever since ITV's launch in September 1955, viewers have broadly accepted that in return for watching advertisements, they can view the programmes that follow for nothing.Now enabled by technology that allows advertisers to target consumers more precisely and efficiently than ever, the concept is spreading. From free, legal music to free mobile phone calls and texts, from online games featuring targeted ads to free movie downloads, a glut of startup companies aim to apply the same principle that led to the ITV of old becoming a "licence to print money".Shift changeWhen Google's top team embarked on a low-profile tour to launch its pay-per-click AdWords programme in the UK in 2002, it seemed unlikely that by 2008 it would be on the verge of making more money than ITV. It is a telling example of the shift that advertising experts believe will continue to see money flow from scattergun mass-market campaigns to highly-targeted, contextualised advertising.That shift is one that Chris Anderson, editor-in-chief of the magazine Wired, who in 2006 turned the concept of The Long Tail into the must-read tome for every harassed media executive, is tapping into with his next book, called simply Free. He argues that the power of "free" will spark an online and business revolution, as the costs of bandwidth and storage became negligible."Between digital economics and the wholesale embrace of King Gillette's experiment in price shifting [selling razors at less than cost, to make money on the disposable blades], we are entering an era when free will be seen as the norm, not an anomaly," he said in Wired (tinyurl.com/yntwek). "A generation raised on free is coming of age, and they will find entirely new ways to embrace waste, transforming the world in the process. Because free is what you want - and free, increasingly, is what you're going to get."If that is a rallying cry to some, it's terrifying for others - specifically those, like record labels, that have relied on us paying for stuff. As Anderson identifies, the next stage is likely to be ad-funded delivery of goods and services. Shaun Gregory, the former director of new media at Telegraph Media Group who last October became UK chief executive of Blyk, a mobile phone network that offers free talktime and texts in return for serving its customers with ads, says it is inevitable.Aimed at 16- to 24-year-olds, the deal is that in return for supplying extensive profile information and receiving an average of two to three targeted ads per day, users get 217 texts and 43 minutes of talktime a month. Recent trade speculation suggested takeup was disappointing, but Gregory maintains it is well on track to hit its target of 100,000 users by September.He says media buyers need to change tack and focus on the quality of their interaction with young consumers rather than their traditional volume-based play. More than 100 advertisers have signed up including Adidas, Sony PlayStation, McDonalds and the COI.Users are recruited by "street teams" that prowl city centres. Gregory says today's "savvy" youth market understands the implicit or explicit "deal" involved in getting something for nothing. Nor does he accept that those kids looking for free calls might not necessarily be those with the most disposable income. "The calls that come into our call centre are not to complain about the advertising, but to ask for more," he says.Vodafone and Orange are believed to be looking at variations on the theme while Virgin, which has a US service called Sugar Mama that rewards completion of surveys or the rating of ads with free minutes, is said to be looking at bringing something similar to the UK. Gregory said Blyk was creating a new category. "For seven years, people scoffed at pay-per-click [where Google has made billions]. People said it was just a bunch of web geeks," he said.A recent report from Generator Media highlighted relationships with ad agencies and the ability to deliver a premium audience as two of the six key requirements for ad-funded services. "Generic, untargeted ads that are slapped on top of a free content service are likely to produce poor results," it said. Gregory believes mobiles and music are the most obvious Trojan horses, because younger consumers believe they should cost nothing in any case.Steve Purdham, chief executive of the Peter Gabriel-backed ad-funded music service We7, is troubled by the word free. "People will either pay for something with money or they will pay for something with their time. Music should never be free. There is too much value in its ability to make the hairs stand up on the back of your neck," he said.Earlier this week, We7 struck a deal with Sony BMG to launch a new streaming service, and is one of several companies developing various kinds of ad-funded models. The evolution of the internet has opened up a wealth of possibilities. Their development has accelerated in recent months as record labels have woken up to the need to speed the evolution of new business models."With CD sales falling at an alarming rate and digital sales failing miserably to offset the decline, they're having to look seriously at alternative revenue models," says Jupiter Research analyst Mark Mulligan.What track record?The concept of ad-funded music downloads exploded into the mainstream in January when QTrax, a US service promising unfettered access to any song in return for displaying adverts while they downloaded, announced its launch at a music industry conference in Cannes. The executives behind the service claimed this was the way to capture a slice of the revenue that had been pouring out of the industry at an alarming rate. They would piggyback on an existing peer-to-peer service, but screen all files. Users would download a Qtrax media player that would store tracks and, in time, be able to transfer them to an iPod or other digital music player. More incredible still, they claimed to have agreed deals to license tracks from every major label. It all sounded too good to be true. And it was.The major labels revealed that they hadn't yet reached deals with Qtrax, or that existing agreements had expired. Negotiations are ongoing; last week the company announced deals with EMI and Sony's publishing arms.Chief executive Allan Klepfisz admitted that the fiasco, during which it burned hundreds of thousands on sponsorship, billboards and parties featuring the likes of James Blunt, had left it looking "pretty foolish". Klepfisz said he didn't believe advertising alone would be enough but reckoned on affiliate deals, the sale of concert tickets and merchandise to make up the difference.While many remain sceptical about the prospect of QTrax ever launching on a meaningful scale and others suspect the plan is to agree as many licensing deals as possible before selling up, Klepfisz insisted he was in it "for the long-term". At the start of this week, it took a step forward by signing a deal with Beggars Group, the UK independent that has the White Stripes and Radiohead among its artists.The problem for these new services, and the advertisers who have signed up to them, is that the most attractive audience are the ones who seem to have fewest qualms about downloading illegally. And even the prospect of listening to a 10-second advert, or having to re-dock their MP3 player to refresh the DRM on tracks they have downloaded, may be enough to keep them away.Basket casesAccording to Mulligan, the music industry is caught in a double bind. It has put all its eggs in the digital basket as the solution to collapsing CD sales, which prevents it experimenting with the same freedom as broadcasters. UK broadcasters have got together to work on Project Kangaroo, which will offer a mixture of pay-per-view and ad-supported content.ITV.comoffers free catch-up TV, supported by adverts, as do US services like ABC's ad-funded streaming service and NBC and News Corp joint ventureHulu.com. "You can't expect consumers to understand why TV online is any different from music online. People don't differentiate," says Mulligan.On one side, the optimistic Anderson worldview points to a cornucopia of free content and services paid for by better targeted, more intelligent adverts. On the other, the content and service industries that bring that advertising to consumers are still not convinced it can bring in enough money for them to survive. The tension won't hold forever, and there are bound to be big casualties along the way. According to Klepfisz, whose Qtrax most spectacularly encapsulates the dashed ambition and hitherto unfulfilled potential of the ad-funded world, the dream is still alive: "We want to prove that free is not a four-letter word. That giving music away doesn't mean giving profits away."
A Home Office official has made public the contents of an internal analysis fmor the Home Office dealing with the question of whether Phorm's model for targeted advertising is legal under interception of communications legislation.You can find anarchive of the discussion on Cryptome, but as it went out on the ukcrypto mailing list (if I'm reading the headers right), it's hardly secret.The conclusion:Targeted online advertising services should be provided with the explicit consent of ISPs' users or by the acceptance of the ISP terms and conditions. The providers of targeted online advertising services, and ISPs contracting those services and making them available to their users, should then - to the extent interception is at issue - be able to argue that the end user has consented to the interception (or that there are reasonable grounds for so believing).And:Targeted online advertising can be regarded as being provided in connection with the telecommunication service provided by the ISP in the same way as the provision of services that examine e-mails for the purposes of filtering or blocking spam or filtering web pages to provide a specifically tailored content service.Finally:Targeted online advertising undertaken with the highest regard to the respect for the privacy of ISPs' users and the protection of their personal data, and with the ISPs' users consent, expressed appropriately, is a legitimate business activity. The purpose of Chapter 1 of Part 1 of RIPA is not to inhibit legitimate business practice particularly in the telecommunications sector.(Do read the analysis in full.) Basically, though, it's saying that if you've said OK in the Ts&amp;Cs, then it's legal.I'm leaning towards the phrase "server-side adware" for what Phorm's doing. Does anyone else have a better phrase?
According to Gamesindustry.bizand others, Take Two has revealed its sales figures and other titbits during a conference call with investors. From Gamasutra:[Chairman Strauss] Zelnick went through [Take Two's] IP sales numbers: GTA selling 66 million units to date, Midnight Club 11.5 million, Civilization 8 million, Max Payne 7 million, Mafia 2 million, BioShock 2 million, Red Dead Revolver, Manhunt, and Bully all 1.5 million, and Carnival Games approaching 1 million sold thus far.The impressive GTA figure is set to be healthily enhanced by the fourth title - Michael Pachter, famed analyst with Wedbush Morganreckonsit'll shift nine million copies, enlivening what he expects will be a mediocre year for the publisher.Anyway, during that conference call, Take Two revealed that it has at least one currently unannounced blockbuster sequel due in 2009. While some reckon it's another Max Payne title (there's a movie out in '09), others - including Mystic Michael Pachter - reckon on a Red Dead Revolver follow-up. Bully, Manhunt and Rockstar Ping Pong are all outside bets. What do you reckon?Elsewhere, company CEO Ben Feder was asked if Bioshock producer Ken Levine would be involved with the forthcoming sequel, despite the fact that it will be handled by 2K Marin and notIrrational Games2K Boston and 2K Australia. Feder said that Levineisonboard - while also overseeing another IP. 2K Boston/Australia, meanwhile, are working on a different title. So while Take Two's release schedule for 2007 harbours the likes of Top Spin 3, Don King Presents: Prizefighter and Carnival Games: Mini-Golf (plus the genuinely promising Borderlands), next year's might actually get the publisher out of its current mini-slump.
Apple has announced that there have been100,000 downloads of its software developers kit (SDK) for the iPhonesince it was announced last week. That's some pent-up demand."Developer reaction to the iPhone SDK has been incredible with more than 100,000 downloads in the first four days," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of Worldwide Product Marketing. "Also, over one million people have watched the launch video on Apple.com, further demonstrating the incredible interest developers have in creating applications for the iPhone."Well, the million viewings shows an incredible interest in whether Steve Jobs might come out wearing a clown outfit, and for any little sign of what might be possible with an iPhone. (Did 900,000 decide after viewing that it wasn't worth the bother, then?) But anyway.The release of an SDK - which sort of equates to an API (applications programming interface) - for the iPhone is something that people have been agitating about since its announcement in January 2007.But I have to say that I was asking Apple why it wasn't releasing an API for theiPodback in December 2004, when it had launched the iPod nano. Mylatest article on the sitelooks at this question, and notes that the iPhone is quickly becoming that most-desired of things (for the company concerned) - a platform, not just a product.Certainly, by 2004 (when everyone was still expecting that someone would launch an "iPod killer") the iPod in all its forms was a platform - though for the people who make speakers, music-via-FM and plug-in-your-iPod alarm clocks, not software. What's different about the iPhone is that it's becoming asoftwareplatform. And as Bill Gates could tell you, that's a much more valuable thing. And so it could be to developers - who will be able to charge for their products to be sold through Apple's online store.How about you? What iPhone app would you write to make your first million?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Sitting in a London room with the head of iPod marketing, I asked: "Don't you think you should have some sort of means to let people write third-party applications that will run on the iPod? It would be enormously popular." And, I pointed out, it would turn the iPod from a music player into a "platform" — something that others can build on. (Being a platform was key to the dominance of Windows.)She considered this for a moment. "It's something we talk about internally quite a lot," she replied. "But so far we haven't done it." Why? "Our stance is that right now [the iPod is] very simple and it works the same for everyone," she says. "We have decided to keep it closed. Essentially, it's a music player. We don't want to spoil the experience."That was autumn 2004. The iPod, of course, was only three years old, but even so had wiped out the opposition: it had 90% of the hard drive-based digital music player market, and 60% overall including Flash-based ones (following the launch of its iPod shuffle and iPod nano).But it was obvious that the iPod was a computer that a huge number of people carried in their pockets; mostly it just acted as an MP3 decoder. But as you could also load it up with your phone numbers and calendar details, and it would give you reminders of appointments, and you could do limited data input (rating songs on a zero-to-five scale), and it synchronised with a main computer, it held enormous promise.Everything was there ready, years ago, and years ago Apple was debating internally whether to let the world and its dog write applications for this ubiquitous computer. But for years it did nothing while people wished they could write programs for that desirable object.Now Apple has finally — finally! —announcedthe Software Developers' Kit (SDK) for the iPhone, and the world and its dog made the company's web servers collapse as everyone tried to download it.But what took so long? There were little games that were written by third parties which began, slowly, to appear on the iPod. But wholesale opening-up to outsiders? Didn't happen. As the number of iPods sold passed 100m, this little question nagged at me. But clearly Apple was doing fine: it posted record profit after record profit.And then it introduced the iPhone and (don't overlook this) the iPod Touch — two machines which really are intended to be ubiquitous pocket computers. And yet Apple still seemed indifferent to outside programmers: Steve Jobs infuriated them at last year's Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) by telling them they could write applications for the iPhone and iPod Touch ... which ran through web pages.But like someone desirable who goes on a date with you, and then almost entirely ignores your texts and phone calls, Apple is monstrously good at manipulating peoples' wishes. Last October Jobs tantalised third-party developers by saying there would be an SDK by the end of February. (Another date!) But then the deadline slipped. (Sorry, the SDK had to work late. Some time later?)Then at last, with people who could see the potential of having their applications running on the iPhone (whether for vanity or for money) standing there with their tongues out, Jobs announced the terms of the SDK: Apple charges $99 (£49) per year to get on the SDK program, you have to develop on the latest "Leopard" version of Mac OSX, and Apple gets 30% of the sale price of any application, which can only be sold (or given away) through its online iTunes Store.Is that a great deal? It doesn't matter; if that desirable date finally agrees to dinner, you don't care that they leave you to pick up the bill. Who'd have thought you could emotionally manipulate people over an SDK? The executives at rival smartphone software companies like RIM, Palm and Microsoft must be standing around with their mouths open:Apple got developers to be happy about giving away more than a third of their revenues?Interesting questions remain around the periphery of the SDK announcement. John Gruberpoints out a very interesting one: could Amazon write an application that would let you buy digital music from its online store? (In which case, where would the music be downloaded to? Would it be available to the onboard music player?) Essentially, will Apple allow rivals on its platform?But — you see what has happened? The iPhone and iPod Touch are turning into a platform, and people are falling over themselves to get on board. If I were at Microsoft, RIM or Palm, once I'd got my jaw back in shape, I'd be worrying. After all, nobody thought the iPod would get far, and look how wrong they were.Then they thought the iPhone was too limited and that Apple couldn't break into a market. (Note Ed Colligan'swords from November 2006: "We've learned and struggled for a few years here figuring out how to make a decent phone," he said. "PC guys are not going to just figure this out. They're not going to just walk in.")So — anyone now prepared to bet against the iPhone and iPod Touch becoming a successful platform?
The small town of Nanaimo on Vancouver Island may be a world leader in getting information on to Google Earth, according to a Time magazine story,How Google Earth Ate Our Town.Residents can, for example, follow fire engines on Google Maps, and even the cemeteries are being mapped. Time says:The city's planning department has, over the past five years, steadily fed Google a wealth of information about its buildings, property lines, utilities and streets. The result isearth.nanaimo.ca, a clearinghouse of city data viewed through the robust and freely available Google Earth 3D mapping program. The site sorts and maps every business, from restaurants to car dealers, while a click of the mouse brings up the lot size for every property in the city, including the building permit number and zoning history. Homeowners can use the facility to find out specific information about their garbage collection schedule, while the city's 150-year-old downtown core is rendered in 3D and dotted with 360-degree panoramas.But it seems the idea has not yet had much impact. The story says:Good for tourists, perhaps, and a real live test-bed for the company's ambitions to Google-ize far larger metropolises. But the reality in Nanaimo is that many locals are entirely unaware of the new electronic pathways for navigating their city.What do you think? What information could Google Earth offer that would change your life?Update: Apologies for the typo in the original headline, which read "Googe"...
YouTube has announced, inYouTube Everywhere, a set of APIs (applications programming interfaces). Now you can have "a little slice of YouTube" on your own Web site, and use its facilities from "video games, mobile devices, televisions, cameras, and lots more".TheGoogle Codeblog explains:That means that if, for example, you run a site just for iguana enthusiasts, your users can upload videos of JubJub to their YouTube accounts, post comments, create iguana playlists, and more, all without leaving your site. And with the new player APIs and the new chromeless player, you can completely customize and skin the YouTube embedded player to match the look and feel of your site (a green theme, buttons that look like scales?).YouTube's blog mentions some example applications:Electronic Arts has enabled gamers to capture videos of fantastical user-generated creatures from their upcoming game, Spore, and publish these directly into YouTube. The University of California, Berkeley is bringing free educational content to the world, enhancing their open source lecture capture and delivery system to publish videos automatically into YouTube. Animoto enables its users to create personalized, professional-quality music videos from their own photos and upload them directly to YouTube. Tivo is providing its users a rich and highly participative YouTube viewing experience on the television. For more details about the innovative ways these other partners are utilizing YouTube APIs, see ourcase studies.We knowThere Ain't No Such Thing As As Free Lunch, but this seems to come pretty close. You get to use YouTube for storage, streaming and video conversion, free, and you can use your own "chrome" instead of YouTube's. Your users don't have to go to YouTube's site or see YouTube's advertisements. It makes YouTube less of a destination site and more of an online service.Of course, once you have plumbed YouTube into your Web site, you will find it hard to get it out again. But since the Web is now basically Short Attention-Span Cinema, I don't imagine too many people will worry.
It wasJane McGonigal's year at the 2008 South by Southwest Interactive. The Senior Researcher at the Institute for the Future think tank landeda killer keynoteon the final day of the ScreenBurn gaming stream andpicked up an awardfor the serious Alternate Reality Game World Without Oil.McGonigal, who was also responsible for the design of the ilovebees Halo2 campaign, made an impressive future-thinking speech on Tuesday in Austin, in which she laid out her goal for the future:Instead of trying to make games more realistic-more powerful graphics, better AI-I'm trying to make the real world more like gamesNice. And it's a goal she's trying to reify withThe Lost Ring, the McDonalds-backed ARG that will be played out in the run up to the Olympic games in Beijing. Daniel Terdiman covered the event, andcaught up with McGonigal after her keynoteto press her on the gritty details. One quote caught my eye:We talk about collective intelligence, but you need a diversity of participants to really make it work. It's not just intellectual diversity, but also gender diversity and age diversity. One of the things this game can do is show what the truly geographically collective intelligence really looks like. I don't know that we've really seen one. The Wikipedia articles, maybe. In this game, everyone's writing the same article, to use that metaphor.As far as I recall, computer games companies have been talking about this very aim for years.The Kitten's Toewas also at the keynote, and has detailed the 10 points McGonigal made that will improve our quality of life through play.Inspirational.
Wallace &amp; Gromit producer Aardman Animations has co-developed a range of animated characters called the JellyBeats, which will get their debut on Bebo.The characters, a range of 16 jellyfish each representing a musical genre, have been developed as a joint venture partnership with production company Digital Outlook Studios.Each of the characters has been designed to dance, talk and swim in the style of their musical preference, such as hip-hop, and are aimed at 14- to 18-year-olds.The JellyBeats characters will first appear in three clips, each around two minutes long, posted on Bebo Video today.Aardman and DOS are aiming to develop an online following for the Jellybeats before launching the new animated characters on other media outlets."Once the characters have become part of the everyday and their potential has been established with the audience we will work together with both online and offline partners to generate revenue and further develop the franchise," said Jens Bachem, the managing director of DOS.Aardman and DOS's tie-up with Bebo will also see the launch of a JellyBeats application called "What's Your Beat?", which allow users to choose their favourite character and feature it on their profile page.The JellyBeats will also have their own Bebo profile page, which will include discussion boards, polls and a photo gallery. They will also feature on their own website, jellybeats.com, which will feature film shorts, free downloads such as icons for Instant Messenger and a live iTunes feed that links to the top songs in each genre represented by a character.Daniel Hewitt, the director of business development at Bebo, said: "Our audience increasingly expect greater access to their favourite comedy, music and pop culture programming and want to share their interests. JellyBeats allows our community to show off their tastes in a creative and fun way."The 16 characters were created by Peter Peake for Aardman and developed together with Digital Outlook Studios.Bebo successfully launched several video formats, with "snack size" drama KateModern proving a hit.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
I've been sent a new batch of mobile games over the last couple of days so I'm working through them on bus journeys and snatched moments of peace and quiet at home. Here are three very good puzzlers to start us off. They should be on your network operator's portal over the next few weeks, or try the publisher websites.Puzzle Quest: Warlords (THQ Wireless)Okay, this is a must-have. Amust-have. THQ Wireless' conversion of InfiniteInteractive's multi-platform hit presents the familiar horribly addictive combination of Bejeweled-esque gem-swap puzzler with RPG adventure. Your role is to battle through a troubled kingdom, engaging in competitive puzzling sessions with various enemies, gaining experience points and spells as you go. There are missions, side-missions, sub-plots, power-ups, etc, all perfectly presented and skilfully re-tuned for the mobile keypad. If this isn't one of 2008's defining mobile releases we really are in for an unbelievable year.Dynamite Fishing (Handy Games)The title says it all really. You're a redneck angler with a boat full of dynamite and a lake teeming with valuable livestock. Your simple mission is to blow up as many fish as possible, catch 'em and haul them in for a cash reward. There's a range of weapons available, including a shotgun to deal with the gulls that steal your floating spoils, and you can upgrade your boat to make it faster and more maneuverable. In the story mode, you get a range of specific fishing missions to accomplish, while a Freestyle Massacre lets you blast as many aquatic victims as possible within the alloted time. It's amusing stuff, with some great animation and a decent selection of power-up options. Just the sort of five minute diversion that works brilliantly on this platform.Wordox (Vivendi)The huge popularity of Scrabbulous has brought Scrabble-inspired word games back onto the casual agenda - if they ever actually left it. Vivendi, then, should do well with Wordox, a mobile translation of the popular online PC title that combines the word building play of Scrabble with the strategic colour-swapping of Othello. Your aim is to use your letters to make up words, and each time you connect to an opponent's word entry, you turn their letter(s) to your colour stealing their points. Works perfectly on mobile, especially as there's a 'hot-swap' multiplayer mode for up to four people, using just one phone. Great train journey fodder - or for anytime a lack of Wi-Fi access means you can't carry on that Scrabbulous game you've been playing for seven weeks...
Frank Piasecki, whose development of twin-rotor helicopters made him one of the world's great aviation pioneers,  has died aged 88 after a series of strokes in the US. Although his name is not well known in Europe, his Chinook helicopter has been central to the military operations of at least 16 western nations since the 1960s. With their distinctive stub noses, raised tails and counter-rotating blades, early versions of the Chinook first made their mark on the public imagination during the Vietnam war; they were introduced by the US army in 1965 as jungle troop transporters, though others were later adapted as attack gunships.In May 1982, the loss of four out of five British Chinooks aboard the Atlantic Conveyor changed the course of the Falklands conflict - without them, British Royal Marines and paratroopers had to yomp the 90 miles to Stanley. More recently, the Chinook has played a key support role with Britain's forces in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere.Piasecki, whose family came from Poland, became only the second American to design and fly a prototype helicopter in 1943, two years after the Russian-born Igor Sikorsky had flown the first. Unlike Sikorsky, however, Piasecki concentrated on helicopters with tandem rotors that could provide the capacity for troop transports and land and sea rescue missions. He never retired; even on the day he died his chief test pilot was flying his latest development, the Speed Hawk, which has a ducted fan replacing the helicopter's familiar vertical tail rotor to increase its speed and manoeuvrability.The son of a Polish immigrant tailor, Piasecki was born in Philadelphia, studied mechanical engineering at Pennsylvania University and by the age of 20 had gained an engineering degree from the Guggenheim school of aeronautics at New York University. With help from a few friends he then started a small company, the PV Engineering Forum, in the Philadelphia suburbs, which enabled him to build and, in April 1943, test-fly a single-person, single-rotor helicopter, designated the PV-2. At that stage, he had it in mind to satisfy what he thought would become a growing market of rich, individual customers.Soon, however, he was exploring the twin-rotor concept, most successfully in 1945 with the PV-3 Dogship, which had 10 seats. The US navy, under wartime pressure from Congress to develop this new technology, gave Piasecki a contract, and within 13 months he had built and flown the navy's first helicopter, designated the HRP-1. These aircraft were nicknamed "flying bananas" because of the upward angle of the aft fuselage, designed to ensure that the forward and rear rotors did not collide.When the second world war ended, Piasecki formed the Piasecki Helicopter Corporation, designating himself chief executive, chief engineer and chief test pilot. In addition to building helicopters for the US navy, air force and marine corps, he exported the models to the Royal Canadian air force, the French navy and the West German defence force. In 1953 he designed the world's first twin-turbine helicopter, the YH-16, capable of carrying a payload of 40 passengers. His tandem rotor technology led to the development of the CH-46 Sea Knight and the CH-40 Chinook, which played a critical role in Vietnam and all major conflicts after it.In 1955, preferring to continue research and development, Piasecki left his own company, which was renamed the Vertol Aircraft Corporation - taking its title from the acronym for Vertical Take-Off and Landing. In its turn, this company was bought by Boeing in 1960 and became the Boeing helicopter division in 1987. Meanwhile, Piasecki reformed his company as the Piasecki Aircraft Corporation, "pioneers in vertical flight", which has continued to work on advanced helicopter technology, improved survivability and reduced operational costs. One of its most ambitious projects was what Piasecki called the "world's largest aircraft", which aimed to use four modified helicopters and a helium airship to carry exceptionally heavy loads.In 1986 President Ronald Reagan awarded Piasecki the US's highest technical honour, the National Medal of Technology, and when the Berlin wall fell in 1989, President George Bush Sr asked him to return to his country of origin to help Poland re-establish its aircraft industry. In 2005, he received the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum lifetime achievement award. Some of his early helicopter designs are displayed in the museum.Known as Pi to his friends and staff, Piasecki was a demanding and occasionally table-thumping boss, but knew all his staff personally, and admired those who stood up to him. He had continued as chief executive, his mental abilities undiminished despite several disabling strokes.In 1958 he married Vivian O'Gara Weyerhaeuser and they settled in Haverford, Pennsylvania. She survives him as do his two daughters and five sons, two of whom are vice-presidents of the present company.&#183;Frank Nicholas Piasecki, aeronautical engineer, born October 24 1919; died February 11 2008
Phorm, the company that has signed with BT, TalkTalk and Virgin Media to provide its "Webwise" service, felt moved to put out a statement on Tuesday saying it knew of no reason why itsshare price had fallen by 30%or so on the day.We don't either. But meanwhile, we have an extended version of the interview I did last Friday with Kent Ertegrul, chief executive of the company, in which I put many of the questions you had raised on the blog (apart from those which weren't questions or had been answered...). Let us know what questions you think remain. (It was described as "robust" by some in the studio.)It's 30 minutes - there werelotsof questions. Linkhere.Or listen directly -Launch the audio player
On this week's Tech Weekly, we dig up the dirt on the man who's changing the blogosphere.Nick Dentonis the man who's transforming the American media andthe Observer's Jay Rayner has spoken to the manwho isMr Gawker.We talk to the company who's controversial plans for targeted advertising has caused a storm -the chairman ofPhormanswers your questions.  You canhear an extended version of that interview here.On a related note, we touch on the controversyGoogleis stirring up with their targeted TV advertising intentions, as well as theBBClaunching the iPlayer for the iPhone, and news from the e-Crime conference.Over in the USAJemima is at South by Southwestand she tells us aboutFacebookfounder Mark Zuckerberg's disastrous keynote, and walks us through the new video sharing sites contending for the You Tube throne.JoiningAleks Krotoskiin the studio isCharles ArthurandBobbie Johnson.Don't forget to:•Post a message on the programme's blog•Tell us what you think at tech@guardian.co.uk•Join our Facebook group
·Launch the audio playerThere's more jam-packedness inthis week's podthan you'll find at the annual meeting of the WI's illuminati branch. First up is comradeJay Rayner, author of ourprofile of Nick Denton, who dishes the dirt on his old friend and discusses the influence of blogging.Next up we have theKent Ertegrul, the CEO ofPhorm- that'sthe controversial advertising platformthat hasmany of youup in arms. He's answering questions on how his company works and what the implications could be.As if that wasn't enough roving reporterJemima Kissis on the blower from Austin, Texas, where she's been cavorting with the world wide webkids at theSouth By South West festival. Among the topics is the now-infamous interview with Mark Zuckerberg; Jemima tells us "the whole thing was like a really awkward date... which happened to have several thousand people watching it".Plus presenterAleks Krotoskibrings us the news and views with regular pod panellistsCharles ArthurandBobbie Johnson.Tell us your thoughts in the comments: on the guests, the issues or the show itself.·The podcast feed URL·Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes·Visit our Facebook group·The Tech Weekly archives
Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg made up for the famous"train wreck" interviewby stepping up toanswer questions for half an hourin a "develper garage". The video is not great quality (grabbed on a mobile?) but it seems to me he comes across very well, rather than being a "tough interview" or whatever.Meanwhile a video of the original Mark Zuckerberg/ Sarah Lacy Interview From SXSW has been posted on various sites, includingAllFacebook, the unofficial Facebook blog, andTechCrunch. Jemima Kiss has already provided text coverage on our PDA blog in@SXSW: Zuckerberg looking at China and stopping spam.Comment has continued in the blogosphere. Michael Arrington at TechCrunch thinks the reaction was over the top, inThe "Nuclear Disaster" At SXSW Was Nothing More Than A Witch Burning. (A vote on the page is in his support.)Brian Solis also has a long and thoughtful post,Sarah Lacy on Sarah Lacy and the SXSW Mark Zuckerberg Keynote.Robert Scoble asks a good question about his data scraping in the first video, and has postedAudience of Twittering Assholes.
Just when you think no more indignities can be piled on Sega's fallen console, it seems Dreamcast.com has been converted into a phishing scam.From Joystiq:By all appearances, the supposed official site of Sega's cherished console has received a legitimate update, exciting loyalists that have been anticipating the system's 10-year anniversary later this year. By clicking on the question, visitors are prompted to accept a user agreement for an @user.dreamcast.com email account (apparently tied to Gmail). Applicants must supply a console serial number, email address, and password before being granted a [serial number]@dreamcast.com Gmail address.The thing is ... Sega no longer owns dreamcast.com.I'm not exactly sure why scammers would target hardcore Dreamcast fans - it just seems cruelandsurely unprofitable. How many saddened, nostalgia-afflicted 128bit gamers could they have captured?Sega is apparently looking into the situation, having given up the rights to the URL some years ago. You couldn't imagine this happening to Sony could you?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Dave Tomlinson of the product team at the UK ISP Plus Net has written a long, detailed and (if you can stay with it)fascinating explanation of the real costs that ISPs in the UK face. For instance, the monthly rental payable to BT just for connecting the ISP's customers to their nearest exchange using BT's IPStream:Based on customer numbers of around 200,000 the monthly rental after the rebate works out at approximately £1,700,000And that's before you send any data anywhere. Tomlinson also explodes the "unlimited" idea:When you look at the costs it's fairly easy to understand why the "unlimited" broadband deal just doesn't work. A constant speed [to the customer] of 1Mbps equates to around 300GB in a month and without the costs of building, staff, hardware, billing, etc. costs an IPStream ISP over £150 per month.The money is serious, and the growth in streaming from sites such as YouTube and, more recently, the BBC (because of the iPlayer) is giving all the ISPs nightmares. But it's only when you see it set out with cold, hard (big) numbers like this that you see what ISPs are up against. Peer-to-peer downloads after midnight? They're not so troubled about that. Everyone logging onto iPlayer at 6pm to watch that episode of Ashes to Ashes they missed? That's rather more of a problem.As Tomlinson notes inanother post, it's been expensive having the iPlayer:• 100% growth in the number of customers using over 1GB of streaming in a month since December• Cost of carrying streaming traffic increased from £17,233 to £51,700 per monthWow. No wonder ISPs are making threatening noises about back-charging the BBC.
Sony has officially announced a European release date forGran Turismo 5: Prologue. It'll be hitting shop shelves on March 28, priced at £24.99, or as part of a PS3 bundle deal at £299. The 71 car, six track taster will also be available for download from the PlayStation Store on March 27, possibly at a lower price.But here's the interesting bit. The European release features a selection of exclusive extras. From the press release:Drift Mode:The player's drifting technique is measured based on drift angles, racing lines, and speeds within evaluation zones located at various turns on the course.In Depth Car Tuning:Players have the ability to adjust the vehicle's performance, including power, tyres, suspension and the ability for quick tuning whilst racing.Two-player Split Screen Racing:Allows players to race head-to-head offline.New Race Events:Online racing fans can join in on a new set of scheduled events and time trials.Also in the package, of course, is the 16 player online mode and access to Gran Turismo TV, an online channel of, 'great motoring TV programming' - i.e.downloadable episodes of Top Gear.So which GT camp do you fall in? And does the online and splitscreen play make it more attractive to those who have found the series too exacting and pompous so far?
The Pitcairn Islands have suffered a bit in the PR stakes over the years:mutinous rebellions, systematicsexual assaults... you know, the usual.The latest to stick the boot in is security firm Sophos, which has decided that Pitcairn is thehome of the world's worst spammers: measured by spam sent per capita, rather than by total volume, the 50 residents of the island (who share a single, government-licensed connection to the internet) come out as the planet's most productive spam kings.The top 10 list pumped out by the public relations team at Sophos included a number of small nations like Tokelau, Monaco and Bermuda. But most interestingly, it also listed North Korea (population 23 million) at No7.That would mean that the notoriously underdeveloped Pyongyang would certainly rank as the world's happiest haven for spammers, and perhaps provide North Korea with a valuable stream of income which it could then spend on the military.Except it turns out that apparently Sophos got it wrong: this morning a correction appeared in my inbox, simply saying that"North Korea is no longer in seventh position in the chart".No news on what caused the mistake, but apparently rumours that Kim Jong-Il personally phoned up to complain are wide of the mark.
AP is reporting thatWal-Mart Ends Test of Linux in Stores. The story says:Computers that run the Linux operating system instead of Microsoft Corp.'s Windows didn't attract enough attention from Wal-Mart customers, and the chain has stopped selling them in stores, a spokeswoman said Monday."This really wasn't what our customers were looking for," said Wal-Mart Stores Inc spokeswoman Melissa O'Brien.Wal-Mart eventually sold out of Everex Green gPCs, and AP says: "Walmart.com now carries an updated version, the gPC2, also for $199, without a monitor. The site also sells a tiny Linux-driven laptop, the Everex CloudBook, for $399."So although Wal-Mart decided not to restock its shelves with gPCs, it hasn't dropped Linux altogether. It is still selling systems online.However, Wal-Mart is continuing to sell Everex machines running Vista. Since Wal-Mart isn't a bit sentimental about its shelf space and profit margins, this does suggest there isn't the huge pent-up demand for Linux systems that many Linux fans have claimed.... Not among Wal-Mart customers, anyway.
Every now and then I feel like I'm developing a mild fascination with weird clocks; watches that tell the time in binary, that sort of thing.Holy retro toy joy, then, to discover this little project from New YorkerAngela Yuan, who has created a clock from an Etch-a-Sketch. Yes, it redraws the time every minute.(viaCoolhunting)
