Tomorrow I'll be heading up to Nottingham to host theGrumpy Old Games Industrynight at the GameCity festival. This special Gamesblog evening will feature David Doak of Free Radical design, Ian Livingstone of Eidos and Jonathan Smith of Traveller's Tales - venting their considerable spleens at all the bad things in the industry. It promises to be a heated night - especially as it's taking place in a curry house. You ought to be there.Anyway, to get us ready, here's a question for you: What's the worst thing about videogames? What really makes your blood boil? Is is mainstream media ignorance? Prices? Delayed hardware? End of level bosses? Come on, what is the single thing you'd change if you could?Let us have it!
Microsoft's sales and earnings beat Wall Street expectations in its first quarter, despite the company's failure to ship new versions of its Windows operating system and Office productivity suite -- and despite its online business plunging back into loss.Microsoft reportedthat quarterly revenues grew by 11% to $10.81 billion, while operating income also grew by 11% to $4.47 billion. Net profits reached $3.48 billion. [Corrected] Microsoft said:Server &amp; Tools revenue increased 17% over the comparable quarter in the prior year, reflecting healthy performance for offerings such as SQL Server 2005, Windows Server, Visual Studio 2005 and BizTalk Server. SQL Server experienced revenue growth of over 30%, as customers are increasingly deploying SQL Server for their mission critical, transaction-oriented databases.Although a massive amount of press coverage has been devoted to the adoption of Linux and open source applications in the server market, this segment has been and remains the fastest growing business for Windows.Entertainment and Devices Division revenue growth of 70% over the prior year was driven by demand for Xbox 360 consoles, software, peripherals, and Xbox Live. Xbox 360 has sold 6 million consoles worldwide life to date and achieved record cumulative attach rates for software and peripherals in the United States, while Xbox Live passed the four million member mark during the quarter.Microsoft'sreport to the SECreveals that its Online Services Business (OSB) -- which competes with Google and Yahoo! -- suffered a fall in revenues from $565m to $539m, and it went from making $75m in profits to a $134m loss. Microsoft explained:OSB operating income decreased for the three months ended September 30, 2006, reflecting the decline in revenue, increased headcount-related costs primarily as a result of continued investments in Windows Live, adCenter, and other properties, and increased cost of revenue as a result of the build out of our data center infrastructure. Headcount-related costs increased 43%, reflecting both an increase in salaries and benefits for existing headcount and a 40% increase in headcount.Microsoft is moving to using its own adCenter to serve advertisements, and reported a "decline in search revenue due to the ongoing transition to adCenter".The Entertainment and Devices Division (EDD), which includes the Xbox and mobile phone software, increased its sales by 70% to $1.03bn and made a loss of $96m. This compares with a loss of $173m in the same quarter last year.
Portable gaming sitePocket Gameris celebrating the launch of the pink DS and PSP consoles by declaring today, Pink Friday. The site is running voxpops with women gamers, interviews with women developers and reviews of games geared toward a female audience.I'm assuming there's a touch of irony in this adoption of the technology industry's panacea for attracting women: make stuff pink. Having seen the site's girled-up logo, complete with sparkly diamond space invader, I'm sure there is. Indeed the site has ashort featureanalysing the industry's use of pink hardware as a marketing tool. The article ends by concluding that making games machine pink does little to alter the stigma of geekiness attached to them - the writer suggests going for a Louis Vuitton or Mulberry makeover instead.That's a smart idea. Tapping into the current obession with brand names will at least attract the attention of label-savvy shoppers - and, in certain circles, there's kudos attached to owning any item with limited edition branded status. This is certainly the thinking behind Motorola's Dolce and Gabbana-designed Razr phone, which is being heavily advertised in the fashion press.A Prada PSP or Dior DS would have cache across the board, across gendersandages. But then, in some ways, you're just trading off one stereotype for another - all women like pink... no wait, all women like designer labels. It's a minefield out there.Anyway, there's another large demographic group which is often identified with the colour pink - where'stheirdedicated gaming day? It would be an interesting proposition and just as fraught with political banana skins.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
I was wandering through my RSS feed this morning and discovered a great way to get rid of all of the unwanted booty you end up collecting in your kit bag whilst traipsing through virtual worlds. You know the kind of flotsam I'm talking about - lotions, potions, weapons and armour - bits of digital goo that take up your inventory and never get cleared out.So here's a proposal: in that online games are as much about the play that happens outside of the goal systems (go on, challenge me), and already there are ludic "businesses" in most worlds where people sell their stuff second hand, why not have a bit of fun with it and re-launch an old quiz game thatrequiresunnecessary items to participate?Someone has already beaten me to it in Second Life, but how's about re-launchingLet's Make A Dealin other cyberspaces?For those unfortunates unaware of the glory that wasLet's Make A Deal(ahh, happy childhood), the premise was that lunatic audience members bring bags of bizarre things to the studio in the hopes of having a random item that presenter Marty Hall called out. If they were lucky, they'd then have the opportunity to choose between wads of cash (conspicuously rolled up in a $100 note - but are the rest $1????), unknown things in boxes, bizarre items or, famously, things behind Door Number 1, Door Number 2 or Door Number 3!Oh the glee when the super-prize was a new kitchen! Oh the schadenfreude when it was a donkey!Just think of the fun you could have!Other corkers that could be re-launched in cyberspace:The Gong ShowThink you're a crazy dancer? Want to show off your new animation? Can you croon? It may only be the host who gets rid of some of his junk, but the audience gets to witness the virtual humiliation of the contestants. Marvellous.The Newlywed GameYou've just made the big leap from co-guild member to "world partner". The ceremony was beautiful and the bride looked ravishing. But how well do you know your new virtual snugglebunny? Prizes could range from household items to old cloaks, to chests of gold/platinum pieces to teledildonics apparati (unless it was a purely platonic engagement, of course). Again, only the host gets to clear his stash, but we get to see just how much two virtual lovers actually know one another.The Price is RightAnyone can donate in this digital twist on a modern classic. How muchwouldyou pay for a virtual sword? What about a level 10 character with attitude? Market prices compared with currenteBay Item 1654rates. Possible partnerships withIGEand other virtual item launderers.It's a KnockoutThere are plenty of freaky outfits in virtual worlds, so why not don them and adapt aPvPserver for fun prizes?Any others?
Just when you thought it was safe to board a plane - provided, of course, your carry-on bag is no larger than 56x45x25cm and you have no liquids - things just got even more complicated. Last month the US and Canadian authorities decided to allow passengers to take non-essential liquids on board with them. Before you gratefully stuff your sponge bag and make-up case into your child-sized case, however, pay heed to the small print."All liquids, gels and aerosols must be in three-ounce or smaller containers," say the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) instructions. They "must be placed in a single, quart-size, zip-top, clear plastic bag".Any old transparent plastic bag won't do: it must have a zip. If, like most Britons, you have no idea what "quart-size" means, British Airways advises that it must not exceed 20x19.5cm. Three American ounces amount to 90ml, which is about the size of a small perfume bottle. Furthermore, "larger containers that are half-full or toothpaste tubes rolled-up are not allowed"."Try not to over-think these guidelines," the advice continues, which presumably means that passengers can make the TSA's task easier by not taking any liquids into the cabin at all. But as business travellers are finding since the security crackdown began in August, the rules are changing from country to country and airport to airport - and it is more difficult than ever to pack a carry-on bag and avoid a long wait at the baggage carousel.Indeed, at the time of writing, both Ryanair and BA were advising on their websites that all non-essential hand baggage was banned on flights from Poland to the UK. Yet a spokeswoman for the Polish national tourist office said this information was a "total misunderstanding" and that only liquids were banned: "I was flying a week ago from Poland and I had a handbag," she told the Guardian. But Ryanair passengers who expect a ban and pay for their hold baggage are charged &pound;3.50 per item - and double that at the airport.Similarly, while liquids are still banned on all flights from the UK, passengers boarding flights to Heathrow from South Africa usually have no problems bringing them through security - despite advice to the contrary from the national carrier, South African Airways.Even more confusingly, BA advises travellers flying out of Frankfurt airport in the morning not to carry liquids, gels and cosmetics because US flights are leaving from the same gate area at that time. But Frankfurt airport's own website makes no mention of the problem.Then comes the confusion over what constitutes a solid. Gels are considered liquids, and so is lip gloss, but lipstick is acceptable. Deodorants must be of the "solid-stick" variety. Try demonstrating the difference between Mitchum and Mum to an official in a busy security queue. A number of countries - such as France and Switzerland - ban "cosmetics", full stop."It is very difficult at the moment for the business traveller to know what you can and can't do," says Neil Thompson, the director of security at Red24, a global personal security consultancy. "You will never get consistency throughout the world, because there are different threats against different countries." Eventually, he predicts, most countries will follow the rules adopted by the US, the UK and Israel. But many simply do not yet have enough security staff to implement tougher regulations.Stringent rulesThe TSA's stringent rules - which are set out in painstaking detail on its website - are not drawn up arbitrarily, he says. "They've looked at the threat and they've said, right, it takes more than three ounces to make a bomb." Similarly, the maximum dimensions for cabin baggage in Britain were chosen because they are easier to x-ray accurately.In any case, he adds, the Department of Transport's requirements are only a minimum standard. "It all depends on the protocol the airport has put in place with the airline." In other words, if an airport were to decide to make its employees' jobs easier by banning hand luggage altogether and the airlines based there agreed, passengers would not be able to cite the DoT's guidance when their possessions were confiscated.When such confusion reigns, the TSA's advice not to "over-think" the problem of cabin baggage becomes almost tempting. Of course, one answer is to stock up on toothpaste, shampoo, shaving foam and moisturiser at the duty-free shops beyond airport security and leave them behind when you pack to go home. One US airport chain has already developed a quart-size bag of travel toiletries of the approved sizes, and British airport retailers will no doubt follow. Another is to embrace old-fashioned solid soap bars. In Britain, Oral B sells a product called Brush-Ups, which slip over the finger and clean the teeth reasonably thoroughly - and floss isn't banned. Replacing make-up is, of course, both difficult and expensive, and women who wear more than lipstick and powder may have to resign themselves to checking their bags for an overnight trip.If your belongings are confiscated, however, you may have the right to claim them back. BAA, which runs most of Britain's larger airports, will send them to your home address for the price of postage or store an item for up to 90 days. Exeter airport is not so generous: it charges a &pound;10 administration fee, which is donated to charity. Unclaimed confiscated items are auctioned off, also for the charity's benefit. BAA throws away partly-used toiletries and recycles items such as knives."It's inconvenient, but [businesspeople] know they'd rather get from A to B safely than not get there at all," says Thompson. "It's not whether we will get another terrorist incident, it's when." And the crackdown on cabin baggage does at least have one small upside: an end to overhead locker-hogging and the gentleman in blatant breach of the carry-on rules.
It is now possible to buy a fairly decent laptop and still have change from &pound;500. So the top-end players in the market have had to come up with new ways to differentiate their higher-priced models. Sony's latest ploy revolves around its C1 series, a collection of PCs whose big story is that they are available in different colours. So you can grab a C1 in shocking pink, dark silver and a rather nasty shade of green as well as models in traditional black and silver. Those attracted by the colours will then discover a pretty decent laptop with several quality features. Most impressive of all is the 1280 x 800 WXGA resolution 13-inch screen, which has excellent detail and contrast levels. The large QWERTY keyboard is a breeze to use and won't trouble even those with very chubby fingers. The model also comes with a 120GB hard drive and 1GB of DDR2 SDRAM. Its only drawback is a battery life of 2.5 hours, which seems a little stingy on Sony's part. There's no denying that this is superbly built laptop for &pound;1,000, but you are paying for that neat design and vibrant finish.
Saitek had a fairly sizeable hit at the end of last year with the A-250, a hi-fi system that enabled users to listen to music that was wirelessly streamed from a PC. The unit is back again as the iFreedom, but with some important revisions. Whereas the original model used proprietary wireless technology, the iFreedom uses a Bluetooth transmitter to stream music from many audio sources (such as MP3 players etc) to its main speaker unit. This means it can stream music directly from AD2P Bluetooth-endowed mobile phones, although we couldn't actually get our mobile to work. The main transmitter unit is smaller and neater than before and fits snugly on to the top of an iPod nano or Sandisk Sansa player. The music system works well and delivers a punchy performance. It can be powered either via the mains, or if you add some batteries it can run for 24 hours. The biggest drawback of Bluetooth is that it has a limited range (just 10 metres), so it won't always work if you have the transmitter/player and speakers system in different rooms. Nevertheless the &pound;99.99 iFreedom is a stylish, fun and quality partner for your iPod/MP3 playing phone.
Motorola has struggled to come up with a worthy successor to the RAZR, arguably the most influential phone of the past few years. Its latest attempt is the KRZR, which has the same clamshell design but has some additional features. It has a striking blue finish on the front and the back of the handset is very tactile brushed rubber. Like its predecessors, the KRZR has a laser-etched keypad, but in this instance Motorola has included ridges to make it easier to use. Features include a two-megapixel camera, an MP3 player, a MicroSD card slot and Bluetooth 2.0, which means you can stream tracks from the phone to a wireless headset. Overall there's not much to dislike about the phone, but its slightly quirky design means that it probably won't be as huge or as hot as the RAZR.
Wi-Fi phoneI have recentlypurchased an SPV M3100 mobile, mainly for its email capabilities. Is anything stopping me using its Wi-Fi connection for VoIP calls, rather than using my mobile operator?Shaun DurhamJack Schofield replies:Well, you can presumably use it for VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) calls if you can install the appropriate software and sign up with a connection provider, such as Vonage. Skype for Pocket PC 2.1 (http://tinyurl.com/vedas) would seem to be the obvious solution. An alternative might be SJ Labs' SJphone for Windows CE, which is still in beta (http://tinyurl.com/y3zphw). The SPV M3100 is actually an HTC Hermes running Windows Mobile 5. Equivalent phones include the T-Mobile MDA Vario II, O2 XDA Trion, Vodafone VPA Compact III and HTC TyTN. If you're using one, please let us know what works best.A narrow escape?I followed a sponsored link on the Guardian for Audiovisual123, which was advertising cheap laptops. I almost sent my money off, but was a bit suspicious when asked for payment by Chaps. I looked it up on Google and found the AV Forums where several people said they had been stung by this company.Marina LewyckaJS:We don't do "sponsored links". On Guardian Unlimited, the small text ads are called Advertiser links, because they are advertisements. They are served up by a third party - Yahoo! Search Marketing - so they are not under our direct control, though we can veto advertisers that we do not want to carry. However, since the ads vary according to the page you are on, or depending on what you have searched for using our search box, we may never see them. Also, companies bid for the right to serve ads for specific keywords and often this is an automated process (http://tinyurl.com/sbvqw). Either way, you cannot take anything on trust. You should always search for details of any unfamiliar companies before doing business with them, and this is especially true online.Happily, you were quick to spot the problem of paying by Chaps, the Clearing House Automatic Payments System, which is used mainly by banks and building societies to guarantee payment on the same day. It's generally better to buy PCs (and other goods that cost more than &pound;100) using a credit card since the Consumer Credit Act gives you some extra protection.Playing podcastsI have a Toshiba Satellite and I would like to download and play podcasts. Do I need a separate MP3 player or iPod?David HoughJS:You already have what you need to play most podcasts, which are nothing but plain old audio files. Download the file to your hard drive, double-click it and it will play in your default software. You can, of course, copy the audio file to a portable device such as an MP3 player, PDA or mobile phone. Most podcasts are MP3 files and most devices will play those.The trick with podcasting is to have files downloaded and transferred to the mobile device automatically, rather than manually. However, this does not need an iPod, so the name is somewhat misleading. Some people are now calling it "netcasting" instead, prompted by letters from Apple's lawyers.Backchat&#183;Paul Tingen and others queried the idea that Sunbelt's Kerio Firewall still runs on Windows 98, and Sunbelt's site clearly says it doesn't. Not having tried it recently, it seems I was misled by WinPlanet (http://tinyurl.com/y8f5fk), which claims it does. There are, however, free alternatives such as Jetico (http://tinyurl.com/fwkd8) and Gary Crighton's recommendation, Comodo (http://tinyurl.com/jesv6).&#183;I suggested installing the Firefox extension IE View to see pages in Internet Explorer. Mick Gardner reckons IE Tab (http://ietab.mozdev.org) is even better: "It opens pages in an Internet Explorer tab within Firefox."&#183;For defeating spam, Helen Mulgray suggests using eMailTrackerPro, which "analyses the headers, pinpoints the originating computer or network and generates a report to send to the appropriate spam abuse address. It costs $19 (&pound;10) but you get 15 days free trial. A must!" Try it athttp://tinyurl.com/volrp.
Imagine sitting down at your computer on Monday, heading to your company's website and finding nothing but a page of lurid links to pornographic websites.You write an email to find out what is going on, but it fails to send. In fact, you can't access email at all. Someone calls the people you originally bought the internet address from. They ring back soon afterwards and tell you, unfortunately, there's nothing they can do, and you are unlikely to get your name back for at least two years - if ever. Meanwhile, you are being called by customers, clients and friends, all of whom want to know why they are being directed to "sexy live cam action".This worst-case scenario has already occurred many times: a cub scout pack in Virginia (pack216.org) has had its website replaced with nothing but porn ads; and a rape crisis centre in New York (crisiscentersyr.org) became a giant billboard for sex toys and adult websites. Only this month, a website dedicated to helping those with a language impairment to communicate online (wwaac.org) was again replaced with a link farm offering sex and not much else.Yet while reprehensible, such online landgrabs are legitimate as in most cases people have allowed their domain names to lapse, whether knowingly or by accident. What's more, new internet technologies have made it increasingly simple and profitable to do. Concern has reached such heights that many big companies are now pushing for changes in the basic rules governing domain names before the situation gets out of hand."The rape crisis centre was the most outrageous misuse of a former name," says David Maher, the head of policy and law at Public Interest Registry, the organisation that runs all dot-org domains. "PIR doesn't have a positive or negative view of a secondary market in domain names. What we are concerned about are these unfortunate results that have come about partly because of the automated systems. It is a growing phenomenon."To understand why it has suddenly become worth people's while to grab old domains, you need only look at Google. "Pay per click" technology makes it feasible for advertisers to pay a very small fee every time someone clicks on an agreed link that leads to their website. Google has used this to make billions from its search engine.But the same technology has also created a black market in "link farms" - sites packed full of those agreed links - and domain name speculation. A certain percentage of people who visit a website, even if they don't find what they expected, will click on an advertising link there, and each click will pay the website owner anything from 1c to 50c. If the overall income over the course of a year exceeds the cost of the domain (typically $6), the domain is profitable. In this strange bubble of economics, the domain's name is irrelevant, as is what may have been posted there for years before. In fact, the more respected a website is, the more links to it have been formed over time, and the greater its value is to the link farmer. The link farmer may not even know what material was on the site previously; he simply grabs the domain and fills it with the highest-paying links (typically from the adult industry).Link farms are often built by people who buy scores of domains at once, fill them with links, and then see which ones make money. Those which don't are quickly sold back to domain registrars under existing rules.Education the solutionOne solution proposed by PIR to stop the worst of the automated excesses is to charge a tiny fee - 5c (2.6p) - when more than 90% of domains registered by one organisation are returned within five days. But that is only a partial solution to part of the problem. Far more important is educating users."We've launched an educational programme to non-commercial users pointing out that if you let your domain be deleted or neglect to renew it, you can get into trouble," explains Maher. The rape crisis centre domain was allowed to lapse because it was twinned with another centre, and a new domain was used. Likewise, the wwaac.org domain was shifted over to "wwaac.eu", and the original .org forgotten about. Ask either organisation if they would have preferred to pay $10 to keep their older domain and redirect it for a year or two to the new website, and the answer will be a resounding yes.Camille Ede, director of domain services at the world's biggest registrar, GoDaddy, agrees with Maher that education is the best solution. "The real solution to this issue - because it does happen frequently - is educating registrants when they register the domain name to make sure that they are in fact the registrant for the domain name," she explains. "Make sure that it reflects them, that it reflects their company, so if their account is compromised they can still provide evidence that they have all rights to the domain name so they can gain access to the account."Biggest errorThe biggest common error is when the email address given during registration is either changed, or not watched, or belongs to someone who has since left the company. As a result, the warning notices sent out about the domain's expiration are not received and the first anyone knows about it is when their website disappears.This happens more often than you'd like to think. "We get about 60 to 70 requests a day," explains Ede. The problem is so widespread that GoDaddy has introduced a $24.99 annual fee for which it will add an extra level of protection to your domain. Even if you fail to renew your domain or respond to any emails, it will keep your domain name for a year, giving you plenty of time to notice.But it's not all expiring domains, Ede warns. Sometimes a business arrangement breaks down and a domain name - and hence the company website - is used as a pawn. Sometimes out-of-pocket or unscrupulous website builders refuse to hand over control. And sometimes it's calculated theft: someone will check to see if the registering email address - especially if it is a Hotmail or Yahoo free account - has expired. If it has, they re-register the email address and use that to transfer the domain through the system.As ever with the internet, technological advances are forcing the rest of the world to to catch up, even when the organisations themselves are part of the internet industry. Aside from the various protections now included by registrars (often, it should be noted, for an extra fee), some are calling for changes to the way in which the domain name system works.The internet's overseeing body Icann, which is in ultimate charge of the domain name system, has responded by ordering an independent review of the domain name market at a board meeting earlier this month. A "reputable economic consulting firm" will be asked to look into issues and make recommendations.With that report at least eight months away, however, you would do well to check on the details of your own domain name and makes sure it really is safe.&#183; Securing your domain1.Make sure the registrant information is correct and the email address is current.2.Do not share the password unless you have to. Consider putting one person in charge of renewing domains.3.Ask your registrar to 'lock' your domain so it can't be transferred without a further security check&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Undeserving winnersWe should be seeking to reduce copyright lifespan, not extend it (Preserving a copy of the future, October 19). Back in 1990, I wrote a desktop publishing program for Amstrad home computers. Assuming I live to 75, this will remain in copyright until 2119. Authors deserve to profit from their works, of course - but does the third generation of their descendants?Richard FairhurstCharlbury&#183;The winners from an extension to the 50-year period would predominantly be an already rich elite of artists. The examples of Cliff Richard and the Rolling Stones cannot elicit much sympathy. The other winners would be the record companies which would be given "ownership" of a vast amount of music for an extra period, from which they would derive income for doing nothing . The losers would be small record companies, independent shops and consumers. The major companies would dictate the availability of recorded music and the consumer would be deprived of the choice to buy CDs compiled at low prices by respected labels. This campaign must be vigorously challenged and defeated.Neil KellasLondon&#183;The guy from BPI is really far offbase. The purpose of copyright is to put in place the incentives for people to create creative works that they mightnot have done otherwise. Once that work is created, it's hard to see any reason to increase the incentive. After all, the work has already been created.www.techdirt.comIt's the Guardian's faultI share Linda Jones's dislike of selfservice supermarket tills (Technobile, October 19), but the Guardian itself is partly to blame. The self-service tills at my local Tesco monitor the weight of every item, presumably as an anti-theft measure. When the Guardian contains extra sections, the till decides that I'm trying to smuggle merchandise out of the store without scanning it, and a loud recorded voice tells me to remove the additional items from my shopping bag. Worse still, when the Saturday edition of the Guardian includes a free DVD of a 15-rated film, an alarm sounds and an assistant has to check whether I'm old enough to buy the Guardian.David HarperCambridgeGo figureA judge rules in favour of a bulk mail company (Can an American judge take a British company offline, October 19). A company that wastes Internet bandwidth and generally provides a service no one really wants. Go Spamhaus.www.jasonosborne.netBlurred vision"So far, we haven't degraded or blurred an image at the requirement of any government," McLaughlin said of Google Earth (What content does Google censor outside China, October 19). If you look at the image of the Nato air force base Geilenkirchen in Germany, you will find that the image has been blurred. Maybe the government didn't request this, but somebody else must have done.Stefan TimLeedsDrowning in the drossVictor Keegan (We really need some discontent creators, October 19) believes that great art is more likely to emerge from a system that allows everyone to submit their work to a pool to be assessed online by their peers. I think the opposite is true. A system based on the economic imperatives of agents and publishers was never ideal, but at least it imposed some critical judgment on artistic off erings. I trust the Tate, whereas I do not trust YouTube, and I trust the editor of the Guardian whereas I do not trust random bloggers. Eventually a method to filter the online pool must be devised. Until then, great art will languish unspotted beneath the video clips of exploding Coke bottles and the ill-informed blogs.Paul KeersLondon
Perhaps you're thinking of the reports in the past week that YouTube has removed 29,549 video clips after being contacted by Japanese rightsholders who said it contained materials taken from Japanese music, movies or TV; or the revelation that it shared the name of one user who uploaded dialogue from Paramount Pictures' film Twin Towers with the studio, enabling it to sue the person for copyright infringement (http://tinyurl.com/tphyo). Perhaps you're thinking that YouTube has lost the happy-go-lucky attitude to copyright that marked its previous 20 months of existence until Google swarmed in, waving chequebooks and lawyers.But you'd be wrong. YouTube is behaving exactly as it always has by removing clips after being told that they infringe copyright - such as earlier this month, when a piece appeared in The New Yorker about YouTube (http://tinyurl.com/ykue7o) which noted how adding a Wu-Tang Clan soundtrack to a video had made it "digitally traceable", and thus subject to removal. That happened well before the Google purchase. Clearly, the music and film industries have stepped up their use of technologies to scan sites like YouTube for their content. Nothing's perfect, though: the New Yorker points out: "Had [the video's maker] merely played the song on her stereo while shooting the scene on the sofa, there would have been no way to detect it, short of watching every video on the site."Meanwhile, YouTube's release of details about Chris Moukarbel (whom Paramount accused of copyright infringement of Twin Towers) followed a subpoena issued in May - well before Google began offering pens for signatures from founders Chad Hurley, Steve Chen and Jawed Karim.Moukarbel, who removed a 12-minute film from his website and from YouTube, and said he would try to remove it from other sites where it had been posted, told Marketwatch.com: "I was happy to utilise YouTube when it was still not clearly established. It felt a bit Utopian, even though the days for that were clearly numbered."Paramount said that the lawsuit "in no way means we're targeting YouTube", while Moukarbel added that he "was happy" with his film's run on YouTube: "Frankly, I was surprised it lasted as long as it did."But that may be how some people will start to use YouTube: as a temporary place to put things that they want to get noticed, even if it then gets taken off. After all, would we have heard of Chris Moukarbel if he hadn't got a snippet of Oliver Stone's script and used it to make his own short film and put it on the world's most-viewed video site?Meanwhile, Google's lawyers will have some extra work following the acquisition. Robert Tur, who owns the copyright in a video showing a trucker being beaten up during the 1992 riots in Los Angeles, sued YouTube in July after copies appeared on the site; the company responded that it would provide him with details it had about the user if he were to get a subpoena.The truth? YouTube hasn't changed at all, only people's perceptions or expectations of it. The company states in its user agreement that uploading copyrighted material is illegal, and a similar warning appears before you upload a clip. But of course, fewer than 1% of its users upload anything. No wonder they don't know.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The deadline is a moveable feast, so it depends how you define "on time". Vista was supposed to be finished by yesterday, if not a couple of years before, but Windows boss Jim Allchin told Microsoft-watcher Mary Jo Foley that it wasn't going to make October 25, so the betting now is on November 8 (http://blogs.zdnet.com/microsoft/?p=53). If it is "released to manufacturing" then, Microsoft will still be able to ship it to business customers in November, as expected. And there shouldn't be any problem knocking out a few million boxes forthe retail launch in January next year.Well, that's certainly the case in the US.But in Europe, there is still the looming spectre of Neelie Kroes, the European Commissioner for Competition, who may delay it further. Kroes is the main audience for an amusing double act being performed by Symantec and McAfee, who are attempting to get Vista's security systems changed in ways that, coincidentally, will benefit Symantec and McAfee.Will the views of these giant American security software companies will prevail over those of small European security software companies such as Sophos and Kaspersky Labs, who have spoken out in Microsoft's support? Symantec made the early running; then McAfee took over, with a full page advert in the Financial Times from its chief executive officer, George Samenuk. There was then, sadly, a hiatus while Samenuk was suddenly forced to retire, and the company president was fired- news that, annoyingly, reached us just half an hour before he was scheduled to meet Technology Guardian in London.But battle was rejoined this week when McAfee issued another press statement, patronising Britain's leading security software vendor. "Single-product vendors, like Sophos, may well not have an issue with Microsoft. However, for an innovative security risk management vendor like McAfee, that offers its customers comprehensive security protection, full and unfettered access to the kernel is vital if we are to protect users as they are currently protected with XP."This is a reference to Microsoft's PatchGuard kernel protection, which is McAfee's main beef: it claims that things "have changed with Vista". But PatchGuard has been out for about two years in 64-bit Windows XP, and isn't in 32-bit Vista anyway, only the 64-bit version. Has McAfee simply never noticed this? We await its response with interest.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Shop online, spend moreCustomers spend more on electrical goods such as kettles and cameras if they shop online, according to GfK Group, a market research organisation. Things are cheaper on the net, but people shopping online buy higher-specification products, says GfK.Internet Explorer, the sequelMicrosoft has released Internet Explorer 7 for Windows XP, billed as a security upgrade to IE6. If you don't download it yourself, IE7 will arrive as a high-priority auto-update next month.www.microsoft.com/windows/ieArmchair travellingWith video-sharing sites being all the rage, the Travelistic website is providing a home for travel videos. "Virtual voyages" already uploaded range from London on a budget (travelistic.com/video/show/194) to a safari across the Serengeti (travelistic.com/video/show/350).www.travelistic.comThought for foodThe School Food Trust has launched an attractive new website to advise teachers, catering staff, parents and children on the new food standards in schools.www.schoolfoodtrust.org.ukThe SimsPrivate Mobile Networks Ltd, which sells private GSM network technology, has launched PMN Sim cards. These cards "enable business users on a private mobile network to move, seamlessly, between the private and public GSM networks" without having to change their mobile phone.www.privatemobilenetworks.comMinistry of the sound of musicThe Ministry of Sound has added to the growing number of portable MP3/DAB/FM recording music players with the devices which are excitingly named the MOSMP075X5 (512MB, from &pound;119.99) and the MOSMP075X10 (1GB, from &pound;179.99). Rivals include the Oono MiniDAB.
In his Tate Britain lecture, Armando Iannucci argued that comedy shows such as Have I Got News For You and The Thick Of It provide the only real forum for political analysis. It's an interesting standpoint - but if he were to head over to sites likeWatercoolergames.orgor theSeriousgamessource.com, he'd find a thriving new arena.The videogame is a surprising but growing medium for political comment. Whether developed by small professional studios and made available through mainstream download sites, or by amateur coders and distributed virally, games with a sociopolitical agenda are on the increase.This year has seen several high-profile releases. The McDonald's Game by Italian studio Molleindustria puts you in control of a fast-food chain, clearing rainforests and pumping cattle full of additives. Darfur is Dying, created by Susana Ruiz, is a simple online game designed to increase awareness of the crisis there.The latest is Persuasive Games' Oil God, a strategy sim where the player, acting as an unscrupulous oil provider, must double prices within five years by any means necessary. Like most political games, Oil God is deeply satirical, allowing you to start wars, engineer natural disasters and even call in an extraterrestrial attack to stick it to the consumer.In an essentially playful medium, satire makes sense. Gonzalo Frasca, ex-CNN journalist and co-founder of newsgaming.com, says: "Games are based on simulation and simulation is, by definition, a simplification of a complex system. Satire and caricature are also simplifications, so it's a match made in heaven."The use of games to impart serious messages isn't solely the preserve of activist coders, though. Increasingly, charities are using videogames to explain and publicise their causes, a trend characterised by the United Nations' game, FoodForce, based around the distribution of aid to hunger hotspots. Governments and their agencies are also keen on any avenues that let them talk to a young audience. Most notoriously, the US has the shoot-'em-up America's Army, essentially an interactive recruitment advert for military service.In the videogame space, the playing field is level; governments, terror cells, charities and lone programmers with axes to grind all communicate in the same language - that of compelling interactive experiences - and use the same distribution channels."Videogames are the new graffiti," concludes Frasca. "If we were in the 60s, they would be making protest songs. Now they're making games."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
On one side of an electoral boundary, people might buy sun-blushed tomatoes; on the other, economy baked beans. Retailers like to know such things, so data from the 2001 census is of great commercial interest - and also the subject of the latest controversy in the Free Our Data debate.Last week, the Association of Census Distributors filed a complaint against a state-owned entity, Ordnance Survey, over the conditions placed on the re-use of intellectual property in census data. It is the second time this year that the national mapping agency has been the subject of a complaint to the government's Office of Public Sector Information.The complaint concerns data delineating "output areas" from the 2001 census, the most recent national headcount. These areas are the smallest units in which data from the census is released; to protect anonymity, each covers about 125 households. By working at this scale, businesses can extract a huge amount of socioeconomic data to help them to decide where to open new outlets and even what products they should stock.As with many other kinds of data, the most convenient way to display output areas is on a map. This is where the problem lies. The boundaries delineating output areas rely on data provided by Ordnance Survey, which as a trading fund generating returns from sales, treats intellectual property as a commercial asset. Anyone may view the boundaries online, but businesses wanting to include them in a product must negotiate licensing terms.The distributors' association says that Ordnance Survey's terms are onerous and unworkable, especially for small businesses. Peter Sleight of Target Marketing Consultancy says they would require a company to track the use of products containing Ordnance Survey data, and pay royalties indefinitely. He says he has tried over three years to negotiate a fixed fee and a simpler contract, but to no avail. The complaint, under the government's Information Fair Trader Scheme, designed to ensure that public-sector data is supplied on a level playing field, is a last resort.Neither Ordnance Survey nor the Office of Public Sector Information (which next week becomes part of the National Archives) would comment while the investigation is in progress. A decision is expected in a few weeks.In July, the OPSI found Ordnance Survey in breach of the "fairness principle" and guilty of a lack of transparency in the way it charged for data used to compile gazetteers of postal addresses.Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign proposes that the best way to avoid such disputes is for basic data sets collected at taxpayers' expense to be made freely available for any purpose (subject to privacy and national security constraints). While this would involve more direct funding for agencies such as Ordnance Survey, the economy as a whole would gain. At the moment, says Sleight, the national good is compromised because of a single trading fund's commercial needs.www.statistics.gov.uk/census&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blogwww.freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The Philippines has become the first country in the world where mobile users spend more on data services than on voice, according to a leading research company.Marc Einstein, senior analyst at Pyramid Research, says that the average data revenue per subscription in the Philippines now stands at $3.90 (&pound;2.08) a month, compared with $3.50 a month for voice - meaning that data accounts for 53% of the total.This compares with last year's Philippines figures of $3.80 for data and $3.90 for month, and figures for 2004 of $3.40 and $4.40. While there are some other examples of operators getting up to 30% of revenue from data, notably O2 and 3 in the UK, and NTT DoCoMo and KDDI in Japan, in the majority of cases the data share is between 10% and 20%.The main reason for the Philippines figures is that texting is very cheap compared to voice calls, so subscribers use texts as their main means of communication and their spending on voice calls is very low. Einstein says a text costs only about 1 peso (1.1p) compared to about 20 pesos per minute for prepaid voice calls.Phil Kendall, director of the global wireless practice at Strategy Analytics, notes that in most markets a text costs roughly as much as about 30 to 90 seconds of voice (as in the UK, where texts cost about 10p each). In the Philippines, the text price is one-twentieth of this.This is partly for historical reasons. Texting was free in the Philippines between 1994 and 2000 because operators' billing systems were unable to charge prepaid users for this service. But pricing also reflects promotional policies.Leading operators Smart Communications and Globe Telecom both offer options where for between 25 and 30 pesos a user can send an unlimited number of texts for two days. As a result, average text use on Smart's network has grown to almost 1,000 messages per user per month, compared with only 15 minutes of voice.According to Kendall, the Philippines experience demonstrates that users will send large numbers of texts if pricing is low. And many western operators, such as O2, have successfully adopted the concept of offering large text bundles.This suggests that the subscription-type approach is more successful at encouraging usage and revenue than the alternative of charging per individual text, ringtone or download.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The rock musicians' slang for it is "spanking the plank": that is, playing the guitar, usually energetically and with as much abandon and hairwaving as required.But perhaps the slang will have to change. For Owain Pedgley of Loughborough University has designed a guitar with a soundboard made from polycarbonate foam instead of wood.The soundboard is the top part of the guitar - with a round hole in acoustic guitars, or solid in an electric one. Because it resonates with the strings, the soundboard's characteristics have a crucial influence on the sound of the instrument.The original idea was proposed during Pedgley's PhD by his guitar-playing supervisor, Eddie Norman, and involved making a high-quality learners' guitar out of plastic. In theory, using moulded and engineered plastics might produce a cheaper yet better manufactured instrument. "We knew that the soundboard was the bit to get right," says Pedgley. "Soundboards are traditionally made out of slow-growing spruce."He turned to the internationally renowned guitar-maker, Rob Armstrong (maker of guitars for the late George Harrison), who insisted that any new material should contain air. "That said, I was looking at foam polymers rather than any other type of polymer," says Pedgley, who only plays keyboards. "We wanted to find a foam polymer that had the same sound qualities as wood."The knuckle testBorrowing a trick that guitar-makers use when selecting spruce or cedar, he gave sample sheets of plastic a quick rap of his knuckles and listened closely. He decided on a thin foam polycarbonate, around two-thirds denser than wood, leaving Armstrong the job of using the novel material within an acoustic guitar. Trying a polycarbonate soundboard was the first tentative step towards an all-polymer instrument.Hard and durable yet easy to mould, polycarbonates are used in bus shelters, conservatory roofs, CDs and your mobile phone. A foamed polycarbonate - think of Aero chocolate but with finer bubbles - holds the air that mimics the sound qualities of wood.The manufacturer whose product passed Pedgley's knuckle test was Palram Europe, which makes sheets of polycarbonate foam by heating polycarbonate granules to 270C and then extruding the molten mass out of a die and around cooling rollers to create a finished surface. A gas is used to infuse the polycarbonate with millions of tiny bubbles.Gary Henton, the company's sales and marketing manager, happily talks about microstructures, voids, densities, and pressure drops. He won't however say which gas he uses - it's a secret - to achieve successful foaming."It's sold into the thermo-forming industry where they produce things like suitcases, toolboxes, and containers," says Henton."We didn't do anything to improve the product for use in the guitar. The foam polycarbonate resonates like wood would resonate."That unexpectedly good resonance eventually led Pedgley and Norman to set up Cool Acoustics, a Loughborough University venture backed by funding from the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts. A hybrid wood/polymer acoustic guitar was made, followed by an all-polymer acoustic and a semi-hollow electric. Foamed polycarbonate is used for the soundboards that sit on top of the sound chamber, which produces sound by resonance, transmitting the vibrations of the guitar's strings to the air.While Pedgley says two unnamed guitar companies from the US and Asia are making some evaluation instruments, he acknowledges that not using wood goes against the grain. Who has ever heard of a plastic guitar that isn't a toy? "Plastic in instruments has always had negative connotations," says Pedgley. "Those kinds of images don't do anything to help your cause but once somebody picks up and plays a guitar, they really are quite persuaded."Gordon Giltrap is one such musician. His career has been influenced by rock, folk, and classics. Using guitars made by Armstrong, he performs dozens of concerts a year, and played the Cool Acoustics instruments to appreciative audiences."What attracted me was the combination of Rob's [Armstrong] design ideas and this new technology from Loughborough," says Giltrap. "If you can make an instrument out of synthetic materials that sounds like wood, you think hurrah. Believe me, this guitar does sound like wood."Giltrap can hear the changes in sound quality, saying that the bass end response is comparable to Gibson guitars costing thousands of pounds. The Cool Acoustics soundboard technology - which won't warp, split, or dent - gets top marks."It really is a fine-sounding guitar. The treble probably gives it away a little bit. It doesn't quite sound as woody and as deep as you would hear from a traditional instrument," says Giltrap. "The dream has always been to produce a guitar at a budget price that sounds fantastic. If a maker can produce a guitar out of polymer and it sounds great, people will play it."Endangered speciesImpending shortages of fine wood may force guitar companies to look for alternatives anyway. Brazilian rosewood, used for the back and sides, is now an endangered species, for example. Classical guitarist Raymond Burley loves the sound of wood. One of Britain's most experienced guitarists, he has worked with some of the finest orchestras. He finds the idea of foamed polycarbonate surprising."I cannot imagine what the sound would be like," says Burley, who points to a long tradition of using wood. "It's like making a violin out of plastic."Burley's guitar-maker, Christopher Dean, quickly homes in on what polycarbonate lacks by mentioning the characteristically long grain in spruce, which gives strength. His customers - he makes 16 guitars a year - look for a sound that's unique to him. A fine performance across treble, mid range and bass is a result of skill, top-quality wood and clever internal bracing."I'd be terrified if this material produced guitars of great quality. But I doubt that would happen," says Dean. "Most people are happy with what they get. I don't know that another material would improve that greatly." But he plans to find out more about the polycarbonate phenomenon.Fellow guitar-maker Armstrong is more certain. "I'm convinced that it's possible to make a good guitar from materials other than wood," he says. "It was a good opportunity to continue to explore what I believe - Stradivari only choose wood because he didn't actually have a lot of other choice."There's a cost advantage to using a polymer for a soundboard, too. "A decent spruce blank will cost upwards of &pound;15 to a large-scale guitar manufacturer who buys in bulk," says Pedgley. "The foamed polycarbonate sheet is about one-fifth of bulk purchase cost." Guitar-makers such as Dean look for top-quality spruce that is between 100 and 150 years old and will pay around &pound;50 for it.Achieving the right sound isn't everything for Pedgley. New materials open up other opportunities, and he enviously mentions the original eye-catching Apple iMac. "Imagine a guitar which is as stunning as that. It's going to be totally radical and, if you get it right, create a design icon, too," says Pedgley.But some rock musicians, including Pete Townshend of the Who, may not agree, no matter how cool a new-generation instrument looks. Foamed polycarbonate has one other characteristic that wood does not offer: it's tough yet surprisingly flexible. Ending a gig by whacking your guitar on the stage just might see it bouncing rather than shattering.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There are not many areas of technology where we have failed to advance the market in the past 20 or even 25 years, but with audio technology, you can at least argue the case. DAB digital radio sounds worse than the ancient FM variety, and far from having gone away, vinyl records and valve amplifiers are enjoying a resurgence.It's not all technology's fault: many potential advances have been botched in the implementation or the marketing. Examples include Elcaset, DAT (digital audio tape), Digital Compact Cassette, MiniDisc, SACD (super audio CD) and DVD-Audio, as well as DAB.It's a remarkable string of market failures, but that's not the worst part. What really bugs me is that people are not just rejecting superior formats, they are adopting technologies that actually sound worse than older ones.Today, everybody should be able to enjoy music reproduced much better than a 1980 standard audio CD allows. Instead, people seem to be happy with music systems that are distinctly inferior to that, such as DAB radio and compressed music files.People care about picture resolution: they buy cameras with more megapixels, prefer DVD to VHS and are increasingly willing to buy hi-def TV sets. But they don't seem to care about sound resolution - or not enough to spend money on it.On BBC Radio 4's You and Yours last week, I gave DAB a good kicking for its technological inferiority. In the UK, DAB is encoded in MP2, which BBC research says needs to be broadcast at 256kbps, though 224kbps is "often adequate" . However, in the UK, almost all DAB is broadcast at 128kbps, a quality rated "annoying", and mono stations use half that (http://tinyurl.com/yjdszh).Of course, while "the UK implementation of DAB has undoubtedly the lowest bitrates and, therefore, the lowest audio quality in the world", as Digitalradiotech.co.uk says, it also has the most stations. This is partly because the BBC has reduced the quality of its major stations to make room for new ones such as 1Xtra ("street music" such as hip hop). It's a case of "never mind the quality, feel the width".And as my opponent on You and Yours - Ian Dickens, chief executive of the Digital Radio Development Bureau - pointed out, offering more stations has proved successful for DAB. Offering better sound quality failed.I also accept that for many people, DAB is an improvement. A lot of listeners are upgrading from AM on 20-quid trannies to DAB radios costing &pound;50 to &pound;100, rather than comparing them with &pound;2,000 hi-fi rigs. DAB is great as the new Medium Wave.But I also think people would be more sensitive to good sound if they heard more of it. And there's a good chance they will. Freeview, Sky and cable channels already offer better-than-DAB quality digital radio, and the sound you get from both Blu-ray and HD-DVD discs can be stunning - the same quality as the master tapes.At a Sony Pictures Blu-ray day held in London on Friday, Don Ekland, executive vice-president of the Advanced Technologies division, told me that he expects Blu-ray Audio (BD-A) disc to emerge as a cost-competitive hi-fi format. That's why Sony had made sure you could play audio-only BD-A discs without needing an onscreen menu, he added. SACD and DVD-A are not dead, but BD-A supersedes them.DAB is also going to improve when DAB v2 is agreed. Next week's World DAB Forum in Seoul, South Korea, has a session promising the latest on the new audio coding. I think it will adopt AAC, the format used by Apple's iTunes and iPod, which offers dramatically better quality than MP2. Even at 128kbps, AAC is rated "not annoying".Countries that have not adopted DAB, or where it has not been successful, should be able to move quickly to DAB2, but the UK will be stuck with DAB for another five years, probably more.I just hope broadcasters have the guts to tell listeners that their new single-standard DAB radios could soon be obsolete. Preferably before suppliers start shipping DAB2 radios that handle AAC/AAC+, which may well happen next year.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Technology Guardian: The heart of the new book is Apple and how you started the company.Steve Wozniak:I think the early history - how the hell did you start this whole, basically, industry, this business, this company with absolutely nothing being so young. Just a bunch of ideas, where did the skills come from - how did it happen is just an amazing story.TG: Was it about being in the right place at the right time?SW:One of the advantages of being in Silicon Valley was being around a lot of the inspirational influences, as well as the solutions to problems - different types of people that are needed to start a successful company. A company doesn't really start based on a product, it's how good the people are as to how far that company's going to go: we had great people from the start.There were a lot of little accidents - I can think of at least a dozen - that if any of these things that I had really wanted to happen had happened, there would have been no Apple. Things like moving with my company to Oregon and then my wife didn't want to go: Apple would never have happened if I'd moved. Hewlett Packard turned me down five times.TG: So the arrival of the home computer wasn't one brainwave, but lots of little ideas that came together?SW:A lot of the steps that I was luckily involved with just accidentally converged on the Apple II computer - just little projects that I built for other reasons. Videogames: I built a videogame, and that got me into using my television set as a free output device. Then the Arpanet, the forerunner of the internet, came - and it got me into wanting to do it so badly that the only way to do it for free was to build my own devices. So I built my own device that could now put words on the TV set from a computer and type of a keyboard.Then the microprocessor came into my awareness and it was affordable, so I found an affordable way to make that the computer I was typing to instead of some faraway computer in Boston. It was logical I would think that way.TG: You didn't actually stay at Apple for a long time, and even when you were there you stayed as an engineer.SW:I had decisions earlier in life that I didn't want to be in the big money world. I didn't want to run companies, I didn't want to have companies, but I wanted to design the neatest products possible. And I stuck true to that. I turned down starting Apple at the start and eventually as Apple got successful, no, I wouldn't move out of engineering. As a matter of fact, for me to say yes to Apple was when I realised that I could be an engineer, nothing more.There's a lot of philosophical reasons why I just don't want to push people around: I don't want to tell other people what to do. My father was educational but he didn't impress his values on us, so I don't want to do that to anyone.TG: Do you ever get on the phone and say, "You guys should be doing this?"SW:I used to do it a lot. I wouldn't phone Steve Jobs directly, but I'd complain about things and they'd fix it right away. One time they fixed one, but in the fix they took out a feature I use a lot. So anything technical and I go straight to engineers. I try not to do it very much because I don't like to be a string-puller, but if I think of something that's missing or they should have, I like talking to the engineers. It's hard for a normal person to get that kind of access to a company.TG: Do you think the new products live up to the company that you started in the 1970s?SW:Absolutely. The iPod is sort of an open device, strangely enough. It's got a connector and there are 3,000 companies making accessories like plug-in microphones and radio attachments and whatnot. It's like with our Apple IIs - walk into a store and see cassette tape after cassette tape after cassette tape, and it made you more comfortable buying Apple II than other products that didn't have that array of software.TG: Is that success going to last forever?SW:Will the iPod always remain that large? Walkmans seemed to come and then go away. I think Apple's making the most out of the lifespan. Do you have a reason to have a second iPod, a third iPod? Apple treats a lot of its products the way the fashion world treats clothing. Good Lord, we just introduced this bright red one that some money from each sale helps to go fight Aids, so I had to have one of those.TG: Will you be buying a Zune?SW:Ordinarily I'd say yes. But I believe the Zune is going to be so tied to a PC - which I don't have - that I'm probably not going to buy it.Most gadgets that are on the forefront of getting news and attention, most of them I do get just to try out and see what they're like.TG: Was it true that Steve Jobs ripped you off over the Breakout game you wrote for Atari?SW:It's true, I didn't know it at the time, and I didn't know it until 12 years later. And there was no reason for it, but it's a minor issue. Compared to a person who is behind a company that's behind such great products - they created iPod, he created Pixar - compared to all those great things, this was just a tiny slip. He could have been more honest with me: I would have gladly let him have all the money back then, so who cares?TG: If you were a teenager now, what would be your consuming passions?SW:I'm pretty sure that I'd be playing some online - probably roleplaying - games and I'd be very deep into modern programming styles. I'd be playing pranks, I'd be shy and reserved and I'd be working on some kind of creations. Today it might be robots; building computers is just a product you use - like when I was growing up. So I'd probably be building robotics.Curriculum vitaeAge56EducationBS EECS UC Berkeley, 1987Career1976: Hewlett Packard; 1976-1985: Founder (with Steve Jobs) Apple Computer; 1987-2002: Philanthropist; 2002-06: Wheels of Zeus; 2006-: Acquicor TechnologyFamilyMarried twice; three childrenHomeLos Gatos, California&#183;iWoz by Steve Wozniak is published by WW Norton &amp; Co Ltd at &pound;20. To order a copy for &pound;18 with free UK p&amp;p go to guardian.co.uk/bookshop or call 0870 836 0875. You can also win a signed copy of the book - find out how to enter by listening to the Science Weekly podcast at guardian.co.uk/podcasts&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Ever keen to find more ways of parting you from your cash, BT this week announced that it is launching a service that will provide you, the computer user who doesn't back up your data often enough, with an online "vault" for you to store your photos, dodgy videos and other digital stuff.The first two gigabytes of space are free, but if you want more it will cost you &#163;4.99 a month for 20GB.On the face of it, this is not a bad idea. Off site storage is a Good Thing: if your computer's hard drive goes pear-shaped, all your precious white-label remixes and photos of the cat wearing tinsel can be retrieved. And if Burglar Bill breaks in to your house and steals your machine, similarly all your stuff is safely tucked away on a server somewhere in Docklands.But hang on. BT will, in eff ect, be holding your stuff to ransom. What happens if you decide to stop coughing up? Will the jerky videos of the cat be lost forever?And this is a long way from being good value for money. First, everyone has access to shedloads of online storage space. Most ISPs off er some webspace, for starters. The idea is that you host your website there, but the space can be used for anything you like. Googlemail gives you 2GB of webspace per account which you can use to store stuff; I have half a dozen Googlemail accounts. Other webmail providers - Hotmail, Yahoo - also provide a couple of gigs of space.BT's move is deeply cynical. As local loop unbundling and voice-over-internet take off, and consumers are no longer forced to pay the telecoms behemoth for the privilege of communicating with the outside world, it is being forced to look for new ways to keep that revenue stream flowing. And so it is going for an easy target: the technologically challenged.Anyone who keeps half an eye on home computer technology knows that BT's off ering is a joke. Quite apart from the fact that there is oodles of free online space available, disk space is cheap. A straightforward back-up solution is to buy a capacious external hard drive that plugs into your PC's USB 2.0 or Firewire port. Dabs.com has a 1TB - yes, that's one terabyte - Firewire hard drive for &#163;364.20. Smaller external hard drives are much cheaper: you can get up to 250GB for under a hundred quid.Finally, don't forget the most fatal of all the fl aws in this cynical off ering from BT. Upstream speeds on ADSL are a disgrace. You might well be able to download data at "up to 8Mb" , but uploading will be at the pitiful rate of 256kbps. Please, don't encourage BT by signing up to this. Else their next wizard wheeze will be something like claiming they invented the hyperlink, and demanding money from anyone who uses one.Oh, no, wait. They've already tried that, and failed. Let's hope this idea goes the same way.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
I just earned a nickel, but only at the cost of having my brain fried: I watched Dell The Journey all the way through.The YouTube blurb says the video has been supplied by Dell, and explains:Clad in body armor and armed with his trusty sword, an animated Michael Dell leads down-trodden customers from Proprietaryville to the bliss of Global Standardopolis. Joining him on this musical journey are EMC's Joe Tucci, Oracle's Larry Ellison, AMD's Hector Ruiz and Intel's Paul Otellini. Can our band of heroes defeat the evil "Big Iron" dragon and lead their customers to the Global Standardopolis?It's pro-Linux and anti-IBM, but it's still jaw-droppingly awful, and therefore a must see.Thanks toValleywagfor the link, and the nickel.Update: A comment (below) rom JohnP @ Dell says: "This video was created for an audience of 10,000 people who came to hear Michael Dell speak about standards in business computing." In that context, I'm sure they enjoyed it. Maybe it would look better on YouTube if there was a lead-in showing a real Mike Dell on stage giving the intro....
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column on Wednesday November 1 2006In the report below we describe John Pike as "director of global security and spokesman for the Federation of American Scientists". He has not held that position for some years. He is the founder and director ofGlobalSecurity.orgIn November 2004, during the second battle of Fallujah, an American uncrewed aerial vehicle (UAV) - a robot plane - located a mortar battery that had been hampering the US operation to retake the town.The mortar's position was logged by the UAV's operator, who was sitting at his desk in Nellis Air Force base near Las Vegas, thousands of miles away. Using the internet, the operator contacted the operator of another armed UAV at a desk in central command ("Centcom") - a safe area away from the theatre of war, with centres in Kuwait, Qutar or Iraq.The two operators swapped information on the mortar in a secure internet chat room, guiding the armed drone to its position to destroy the mortar and its crew.According to Lieutenant General John Sattler, commander of the coalition forces at the battle, it was a proving ground for the use of remote vehicles. "We learned that UAVs can provide the coordinates required for artillery as well as aviation [targeting]. Our UAVs gave us the grid coordinates of an enemy position and allowed us to clear the area for fires and estimate collateral damage," says Sattler.The new remote-controlled technology was also tested in 2001 in the Tora Bora caves in Afghanistan, close to the Pakistan border, believed to be the last stronghold for Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida fighters. Sending soldiers into the caves to try to capture fighters inside would carry huge risks. Instead, the US sent in armed Talon reconnaissance drones - small tanks equipped with camera and sensing equipment, and armed with anything from a sniper's rifle to rocket launchers. They were used to identify caves and positions held by al-Qaida.Information gleaned from the Talons was used to direct what rapidly became a mopping-up operation - although bin Laden was not caught.But that is only the beginning. By 2015, the US Department of Defense plans that one third of its fighting strength will be composed of robots, part of a $127bn (&pound;68bn) project known as Future Combat Systems (FCS), a transformation that is part of the largest technology project in American history.The US army has already developed around 20 remotely controlled Unmanned Ground Systems that can be controlled by a laptop from around a mile away, and the US Navy and US Air Force are working on a similar number of systems with varying ranges. According to a US general quoted in the US Army's Joint Robotics Program Master Plan 
(http://tinyurl.com/yl7s52- 13.8MB PDF), "what we're doing with unmanned ground and air vehicles is really bringing movies like Star Wars to reality". The US military has 2,500 uncrewed systems deployed in conflicts around the world. But is it Star Wars or I, Robot that the US is bringing to reality? By 2035, the plan is for the first completely autonomous robot soldiers to stride on to the battlefield.The US is not alone. Around the globe, 32 countries are now working on the development of uncrewed systems. In the UK, Qinetiq, the former Defence Research Agency which owns Foster-Miller, manufacturers of the Talon system, confirmed that it has developed remote bulldozers and earthmovers and that its technology could also be installed in tanks - and scientists at Qinetiq told the Guardian two years ago that it had built a robot fighter plane. When flown on test flights, they said, the fighter is accompanied by two crewed fighters, whose role is to shoot it down if it malfunctions.Among the 37 or so UAVs detailed in the "US Unmanned Aircraft Systems Roadmap 2005-2030" 
(http://tinyurl.com/ozv78- 9MB PDF), two projects demonstrated in 2004 - the Boeing X45a and the Northrop Grumman X47a (both uncannily similar to the Stealth fighter) - are listed as Joint Unmanned Combat Air Systems. A similar project, the Cormorant, which can be launched from a submerged submarine, can be used by special forces for ground support. A close reading of the UAV Systems Roadmap shows the startling progress the US has already made in this field, with systems ranging from fighters to helicopters and propeller driven missiles called Long Guns on display.Ethical debateBut if this is the beginning of the end of humanity's presence on the battlefield, it merits an ethical debate that the military and its weapons designers are shying away from. Neither of the documents detailing the US military robot plans, for example, mentions the Geneva Convention which sets out the treatment in wartime of the sick, wounded, civilians and prisoners.Reacting to claims that the deployment of the Talon systems in Iraq and Afghanistan was not fair, Foster-Miller replied that the war on terror was not a fair fight anyway. "These robots will continue to evolve," says Bob Quinn, general manager at Foster-Miller. "The concept now is to introduce a range of human sensors, so that we can convey the impression to the operator that they are actually there, so that they can talk, smell and see. The thinking is that it is very important to have people involved in the loop."In the fog of battle, some UAVs have already fired on their own side. With the increasing likelihood of more autonomous systems being deployed, some US generals have also raised concerns about the reliability of software and its vulnerability to hacking and viruses, pointing out that a rogue robot could inflict considerable damage on humans on its own side in a battle.For the FCS project is far more than the use of robots. It also involves the creation of a hugely complex, distributed mobile computer network on to a battlefield with huge numbers of drones supplying nodes and communication points in an environment under continual attack.For the military, a hacker taking over any part of the FCS is its worst nightmare - and a prospect the US has actively examined. In the mid-90s, hackers from the US Air Force Information Warfare Centre managed to take over the cruise missile system on a US Navy missile frigate, and stray mentions of other covert hacking operations occasionally surface in US military publications. In 1999, one US military source told Aviation Week and Space Technology that "Air Combat Command has been conducting a lot of information warfare activity. By that I mean getting into their computer system and screwing it up. We're trying to use that capability. By getting into the microwave net, you can insert viruses and deceptive computer communications." It's a technique that other US soldiers say was honed against the Serbians during the recent conflicts in the Balkans: "False messages and targets were injected into Yugoslavia's complex computer integrated air defence system."In fact, cyberspace has been a recognised domain for war by the Air Force since last December; and next month Air Force commanders will meet in Washington to discuss the development of a Cyber Command to "deliver sovereign options for the defense of the United States and its global interests - to fly and fight in air, space and cyberspace."But for generals seeking the certainty of destruction, hacking isn't enough. They want a more concrete back-up; as a result work is now been carried out on futuristic microwave weapons including High Emission Radio Frequency guns, which can knock out individual systems, and the Electromagnetic Pulse, which can be used to knock out a country's electronic infrastructure.That could take the debate into much deeper territory, says Peter Zimmerman, professor of science and security at the Department of War Studies at King's College in London."Sir Arthur C Clarke once wrote a short story about a group of scientists who built a galaxy-wide computer and then asked it whether there was a God," Zimmerman recalls. "The computer fused its power supply into the 'on' position and then told them: 'there is now' - and that's the question that we really need to be thinking about with these systems."However, the Pentagon is not keen to address the problem, says John Pike, director of global security and spokesman for the Federation of American Scientists. "There is a difference between soldiers and soldiers in the movies. On the battlefield, half of the soldiers don't aim their weapons at people because they don't want to hurt them or they don't want to give them cause to hurt them. The robots that are under development can sense, direct and fire dispassionately and are being pointed by people who don't have to worry about being shot at."The introduction of robot forces, he says, "is raising some very difficult issues that the DoD has not thought through, and those are about hearts and minds. Warfare until now has been about the sacrifice of blood or treasure and the US has chosen to sacrifice treasure to avoid body bags."The Pentagon declined to answer questions about the issues raised by the use of robots, saying that the department would "be happy to discuss particular weapons systems under development rather than theoretical issues".But Peter Singer, director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at the Brookings Institute, who is an expert on FCS, says that the DoD and other states developing robots will have to address the issue in time. "At the moment we have cubicle warriors sitting a long way away from the action, and in the future we will have completely robot systems," he says. "How the use of those will be reported on al-Jazeera will be interesting to see."I think we will see people in al-Qaida pointing out that these are people too cowardly to fight out in the open. In the event of a robot system destroying a hospital in a situation similar to the cruise missile strike in Baghdad, the reaction will be more than interesting. This is a very historic period; we are now determining who will fight wars in the future and how we will fight them. The human monopoly on war is being broken. Science fiction has now become science reality and we are changing the rules of the game. It's something we have to discuss and it's better we talk now than afterwards."Even though the Pentagon does not want to talk just now, the introduction of robots has already begun one upheaval: a re-evaluation of how it awards medals. After all, should robots' operators receive combat service medals for battles at which they were not physically present?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Red Hat's business model is based on distributing "free software" -- its own version of GNU/Linux -- and charging for support. But of course, the GNU GPL allows somebody else to take your work -- whatever you do in assembling a distro, bug-fixing, testing, packaging etc -- and redistribute it under the same licence terms, so your future business is always uncertain. As Red Hat is about to find out....Oracle, the giant database company, says it's now going to take Red Hat's software, remove the logos, and sell it for a lower price. And it will keep doing it:"We think it's important not to fragment the market," said Oracle's Chief Corporate Architect Edward Screven. "We will maintain compatibility with Red Hat Linux. Every time Red Hat distributes a new version we will resynchronize with their code. All we add are bug fixes, which are immediately available to Red Hat and the rest of the community. We have years of Linux engineering experience. Several Oracle employees are Linux mainline maintainers."Business Week blogger Steve Hamm, in his "drops bomb" post, describes this as "a ruthless and brilliant act of capitalism".InfoWorld's Open Sourceshas published a bunch of the slides used by Oracle co-founder Larry Ellison, showing how much cheaper Oracle's Unbreakable Linux will be.But of course, the price of Linux is irrelevant if you use Oracle's database, because of the high cost of serious commercial installations.Dave Dargo from Ingres, an Oracle rival, has some numbers. blogfor a four-processor system. He says:the license fee you would pay to use Oracle is $160,000. So the total, first year's cost for Oracle on Red Hat's Linux is $197,699 or $197,199 if you get Linux support from Oracle -- a savings of a whopping 0.25%.Comment: Oracle certainly ought to be able to charge less for Red Hat Linux than Red Hat because (a) Red hat, not Oracle, is paying the development costs and (b) Oracle already has a huge global support operation, which is needed to support the Oracle database and allied software. And if this kills Red Hat, well, Oracle could either buy the company for peanuts or move on and suck the blood out of another vendor such as Novell or Debian. Or else IBM buys Red Hat, and Oracle and IBM end up owning the commercial Linux market.IBM's "free software" business works on the same basis as Oracle's: the cost of Linux is trivial compared to the cost of IBM hardware, software support and consultancy. In fact, in ball park terms, Oracle can do what it's doing because Red Hat is priced to compete with Windows, whereas Oracle is priced to compete with IBM's DB2.
I have recently purchased an SPV M3100 mobile, mainly for its email capabilities. Is anything stopping me using its Wi-Fi connection for VoIP calls, rather than using my mobile operator? Shaun DurhamJack Schofield replies: Well, you can presumably use it for VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) calls if you can install the appropriate software and sign up with a connection provider, such as Vonage. Skype for Pocket PC 2.1, akaSkype for Windows Mobile 2.1, would seem to be the obvious solution, and the Orange SPV M3100 is listed as one of the phones supported. An alternative might be SJ Labs'SJphone for Windows CE, which is still in beta.The SPV M3100 is actually an HTC Hermes running Windows Mobile 5, which is the latest version of Windows CE for mobiles. Equivalent phones include the T-Mobile MDA Vario II, O2 XDA Trion, Vodafone VPA Compact III and HTC TyTN. If you're using one for VoIP, please let us know what works best.Backchat: Phil Collerton has been using another version of this phone for "push" email. He says: "I travel every week to European countries and email access is far cheaper using GPRS roaming instead of BlackBerry roaming. One gripe is that I have not succeeded in getting the device to use Wi-Fi hotspots in preference to GPRS for email, although I do use mobile Skype whenever possible. The quality varies, but is no worse than desktop to desktop Skype."
I followed a sponsored link on the Guardian for Audiovisual123, who were advertising cheap laptops. I almost sent my money off, but was a bit suspicious when asked for payment by CHAPS. I looked them up on Google, and found the AV Forums where several people said they had been stung by this company. Marina LewyckaWe don't do "sponsored links". On Guardian Unlimited, the small text ads are called Advertiser links, because they are advertisements. They are also served up by a third party -- Yahoo! Search Marketing -- so they are not under our direct control, though we are able to veto advertisers that we do not want to carry. However, since the ads vary according to the page you are on, or depending on what you have searched for using our search box, we may never see them.Also, with YSM ads, as with Google, companies bid for the right to serve ads for specific keywords, and often this is an automated process (http://searchmarketing.yahoo.com/mt/so.php). Either way, you cannot take anything on trust. You should always search for details of any unfamiliar companies before doing business with them, and this is especially true online.Happily, you were quick to spot the problem of paying by CHAPS, the Clearing House Automatic Payments System, which is used mainly by banks and building societies to guarantee payment on the same day. It's generally better to buy PCs (and other goods that cost more than 100) using a credit card since the Consumer Credit Act gives you some extra protection. Even then, I wouldn't expect a company to take the money until the PC is shipped.
I have a Toshiba Satellite [notebook PC] and I would like to download and play podcasts. Do I need a separate MP3 player or iPod? David HoughYou already have what you need to play almost all podcasts, which are nothing but plain old audio files. Download the file to your hard drive, double-click it, and it will play in your default software, which may well be Windows Media Player. You can, of course, copy the audio file to a portable device, such as an MP3 player, PDA or mobile phone. Most podcasts are MP3 files, and most devices will play those. You may need to look at compatibility issues if the podcaster uses a different audio file format, but usually you can convert files on your PC.The trick with podcasting is to have audio files downloaded and transferred to the mobile device automatically, rather than manually. However, this does not need an iPod, so the name is somewhat misleading. Some people are now calling it netcasting instead, prompted by letters from Apple Computer's lawyers claiming that the terms "Podcast Ready" and "myPodder" infringe on Apple's trademarks.
We get far more letters than we can publish every week. So here's the full contents from which we chosethose which appeared in print.COPYRIGHTContrary to the arguments of the recording industry, the fast pace of change in the digital era means we should be seeking to reduce copyright lifespan, not extend it. Back in 1990, I wrote a desktop publishing program for Amstrad home computers. Assuming I live to the age of 75, this will remain in copyright until 2119  by which time I doubt there'll be a working Amstrad to run it on. Authors do deserve to profit from their works, of course  but does the third generation of their descendants? Richard Fairhurst, CharlburyFor your interest, [I made a] submission to the GOWER ENQUIRY lobbying for a REDUCTION in the term. I believe that I am virtually a lone voice from the record industry arguing against the extension. Tony Blair has wrongly stated that we need to get in line with Europe on this issue. You will see from my notes that he is misleading the public. This proposed extension is a drastic erosion of consumer choice that will force future buyers into the digital domain in search of recordings controlled by a handful of multi-national companies. Malcolm Mills, Managing Director, Proper Records Ltd, LondonThe National Consumer Council makes a convincing case for reducing the term of music copyright from its current UK period of 50 years for artists to exploit their work, in opposition to the campaign to raise it. This is led by Cliff Richard, the four major record companies and the monopoly industry magazine Music Week, all of whom have a vested financial interest . I strongly agree with the NCC and believe that any extension would stifle creativity, lead to the demise of both small labels and independent record shops, thereby hastening the onset of "clone towns", and would seriously damage consumer choice. Music passing into the public domain (PD) is often imaginatively revitalized and this significant cultural benefit would be lost. Firstly, two fallacies must be exposed. In July 2005, Labour's National Executive reported that "Blair addressed concerns including copyright laws whereby Cliff Richard and the Rolling Stones only receive 50 years' protection compared with 70 years in the rest of Europe." This is completely untrue: the period in the biggest European markets of France, Germany, Spain &amp; Italy is 50 years, as in the UK, not 70. Also, in Music Week of March 18, 2006, the British Phonographic Industry stated that"the people selling these recordings (PD) aren't going to bother to pay publishing royalties." This is completely untrue as the Mechanical Copyright Protection Society (MCPS) collects revenues at 8.25% for music publishers (the writers) for all recordings sold and CDs cannot be manufactured without a licence from them. This income is entirely separate from artists' royalties. Companies specializing in PD material contribute 3-4 million annually, revenue which would of course be lost if they went out of business. The winners from an extension to the 50-year period for performers would predominantly be an already rich elite of artists with royalty-based contracts, usually renegotiated retrospectively due to their huge earning power. Very few were paid royalties until the mid 60s but the examples of Cliff Richard (personal wealth of 40 million) and the Rolling Stones (who paid 1.6% in tax out of last year's earnings of 80 million due to offshore investments) cannot elicit much sympathy. The Stones' music will not in any case begin to enter the public domain until 2014, while Richard's output is gradually due to become PD in 2009, after he has earned from it for 50 years. The other winners would be the major record companies who would effectively be given "ownership" of a vast amount of recorded music (over 90% of all records made) for an extra period, from which they would derive income for doing nothing, and with no intention of re-issuing anything at a fair price which does not sell in volume. The losers would be small record companies, the independent shops and the consumer who would suffer from a seriously curtailed choice. The impact on reissue labels would obviously be thousands of job losses, as this minority sector which compiles historically interesting jazz, blues, folk, pop, country and classical music etc, largely using knowledgeable enthusiasts, also employs designers, writers &amp; admin staff and feeds specialist broadcasters and journalists. Small record shops are already struggling to compete with the financial muscle of the supermarkets and the big chains, so many rely on low price PD product to compete. The loss of this would put many more out of business and encourage High Street uniformity; it would be similar if Tesco somehow made farmers' markets &amp; local food shops illegal. We are led to believe that all political parties favour consumer choice, yet this proposal, apparently backed at this stage by the Government even before the independent Gowers Report is published this autumn, runs completely counter to that principle. The major companies would dictate the availability of recorded music, based of course on strictly commercial terms, and the consumer would be deprived of the choice to buy excellent CDs compiled to critical acclaim at low prices by highly respected labels such as Proper Records and Naxos. This campaign must be vigorously challenged and defeated for the above reasons. Neil Kellas, Greenwich, London&gt;&gt; Wow!! A national library fighting the music industry over term extension. Too bad America's de facto national library (which runs this nation's copyright office) hasn't seen fit to fight similar battles over term extension here. Oh, wait, we forgot: America's copyright officer in chief waited seven years to concede that America's last term extension went too far. Thanks for weighing in.http://www.copycense.com/2006/10/copycense_clipp_3.html&gt;&gt; One of the lesser told stories however is about established content organisations continually disregarding artist rights. I know my own writing appears around the web and on corporate intranets not because it's been lifted from my blog  this is not about blog material  but because there is a market in illegally traded writing and it involves mainstream media enterprises.http://www.mediangler.com/2006/10/20/content-and-copyright-is-also-about-the-other-side-cheating/&gt;&gt; ...the guy from BPI is really far off-base. The purpose of copyright is to put in place the incentives for people to create creative works that they might not have done otherwise. Once that work is created, it's hard to see any reason to increase the incentive. After all, the work has already been created. However, here, the BPI representative totally twists the purpose of copyrights aroundhttp://www.techdirt.com/articles/20061019/122108.shtml&gt;&gt; Obviously, if you change the law to enhance the profitability of a particular industry, that industry may invest the increased profits in beneficial ways. But that money isn't created by the government--it's taken out of the pockets of consumers who would otherwise have spent the money on other products like iPods or tennis shoes.http://www.techliberation.com/archives/040970.phpSUPERMARKET CHECKOUTS (TECHNOBILE)Another downside; the one I recently used (in a Tesco) wasn't chip-and-PIN  just swipe the card through a reader. Like the similarly non-chip-and-PIN self-service petrol pumps there is a maximum payment. It's not a reason for not using them, but it's not exactly reassuring. There are all the security measures to stop fraudulent use, and so many places which just don't use them. For instance, when you return to a websales site and make a second purchase, how many times do you get asked for that extra security number? Dave Bell, no post town givenI share Linda Jones's dislike of self-service supermarket tills (Technobile, Oct. 19), but ironically, the Guardian itself is partly to blame. The self-service tills at my local Tesco monitor the weight of every item, presumably as an anti-theft measure. When the Guardian contains extra sections, the till decides that I'm trying to smuggle merchandise out of the store without scanning it, and a loud recorded voice tells me to remove the additional items from my shopping bag. Worse still, when the Saturday edition includes a free DVD of an 18-rated film, an alarm sounds, and an assistant has to intervene to check whether I'm old enough to buy the Guardian. David Harper, Cambridge[note - The Guardian has never offered an 18-rated free DVD - Technology Ed.]SPAMHAUS JUDGEMENTInteresting article above misses one major point (also apparently missed by the Harvard Law Professor quoted). US companies have been obtaining court orders in the US to have domain names that are registered to foreign entities transferred to them for some years now under their Anti Cybersquatting Consumer Protection Act (ACPA)  part of the Lanham Act that deals with US trademarks. Some of these have worked successfully even in the face of a pre-existing court action in another country. For example in NBC Universal, Inc., et ano v. NBCUNIVERSAL.COM, 1:05cv268, 2005 WL 171288(E.D. Va. 2005) there was a pre-existing court action in Korea brought by the registrant of nbcuniversal.com seeking a declaration that he was entitled to keep using his domain. The plaintiffs merely brought an action against the domain name itself in Virginia USA seeking an order upon (1) the .com registry to substitute the plaintiff's own registrar as the registrar of record on the domain name and (2) the plaintiff's registrar to amend the WHOIS details on the domain name to those of the plaintiff. This was successful even though the Korean registrant defended the action in the USA. So there's nothing new here apart from the fact that the plaintiff in the spamhaus case either doesn't understand how the system works or is simply trying to make news where there isn't any. As ICANN say, they have no power to enforce such a court order  they merely fulfil a regulatory role according to their contract with the various registrars and registries. There isn't a power in their contract to require a registry or registrar to delete a domain. But the .org registry (PIR or Public Interest Registry) does have this power. And it's not based in Canada, like Tucows, but in Reston Virginia USA. The Virginia court (the same one as in NBC Universal) treats all domain names that are operated by a registry in their jurisdiction as being within their territory and control. Accordingly, PIR can simply be ordered to remove the domain name from the zone file (the file that makes the .org part of the Internet work) and it would vanish just like that. You don't need ICANN or Tucows  and there's already a good few precedents where this has been carried out successfully. So the constitutional crisis you report has been upon us for at least four years or more  I was writing about it in 2002:-http://www.theregister.co.uk/2002/09/04/ill_see_your_domain_name/Andrew D S Lothian, Chief Executive, Demys Limited, Edinburgh&gt;&gt; ..a judge rules in favor of a bulk mail company. A company that wastes Internet bandwidth and general provides a service no one really wants. Go Spamhaus. I use them; I'd hate to see them have any issues since they provide such a great service.http://www.jasonosborne.net/?p=13BITTORRENT INTERVIEW&gt;&gt; Personally, using P2P to share larger than life content to me which has to be tv streams in the future, is a great way forward. If all pipes were open, and the data was flowing like water, would there be a need for Satellites transmitting TV to homes?http://chriskettle.blogspot.com/2006/10/future-of-buttorrent.htmlGOOGLE EARTH PICSIn the article "What content does Google censor outside China?" you say: " 'So far, we haven't degraded or blurred an image at the requirement of any government,' McLaughlin said of Google Earth". If you look at the image of the NATO airforce base Geilenkirchen in Germany (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NATO_Air_Base_Geilenkirchen) you will find that the image has been blurred. Maybe the government didn't request this, but somebody else must have done:-). The same applies to Leeuwarden air base, so there are probably many more. Google Earth placemark attached. Stefan Tim, LeedsIf it wasn't a government, who introduced the effect seen at the GE location [in Holland, near the Hague]? (Which I actually find very pleasing aesthetically, but that's by the way.) Perhaps you could ask Mr. McLaughlin. There seems to be a lot of NATO and defence stuff just there: Google Oude Waalsdorperweg and Van Alkemadelaan, which are the two roads on the borders of the site (see attached). I suppose NATO isn't actually a government. Kit Powell, BristolSA Mathieson (p2 last Thursday) quotes a Google Earth person saying that Google does not blur an image at the requirement of any government. But there are blurred areas. Look at, for instance, Amsterdam harbourhttp://www.google.com/maps?ie=UTF-8&amp;hl=en&amp;tab=wl&amp;q=amsterdam-- this is a Google Maps reference, but the blurring is there on Google Earth too. There used to be a strange black rectangle in Brentford, west London, on the edge of Osterley Park, but that was probably just a fault in the survey: it's no longer there. Alan Burkitt-Gray, LondonDISCONTENT CREATORSHave to disagree with the conclusions of Vic Keegan's article on "discontent creators". You believe that great art is more likely to emerge, albeit eventually, from a system which allows everyone to submit their work to a pool to be assessed online by their peers. Unfortunately, I think the opposite is true. A system based on the economic imperatives of agents and publishers was never ideal, but at least it imposed some critical judgment on artistic offerings. Popularity is never a good critical judgment, but that is the only criteria which really dictates which works will emerge from that free-access online pool. The great art may indeed be somewhere within that pool, but who is going to seek it out? Eventually, some form of judging/editing/selection process must be established if great art is to be spotted. Like many others, I want someone to perform that critical process for me; I trust the Tate, whereas I do not trust YouTube, and I trust the editor of The Guardian whereas I do not trust random bloggers. Eventually, a method must be devised, whether judgmental or economic, to perform the same filtering process on the online pool. And until it is devised, I'm afraid that great art will languish unspotted beneath the video clips of exploding Coke bottles and the ill-informed blogs. Paul Keers, Editorial Director, Axon Publishing, London&gt;&gt; [A] Few years ago pundits asked: how will people keep on creating free and open source software? The answer was not obvious, but a couple of years onwards more free and open source software is being created than ever before and software coders still do not get paid (at least directly). Now the same is happening to creative content and affecting authors, journalists, publishers, broadcaster, filmmakers etc.. As some OpenBusiness models show: the value chain is being disintermediated and attention is a new currency.http://www.openbusiness.cc/2006/10/19/unpaid-creators/MOBILE PHONE PAYMENTS&gt;&gt; Some of the handset guys are starting to talk about NFC in something more than roadmap terms, which means that they see a market for this. Google says that one of the lead projects for its mobile service is the integration of checkout solutions in an attempt to make shopping easier on your phone.http://digitalevangelist.blogspot.com/2006/10/now-you-can-go-shopping-with-your.htmlTRAINS (NOT HALTED)Sorry Guy Smales, but the generators you describe still require more energy to be input than could be extracted. No-one has yet demonstrated a machine which can do the opposite. My original point remains valid  and I can remember when steam trains were everyday transport, not heritage curiosities. Ian Soady, BirminghamGuy Smales's letter reminds me of the steam trains of the 1940s, the only mode of transport apart from pony and trap in Northumberland. One could of course see the wheels. Indeed, we had to walk along the line to the station and if you put your hand out when the train came before the station, it stopped and let you on. Going to live in town, I was fascinated by the trolley buses, so much better than the trams. You could detach the trolleys and drive into the side to let others through if there was a problem. Now I am thinking of tube trains, which really need air conditiong. One does not see the wheels but, if they cannot be utilised for power, maybe they could drag along free wheels which could. You have to travel on the tube at rush hour in the summer to know why we seek a solution to the problem. Georgeanne Slater, London
I've just signed up forCyworld, which hasfinallybeen released in English (although it's the US version - boo). The social virtual world isa phenomenonin its native Korea, and until MySpace realised the potential in the West, mentions of Cyworld's name in certain circles resulted in a reverent hush and a roomful of dreamy stares into 10ft. space.Since MySpace, everyone kinda accepts that there's a place where people can go to play around with their senses of self in a very public medium (for more information on this, read danah boyd'spresentationto the American Association for the Advancement of Science, "Identity Production in a Networked Culture: Why Youth Heart MySpace"). But Cyworld is still the template upon which many VW entrepreneur hopefuls build their sites, not least because of its huge cross-over successes. For goodness sake,you can buy Cyworld currency (dotori) in Korean corner shops. In the real world. Try doing that with Animal Crossing. Hello the men in the white coats.Like I did in Animal Crossing, MySpace and the other avatar-based virtual environments, I've spent the morning creating my little public presence. When I was finally happy with the tweaks, I stood back to discover that -even with the graphical limitations of the web-based world - my Cyworld minime is very consistent with how I've represented myself in Second Life, on Yahoo!, on MySpace, Flickr and every other site where I've been able to manipulate the public's perceptions of me. If I had the acorns (money), I'd probably drop her in a miniroom that's consistent with the "homes" of my other virtual me's.What's that all about? I've never made a conscious decision to be so standardised online, but if you went to any of my profiles, you'd find a female graphical representation with short, colourful hair, light skin (some may say pasty, and indeed I've been in the UK long enough to develop that special island pallor), and either red or black clothing. How has that happened?In some of my early research, I looked at the avatar choices of online game players to understand what effects gameplay had on their offline senses of self. A side-discovery I made was that women in particular choose virtual self-representations that are highly reflective of their offline selves. Most female players I interviewedactually chose virtual environments based on how closely they could replicate themselves in the virtual worlds. Self-expression, community and social interaction were often their primary reason for playing these games. They'd be playing around with their senses of who they are.I think it's because role playing is a pretty intellectually-taxing pastime. Adopting a character so unlike yourself in a social situation over a period of time would be emotionally draining, purely because you'd have to be so consistentlythatperson with your new in-world community, or your online friends would notice the cracks and would call a fake.I'vepreviously discussedthe concept of "place" in virtual spaces like Animal Crossing. One of the key points in that post is that anywhere you drop your virtual bag can be made into a "home". Offline, I'm currently trying to make this shell of a house I'm sitting in a home by incorporating "me" into its walls, the furniture and the layout, just as teenagers decorate their rooms with physical representations of who they are. In my day, it wasAthena postersand Sgt. Peppers Lonely Hearts Club Band. With my avatars, I suppose I'm doing the same thing (without the crying clowns).I'd love to know - is self-projection in play as important to men?
MyGamesblog columnin this week's Technology section deals with the simmering genre of political games. Usually distributed via the internet or virally through emails, these typically short, sharp titles present real-world situations in interactive form, providing users with a unique means of engaging with contemporary issues. Some of them are pretty good fun, too.As an accompaniment to the piece, I got together with serious games specialists Ian Bogost and Gonzalo Frasca to gather 10 of the most important and/or influential titles for you to check out. There's a real diversity here taking in hawkish shooters, cynical anti-corporate jokes and heart-rending charity sims.Importantly, two strands seem to be developing: titles that seek to objectively inform players about a specific situation, and titles with a definite agenda. Most play with accepted videogame genres, using elements of stealth, FPS and strategy simulation. The simplest - thrown together in days by lone programmers using Flash or Java - go right back to arcade archetypes like Space Invaders and Whack-a-Mole - not just because these are the simplest to code, but also because they're familiar to a wider base of users. The message is more important than the medium...Anyway, have a look through and give one or two a go...Balance of Power"A game that took geopolitics seriously," says Frasca of Chris Crawford's 1985 strategy sim, originally released for the Apple Mac but later converted to the PC, Amiga and Atari ST. Here, the player had to choose a superpower then guide the country through eight years of cold war conflict, attempting to avoid nuclear apocalypse. This and Theatre Europe were the spiritual predecessors of Introversion's recent Defcon.Availability:It looks like the game is now considered abandonware and several unofficial sites are offering it for download. It would be legally ambiguous to provide a link here, though...The McDonald's GameCreated by Italian studio, Molleindustria, this famed satire on the burger business puts you in control of a familiar fast food chain, encouraging you to exhaust the environment, exploit workers and endanger customers in the pursuit of profit. One of the finest examples of an 'anti-advergame', which like an interactive version of Adbusters, uses the conventions of advergames against their corporate creators.Availability:you can play onlinehereSee also:Persuasive Games'Disaffected!, an amusing anti-advergame, based around the American copy store chain, Kinkos.Vigilance 1.0Developed by graphic designer and artist Martin Le Chevallier, Vigilance 1.0 is a CCTV operator sim in which the player views a bank of video feeds attempting to spot crimes in progress around an urban area. Apart from testing your reflexes it questions the effectiveness of our surveillance culture and also the complicity of CCTV viewers.Availability:PC and Mac versions of the game can be downloadedhere.Food ForceThis slickly produced game, made up of six disparate mini-challenges, was commissioned by the United Nation's World Food Programme to increase awareness of global hunger. Accompanied by an excellent educational website, it's one of the most-high profile attempts by a charitable organisation to reach a wider audience through videogames.Availability:PC and Mac versions can be downloadedhere.See also:Christian Aid has a range of games on itsGlobal Gangsite. Also,Darfur is Dyingis not strictly a charity game but was the winner in an MTVu competition to raise awareness about the Darfur crisis.AntiwargameA stylised attempt to analyse the policies of post-9/11 America, from programmer Josh On and design agencyFuturefarmers. Given control of the country after a terrorist attack players must decide on how to spend the budget, spreading it between military/business, social spending and foreign aid. More an interactive pie chart than a game, but makes its point nonetheless.Availability:Play onlinehere.Super Columbine Massacre RPGHugely controversial exploration of the Columbine massacre in the form of an RPG. Creator Danny Ledonne set-out to create 'something that mattered' - a game that studied and even sought to explain the motives of Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold. It certainly succeeded in polarising opinion - while rightwing commentators weresickened, Columbine survivor Richard Castaldospoke outin favour of the game.Availability:The PC-only title is no longer available from theofficial site, but you can follow a link to a P2P download site.See also:Waco Resurrection, a third-person shooter in which the player controls a resurrected David Koresh. "Re-examines the clash of worldviews inherent in the 1993 conflict," says developer, C-Level.America's ArmyOriginally developed by theMOVES Institute, this notorious tactical FPS was commissioned by the US army as a recruitment tool. It has been available as a free PC download for several years, and has since been converted to the PS2 and Xbox consoles. "What Triumph of the Will did in terms of propaganda for the Third Reich, America's Army has done it from the US," says Frasca. "An ideological masterpiece, probably the most successful propaganda game ever."Availability:The PC version can be downloaded from theofficial site. The Xbox and PS2 conversions, entitled America's Army: Rise of a Soldier, are available from the usual game retailers.Tatha al-Hisar (Under Siege)"The fact that the press usually mistakes this Palestinian Intifada game for a different game made by Hezbollah shows how little we know or care about Middle East politics," argues Frasca. Developed by Syrian studioAfkar Media, a specialist in political games, this first-person shooter follows a Palestinian family through the second Intifada of 1999-2002, aiming to show the conflict from an Arab perspective. A vital cultural, political and military counterbalance to the likes of America's Army, Full Spectrum Warrior, et al.Availability:Under Siege is not currently available in its full retail form in the West. However, a demo of the game can be downloadedhereSee also:PeaceMaker, a turn-based strategy simulation of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, was originally developed by students at Carnegie Mellon University who have now set up a company, ImpactGames, to distribute the title. It's due for release early next year. Also,Global Conflicts: Palestineby Serious Games Interactive puts the player in control of a young journalist covering the conflict from key hotspots. It's out in March 2007.JFK ReloadedInteresting but perhaps insensitively handled attempt to examine the Kennedy assassination. Players took on the role of Lee Harvey Oswald and were tasked with re-enacting his attempt on the president's life. The aim, according to developer Traffic Management Limited, was to validate the lone gunman theory put forward by the Warren Commission. "A flawed business model destroyed a very interesting approach to documentary games," comments Frasca. "Still, it was worth trying".Availability:Difficult to get hold of now as theofficial websiteis no longer selling the game (a fact which has attracted its own conspiracy theories - especially after it was criticised by Edward Kennedy). However, feed 'JFK Reloaded download' into google and you'll find sites offering both the demo and full version of the game.See also:Kuma\War, a series of downloadable FPS missions based around key current conflicts - from an American perspective.Oil GodThis is the latest project from leading political game specialistPersuasive Games, and forms part of the company's Arcade Wire series of news games. Your role is to take control of an oil-producing regime and then double the consumer prices of your product by engineering wars and natural disasters. It's an attempt to examine the links between oil prices and geopolitics and couldn't really come at a better time.Availability:Can be played onlinehere.See also:Persuasive Games'Airport Securitysatire. Also, a recently released Iranian Counter Strike mod allows players to sink a tanker and block the Strait of Hormuz, thereby severing one of the world's key oil routes (more infohere).
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too, with stories about the US Army's plans to have robots fighting for it, how pornographers want your domain, this week's gadgets, asking: has YouTube changed? and why are antivirus companies going at each other like cat and dog?, and looking at plastic guitars and much more..Launching a new kind of warfareRobot vehicles are increasingly taking a role on the battlefield - but their deployment raises moral and philosophical as well as technical questions, says Pete Warren.Why it matters to master your domainLet your registration lapse, and your site could suddenly be taken over by links to porn - and there's little you can do about it.Ordnance Survey in the dock againMap information is vital to retailers planning stores and products - but it comes at too high a cost.The playful approach to political debateKeith Stuart: In his Tate Britain lecture, Armando Iannucci argued that comedy shows provide the only real forum for political analysis. It's an interesting standpoint - but if he were to head over to sites like Watercoolergames.org he'd find a thriving new arena.Will Windows Vista ship on time?The deadline is a moveable feast, so it depends how you define "on time".Has YouTube changed since its purchase this month by Google?Perhaps you're thinking of the reports in the past week that YouTube has removed 29,549 video clips after being contacted by Japanese rightsholders who said it contained materials taken from Japanese music, movies or TV.The PC is dead, long live the mobileVictor Keegan: Consumer spending is showing signs of faltering in some major economies - but no one has told the mobile phone industry, which is now flying without wings.TechnobileKate Bevan: Why sign up for BT's new online vault service? It's far cheaper to archive your digital stuff yourself.'I didn't want to run companies'Apple's co-founder, Steve Wozniak, came to the company through a series of 'little accidents' and insists that he remains an engineer at heart.DAB should be the new wave, not medium waveJack Schofield: There are not many areas of technology where we have failed to advance the market in the past 20 or even 25 years, but with audio technology, you can at least argue the case.Going against the grainClever use of polycarbonate could revolutionise the way guitars - usually made of wood - are manufactured.A country with text appealThe Philippines has become the first country in the world where mobile users spend more on data services than on voice, according to a leading research company.GadgetsMotorola KRZRMotorola has struggled to come up with a worthy successor to the RAZR, arguably the most influential phone of the past few years. Its latest attempt is the KRZR, which has the same clamshell design but has some additional features.Sony C1-VTNC1SIt is now possible to buy a fairly decent laptop and still have change from 500. So the top-end players in the market have had to come up with new ways to differentiate their higher-priced models.Saitek iFreedomSaitek had a fairly sizeable hit at the end of last year with the A-250, a hi-fi system that enabled users to listen to music that was wirelessly streamed from a PC. The unit is back again as the iFreedom, but with some important revisions.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.NewsbytesShop online, spend more | Internet Explorer, the sequel | Armchair travelling | Thought for food | The Sims | Ministry of the sound of music
As Keithtalked aboutthe other day, decent books about gaming are hard to find. Bucking this trend is one of the books he mentioned, Game On: From Pong to Oblivion: The 50 Greatest Games of All Time. The book - great for flicking through while waiting for the new 360 Splinter Cell to load - does what it says on the cover, namely listing and dissecting what theauthorsconsider to be the best games in the world ever. And, damn them, they have most of the obvious choices covered. Casual or lapsed gamers will find a host of useful info to further or reignite their interest, while more experienced gamers will have to fight the urge to ransack their loft. The Zelda Ocarina of Time entry, for example, certainly whets the appetite for Twilight Princess. But, let's face it, the real fun is arguing about what did and didn't make it.The full list is below. Yup, that really is Madden 06 you can see. Oh and Guitar Hero too - is that really one of the 50 greatest games ever? And Tony bloody Hawks? But hey, three good but certainly not all-time classic games out of 50 isn't bad - actually Lumines too, make that four. But they get bonus points for including the fantastic, and relatively unsung, original Jak and Daxter. But what about Sensible World of Soccer? Paradroid? Doom/Quake? Max Payne? You could even argue a case for Lemmings or Worms. Any others that should have made it? And what about those included that really shouldn't have been? Yes Madden - included to appeal to the US market? - I'm looking at you.Advance Wars DSAnimal Crossing: Wild WorldAsteroidsBangai-OBattlefield 1942Broken Sword: SotTCall of Duty 2Command &amp; ConquerDance Dance RevolutionElder Scrolls: OblivionEliteEye Toy:PlayFinal Fantasy VIIF-Zero GXGoldeneyeGrand Theft Auto 3Gran Turismo 4Guitar HeroHalf LifeHaloIcoJak &amp; Daxter: The Precursor LegacyJet Set Radio FutureLegend of Zelda: Ocarina of TimeLuminesMadden06Mario Kart DSMGSOutrunPacManPokemon R/SPongPro Evolution Soccer 5Resident Evil 4RezRidge RacerCivilization 2SimsSoul Calibur 2Space InvadersStreet Fighter 2Mario64Super Mario BrothersTetrisTomb RaiderTony Hawks 3Virtua TennisWarioWare INCWorld of Warcraft
Consumer spending is showing signs of faltering in some major economies - but no one has told the mobile phone industry, which is now flying without wings. In the quarter ending September sales volume rose by 21% compared with a year ago, with "smart" phones - which have music, video and other functions - rising by well over 50%. This year, for the fi rst time, more than 1bn mobiles will be sold, equivalent to almost one new phone for every sixth person on the planet.In a few years the mobile phone has moved from being a consequence of economic growth, bought only by rich people, to one of its most important causes, particularly in the developing world. A study by the Centre for Economic Policy Research (http://tinyurl.com/ykcrr9) found that a 10% increase in mobile phone penetration led to increased economic growth of 0.59%. This is partly because of the huge improvement in communications, vital for productivity improvements, that mobiles bring, enabling parts of Africa that the industrial revolution has passed by to leapfrog into the information age without laying down expensive fixed-line infrastructure.In the developed world, mobiles are taking over the functions of PCs for business people on the move, and are about to get a big boost from the Web 2.0 phenomenon that enables services and games to be located on a website rather than on your hard disk. This makes sites such as YouTube (videos), Flickr or Photobucket (photos) plus blogs and MySpace accessible from your phone or mobile device.CMWare (www.cmware.net), a US company, already offers a service allowing users of smartphones to access the music, photo and video collections on their home computers while they are on the move. How this will aff ect the iPod can only be guessed at. Although hugely successful, it has been bought by 40m people compared with a billion in a single year buying mobiles that increasingly have music capabilities. In the end the single device will win, even though lots of people will still have iPods. Maybe one of those single devices will be an iPod phone if Apple can make another of its highly successful technological jumps.At last week's smartphone show hosted by Symbian, the UK-based company that claims 70% of the smartphone operating system market, Sling Media and Sony both launched software that will allow users to watch their home TV on their smartphones as long as they have installed a special set-top box. Only 5% of mobile users actually play games today, but this could be lifted to 20% over time - though it may require more mobile-specific games rather the PC retreads that are being marketed.We are clearly at the beginning of the mobile revolution. The list I keep of functions a phone can perform has now reached 60 (the latest two additions being a heart monitor and a projector). I could make the list even bigger if I recorded games, (Monopoly, chess etc) individually rather than as one category.Three things are holding up the revolution. First, the development of a mobile device that is light enough and has a big enough screen to make mobile viewing a squint-free pleasure. Some phones such as Nokia's e61 are nearly there. Second, usability: there is no point in having Google on your mobile if you need six clicks to get to its search box. Third, operators have got to tackle data charges since at the moment you can find yourself shelling out up to &#163;10 for one image-rich download.Small wonder that during the past three years, while text messaging has continued to grow, data traffic, despite the huge opportunities open to it, has been static. It is not often you find an industry suffocating its own success at birth, but that it what most mobile operators are doing.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
..."Mum forced me to come. They took away my computer and pocket money, so I had no choice."Just to show I'm an equal-opportunity blogger when it comes to trashy tabloids (Mail excepted, obviously),The Daily Mirrorsays it's "the first newspaper to be allowed inside the Dutch clinic to talk to some of the youngsters who are there to try and kick their habit."Health experts at the clinic have found that computer game addicts -- or "gamers" -- show the same symptoms as those hooked on drugs. They spend hours alone, drop out of school, fall out with friends and become aggressive if anyone tries to take their "drug" away.One 21-year-old patient here admits he was so addicted to his gaming that he started peeing in a bottle to avoid the interruption of going to the loo.On its site,the Smith &amp; Jones clinicsays it is "running a special survival camp [for games addicts] from July 10 - July 24 in Holland and the forests of Germany. This camp is the first of its kind in the world." So maybe the Mirror article will drum up some business.Comment: Next, of course, Rockstar will be doing a game based on surviving a games addict survival camp, which Smith &amp; Jones will be selling from its drop-in treatment centres on Second Life and World of Warcraft. Or something.
Another extract from Stephen Levy's book The Perfect Thing: How the iPod Shuffles Commerce, Culture, and Coolness, this time inWired.You may already have read the one published in Guardian Weekend:Oh no, not Steely Dan again.The book will be published in the UK by Ebury Press on November 2 at 14.99.
Windows Desktop Search 3.0 RTW for Windows XP (KB917013) is nowavailable for download(4.5MB) assuming your PC qualifies under the WGA scheme.Windows Desktop Search 3.0 is the technology which enables instant search on your computer. It helps you to find, preview, and use your documents, e-mail, music, photos, and other items. The search engine in Windows Desktop Search 3.0 is a Windows service that is also used by applications such as Microsoft Office Outlook 2007 and OneNote 2007 to index application content and deliver instant results when searching within that application. Windows Desktop Search 3.0 provides fast indexing, improved performance, and improved file type support.Comment: I haven't tried it yet. Version 1 was pretty dire so I uninstalled it, and I skipped v2, but sometimes Microsoft gets it right third time....Update: Tried it, uninstalled it. It's incomprehensible rubbish....
BT is buying a California-based anti-hacking firm, Counterpane Internet Security, which advises companies on how to protect their computer networks.Counterpane was founded by 43-year-old American Bruce Schneier, one of the world's leading cryptographers and a computer security specialist.Mr Schneier, who gets a name-check in Dan Brown's Da Vinci Code, is chief technology officer of the firm and, along with chief executive Paul Stich, will be staying on to run the business under BT.No price is being disclosed for the deal but analysts said the deal could be worth $40m (&#163;21.3m). The assets of Counterpane were put at $6.8m (&#163;3.6m) in December 2004.BT said the acquisition is part of its strategy to expand and develop its global professional services capabilities.Based in Mountain View, California, Counterpane currently monitors 550 networks worldwide for multinational and Fortune 100 customers.Andy Green, chief executive of BT Global Services, said: "Counterpane is a welcome addition to BT's global professional services community. As more and more of our customers seek to exploit the opportunities of globalisation, we are finding that increasingly business critical applications are dependent upon the resilience and security of their infrastructure."Security threats get more sophisticated and a larger number of companies are outsourcing the management of their security infrastructure to specialised security service providers. Counterpane is a leader in this space."Counterpane's Paul Stich said: "It is great to see that BT is listening to its customers and acquiring the skills and capabilities in order to fully service their requirements. Together BT and Counterpane can deliver the holistic approach needed to face today's security threats, encompassing people, processes and technology."&#183;Emailfiona.walsh@guardian.co.uk
The Sun has not generally been in the forefront of the internet revolution, but itsnew MySun service, soft-launched this month, looks like a great leap forward. Register with a valid email address and you get your own profile page, and it then takes less than a minute to create a blog, like this one:http://www.thesun.co.uk/mysun/blogs/page/ScholiaObviously this is not going to get MySpace worried, let alone any of the serious blogging sites, but it's more about getting readers hooked into The Sun.From the layout, it looks as though MySun is encouraging users to upload pictures ... but I can't see any way to create a link. Since web logging started as a way to link to stuff out there on the Web, this looks like a major break with tradition, and it makes the whole thing very inward-looking, Alternatively, of course, maybe I just missed something obvious....Also, I can't see any reference to RSS.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
According to Techcrunch's Mike Arrington (who was the first to get something solid on the YouTube sale) News Corporation is one of a number of companies courting the social news websiteDigg.com.It appears that rumors of the upcoming financing led News Corp. and possibly others to initiate acquisition discussions with Digg, and the discussions were subsequently opened up to other interested parties as well. No formal written offers for Digg were tabled, sources say, because Digg's minimum sell price was at least $150 million.One point of controversy was around Digg's claim of 20 million unique monthly visitors and steep monthly growth, whereas the Comscore's most recent September report shows only 1.3 million monthly unique visitors and flat growth since April.Does this mean NewsCorp are out to spend even more cash on web operations? Looks like it.But, if it's true, then it's quite heartening to see that people aren't jumping in to pay silly money for websites that aren't probably worth such heavy investment (after all as good as Digg is, it's already been copied numerous times and isn't technologically unique). I'd imagine the sensible analysts and advisers are suggesting that Digg's valuation is much more like the cash that Yahoo paid for Flickr or Delicious, ie sub $50m. (Or suggesting that you pinch the model)Do you think Digg is overpricing itself, or do they have something special?
A couple of snippets ahead of this weekend's GameCity festival in Nottingham (got your ticket for theGrumpy Old Games Industryevening yet? I'll be hosting so come and say hello!).First up, the organisers have produced a commemorative, limited edition CD entitled 'Sounds of the City', which will be distributed free at the SCEE audio sessions. Featuring tracks by Sega composer Richard Jacques as well as Nimrod, Confetti and Sony Computer Entertainment Europe's audio department it's an interesting little giveaway for fans of game music. If you're not heading to Nottingham, the first 50 people who send their name and address to sounds@gamecity.org will also receive a copy.Also, Freestyle Games, developer of BAFTA-nominated music action title, B-Boy, has arranged a series of events based around its product. Here's the press release info:Art of the Videogame- in support of the premiere of the 'Into The Pixel' exhibition, Angel Row Gallery and CCAN are holding a discussion with some of the leading artists - including B-Boy concept artist Brian Dugan (aka Chippy), whose work 'Darkness' was selected from submissions across the globe. Angel Row Gallery, Thursday 26th at 1pmBe B-Boy- FreeStyleGames demonstrates how they captured a dazzlingly complex set of moves and converted them to a unique gaming experience that encapsulates the excitement, music, skill and art of being a b-boy. Thursday 3pm, The Cornerhouse.I Wanna Be a B-Boy- two workshops held in conjunction with national dance agency - Dance 4. A unique opportunity to try your hand at the latest moves, freezes and be taught by the UK's leading b-boys and championship winners at FreeStyleGames! Followed by a full-on b-boy battle. Friday 27th from 5pm at the Nottingham Arena.You can get more info about these and other events at theGameCity website.
In case you missed it, thelatest episode of our Science Weekly podcastfeatures thepreviously trailedinterview with Apple founderSteve Wozniak. Apologies for the sound quality!It's just a snippet (although there is a competition to win a signed copy of iWoz,) but if you want to listen to the extended interview online, thenclick here, where he answers a number of questions put by you lot. Or you can read the more considered results in tomorrow's Technology Guardian.Oh, and this week's show also features Radiohead singerThom Yorketalking about climate change, and Bad Science columnistBen Goldacrecarping on about PR and science.If you're new to the show, the RSS feed ishere.
The latest version of open source browserFirefoxhas just been released to the public.Mike Schroepfer, the vice president of engineering at Mozilla, told me what this new release means.What does version 2.0 bring me that I can't get already?Let's look at all the things people cared about in Firefox, like tabbed browsing and integrated search.We've made a dozen major improvements. Firefox 1 helped introduce people to tabbed browsing, so we did a couple of things to make that better. Session restore means that you can get back any data, including email, comments on a blog etc. And you can undo closed tabs, so there's no need to worry if you close the wrong one by mistake.We've also added "find as you type" to the integrated search, so it comes up with results as you type in each letter. It currently works with Google, Yahoo! and Answers.com, and we're expecting more.We've also added inline spell-checking - it checks your spelling as you type. It ships with a couple of dictionaries, but it's been almost universally popular. The way we could tell it was working was that all the posts on the bug forums suddenly became a lot clearer!What about security?Well phishing's been a bigger and bigger problem. So we flag up whenever you're heading to a known phishing site; we download a list of known sites every hour, without invading your privacy. We've been trying to benchmark how good this is, and at the moment we think we're getting about 80% of known phishing sites - most of our competitors manage around 70%. That's because we've got a better source list than other people.Do you think you can take more users from Internet Explorer with this new release?We're hoping for two things. The people who really helped drive Firefox 1.0 were really technically savvy, and this is a very solid update for them; we did twice as many bug fixes as we did for 1.0.But how can we continue to grow? Well, the figures are different in different countries [best figures are around 30% in some countries, but even conservative estimates put market share above 10%] but we're guessing there are about 70 million active users worldwide, which is pretty amazing.One of the biggest challenges for growth is awareness. In many ways we're excited about IE7, because it's so different from IE6. I'm not sure people will like it. My personal hope is that they'll start being better at applying web standards; they've fixed some of the CSS problems they had.Mozilla gets a lot of funding from Google right now, but do you feel like you're being used as a pawn in Mountain View's battle against Redmond?I think we are fiercely independent. We're not a subsidiary of Google, but right now our goals are aligned: you can use Firefox on any platform, that kind of thing. We put Google as our default search before there was any business relationship because it was a great search engine.I think the places we get together are things like web standards. But there's no secret meeting in the woods.What if Google launched its own browser? Wouldn't you be done for?Competition in the marketplace is great, but we wouldn't see them doing their own browser.So what have you got that nobody else could replicate?Hundreds of contributors worldwide. But there are also thousands of people downloading the nightly tests, which is really helpful to the developers. Plus there are 180,000 registered members of SpreadFirefox.com, so it's really a worldwide community.We'll take ideas from everywhere. There have already been 1,800 edits of our Firefox 3 brainstorming page; the whole point of open source is to take ideas from wherever you can find them.That sounds good, but are you really open? After all if you're taking a lot of funding from companies, shouldn't you be more open about where it's coming from and where it goes?We try very, very hard to be transparent. There are details of some of our financials online, and we do support the community in lots of fashions. Everyone has different reasons for contributing. Everyone wants to work on cool stuff with smart people.And where does Firefox go from here? What's the future?That's tough. No-one knew this was going to happen back in 2004. And everyone's still scratching their heads about how it happened, so it's hard to predict the future. But as long as we're at the table then we're doing OK.
Shmulahas an interesting analysis of the meta-social-aggregatordigg, analysing it as a game. From the article:snipIn digg, players are the voters; the voters have n options; and, where non-paid voters are concerned, reputation is the over-riding incentive for voting a story (top-digger status, etc.)snipBy this analysis, when we digg something, the practice is very similar to what role players engage in when they role their dice, what online gamers do when they choose guild members and/or objectives, and what eBayers do when they buy and sell their wares. When we use digg, we're playing a social game.The post assesses the online service within the constructs ofGame Theory, a line of thought usually invoked in economic contexts, but put to good use here when considering social software. The author summarises:Digg is the online version of The Urn Game [which he explains]. What I see are power users, typically the first movers, wherein a vote is casted [sic] by one of the top diggers, and then a flood of comformity [sic] follows -- that is, voters follow the first movers, typically the power users, and ignore their own rational feelings about the article being dugg and vote anyway, following the power user's vote. At a wholesale level, this creates an information cascade, such that the Nth vote conveys no more information than the first 2 votes. [...] Digg is a system that allows the power users to swing the behavior of an entire group.But as others point out, if digg is a game, that means people can game the system. Indeed, that seems to be what's happening, and thus shmula's (and the data cloud surrounding his) post. It happens with other services too, like Google.Surely it also applies to computer games. What we do when we play through designer-developed or user-developed goal systems is game the games. We try and figure out how we can exploit them using our knowledge, skills and connections in order to win. Sometimes we do it twice to see if we can win again.In the case of online games - and even services like Xbox Live - an extra element comes into play - the human being. Can shmula's analysis go some way in explaining the fierce competitiveness of power gamers in massively multiplayer online role playing games (seeTL Taylor's work on power gamers for more information)? Can it help explain why people use bots to level up through the system in order to gain access to the later parts of the game with less grind/work? Even more relevant, what happens when reputation becomes the currency in games?viapatternhunter
Just like the old days: former Microsoft geek blogger Robert Scoble, now of PodTech, has posted a40-minute interviewwith Matt Jubelirer, product manager for the Zune project. (Warning: QuickTime format.)The more interesting feedback is atScobleizer.
Hong Kong-based videogame importer Lik-Sang.com has issuedan extraordinary press releaseinforming customers that it has been forced to close due to 'multiple legal actions' issued by Sony Computer Entertainment Europe. SCEE has been seeking to block the 'grey importation' of Sony hardware into Europe for some time and Lik-Sang is - orwas- a major supplier in this area. Lik-Sang's release included this angry quote from Pascal Clarysse, the company's (ex)Marketing Manager:"Today is Sony Europe victory about PSP, tomorrow is Sony Europe's ongoing pressure about PlayStation 3. With this precedent set, next week could already be the stage for complaints from Sony America about the same thing, or from other console manufacturers about other consoles to other regions, or even from any publisher about any specific software title to any country they don't see fit. It's the beginning of the end... of the World as we know it"The release also alleges that Sony Europe employees were among Lik-Sang's customers, naming several top-level executives who apparently bought Sony PSPs from the company months before the official UK release.Accordingto Gamesindustry.biz, Sony has countered, calling the press release 'sour grapes' and suggesting that Lik-Sang's naming of customers was in contravention of 'data protection principles around the world'.Whatever the case, Lik-Sang's allegations are another potential PR setback for Sony. Although most casual consumers will be entirely unaware of the website, hardcore gamers appreciated its reliable service, huge catalogue of Japanese games and, of course, its access to hardware unreleased in the UK. Whoever the finger of blame points at, this is a small but rather sad loss to the industry.
Searching the Tech section mailbox for the word "misleading", as you do, I was amused to see a letter pop up, addressed to McAfee. A reader CC'd us on a letter he wrote to subscriptions@mcafee.com on October 17, 2006, saying:I consider it to be very misleading to send an e-mail informing me that my subscription is due to expire and asking me to renew "today" when there is 32% of the year (116 days) remaining. I am unlikely to renew with McAfee after my current subscription expires in February 2007.The mailing from McAfee says: "You received this message because your annual subscription for virus definition updates (DATs) is due to expire" and, a few lines later, "McAfee Internet Security Suite anti-virus protection expires 06/02/2007," so it is not a mistake.Does this mean McAfee is so concerned not to leave users unprotected that it is willing to take their money three months in advance, just in case there's a hitch processing the payment?
In what could be construed as either opportunism or hyper-cleverness, two Italian entrepreneurs have opened the doors to a virtual world travel agency,Synthravels, as the virtual world boom approaches its apex. The pair promises to lead the uninitiated curious through some of the most well-known online spaces, demonstrating each world's unique appeals and landmarks to potential customers.They offer tours of over 20 worlds, from Guild Wars to There, specialising their destination guides according to the topographical and social slant of each space.From theirwebsite(reg. req'd):Synthravels is the first organization to offer a complete guide service to all the people who want to make a tour in virtual worlds without knowing these new realities, even if they have never put their feet in these strange, synthetic grounds.Gaming for the terminally lazy and/or the tourist? This could revolutionise the MMOG platform faster than a hawker can set up a holy water stall next to an apparition site. Witness the throngs of business people setting up "My Grandmother went to Azeroth and all I got was this lousy T-Shirt" stands! Be amazed at the flocks wide open toavatar muggers(pdf)! Watch in disbelief as theprices of virtual property shoot through the roofnear newly decreed "places" of interest,and plummet in areas without tourist attractions.How absolutely fascinating.Then again, it's not a new idea. AsRaph writes, there were tour operators in action in Ultima Online back in 1997, and treasure hunts have been used in virtual worlds for several years to initiate newbies when they first arrive.But then again,as the gap widensbetween those who know what "we're" talking about and those who can't make heads nor tails of games and virtual worlds, an independent and user-friendly guide to the options may be a great introduction.
