A comparison of Apache source code with proprietary alternatives has found they are of similar quality, reportsCNet. "The study found 0.53 defects per thousand lines of code for Apache, compared with 0.51 for the commercial software, on average." But over time, with many eyes viewing the code and continously patching it, it can reach higher levels of quality.Trivia point: Apache got its name from a native American tribe but the widely-believed story is that it came from being "a patchy server". Well, that's what theApache FAQsays.
USA Todaygoes 10 (short) rounds with the co-founder of Microsoft.
Glenn Fleishmanhits the nail on the headwith his analysis of how WiFi hotspot owners will make their money back - by selling coffee and hotel rooms to travellers who have come to expect the service as standard. It's the dreaded air conditioning scenario Iwrote aboutback in March, which means that anyone hoping to make lots of money for charging consumers directly for WiFi internet access is going to have to think again. It still doesn't quite justify Forrester'salarmistwarnings recently about WiFi being "the next dot.com crash" - players like BT will still end up winning, as they own the hotspot and the bandwidth. They get paid, either way.
Intel has announced its third version of 64-bit Itanium chips and AMD is stepping up the competition in 32-bit processors.Extreme Techhas the details.Note: ET says 1.5-GHz Madison (Itanium 2) chips will cost $4,226 so don't expect to see it in desktop PCs, let alone portables....
Somewhere deep in the furthest outreaches of east London is a council estate on the edge of an industrial wasteland, surrounded by fridge mountains, abandoned cars and semi-legal backstreet garages. The Carpenters estate in Newham is the unlikely setting for a government scheme designed to promote interactive communications.The estate has few of the basic facilities available in other London boroughs, but inhabitants in the 400 flats are hooked up to the latest in optical-fibre network technology enabling them to use their TV sets to pay council tax, make appointments with GPs, book plumbers and report abandoned cars among many other activities. And it's getting surprisingly high usage - up to 35% of the estate's occupants.This is just one of many interactive trials that is informing the government's &#163;6bn investment in getting Britain online in a bid to reduce the cost of running public sector services and, as the prime minister said in his e-Summit speech last November, to foster "a new relationship between citizen and state". New media, it seems, is hot news in government circles, which is about the only good news for those left in a sector on which the financial markets have long since closed their doors.YooPublica, a new unit set up by interactive games and chat developer, Yoomedia, and headed by former Telewest broadband chief, David Docherty, is one of the many companies lining up for a share of the funds allocated by the government to get every department and local government operation online by 2005.At issue is the extent to which the government will "sex up" its largely web-based services with more compelling content that is available on multiple media platforms, like digital TV. This medium is proving crucial in bridging the digital divide between low-income groups and the higher income digerati in trials run by the Department of Health and local government.The evidence is that where few use the government's web services, even when offered incentives, digital TV is proving capable of bridging the digital divide between low-income groups and the higher income digerati. Digital TV penetration has also now overtaken that of PCs in Britain and is growing fast."So many public sector websites seem so daunting and formal because a lot of them are being led by technology experts rather than media experts who know how to get and keep an audience," says David Docherty, chief executive of YouPublica. "Being a technology solution provider is not the way to resolve your relationship with the public."This goes to the heart of the challenge facing the new media industry. Companies like US giant Electronic Data Systems made rich pickings in the last two decades from computerising the back-office operations of the British government, but the new media players now face the potentially more challenging problem of getting the British public to use interactive services.This will require more than technology know-how from the range of companies hoping for a piece of the action. YouPublic will push the combination of its experience in TV entertainment and digital technology hard. Of the other new media start-ups that still exist, TwoWay TV and Living Health - the company behind the government's trial on Telewest's cable network in Birmingham, which gave people 24-hour health advice, are also expected to bid for some of the funds. And at the other end of the scale, the ubiquitous Microsoft is also circling around the spoils.Already under way at the Department of Health is a contract tender to create an electronic patient care records service at a cost of &#163;10bn over 10 years. It will also shortly tender for contracts to create Encyclopaedia Health Online, an interactive reference service, and it is going out to tender now on a contract to expand its NHS Direct service to all digital TV platforms across the UK. At the moment, people can access it on the web, over the phone and from public kiosks.The Department of Education wants to develop "Teachers' TV", an interactive TV service at a cost of &#163;60m. And the office of the deputy PM is about to see if people can be shaken out of their voter apathy in an upcoming local election if they are given the option of doing so through their TV sets, PCs and mobile phones. "We're right at the beginning of this route," said Bill Edwards, director of e-communications in the Office of the e-Envoy, and a member of its strategy board, speaking at a recent conference on the issue. "We want to deliver services across multiple channels."Mobile strategies are as yet thin on the ground across government departments, but digital interactive TV is rising up the agenda. Four interactive TV trials set up and run by the DoH in the last two years, including the Carpenters estate, throw up interesting results: a surprising number - up to 39% in some cases - used digital TV services; older men and younger women are more inclined to interact through TVs than a PC; and digital TV appears to attract more people on low incomes.Digital TV has a number of advantages: people trust it; it is regulated and rooted in entertainment; and 95% of the population have a TV and know how to use it. Low-income groups have proved more willing to subscribe to digital TV than to internet service providers."We see digital TV as another channel for accessing the health service for potentially fast and convenient access for a particular group of the population, which are not likely to use the internet or other routes," says Peter Dick, operational research programme manager at the DoH. In experiments, 49% of participants said they would pay their TV licence through their TV set, 67% said they would apply for a passport and 48% would book a driving test. And 91% said they would probably use the service again.Beyond the advantages digital TV has over PCs, Patricia Hewitt, trade and industry minister, outlined another reason why the government is so interested in these other media platforms in a speech in Tokyo in 2001: "The first generation gave us the internet through PCs. Internet for the few - with devices that are still expensive and often unfriendly," she said. "Here the US led the world. But the second generation of the internet is for the many. Internet through mobile devices, through digital TV, and through a host of internet appliances. Cheaper, easy to use. Here it is Japan and Europe and particularly the UK that have the edge."Digital interactive TV and, later, mobile phones are to play an increasingly important role in getting Britain online, along with the internet. But as Stephen Timms, minister for energy, e-commerce and postal services says, the challenge now, one that falls to the new media industry, is "to get these services taken up by people."
"The Pavilion a210e's $349 opening price undercuts HP rival Dell Computer, which offers consumer-oriented desktops starting at $399," saysCNet. The machine is only available from the HP Web site. The HP cheapie has a 1.67GHz AMD Athlon while the Dell has a 2.2GHz Intel Celeron. At that price, neither includes a monitor.
The Merc has reviewedStealing Time: Steve Case, Jerry Levin, and the Collapse of AOL Time Warner, a book about the AOL Time Warner merger. The book's author is Washington Post reporter Alec Klein, whose investigation of AOL's advertising practices created a stir last year.
Forbes magazine has published its annual list,The Celebrity 100. Top of the list is Jennifer Aniston. You can also vote for the most overrated celebrity (the list includes JK Rowling) or the most underrated (which includes Anna Kournikova).You can sort the list by "Web rank", which puts Eminem/DRE at the top ahead of J-Lo and Bill Clinton. Names such as Dell, Ellison, Gates, Jobs and Torvalds are missing, though as usual, Alain Ducasse (a chef) makes the cut.
The future of the Gamecube was dealt another potential blow this week as Acclaim, the publishing company behind games such as Burnout and Turok, announced it wouldn't be investing in any new franchises for the platform after current projects have ended.Acclaim spokesman Alan Lewis was reported in games industry magazine MCV as saying that it "doesn't foresee launching any new brands on Gamecube." The company's new CEO, Rod Cousens, went one further in the German edition of MCV, stating in no uncertain terms that although the company would continue to develop games for the Xbox and PS2, the Gamecube did not support "appropriate yields" for them any more.It's clear that "the big N" is going through turbulent waters at the moment, not least with the Gamecube. Nintendo president Satoru Iwata admitted at this year's annual Electronic Entertainment Expo that the console had not lived up to sales predictions and titles like Metroid Prime and Mario Sunshine had also not sold as well as expected.The company claims lessons have been learned, although the recent announcement that it is cracking down against importers of its software and hardware may be telling a different story to fans in the UK. Many are surprised that Nintendo has had the gall to take such action, when titles are frequently delayed for many months before being given a European release (if materialising on this side of the pond at all).Further action from Nintendo against importers and suppliers has also emerged recently, this time in the form of proceedings against the famous Hong Kong importer/exporter, Lik-Sang. The case revolves around the sale of devices known as flash cards and flash linkers which can, among other things, be used to copy Gameboy software.Although Nintendo claimed victory in a press statement, the situation remains unclear. Lik-Sang's founder, Alex Kampl, has spoken out publicly and says this is only the beginning, since the company has launched an appeal against the initial summary judgement.In his statement, which was reproduced on gamesindustry.biz and news site The Register, Kampl claimed that: "The products I have sold are not circumventing any copy protections, same as a floppy disk drive and a 3.5" disk don't; - in fact there is no copy-protection existing, as commonly known by the gaming industry."Kampf also went on to stress that "the very same hardware under attack is used by thousands of hobbyist users and even professional developers for legitimate purposes."The A&M; Music and RIAA (Recording Industry Association of America) cases against Napster raised the issue of piracy and the music business in the online world. Now, the case of Nintendo vs Lik-Sang looks like it's going to raise some very important questions about the nature of ownership and piracy in the gaming arena.At the end of his statement Kampl summed up some of the issues involved, saying: "I completely understand Nintendo's fight against piracy, but I believe they are aiming at the wrong targets. With Digital Media and the Internet nowadays, publishers will have to change their strategy."They just can't win the fight against the progress without removing our primary rights: presumption of innocence and the right for backup. Nintendo doesn't need to prove you are a pirate anymore, it is assumed you all are if you have the technical means to copy."TOP 10 GAMES - ALL PLATFORMSCompiled by ELSPA1) Enter the Matrix (PS2, GC, XB, PC) Atari - £39.992) SOCOM: US Navy Seals (PS2) Sony - £49.993) The Sims: Superstar (PC) Electronic Arts - £17.994) Brute Force (Xbox) Microsoft - £39.995) HULK (PS2, Xbox, GC, PC) VU Games - £39.996) Midnight Club II (Xbox, PS2) Take 2 - £39.997) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.998) The Sims (PS2, PC, XB, GC) Electronic Arts- £37.999) Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell (PS2, Xbox PC) Ubi Soft - £37.9910) Def Jam Vendetta (PS2, GC) Electronic Arts - £39.99
Last week Nokia unveiled its portfolio of phones for 2003. It included some gems - the 6600 smartphone, and the tiny luminescent 3100 handset - and some products on which the jury is out namely its controversial N-Gage personal games console/phone hybrid and the newly launched 3300, a phone/MP3 player combi.This year the competition is likely to be fierce with several Japanese and American companies hoping to extend their market presence in Europe. Here, then, is a list of the key models expected to launch this year.SmartphonesXDA - The original, a PDA that runs Microsoft's Pocket PC operating system and also boasts GPRS for e-mail, web surfing, text and voice calls, was well received on its launch in 2002. On Tuesday, O2 is wheeling out its big guns for a conference to announce its music over GPRS service. Yet we suspect there's also likely to be details of a new version of the XDA, or its replacement.Siemens SX1 - Originally announced in February, the SX1 should be heading for the stores within the next month or so. It packs still and video cameras, Java games, Bluetooth, an MP3 player and FM radio into a very slender frame. Siemens has sliced a few inches off the size of the handset by siting the keys at the side of the screen. There's no HTML web access though - just Wap. Expect to pay about £350.Sony Ericsson P810 - It might be one of the most successful high-end phones, yet Sony Ericsson may soon be calling time on the P800 and replacing it with the P810. The new model sports a metallic, rather than plastic, finish and is rumoured to be smaller than the 800. It also features a 1.3 mega pixel digital camera - far superior to its rival phone snappers.MyOrigo MyDevice - Unveiled last week, the MyDevice from Finnish company MyOrigo is a rectangular handset with a large screen and an innovative feature; it allows users to scroll down web pages or documents by tilting or rotating the phone. Also on board is HTML Internet access, e-mail, MP3 playback and Multimedia Messaging via its integrated VGA standard digital camera. We reckon it will arrive in the UK in autumn as part of the Vodafone Live! portfolio of handsets, and should cost you around £400.Handspring Treo 600 - Eagerly awaited on both sides of the Atlantic the latest Treo smartphone is smaller and lighter than its predecessors. It offers excellent personal organiser facilities via the Palm 5 operating system, alongside full HTML web access, e-mail and an integrated digital camera. Its trump card is likely to be a keyboard - one that Handspring claims is superior to those used by any of its rivals. Due in the autumn, via the Orange network it should retail for around £350.Pogo nVoy e100 - The UK company is keeping mum about which network is taking its new product, the nVoy. It does, however, say it will be able available in limited numbers in late 2003 with a full launch to follow in Spring 2004. The device is relatively compact yet features a large 3.5inch touch screen, integrated camera and a suite of messaging/web facilities.Camera phonesSharp GX20 - Vodafone won't comment on the GX20 as it isn't yet one of its products. But we'd be amazed if it wasn't out by the end of the year sporting the Vodafone Live! colours. The successor to the hugely successful Beckham phone, the GX10, the GX20 features an improved colour screen, a camera that takes almost mega pixel images and an enhanced secondary display on the front of the phone.Samsung's SGH-P410 - Due at the end of the summer, the next generation Samsung clamshell camera phone is smaller, has more storage and a better front screen that its predecessor. It also has a multi-shot press that snaps up to 15 shots in simultaneous sequence.Motorola V600 - Motorola's first compact phone with an integrated camera, the V600, is less than a month away from launch. Could prove to be rival to the Sharp GX10 and Samsung V200 when Orange launches it in September.3G phonesThree has always promised it will have new 3G handsets on sale later in the year.Likely to arrive first is the Motorola A835, a superior, and significantly smaller phone than the trio of handset Three currently touts. It features video calling and download, photo messaging, Java games, and has a huge (for a phone) 256 MB memory. Strangely though there appears to be no web surfing facilities.Three is unlikely to take up Nokia's 3G option, the 6650, as it doesn't feature video calling features. Similarly we probably won't see Sony Ericsson's 3G phone, the Z1010 (a good line up of facilities, but again Wap rather than HTML web access) until another network launches 3G services.RumoursIn the US Motorola is rumoured to be putting the finishing touches to the first handset from a major manufacturer that offers web access through Wi-Fi networks as well as GPRS. The US company is also said to be working on a handset that uses Microsoft's smartphone operating system. Both Motorola and Samsung have watch phones - though neither has committed to a European launch for the products.
The future of the Gamecube was dealt another potential blow this week as Acclaim, the publishing company behind games such as Burnout and Turok, announced it wouldn't be investing in any new franchises for the platform after current projects have ended.Acclaim spokesman Alan Lewis was reported in games industry magazine MCV as saying that it "doesn't foresee launching any new brands on Gamecube." The company's new CEO, Rod Cousens, went one further in the German edition of MCV, stating in no uncertain terms that although the company would continue to develop games for the Xbox and PS2, the Gamecube did not support "appropriate yields" for them any more.  	  It's clear that "the big N" is going through turbulent waters at the moment, not least with the Gamecube. Nintendo president Satoru Iwata admitted at this year's annual Electronic Entertainment Expo that the console had not lived up to sales predictions and titles like Metroid Prime and Mario Sunshine had also not sold as well as expected.The company claims lessons have been learned, although the recent announcement that it is cracking down against importers of its software and hardware may be telling a different story to fans in the UK. Many are surprised that Nintendo has had the gall to take such action, when titles are frequently delayed for many months before being given a European release (if materialising on this side of the pond at all).Further action from Nintendo against importers and suppliers has also emerged recently, this time in the form of proceedings against the famous Hong Kong importer/exporter, Lik-Sang. The case revolves around the sale of devices known as flash cards and flash linkers which can, among other things, be used to copy Gameboy software.Although Nintendo claimed victory in a press statement, the situation remains unclear. Lik-Sang's founder, Alex Kampl, has spoken out publicly and says this is only the beginning, since the company has launched an appeal against the initial summary judgement.In his statement, which was reproduced on gamesindustry.biz and news site The Register, Kampl claimed that: "The products I have sold are not circumventing any copy protections, same as a Floppy Disk Drive and a 3.5" Disk &#91;don't&#93; - in fact there is no copy-protection existing, as commonly known by the gaming industry." Kampf also went on to stress that "the very same hardware under attack is used by thousands of hobbyist users and even professional developers for legitimate purposes."The A&amp;M Music and RIAA (Recording Industry Association of America) cases against Napster raised the issue of piracy and the music business in the online world. Now, the case of Nintendo vs Lik-Sang looks like it's going to raise some very important questions about the nature of ownership and piracy in the gaming arena.At the end of his statement Kampl summed up some of the issues involved, saying: "I completely understand Nintendo's fight against piracy, but I believe they are aiming at the wrong targets. With Digital Media and the Internet nowadays, publishers will have to change their strategy. They just can't win the fight against the progress without removing our primary rights: presumption of innocence and the right for backup. Nintendo doesn't need to prove you are a pirate anymore, it is assumed you all are if you have the technical means to copy."TOP 10 GAMES - ALL PLATFORMSCompiled by ELSPA1) Enter the Matrix (PS2, GC, XB, PC) Atari - £39.992) SOCOM: US Navy Seals (PS2) Sony - £49.993) The Sims: Superstar (PC) Electronic Arts - £17.994) Brute Force (Xbox) Microsoft - £39.995) HULK (PS2, Xbox, GC, PC) VU Games - £39.996) Midnight Club II (Xbox, PS2) Take 2 - £39.997) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.998) The Sims (PS2, PC, XB, GC) Electronic Arts- £37.999) Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell (PS2, Xbox PC) Ubi Soft - £37.9910) Def Jam Vendetta (PS2, GC) Electronic Arts - £39.99
Is new media still insisting it has to learn the lessons of old media the hard way? An Online Journalism Reviewreportlooks at research from Minnesota Opinion Research Inc (notthatMORI - see comments) which finds (gasp) online media consumers are interested in different types of story depending on the time of day. So... news headlines in the morning, moving to lifestyle and classified ads later on (as readers decide what to do that night). It's a deadly obvious thing to do, people have been talking about it for years, and the only remarkable thing is that more sites don't employ it. The funny thing: newspapers, especially evening ones, have been doing something similar for decades - it's called editionalising. But we've a new name for it online: dayparting. Somehow, I preferred the original...
MyDevice is a mobile/cellphone that is motion-sensitive so you can scroll down a document by tilting it, or switch from a portrait to a landscape view by turning it round. The phone, developed by MyOrigo, from Finland, uses Tao's object-oriented operating system, developed in the UK.ZDNet UKhas the details.You can read Tao's press releasehereBackground: Tao's first OS was Taos, a very clever object-oriented parallel-processing portable OS running on a virtual processor. This meant it could offer "binary portability" and also run on different procesors at the same time. I seem to recall that development started on an Atari ST in the late1980s, with the company being founded in 1992. Amiga licensed it to form the basis of its next-generation AmigaDE platform (http://www.amigadev.net/if you can get it to work). Tao sold a version called Elate in the embedded market, and the MyOrigo version is called Intent.Trivia point: Chris Hinsley, the man behind Taos, wrote the hit game Everyone's A Wally for the Sinclair Spectrum.
Google's v2 Toolbar "automatically block popups for users with Internet Explorer browsers version 5.5 or higher" (a feature that Microsoft somehow neglected to put in), includes an "autofill" function, and "a button to automatically create a blog link to the page a user is viewing, plus any highlighted text. The service works with blogger.com, according to the beta page," reportsExtreme Tech.Note: Toolbar 2.0 only works with Internet Explorer on Windows, and can be downloadedhere
When the world-wide web began to take off, no one quite anticipated the degree to which this new resource would be used by millions of very sad men to access such appalling and depressing material.While their families were tucked up in bed, these middle-aged anoraks would furtively log on to the internet and then nervously click on the file entitled Phil Collins' Greatest Hits. "Can people at the other end tell my identity?" they fretted as they downloaded Lyin' Eyes by the Eagles. "What happens if I have to take my computer into PC World to be repaired - will they be able to tell that I've been accessing sites featuring the music of Gary Glitter?"The swapping of music files on the internet has become so commonplace that this week the US record industry announced it planned to sue individuals who download pirated tracks. It is a terrifying threat that has put fear into music-lovers around the world: "I know there are hundreds of millions of you and you're all impossible to identify, but you'd better watch out because one of you is going to get a lawsuit."The multinationals that run the music industry have obviously made this announcement in the hope that it will help to turn public opinion against the digital music pirates. Imagine the scene outside the courtroom: with a blanket over his head, the defendant is rushed between the crash barriers as he is jeered and spat at by an angry mob filled with hatred at this flagrant breach of copyright laws."You bastard! You don't even care about Time Warner's profit margin! You should rot in hell!"The trial itself will go on for months. First, the jury will have to listen to all the music on the defendant's computer, doing their best to cheerily tap their feet and gently sway in unison to the DJ Hype remix of Smack My Bitch Up. Then, in order to verify a particular song's composers and year of release, the judge will be passed a copy of the Guinness Book of Hit Singles. This is guaranteed to waste hundreds of hours of the court's time."Goodness, I never realised the Troggs had a number-one hit with Girl Like You.""Yes, if you could just turn back to the song in question, your honour_""Well I never, Smokie got to number five with Living Next Door To Alice ... "The greedy record industry only has itself to blame for the current situation. By forcing us all to switch to CDs and buy our albums over again, it laid the foundations for music's digital revolution, which it now finds itself unable to control. Did it care about the death of the vinyl LP and those millions of pounds of student grants that we spent in vain? Did it think about the dilemma of fortysomethings, faced with nowhere to store their old album collection now that the loft is being converted? And just what are young people supposed to roll their joints on these days?Of course, music piracy has been happening ever since the very first teenager got out his crayons to try to recreate the cover of Dark Side of the Moon on a little piece of card to slot inside the plastic cassette case. So let he who is without a compilation tape throw the first stone.But the problem for the record companies now is that online piracy is so quick and easy. All you have to do is log on to the internet, go to one of the music-sharing sites and run a search on the track you want. Oh, hang on, it's saying do I want to download kazaa media desktop v2.5 or v2.2; what does that mean? "Windows Media Player Not Configured" - well how do I do that? I'll look in "Help" - "Ensure file extension is specified?" Good point. Er, what the bloody hell are they talking about?The legality is a little easier to understand. The record industry is correct when it describes this practice as theft. And yet it's hard to feel even the mildest pang of sympathy. Perhaps things might be different if the industry had ever shown any qualms about ripping off customers or, indeed, any emerging musical talent.If the record companies do win their first lawsuit, they will expect to be awarded millions of pounds in damages. But if there was any real justice, they would then be handed a cheque for a mere hundred quid."What's this?" they'd ask in astonishment."Ah, yeah, well we had to deduct the money for your limos, publicity expenses, hotel bills, agent's fees and everything, and this is all that's left, honest. Now don't make a song and dance about it, guys. Because we held on to the copyright."comment@guardian.co.uk
Lawyers suing more than 300 companies for their part in allegedly rigging stock market flotations at the height of the internet boom have reached a $1bn settlement.The actions arose from claims that the companies secretly plotted to inflate the value of their shares during the late 90s, making millions of dollars of profits for themselves and leaving many investors penniless.Yesterday's agreement is only a partial settlement. A second series of actions, against 55 investment banks which underwrote the initial public offerings, is continuing.The allegations, made on behalf of hundreds of plaintiffs, are among an avalanche of claims that have emerged from investors hurt by the bursting of the technology bubble.The plaintiffs have alleged that the banks and the companies, which included fallen internet stars such as Agile Software and Razorfish, made misleading statements about their prospects that artificially inflated the value of the shares during the IPOs.They also claim that the banks took kickbacks from investors who were given access to the IPOs in the form of higher commissions, and that ordinary shareholders lost billions of dollars when the prices eventually collapsed.The claims make reference to a practice called "laddering", whereby investors were allocated shares in return for a guarantee to buy further stock and keep the price moving higher.The end of the stock market boom and the corporate scandals that emerged in the past two years have severely eroded investor confidence and sullied the reputation of Wall Street.At the end of last year, 10 top investment banks agreed to pay $1.4bn to settle the claims   that analysts offered overly optimistic research during the boom in order to win other business from the companies they covered. As part of that "global settlement" the banks agreed to overhaul some of their IPO practices. However, securities regulators are now targeting individuals at the banks.There have also been a series of investigations into "spinning": allocating shares in sought-after IPOs to selected chief executives in return for investment banking business.The latest settlement is with the companies that were taken to the market between 1998 and 2000. The insurers of the defendant companies will cover the costs of the $1bn payout.But the money will not be paid until the second part of the case, with the investment banks, is settled.Under the settlement, the plaintiffs will recover at least $1bn from the two parts of the suit. If the banks agree to pay more than $1bn, the companies will not have to pay anything. If the settlement with the banks falls below that level, the companies will make up the difference.The plaintiffs were seeking more than $4bn from the banks, which include Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse First Boston and Citigroup.The banks and companies came under pressure to reach a settlement last February when a federal judge rejected an attempt to have the case thrown out of court.The partial agreement still needs approval by a federal judge.
Until a few years ago, telecommunications on the Pacific island of Niue consisted of a few hand-cranked telephones. But this week the tiny country is launching the world's most sophisticated national internet service.The 100 square mile lump of coral 1,500 miles north-east of New Zealand is to become the first country in the world to have a nationwide wireless internet system. Locals with a laptop and an aerial will be able to surf the net at home, on the beach, in a restaurant, or from a boat.Wireless internet has been the holy grail of telecommunications for years. Internationally the system is found, albeit still quite rarely, on Wap and 3G mobile phones.Niue, however, according to the island's internet users' society, will soon enjoy a free wireless service almost as fast as a typical broadband connection.The society will hang solar-powered aerials from coconut palms to bring the internet to the island's population of 1,700 in the coming months."Copper wires corrode too quickly and easily get knocked out by lightning strikes," said the society's Richard Saint Clair. "We're better off doing without them altogether."Emigration has caused a population slump on Niue. But where in 1991 there were just 376 telephone lines in use, Niueans now send up to 30,000 emails a week and spend 6,000 hours online a month.The island's internet society grew under the tutelage of the American computing journalist William Semich.The technology being adopted is identical to the wireless internet available in some offices, hotels and cafes in big cities around the world. The difference on Niue is that the system is free for public use.Its only potential problem is that it depends on a satellite link to sites not based on the island. "If someone tried to download a big document from somewhere else, it would probably block up the whole network," said Mr Semich.Much of the island's web investment has been made possible by selling rights to use its .nu domain name. Tens of thousands of companies worldwide have paid &#163;18 each to put the suffix after their internet addresses.
DisplaySearch says LCD screens now have 37 percent of the computer monitor market. "US computer maker Dell was the world's number one LCD brand, growing shipments by 182 percent year-on-year and commanding a 16 percent global market share. South Korea's Samsung Electronics remained number two despite losing some market share at 8.9 percent while US-based Hewlett-Packard gained share at 7.5 percent," according to a Reuters reporthere
After many delays, the public trial of chip and Pin-enabled credit and debit cards in retail outlets finally got underway in Northampton on May 19, and few disasters or surprises have occurred so far.Already 100,000 people are using newly issued cards in 500 shops, and by the end of the trial in August both these numbers are expected to have doubled. The retailers range from the largest, such as Safeway, to the smallest, like record store Spin a Disc.Matt Hunt, implementation director at the Programme Management Office, the independent body coordinating chip and Pin implementation, says the public has adapted well to the switch from signing paper slips to entering a four-digit Pin when paying for goods."We have been pleasantly surprised by the positive reaction from both retailers and the public. There was enthusiasm before we started and this has been borne out during the trial," says Hunt.This bodes well for January 1 2005, the date that liability for card fraud switches from the banks to the retailers, because by then all businesses throughout the UK should be accepting chip and Pin cards. As an example of the scale of the problem and the likely bill that non-compliant retailers could face: card fraud amounted to £424.6m in 2002, according to the Association for Payment Clearing Services (Apacs), and it predicts it could reach £800m by 2005.So who is involved in the trial? There are a number of large retailers involved, no doubt helped by the banks and credit card companies providing them with cash incentives and opening negotiations on their existing transaction charges. Many smaller retailers are also up and running because they predominantly operate tills leased from their banks and these will be upgraded to accept chip and Pin at the banks' expense.What are thinner on the ground are retailers that have between 50 and 1,000 self-owned tills, and those smaller operators that own their own terminals. There is great concern that they are failing to plan for chip and Pin and that it places them in a potentially dangerous position for when we reach January 2005.They are "conspicuous by their absence" in Northampton, says Andy Cummins, marketing director of the IT solutions provider Wincor Nixdorf, that is working with Tesco to implement its chip and Pin solution. "There is not a great deal happening in the mid-tier," he says, "which is a bit of a worry at the moment as there is no simple solution and it is a lengthy cycle to implement."Russell Willcox, managing director of hardware provider and systems integrator Box Technologies, that works with retailers including Whittard of Chelsea and Poundland, agrees. He regards the situation as "frightening" and believes that many of the smaller retailers are "wondering what the hell is going on and are hoping their terminal suppliers will sort it all out for them".Tim Barton, retail systems manager at fashion retailer River Island, which operates 800 tills, warns that this thinking could be very dangerous. He believes that "vendors will only have a limited capacity and, more importantly, limited experience to be able to go on site to all of their customers".River Island is an exception among its mid-sized peers as it is undergoing final testing with its application provider, JDA, and credit card software vendor, Retail Logic, and intends to join the Northampton trial in late-June. Despite the progress made, Barton warns that it is a complex task to find the best chip and Pin solution for your business.He advises all retailers to start conversations with their bank immediately and also engage with their software and hardware vendors as soon as possible. "My bottom line advice: get as much help, as soon as possible," he says.  What is certain is that there is going to be a big demand for hardware, software and advice as the January 2005 deadline draws closer. Barton says that most of these retailers will have to "fight for support services as so many will be in the same position" and "manufacturers only have a limited production capacity and there are many retailers who will require kit".Around 60% of the roughly 800,000 Electronic Point of Sale (EPoS) terminals in the UK are retailer-owned and all need to be made compliant. Apacs forecasts that the total cost to retailers to implement chip and Pin will amount to nearly £350m.As well as the horrendous cost to retailers, it is also recognised that there is not a simple one-size-fits-all solution available. It depends on the configuration of the individual retailer's business and its existing till infrastructure - both hardware and software.For most small and mid-sized non-grocery retailers, an integrated unit that comprises a Pin pad and card reader that accepts both chip-enabled cards as well as magnetic stripe cards is the recommended route. This gives the greatest flexibility because the devices will continue to allow the acceptance of magnetic stripe cards until they have been fully replaced by chip and Pin cards. Such devices can land the retailer with a bill of at least £300, and on top of this are the costs of training staff and those other extras that always seem to enter the IT equation.Convenience and off-licence chain Bargain Booze highlights the difficulties faced by many retailers. Willcox says the company's 1,000 terminals did not have enough ports to accept a chip and Pin hardware device so it was faced with either entirely upgrading its hardware or investing in port expansion boxes. Even though it has chosen the latter option, Willcox says it still faces a bill of £500,000 to implement chip and Pin.John Mustard, general manager of Saltire Taverns, operator of seven pubs and bars in Scotland with a total of 34 tills, agrees that there is no getting away from the cost of chip and Pin, and that all bills will have to be paid for by the retailers.Like the rest of the hospitality industry, he faces a much bigger chip and Pin task than his counterparts with shops. The issue of how to accept a chip and Pin payment at the customer's table is a very difficult one compared with stores where customers have to queue at a till."I don't think anybody actually knows how it is going to work. And although the industry is becoming aware of chip and Pin, I don't think they know how soon the January 2005 deadline will be here," says Mustard.Despite the impending, hefty threat of fraud liability, a number of retailers are still choosing to ignore the risks. Barton knows of one major clothing and footwear retailer that has chosen to do nothing. "This is very dangerous. Fraudsters will soon suss out who is chip and Pin-enabled and who is not, and fraud will simply migrate to those who are unprepared," he warns.Card fraud is also widely expected to migrate online where chip and Pin has no effect and where retailers have full liability for any fraudulent transactions. This is causing great concern for the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB). It believes that even before any migration caused by chip and Pin, fraud is having a detrimental effect on many of its members. "We have evidence that they are getting their fingers burnt, and are pulling back from e-commerce," says David Bishop, parliamentary officer for the FSB. Chip and Pin simply adds to this problem.Various solutions involving small, hand-held card readers that replicate the chip and Pin technology are currently being tested by Apacs, but are still some years away from being in the hands of the consumer. For now, retailers have enough on their minds bringing chip and Pin into their stores and most know that failing to act will likely turn this into a painful headache.
It's been a busy week for us here... Thursday being what it is, the Online print section is alsoon the web. Don't miss Jack Schofield's cover story on why it's time to get tough on spam, from parliament to your inbox. To coincide with Jack's report, and ahead of next week's Spam Summit at the House of Commons, Guardian Unlimited has also launched aspam special reportto pull together the Guardian's coverage of the junk email problem.Also in today's Online, there's also a write-up of Monday's launches by Apple (in case you didn't get enough here :-)) and, of course, all the goodness that is our Inside IT section. Finally, since it's the last Thursday of the month, it's high time we published anotherBusiness Solutionssection. This month, we look at IT solutions for working at home.
SpamNetis a spam filtering system which has won plenty of friends for the clever, distributed way it attacks spam (read areview of SpamNet by David Moss). It costs $3.99 a month (with a one month free trial) and requires a Windows PC running Microsoft's Outlook email program.TheMozilla web browserhas spam filtering built into its email function. Mozilla is available for most computers including Windows, Mac OSX and Linux, and it's a free download.Apple users can also make use ofMail, the email program that comes as part of the company's OSX operating system. It has a spam filtering system that gets progressively better the more you use it. Mac users might also want to look atSpamfire, which also works for OS9 users.Other popular products (all for PC users) includeMailwasher,SpamEater ProandSpamPal.There's a long list ofanti-spam toolsfrom spam.abuse.net if you want to try other solutions
'You should call actnow, I've got their number." On the phone is Tad Dewey, of Tad &amp; Nick's internet cafe in Newquay, Cornwall. I have asked him if he has a CD-writer because I have a huge number of pdf files to download, which is literally going to take three days on my dial-up account. He hasn't, but what I really need is broadband, and actnow are the people to talk to. "Give them a call, they will sort it out for you and will even give you a rebate on the cost," he adds.I call the number, and two weeks later, following a painless transition, not only is broadband working but I am paying less per month than for my previous 10-times-slower, mostly off connection. Oh, and an actnow IT consultant popped round last week and told me about a 40% rebate on the laptop and wireless network I was about to install.This is the service that companies spend billions persuading us they provide. One call and the options were explained simply and clearly. I was given a contact name - Lara, who calls me after a few days, wondering if I need any more help as I hadn't called back when I said I would.Once I made the decision to get broadband, everything that would happen was spelt out. Would I like to see the independent IT consultant, he'll be in my area on Tuesday. What about 2pm? Bang on time, Andy turns up and chats about what I'm trying to do, what help he can give, and other things to consider. It was like watching an advert come to life.But don't take my word for it. Ray Newton, who runs the Riviera Hotel,   also in Newquay, is installing a conference centre for 120 people. "We've got to move with the times and broadband is vital, not only for conferencing but for when business people come to stay." Actnow is helping install a six-port pipe, and Ray has trouble choosing the right superlative. "Actnow have been very efficient, exceptionally helpful."Everyone wants broadband but it's not a matter of putting in a CD and clicking Install. It costs more, you have to install extra leads, and who do you go with anyway? Then you find you can't get it because you live too far from a big city. In Cornwall, a place that people from "up country" think only exists between June and August, you would have no chance.Which was precisely the reason actnow was set up. BT was planning to upgrade just one exchange in Cornwall and warned that rural areas could expect to wait anything up to 20 years for fast internet access. But local organisations and businesses weren't willing to wait, and with an injection of &#163;5.25m from the EU regeneration fund Objective One,   actnow was born.It started in April last year, and offers free and impartial advice to small-to-medium businesses regarding broadband and all things internet-related - from websites to e-commerce to wide area networks (WANs). It also provides rebates on broadband monthly fees, connection charges and all manner of IT equipment. BT was signed up as technology partner to provide the equipment and put in more than &#163;3m to use Cornwall as a test-bed for rural broadband.In return for the EU money, actnow has to hit various targets: 3,300 SMEs connected by the end of March 2005, plus 500 high-quality jobs and 90 new media business start-ups from 13 upgraded exchanges. One year into the three-year plan and connections are more than halfway there. Two-thirds have come in the past six months.Awareness of actnow has also had a knock-on effect across Cornwall. Broadband take-up in the county is growing almost as fast as in cities. With more Cornish exchanges upgraded - and another six due by the end of summer - actnow has had to ask permission to extend its scheme.Its success had been noted, too. It was recently given a Best eEurope Practices award. Visitors have come from Poland and the Netherlands, and an international conference is planned. Even government ministers have taken an interest. And the ultimate evidence of success: residents of neighbouring county and bitter rival Devon have forced its county council to introduce a similar scheme. Sometimes things aren't too good to be true, they're better.
It was always going to be an exciting battle. A software engineer made rich from the dotcom boom and a career conman with a silver tongue, fighting over the most valuable internet domain in the world - sex.com. Finally, after eight years of battling in and out of three courts, it reached the very pinnacle of the American legal system and came to a head.Far from a climatic court battle, though - the case was eventually decided by a single sentence in a letter dated June 9 2003 from William K Suter, clerk of the supreme court of the United States, Washington DC. "The petition for a writ of certiorari is denied," it read. That nondescript sentence, which meant that the case could not go to appeal, could hardly be in greater contrast to what has happened since 1994, when a young computer engineer called Gary Kremen realised the potential of the then fledgling internet and applied for the domain sex.com.At the time, the internet was only known to academia and computer students, all of whom had somehow failed to see why owning the word "sex" on an international computer network was of any value. Kremen couldn't believe it when he was awarded (for free, because there was no charge for domains in those days) what would become in five short years a piece of internet property worth $500,000 a month just in advertising space.Unfortunately, he wasn't able to use it before it was stolen from under his nose by a career conman who had just got out of jail on fraud charges. Stephen Michael Cohen obtained the multi-million-pound domain with nothing more than a fake letter and a little social engineering. He forged a letter to the company that ran all dotcoms at that time, Network Solutions, purportedly from the president of Online Classifieds Inc, Kremen's trading name and the name the domain was registered under.The letter, addressed to Cohen, explained that Kremen had been fired and the company had decided to relinquish the domain to Cohen. Since the company did not have an internet connection, the letter stated, would Cohen please contact Network Solutions direct and inform it of the change? And the scam: "This letter shall serve as our authorisation to the internet registration to transfer sex.com to your corporation."Network Solutions was not entirely taken in at first. However, it did not dig out the original registration and contact Kremen to make sure. Believing the letter's assertion that the company had no internet connection, it didn't send an email either. Instead, after numerous phone calls, an NSI employee switched ownership of the domain to one of Cohen's many companies, Sporting Houses of America.Kremen hadn't actually used the domain to put up a sex.com site, but he found out that its ownership details had changed relatively quickly. "I thought at first that it was just a computer problem," he said. "But I got a phone call a few months later from someone saying they were working on a complaint - I now know it was Cohen, claiming he was from the US Patent Office - about a trademark for sex.com."Kremen contacted Network Solutions and demanded they change the details back. "They said they weren't going to do anything about it. So I had to go and get a cheap lawyer."This was July 1996. It took nearly five years for Kremen to regain ownership of his domain, during which time Cohen had made an estimated $100m from selling advertising space to whatever porn sites would pay him the most money for a link to their own sites."In the sex.com case, there was one side with no case but who fought it to the bitter end and got what he deserved. There is no question that what Cohen did was fraud," says Michael Froomkin, a professor of law at the University of Miami and one of the world's leading experts on internet and the law.Conviction for fraud would mean jail for a sixth time for Cohen. Or at least for the old Cohen. The new Cohen, however, who is now one of the richest men on the planet, is proving a little harder to track down. In fact, there has been an arrest warrant out on him for more than two years and he has officially been declared a "fugitive from justice" by the US district court.Ironically, the turning point came when Network Solutions was absolved of any blame in May 2000. Kremen explains: "I had made some money from selling match.com so I got a real, real expensive lawyer and he told me I was making the wrong argument, that I should be arguing Cohen was a career criminal. When Network Solutions was there, it looked to the court like a respectable company caught up in an argument between a would-be pornographer and an actual pornographer." With Network Solutions out of the way, and with a lawyer that the judge trusted, Kremen's case suddenly became more persuasive.The injunction ordered that Cohen deposit $25m with the court, that he not transfer any money out of the US and that he give full and complete accounts off all his businesses so the court could judge how much he had made through his illegal five-year ownership of the domain. Cohen ignored all the demands and fled to Mexico. In the meantime, he moved millions into offshore accounts. The injunction was swiftly made permanent, a demand of $65m was put against him and a warrant for his arrest approved.More than two years later, Kremen is still owed $64.8m of the $65m awarded. Cohen is moving his ill-gotten gains around the world and whenever Kremen gets close, it moves again. "The money is probably about 100 miles from where you are sat in the UK," Kremen tells me. "The Isle of Man, Jersey, Guernsey." Cohen is well aware that Kremen is on his tail and keeps shifting it in an endless game of monetary cat and mouse.But having millions has it advantages. Kremen posted a $50,000 award for Cohen soon after the court's permanent injunction, complete with a photograph of him and a map to his house in Mexico. But when US bounty hunters turned up to take Cohen back to the US, they were confronted by armed Mexican police. Cohen bizarrely then used this fact in his defence at the US court of appeals."This &#91;reward&#93; posting culminated with at least two gun battles between would-be bounty-hunters and Mexican police guarding Cohen," says the legal petition. "People were shot. Cohen filed a motion to vacate the arrest warrant, citing the threat to human life."Cohen had no case and knew it. His arguments became more and more fantastic. Kremen and his lawyers had "duped" the court into believing he had lots of different bank accounts. Cohen may have owned and run the most valuable domain on the internet for six years but he was completely broke - he didn't even have enough money to buy toilet roll. He was being subjected to a "death sentence", some of the US's pre-eminent judges were told.But most incredibly of all, the injunction should be lifted, Cohen claimed, because it broke the US Constitution. "This court by its injunction has placed this defendant in the status of slavery in violation of the 13th Amendment of the United States Constitution," the filing asserted, since any money he made would have to be handed over to Kremen.But Cohen is no idiot. Kremen considers him a criminal genius - and having followed his every move for the past five years, he is in a good position to judge. It's possible that sending his lawyer into the top courts of the land with an unwinnable case appealed to Cohen's sense of humour.However that sense of humour clearly fails when it comes to Kremen winning back sex.com. "I think he really believes he owns the domain," says Kremen. And if proof of his irritation were needed, it came when Kremen finally did manage to get some of Cohen's property. On September 24 2001 a fraudulent bankruptcy was noticed by a judge and subsequently examined. It was a company called Montano Properties and was a shell company run by Cohen consisting of nothing more than two properties close to the Mexican border.Kremen was immediately awarded the properties and quickly drove down from San Francisco to secure them. But after having finally managed to get something off his adversary after six years fighting, he was denied the pleasure of victory. "Everything had been taken out the house - everything." That included not only all the furniture but also the carpets. And the kitchen sink. And the kitchen's sink's plumbing. And all the wiring. "They'd even taken the trees," he despaired.This remarkable vindictiveness shows that Cohen has taken the battle for sex.com personally. Kremen, though, who now lives in the property and is slowly doing it up while sex.com and his other businesses gradually pay his way out of debt from lawyers' fees ("I'm about a third of the way there"), swears he doesn't feel the same way."I don't hold any ill will against him. He would have done the same to anyone who owned sex.com, it wasn't a personal grudge against me. I've let go of the anger now." Kremen met Cohen once and only once. "It was in San Diego," he recalls. "He was giving a testimony on the case, so I thought, 'I'll go and see what this man is like.' So I go to the court and we all had a pleasant dinner along with my lawyers. He talked a mile a minute and was so convincing that I nearly believed everything he told me."&#183;Kieren McCarthy is a freelance journalist and is writing a book on the continuing saga of sex.com
I remember clearly the day I decided to leave the corporate world. I was working for one of the big five management consultancies (since reduced to the "big four," then the "big three"... I think they're now down to the "big one"). I'd spent two days working on a proposal for a French bank and I was running out of the will to live.For a laugh - and perhaps, subconsciously, to get fired - I launched the DackBullshit Generator, clicked the Make Bullshit button and retrieved this steamer: "enable mission-critical metrics." I can't remember in which context I used the phrase, but I found a place for it in the proposal. I got a bit carried away and added another, then another.About an hour after handing the   proposal over to the partner in charge of the bid, I was summoned to his office. His red pen lay spent on his desk. "Which school did you go to?" he said."Muizenberg High School," I replied, feeling five years old. "L-y-o-n-n-a-i-s-e is a bank," he sneered. "L-y-o-n-n-a-i-s is a sauce. Do you know how to use 'find and replace' on Word?" I nodded and he flung the document at me.Back at my desk, I riffled through the proposal. To me, phrases like "streamline customised functionalities" and "leverage robust deliverables" are as impenetrable as Zen koans. But to the bid master, they made perfect sense. He hadn't taken his pen to any of them. I knew then that I'd never fit in, so I decided to quit.Now, all these years later, the poacher has turned game-keeper. I    find it wonderfully ironic that one of the most culpable generators of corporate gobbledegook, Deloitte Consulting, has developed a program to seek and destroy jargon. They call itBullfighter, and you can download a free copy from their website.The program works in a similar way to Word's spell and grammar checker, except its job is to sniff out bull and offer more scented alternatives. The software analyses your document, and then gives you a Bull Index score for jargon, and a Flesch Index score for readability. You can also add your own bull words to the customised dictionary, or download updated versions of the dictionary from the Deloitte website.The program was written after a consultant at Deloitte's Dallas office set a challenge: "Instead of just   talking about plain talk, design a tool to help people talk plainly."Chelsea Hardaway, Deloitte's marketing director, took up the challenge and Bullfighter was born. Asked about the benefits of Bullfighter, she told the New York Times: "We envision a centre of excellence where our accelerated change agents can maximize their core competencies."For me, it's too little, too late, but for the sake of all the office drones, forced into a life of report-writing servitude, I hope this program spreads like the Sars virus at a coughing convention. And for anyone who's ever said "bleeding-edge" or "out of the box", I urge you to download this program. It's only 4Mb and it runs on Word and PowerPoint 2000 and XP. Come on. Spread the word. The end of bull is nigh.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Ministry-of-truth.comThis month is the centenary of George Orwell's birth. To mark it, programmers at the School of Information Management and Systems at Berkeley University, California, have produced a simple piece of code that converts any web page into one that might have been reprocessed at Orwell's fictional Ministry of Truth.The code converts the text of any web page into newspeak, the totalitarian language Orwell invented for his novel Nineteen Eighty-Four. Any web page will do. The link below is taken from CNN.com, but you can make any page you like by replacing the web address at the end with one of your own.http://dream.sims.berkeley.edu/cgi-bin/cgiwrap/calvins/goodspeak.py?url=http://cnn.comComrades reunited"A uniform with two left arms and a gun from the previous war," is how one former soldier describes his experiences of the Home Guard. Next year is the 60th anniversary of the D-Day landings, and memories such as this are being sought by BBCi. It is all part of a new website that aims to reunite service personal involved in the second world war and collect their stories.By inviting veterans, be they fighter pilots or land girls, to recount their experiences, it is hoped that testimony from every military unit that served during the war will   be collected. The site is looking for a small army of volunteer researchers to help coordinate the project, which will culminate in a television series next year.A clutch of sites cater for forces reunions, like Friends Reunited only with military units, but they now face a considerable challenge from the editorial might of the BBC.www.bbc.co.uk/historywww.lostforcesfriends.co.ukwww.comradesandcolleagues.comwww.lostcomms.co.ukAstrobotsThey are called Sandy Moondust and Biff Starling. Sandy is adventurous, strong, and independent. Biff is funny, laid-back, and speaks "fluent surfer". They are the Astrobots, two tiny Lego figurines aboard the Nasa Mars Exploration Rover Mission that blasted off earlier this month.The site, aimed at getting kids interested in the mission, contains a weblog and is connected to five Lego replicas of the rover that you can steer over the internet. The real rover carries a DVD containing the names of four million people who submitted them to the site earlier this year.http://planetary.org/rrgtm/astrobots/meet.htmlhttp://planetary.org/rrgtm/tps.htmlhttp://mars.jpl.nasa.gov/merIraq body count"Civilian casualties are the most unacceptable consequence of all wars. Each civilian death is a tragedy and should never be regarded as the 'cost' of achieving our countries' war aims, because it is not we who are paying this price." So reads the rationale on the site that has been recording just how many Iraqi civilians have been killed during the ongoing war in Iraq.The idea is a simple one. Count the number of reported civilian deaths and represent them in a regularly updating counter. It is available to place on your own site, where it will update automatically and all too often. The site also accounts for differentiating figures, by presenting a range of civilian dead. As Online went to press, the counter estimated that between 5,567 and 7,240 Iraqi civilians had been killed in the war.www.iraqbodycount.netSars art projectSars isn't funny, but the hysteria surrounding the disease has become a prime target for online wags. A few weeks ago, people started posting Sars related humour on the boingboing blog, which has now launched a dedicated site. Some of it is crude and juvenile, some of it satirical and irreverent.www.sarsart.orgwww.boingboing.netNew &amp; notedSave the Pluto and Europa missionswww.planetary.orgFlemish renaissance multimediawww.getty.edu/art/exhibitions/Are you John Green?www.johngreen.nlSix of the bestSummer festivalsThe Big Chillwww.bigchill.netGlastonburywww.glastonbury-festivals.co.ukThe Eden Sessionswww.edenproject.comSummer at Somerset Housewww.somerset-house.org.ukCream Fieldswww.cream.co.ukAll the restwww.virtualfestivals.com/festivals
Watched potLast week, Michael Cross (Public Domain, June 19) reported that shadow trade secretary Tim Yeo has criticised Tony Blair for not having an email address.The words "pot" and "kettle" spring to mind. You see, back in January, Yeo penned an article for the Guardian. I then wrote to him at the email address given, politely querying some of his comments.Result? No reply, despite two reminders. Don't criticise Tony Blair, Mr Yeo, when you can't answer your own emails, especially as he probably gets 100 times more correspondence than you do!John Bournjohn@bournagain.freeserve.co.ukMobile defenceIn Jack Schofield's column about mobile device usage (Online, June 19), he asks an interesting question: "The case for white-collar workers and middle managers is harder to make, unless they are salesmen. (What is the financial benefit of access to email while on the move?) "We have found the financial (and many other less tangible) benefits to this sector of the workforce to be significant. It is now estimated that white-collar workers spend around two hours every day dealing with email, much of which is of no use or relevance. By providing email on the move, time that was previously redundant (on the train, waiting at airports, travelling to client sites) can become productive, thus increasing the time spent on work that directly affects a company's bottom line. This in itself could well be motivation   enough for many companies, but factor in more timely communication with clients and staff and the ability to react to issues as they arise, and this model of working will almost certainly become the norm rather than the exception over the next couple of years.Ben Johnsonben.johnson@satsumas.comOn SafariWe're not quitters. Your article (Safari wins?, What's new, June 19) stated that: "When Safari appeared in January, Opera also said it might stop producing a Macbrowser." I'm happy to inform you that we have decided to commit ourselves 100% to continuing our development for the Macintosh platform, and users can soon look forward to an updated Opera 7 also for their Apple computers.Pal A Hvistendahlpal@opera.comThe bra's the star?If every bra is to have an RFID (Tracked and tested, June 19), what might, in time, be the effects on breast cancer rates? There are many other examples that might be chosen, and if our homes are to become filled with these tags, what might be the medical effects of the accumulation? Has the government's chief medical officer an opinion on these questions? Have the US public health authorities said anything? Are we going to wait until the use of these things is a fait accompli before raising such questions, as we did with mobile phones, their use and the emissions from their masts?HW HiltonName and address suppliedStreamium goneWhy do you keep giving space to Philips' announcements about Streamium products (What's new, June 19). The original Streamium-200 was due to be launched last year but seems to have vanished without trace. They have since announced a Wi-Fi variant, the Streamium-250,   which would be launched "in the first quarter of 2003", but the website gives no information on where to buy it. Today, you mentioned two more Streamiums (Streamia?) to be released later this year but the website has no information on them.Bill Johnsonbill.g.johnson@btopenworld.comWake upWith regard to the article by David Moss (A wake-up call, June 19), there are a number of points that are misleading. He writes: "When a virus strikes, who gets the blame? (Not) The antivirus vendors." This same argument can be levied against firefighters letting a house made of wood burn quicker than a brick house. Is it their fault or the fault of the builder?Microsoft provides a free firewall, and other firewall vendors are continuing to thrive. But the reasons are different than you state. The "value" Microsoft brings to firewall products are: stack overflows, incompatible and hidden protocols. To protect an internal Lan, companies deliberately buy firewalls without these features.Chris SeagerChris@Seager.demon.co.ukSpace invadersWith reference to the letter written by Duncan Ingram, managing director of BT Openworld (Feedback, June 14), putting spam in a box might be a good idea, and at least it won't stop you from using your PC while you are online and paying for each minute. What does stop you, however - and which I find much more annoying - are these pop-up boxes we are forced to look at and seemingly can't stop from coming in.It doesn't stop them, as Ingram might say, "invading my personal e-space on my PC screen when online", which I am paying for! Oh, during the time I typed this, there's been another three _ Grrrrrr!Norman Meyernormingoole@ntlworld.com
Cixwww.cix.co.ukRun, don't walk, to this extraordinary collection of ongoing "conferences" (nearly 10,000 of them) where you can exchange views with or beg for help from others in your own business or line of work. It's a great way of avoiding feeling exposed and alone. The website also has a searchable directory of the more active conferences. You'll have to pay: it's £7.34 inc VAT per month.Small Business Advicewww.smallbusinessadvice.org.ukA site from the National Federation of Enterprise Agencies, which offers free information and advice to anyone in England who is starting or running a business with fewer than 10 staff. There are discussion areas (more of a question-answer tool) and chat rooms.Startups.co.ukwww.startups.co.ukThis explicitly named website promises "everything you need to know about starting up and running your business", and in terms of coverage it does a good job of living up to that claim. There's also a pretty active discussion area.BusinessZONEwww.businesszone.co.ukAnother portal for smaller businesses with the usual mix of information and advice. This one does have rather more direct participation from members who can post messages in the "any answers" section.Small Business Gatewaywww.sbgateway.comScotland has some of the best "official" sites for the smaller business. This one is exemplary, a mix of hard information and arm-around-the-shoulder support. Although it's provided by the Scottish Enterprise Network for Scottish businesses, it's well worth looking at wherever you're from.Better Businesswww.better-business.co.ukA direct competitor to Startups, with the added advantages of being longer-established and having a well-regarded paper magazine too. The resource directories are excellent, if a bit long-winded to navigate, and the free information is also good. There's no public discussion area, though.Best for Businesswww.bestforbusiness.comCreated by specialist staff at Birmingham's Central Library, this is an excellent free resource - business information on just about every topic, more than 500 fact sheets, good information for West Midlands users on grants and tenders.ClearlyBusinesswww.clearlybusiness.comBarclays-backed resource for small businesses with lots of useful and usable information. There's a slight air of headmasterliness about the site, but it is probably the richest and most useful of all the bank offerings for small businesses.Smallbiz UKwww.smallbiz.uk.comSmallbiz works with a range of content providers to deliver practical information and advice. That's OK, as far as it goes, and for the home-based business there's not too much here; but Smallbiz does have a modest but useful discussion forum available to members.2WMwww.2wm.co.ukThe West Midlands "business support website" was developed by the Regional Development Agency (Advantage West Midlands) with BT, Coventry University and the European Commission. So there's not much obvious attention to the home office user there. But for anyone in the area it's a good guide to business resources, grants, news and events.The Bag Ladywww.the-bag-lady.co.ukOne of the best web portals for women in business. It's mostly a directory of members' services and other resources, and there's also a discussion forum.
Neck and headSlowly turn your head from one side to the other and hold for around three seconds.   Repeat the exercise five to 10 times.HandsMake tight fists with both hands then spread your fingers as far apart as they   will go. Hold this spread position for five seconds. Repeat this exercise three times.WristsGently pull the fingers back on one hand, allowing your wrist to bend. Hold for   three seconds before changing hands. Repeat the exercise three to five times.ShouldersRoll your shoulders   forward five times then roll them backwards five times. Be sure to use wide circular motions. Repeat the exercise five to 10 times.Upper backRaise your hands so that they are level with your shoulders. Keeping your elbows down, push your shoulders back and hold for a count of 10. Repeat three times.Lower backSit back in your chair with your body as relaxed as possible. SLOWLY bend forward so that your upper body rests between your knees. Hold this position for a count of five and SLOWLY straighten and relax. Repeat the exercise three to five times.
&#183;A new online backupservice has launched in the UK, joining services including Netstore in offering copies of people's data that will survive if their building burns down. Called Backup360, from Attix5, it is specifically aimed at the small office/home office market and the smaller business in general, and the system has been designed so that computing beginners should find it easy: go towww.backup360.co.ukand follow the instructions. The good news is that prices start at £4.95 a month, so if you just have a business plan and some accounts to protect, it won't break the bank.&#183;Electronic cataloguespecialist Actinic has released its Audio Store product, enabling bands, DJs, producers and record labels to sell music over the internet. Available through Electra Distribution, it should be out by the time this issue sees print. It comes in two versions: one that lets you sell 25 products and which costs £199, and another which costs £499 but which allows you to put 10,000 products online if you wish. The software lets you build your entire site out of the box if you wish, and you can take payments through PayPal as well as through a credit card, so the system is useful to the beginner and hobbyist as well as to the professional musician.&#183;Customer relationshipmanagement software, often seen as the province of the larger company, has become more available to the small business channel with the launch of Benchmark Software's Cream. This costs £100, plus a monthly support fee of £10 for a single user, and a five-user version is available for £250 plus £25 a month support. The product allows for reminders and diary, customisable fields for individual businesses and everything that would be expected from a full-blown CRM system; some will balk at the continuing support charge when competing products such as ACT! and Goldmine are available for one-off payments.&#183;So, how's your website's return on investment? A surprising number of small businesses don't actually track this, and this is why WSPS (WebSite Promotion Services) has released ROIstats, a product that allows users to look at where buyers came from, how they found the site, and how much it cost to attract them - so you get a much better picture of how much they're worth. Price depends on what is being tracked and is arranged after a consultation interview. Checkwww.wsps.co.ukfor details of how to get in touch.&#183;Printer specialist Lexmarkhas weighed into the small business market once more with its X6190Pro All In One - a colour scanner, colour fax and colour printer. The software that comes with it allows for extensive photo editing, and as an all-in-one gadget it's aimed at people who want to save on space, power points or both. It prints up to 15 pages a minute in colour, which increases to 19 in black and white. It costs £299. Go towww.smb.lexmark.co.ukfor a list of local stockists.&#183;Kingston Communicationsand the Institute of Directors have produced research confounding the popular belief that broadband technology has been slow to take off. According to the 500 businesses they spoke to, 58% have installed broadband and are using it regularly; 48% of those without broadband planned to introduce it shortly; 78% thought it a business essential whether they had it or not; and 73% considered a faster internet connection and the consequent increase in productivity it brought was the most important thing about it. Sadly for content companies, only 14% thought rich content on a site was an important element of broadband use.&#183;The Training Camp (TTC)is stepping up its campaign to get VAT on training scrapped, which will be of interest to businesses who are exempt and therefore can't claim VAT back on it. As part of the effort to put the issue on the map, TTC is offering VAT-free tuition for courses that take place or begin in August. Co-founder Robert Chapman believes the government's efforts, which have included an Investors In People fund for small business and a pilot project to offer free access to training, are inadequate.&#183;Yet another trade showis now sitting up and taking notice of the small business community. This time LinuxWorld (Sept 3-4 at the Birmingham NEC) is setting aside a space for the smaller trader. Sponsored by Oracle, the Birmingham Chamber of Commerce and Business Link, "The Linux SME Experience" will be dedicated to people wanting to know about what open source computing can do for their organisation that mainstream alternatives can't. A lot of the emphasis is likely to be on cost, both of the software and of the amount of memory required to run heavier applications. Registration is currently free and available atwww.linuxworld2003.co.uk.
When it comes to stopovers, there is one thing on which business travellers all seem to agree. Schiphol airport is a hateful place to have to change flights. Hard to disagree, in my experience - but I would also reserve a special place for the chilly Brussels Eurostar terminal.Stopovers - or layovers, as North Americans call them - are just about tolerable for airline loyalty club members whose cards let them into a lounge. (If you are one of them, and you specifically want to break your journey in, say, Dubai, then here's a tip: choose the "multiple destinations" option on Expedia, Travelocity or Opodo and buy two singles separately. The total cost is quite often not much more than that of a return.)But if yours doesn't let you do that, it's certainly worth checking out the airport's website. Even Schiphol (www.schiphol.nl), on closer inspection, turns out to be somewhat less undesirable than its critics like to claim. An annexe of the Rijksmuseum opened there last autumn: the opening hours are reasonable (7am to 8pm) and admission is free. Massages are available during the day for  &euro;15-&euro;25. If all else fails, you can always take a shower at the Mercure Hotel on the first floor in Lounge West. It's open around the clock and for  &euro;12.50 there's a towel, soap and shampoo thrown in.The Budget Traveller's Guide to Sleeping in Airports, however - whose name belies its usefulness to business travellers - ranks Port Moresby in Papua New Guinea bottom, closely followed by Boston Logan, Cairo, Charles de Gaulle and Detroit. But which is the best?Singapore's Changi (www.changi.airport.com.sg) - "hands down", apparently. "It is comfortable, safe, quiet - so quiet in fact that students study there during exams," writes the site's author, Donna McSherry.Matthew Gamser, the US-born director of a London-based development consultancy and veteran of an unscheduled 10-day layover in Khartoum during a government coup, agreed. "The best airport for layovers has to be Changi. It has a gym, movie theatre, great food. You can kill lots and lots of hours there.""But, of course, that airport works, so you rarely have a long layover," he adds. "It's when you're in the places with no good food, no place to sit, bad climate control, no other amenities that you always have the long layover - Nairobi, Guayaquil, Isla del Sol... What would I do if I could organise a layover in advance? I'd like a place to shower with some temporary clothing - a robe, or something like that, as I always have my clothes in my checked luggage - &#91;and&#93; a nice desk and wireless internet connection for work."Unfortunately, the latter still tend to be confined to executive lounges. It is possible to use them if you're not a member of a loyalty card scheme, but you'll need to subscribe to a special scheme. Membership of the Priority Pass (www.prioritypass.com), for example, is $99 (£59), with each lounge visit costing an additional $24 (£14).If that still seems an unjustifiable expense, the fastest way to find any airport site is usually via Google, but a number of independent sites publish lists of airport URLs of varying degrees of completeness; the best is probably Johnny Jet's (www.johnnyjet.com/folder/allairportlinks.html). And if you do decide to turn a stopover into a full-blown overnight stay, they generally list the real airport hotels - as opposed to the places 10 miles away which opportunistic hotel booking sites will try to sell you.Business travel news&#183;United Airlines is introducing onboard email and text messaging services, but only on its domestic fleet. Sending texts will cost around £4, emails around £12. Seewww.ual.com/press/detail/0,1442,51106,00.htmlfor details.&#183;Ryanair (www.ryanair.com) will stop accepting American Express cards at the beginning of July. The airline cited the "excessive" charges levied by the company.&#183;No-frills airline Basiq Air (www.basiqair.com) now flies to Amsterdam from Stansted. The cheapest tickets (from  &euro;9 each way) are available six weeks in advance.&#183;Japan Airlines (www.jal.com) is cutting the frequency of its Osaka-London and Tokyo-London flights until at least the end of August. Meanwhile, Hapag-Lloyd Express (www.hlx.com) has axed its Luton service to Cologne-Bonn, but still flies there from Manchester. Emirates, on the other hand, is increasing its flights to and from the UK with a third daily service to Dubai from Gatwick (www.emirates.com).&#183;Now - the Luton-based budget airline mentioned in a previous column, which will fly to Dusseldorf and Hamburg - has postponed its launch until the autumn (www.now-airlines.com). Jetmagic (www.jetmagic.com) starts flights from London City to Cork on August 18.&#183;The news that Poland will be joining the EU coincides with the opening of a new five-star hotel in Warsaw, the Westin. Sheraton, which has just finished the Tirana Hotel and Towers in Albania, will open another new hotel in Krakow next year   (www.starwoodhotels.com).&#183;And Kyrgyzstan Airlines (www.kyrgyzstanairlines.kg/) begins a twice-weekly service to Gatwick on July 12.
Another in our series of answers to readers' IT queries. This month, experts Paul Rutherford, chief marketing officer for Clearswift, Danny Singer, MD of Noetica, Simon Brough, communications consultant at voice and data distributor Crane Telecommunications, independent consultant John Frazer-Robinson and David Birch, consultant at Hyperion (and a columnist for Online) look at what's bothering you.&#183; We often hear reports of email misuse but how do we ensure our employees are being responsible without looking through their email boxes? The situation seems to be made even more complex by legislation such as the Data Protection Act and RIP bill.PR:While email is an indispensable tool for conducting business today, email misuse can be disastrous. It can ruin businesses, sink careers, send stock prices plummeting, and create public relations nightmares. Despite ongoing reports of email security breaches and disciplinaries that have raised awareness of these threats, many organisations are still failing to establish e-policies. An organisation's e-policy states what is and what isn't acceptable use of email and should be clearly communicated to all employees. They are designed to protect the employee as much as the employer.If you are still concerned that you are at risk, then you should consider enforcing your e-policy with the appropriate security software. Part of the problem is that companies are put off addressing the issue because of the legislation surrounding email monitoring. The Information Commission recently updated its code of practice for the monitoring of email at work. In short, provided employees are aware of what their employers do to secure email, then there is no risk of breaching privacy rights. So it all comes down   to defining the organisation's e-policy and educating employees.&#183;  We are a telemarketing company working with a number of small charities. Our telesales operations are haemorrhaging from excessive staff turnover, and training costs for new telesales agents are spiralling out of control. We have a paper-based office and making the step to an IT-based operation is being delayed by the huge array of products on the market. Is there any software out there to meet our simple requirements?DS:The key is to move the business knowledge from your telesales agents' heads into your IT systems. The fewer things that the agents need to memorise or learn, the quicker and cheaper it will be to utilise them to their full potential.The solution lies with a user-friendly telephone-call scripting package that offers your experienced front line staff the chance to translate the business knowledge that they possess from their years of experience into well-designed intelligent scripts without having to resort to programming or complex IT.These scripts have the capability to guide agents intelligently through telephone calls, placing all the relevant information at their fingertips at the right moment. You can recruit almost anyone with basic computer skills and they should perform at a level that you would associate with your most experienced staff.  Such packages exist at affordable prices. You can use them to transfer precious business knowledge into the system once instead of having to do it each time you train a new agent.&#183; My company has expanded and we have acquired new branches with existing voice and data infrastructure. I want to consolidate new with existing, without restricting my network in the future. What should be my focus?SB:For most small businesses, it is going to be financially unrealistic to move to a single communications architecture overnight. This being the case, the focus should be on how and when you are able to upgrade your network.The how part? In order to run a future-proofed network you should give serious consideration to putting in an infrastructure capable of running both voice and data. In the SME sector, probably less than 1% of the infrastructure can support this function, thus the task is clearly to deploy a single network capable of supporting voice and data.The when part? Over the next year, having a migration strategy to move to a single network architecture will be essential. Budget will determine how quickly you can achieve this, with the key strategy being one of gradual migration. The process for achieving this is relatively simple: audit all existing data infrastructure to assess its ability to carry voice and data, carry out life-cycle costing and formulate a replacement schedule to upgrade to voice and data capable infrastructure then deploy your chosen voice solution when the network is 100% ready, or deploy a solution that can migrate with you from the start, without losing such assets as the handsets.&#183; I've been running a record label for five years and we're now at the stage where the telephone never rings, but the amount of email we receive (especially concerning order fulfilment) is more than our five office staff can handle. Can you help?JF-R:This could actually be good news. A recent report from Forrester found that telephone inquiries cost on average £20.40, whereas email costs just £6.24! That said, I'd hate to see what sounds like a fascinating business drown under email.Consider the three principles of email management. Message handling (orders hitting one email box, questions hitting another); message tracking (linking all correspondence to form an audit trail); and message routing (ensuring the right person responds, in terms of both expertise and availability).Atmyside (atmyside.com) has software that implements these principles. The next stage is interacting with customers by live chat. Forrester say the average cost of such inquiries is a mere £0.52. eGain (< ahref="http://www.egain.com" target="_new">www.egain.com) is the company to talk to about this.Alternatively, how about setting up an email forum, so customers can answer each others questions? This can easily be done with software such as iMail from Ipswitch (www.ipswitch.com).&#183;  I've recently read a lot about the chip and Pin trial in Northampton. What is it and how will it affect me?DB:Chip and Pin is the name for the UK's programme to replace the traditional magnetic strip credit and debit cards with smart cards. These cards have a tiny computer chip on them. When customers use them in shops, they will enter a four digit Pin (as they already do at ATMs) instead of signing a piece of paper. The computer chip can check this Pin itself, and therefore know that the card is being used by its rightful owner.The timetable is being driven by the impending "liability shift" which comes into force on January 1 2005. To oversimplify slightly, this means that the liability for fraudulent magnetic stripe transactions will shift from banks to retailers on that date. Hence retailers are busy installing new point-of-sale equipment to read the smart cards and new keypads for customers to punch in their Pins.At first glance, this change appears to have limited impact on consumers, who will merely input a Pin rather than sign a piece of paper, but the implications are more profound. For one thing, card fraud should decrease significantly (it fell by 80% in France after chip and Pin was introduced). For another, consumers will be able to use the cards to make secure purchases in many places that they currently cannot (eg vending machines, their digital television boxes and their PCs).
Think of call centres, and you will probably imagine hundreds of people with headsets working for a giant corporation in an office the size of an aircraft hangar.You might not think of someone working from home for a small company. But over the past few years, call handling technology has moved from hardware to Internet Protocol (IP) based software, and is increasingly available to small firms, as well as being used in passing calls to staff at home or anywhere else.Alex Kwaitkowski, a consulting group manager at the analyst firm Ovum, says organisations used to build bespoke contact handling systems, but then the suppliers designed all-in-one packages, finding that most large firms already had systems in place. The suppliers then focused on companies with fewer than 500 call handling staff. "This is the area that most of the vendors were attacking," he says, adding that some systems are affordable for firms with as few as five or 10 call handlers, with the initial cost sometimes lower than £2,000 per staff user.Vendors selling to the UK market include Alcatel, Altitude, Aspect, Avaya, Cisco, Cosmocom, Ericsson, Genesys, Nortel, Rockwell and Siemens. Kwaitkowski says that an Ovum report a couple of years ago found 70, such is the competition.Other options include managed services from telecoms firms - BT has a service for small firms called Contact Central - or from application services providers such as Rightnow Technology.Working from home can benefit the employee, who can work flexibly and avoid commuting. But there are other incentives. Chris Fairfax, marketing director of pet insurance broker Animal Friends (animalfriends.co.uk), says it costs about £30 to £40 to employ someone to take calls from home for two hours in the evening, but nearer to £100 if they come into the office. Staff want more money as they have to travel, and the office needs to be kept open, meaning higher utility bills.Animal Friends, which employs 16 staff, is the first UK customer of IP Office 1.3, a system from Avaya Communications which enables such home working. This means the insurer can take advantage of lower rates for broadcast advertising at weekends and late evenings, advertise in weekend newspapers and take the resulting out-of-hours calls.As well as distributing calls, the system will also accept voicemails, and can then email them to staff wherever they are. "If something needs to be dealt with, we can do that 24 hours a day, if someone's awake," says Fairfax.Outworkers have an ISDN line and computer terminal installed at the company's expense, allowing them to work as if they were in the call centre, offering and taking information. The system also allows calls to be transferred to any other number including mobiles, so staff can take calls when on the road.Managers, including Fairfax, have ISDN lines and terminals, and take calls themselves when demand is high. "It's bizarre, we have had people ringing on Easter Day. People don't think that's an odd time," he says.Of course, managers cannot watch staff in the way they can in a call centre, although the Avaya system allows monitoring of work through a web browser. Fairfax says Animal Friends, which donates all its profits to animal charities, has an advantage beyond the fact that its call handling staff is paid partly on commission. "There's no need to crack the whip. The outworkers are interested in animal welfare. If they take the mickey, they are only taking money from the charities."One advantage of home working is that it allows parents to work a few hours a day from home after children have gone to bed. With low unemployment, it may be beneficial to open a job to a stay-at-home parent. It may also be wise from a legal point of view.The Employment Rights Act of 2002, which came into effect in April, gives parents of children under six (and disabled children under 18) the right to make a formal request for home working. The employee must have worked for the firm for six months, and must receive an explanation if they get turned down. They then have the right to take their employer to an employment tribunal if this procedure is not followed correctly, or if the firm gets its facts wrong.However, Jane Russell, a solicitor advocate at law firm Fisher Meredith, describes the act as "a completely toothless wonder - it's just a right to ask, and it's very easy to say no". There are plenty of legitimate reasons to refuse remote working, and the maximum compensation is just £2,080.But Russell says another legal change that took effect last year - the Sexual Discrimination (Indirect Discrimination and Burden of Proof) Regulations 2001 - may go much further in forcing employers to offer employees home working.  She is currently involved in a case involving indirect sexual discrimination in the practice of long inflexible hours, as women tend to take a bigger part in caring for children - one such case has already been won by the employee. The change in law makes it possible to challenge such discrimination, whereas previously it was limited to requirements and conditions. "That's quite a lot broader," Russell says, adding that compensation under this law is unlimited.   So legal costs could be another way businesses save by providing home working options, as well as saving on the office electricity bill.New software-based call centre technology can be economic for businesses with as few as five to 10 call handling staff.Home workers will need an ISDN line and a terminal, and some systems can be monitored through the web by managers.Changes in legislation give parents a procedure to ask their employers for flexible working. Organisations may be vulnerable to indirect sexual discrimination charges if they do not offer it.Get a proper job - at homeThe typical caricatured image of the home worker is that of a naive beginner, someone who doesn't know how business really works and who's testing the water - "you never know, doing something properly might hurt, so we'd better start on the kitchen table".Nothing could be further from the case, at least as far as online publication Fmagazine (www.fmagazine.com) is concerned. Based around the arts and established four years ago, it is published from the home of Luca Bosurgi, a former venture capitalist who has been responsible for a portfolio of   46 companies.So, with such a professional background, why take the home office route? Bosurgi is clear in his view. "I always say to people that if you have the money for an office, by all means do it, but when you're starting up, be very cautious," he says. "We started this in 1998, and didn't know whether we were going to be successful, but we put in £400,000 at the beginning. Who knows how much more it would have been if we'd paid for an office as well?"That £400,000 was, therefore, spent not on dead space but on items that would take the business forward. A network of computers linked wirelessly was essential to maintain the home environment; you really don't want to be tearing floors up and cabling a place if you happen to live there as well.The computers were custom built by the magazine's team: "We wouldn't do that again because prices have come down so much, it would be cheaper to buy ready-made systems," says Bosurgi. "But we've spent money on the best computers and digital cameras available, and the best software for our business."He hasn't been hammered for insurance either because the value of IT items falls so dramatically immediately, they become secondhand. "It's like buying a new Bentley or Rolls Royce, the value falls immediately you take it out of the showroom."So incidental costs haven't increased as might have been expected, and, of course, nothing extra has been spent on simply putting a desk in a room somewhere: existing furniture has been utilised wherever possible.So, four years on, will the company move out of the home and into a "proper" office? Bosurgi thinks not. "We might get an office for one person, where people can have meetings," he muses, but he's mostly sold on the idea of working from home."If you're dealing with other countries and time zones and you have an office, you have to stay in the office late to deal with them by phone. If you're working from home you just live your life, take the call in the evening and then carry on."Other productivity figures are persuasive. If you move from a home to an office environment, he suggests, people's output falls by about one third. "I don't know why that is, maybe people just have a nine-to-five mentality suddenly."The business has succeeded and the magazine is attracting some high-profile advertisers. So presumably the business model is working.
Of course, high-flying IT specialist journalists have this ergonomic stuff taped. I'm typing this by the pool in Barbados with my personal masseur ensuring my posture is exactly right and massaging my neck immediately the need arises, either on demand or whenever she sees a potential problem arising. And drinking iced tea, brought by a waiter who's been allocated to me and nobody else...  Only not.I'm working from home in the spare room surrounded by paper, gadgets and a frenzied mess following a mad hunt round for stuff to show the accountant on a visit last week - in other words, I am surrounded by as much crap as the next reader. Which is bad news, because although I employ myself and am therefore unlikely to file a complaint, my home office workplace is covered by health and safety regulations just like every other workplace. Technically, I'm breaking the law.Peter Kurstein, ergonomics expert for office furniture company President, confirms that in his experience neither individuals nor the companies employing them to work from home understand the issues a home worker will face. "There is no control over people's environments. People work more to prove to their manager that they're doing something, but it will cost in efficiency and the companies will eventually face more sick leave."Sounds gloomy? Well, according to a number of figures about who is more productive, home or office-based workers, it certainly seems a shame to have the ergonomics as a stumbling block. And it's not difficult to eliminate a lot of the problem - manufacturers are falling over themselves to provide equipment that's not only functional but comfortable to use as well.The first thing to remember is to ignore more or less all of the health and safety legislation anyone can throw at you. As Kurstein points out, most of it is framed around IT that's 10 to 20 years old by now. You want a low-radiation monitor, that's fine. Short of going second-hand or picking something up off a skip you won't find anything else. No, to achieve an ergonomic surrounding you need to look at a number of things:The keyboardThe monitorThe deskThe chairThe working settingThe working practiceThe keyboard should be fairly straightforward: most keyboards at the moment are well designed ergonomically. If you have a laptop as your main computer then fine - look out for external keyboards you can use, and also look out for external monitors. Those on the laptops are great for occasional use, for which they have been designed, but since the ideal position for typing is having your hands above the keyboard and the ideal position for the monitor is at arm's length, 10cm below eye level, you get the idea - no laptop can actually do that.Mostly people understand the need for adjustable chairs, but Kurstein says ideally the desk should be adjustable too. And something that is missed by many home workers is that the chair and desk need adjusting during the day. "Most of my time is spent training people," he says. "Your body needs to be shouting after an hour, 'I need to be doing something else'." An hour at a computer workstation is plenty, after which you can do some exciting filing or something else for a while. Then adjust the chair. "You're about two and a half centimetres shorter by the end of the day compared to when you wake up - you're not the same shape and neither should your workstation be."Not, of course, that there is any shortage of specialist ergonomic products for people who want some extra comfort. Products from Fellowes, for example, include a gel the company has developed to support wrists both as a wrist rest and incorporated into mouse mats: it also supplies supports for chairs. Logitech, meanwhile, is keen to promote its keyboard and mouse offerings as ergonomic (the wireless variety in particular) and - wait for it - to cut down on the amount of wires on the desk, which adds to a pleasant atmosphere (until the air turns blue as the battery runs out, you don't have a spare and you're on a deadline).None of this is a substitute for sound working practice in the first place, and everyone who does it regularly stresses the need for a dedicated workplace within the home, rather than the kitchen table or living room sofa.Never underestimate the hazards in your home, suggests ergonomics consultancy Paramode Consultants. Every year 3m accidents in the home result in a hospital visit. There are 4,000 deaths in the UK due to home accidents and 43% of home accidents involve falls. "It's a dangerous place because it's familiar, we don't pay attention to the obvious hazards, we underestimate the risks, we don't rely on procedures, training or supervision, we commit to 'do it later'," says Paramode MD Graham Bradshaw.He points to some of the hazards: fatigue due to long hours, physical pain and injuries due to poor ergonomics and stress due to isolation, insecurity and conflicting demands being among them. Kurstein concurs: "In an office we get people managing our jobs for us but at home we have to do it ourselves and we don't necessarily have the skills."The place to start, says Paramode, is with a risk assessment, as you might carry out at an office. Focus on hazards including three key elements: the environment, which should be quiet enough to work in and have ample storage for your equipment. Watch out for lighting (and position the desk lamp so it doesn't glare off your keyboard); the equipment, which needs to be equal to the job and which needs to be plugged in safely (without wires trailing) and yourself - you need to be comfortable with the environment in which you work. If you're not, it's probably wrong.None of the basics is difficult. More details can be found on websites includingwww.homeworkingsolutions.co.ukand from suppliers such as President. And never forget that although home workers are not yet policed for health and safety, that won't help if there's an accident.
Most business managers think they spend too much money on computing, so you'd expect them to enjoy reading a recent article in the Harvard Business Review headlined: Why IT Doesn't Matter Anymore. Its explicit message is that IT no longer gives you a competitive advantage, because everybody has it, so invest your capital elsewhere.The underlying idea of the article is that information technology has become a commodity, like electricity, and the implication is that basically, the IT revolution is over. In fact, the author, Nicholas Carr, even rolls out the tedious old cliche about software already providing more facilities than most people need, so firms could save money by using less capable systems.It's like digging up an old drawing of some dude saying that papyrus production has now been perfected, so you can forget about writing. It's nonsense. It may well be true that, today, it's hard to get a competitive edge by installing or upgrading a word processor _ but that does not mean the same thing applies to the rest of IT. It would be illogical to deduce that web-based services, RFID (radio frequency identification), social software, biometrics, blade servers, computing grids and other trendy developments therefore didn't matter any more either. That's just wrong.If fact, no sensible person believes that IT's progress has stopped, and neither does the Harvard Business Review, for which Carr is editor-at-large. We can be certain that the HBR will   continue to publish excellent articles about how companies are using IT to gain a competitive advantage, with every single one of them contradicting the suggestion that IT Doesn't Matter Anymore.None the less, we must admit that the IT industry is complicit in the sort of wishful thinking Carr implies, and the IT industry is far from alone in exploiting this approach, even though everyone knows it's rubbish. It's the notion that you can buy a solution, rather than a tool that can help you create a solution.But sad to say, buying a new tennis racquet will not instantly make you better than Tim Henman, and buying a new server will   not make your company a world-beater overnight. If you do the IT equivalent of fitness training, and devote years of hard work to improving your game, then a new racquet might help you succeed at some level, but you can't buy success just by buying a product.IT is simply a tool that allows you to design and implement a solution - if you do it right. If you do it wrong, it allows you to design and implement a failure.What the ads don't tell you is that IT actually works as an amplifier. If you have a winning product or strategy, IT enables you to exploit it faster, on a bigger scale, and over a wider area, or whatever. But if your strategy is a money-loser, using IT to automate the process will just make you go bust that much quicker.Why IT Doesn't Matter Anymorehttp://hbsworkingknowledge.hbs.edu/
Tony Blair's recent ministerial reshuffle was hit by the resignation of health secretary Alan Milburn, who wanted to spend more time with his family. The two ministers with main responsibility for IT now look likely to spend less time with their families, as both are taking on heavy extra duties.In 1999, Blair invented the job of e-minister, for whom IT was the holder's main, but not only, job. But this recent reshuffle has also given e-minister Stephen Timms responsibility for energy - a huge area. It was previously the main job of Brian Wilson, who resigned.Timms lost two small areas - social enterprise and consumer goods and services - but retains postal services and corporate social responsibility."We've lost a minister," says a spokeswoman for the Department for Trade and Industry. "We had eight, now we have seven. So the posts have been moved around to compensate for that. &#91;Timms&#93; is minister for energy, and that will take up a great deal of his time."But she says that he will soon have more time, as the bill creating the new communications regulator Ofcom is nearing royal assent. "He has   been spending a lot of time on that."And Nigel Griffiths will deputise on energy, whereas Wilson had sole responsibility. "We don't see this as in any way a downgrade of &#91;Timms'&#93; responsibilities for the e-commerce industry," she says.Andrew Robathan, the Conservatives' spokesman on IT, pays tribute to Timms' knowledge, but adds: "He's got too much on his plate. He will either get no sleep, or not do the job properly." He points out that the Conservatives had a separate department and secretary of state for energy.Richard Allan, the Liberal Democrat's IT spokesman, takes a similar view. "Stephen Timms has a very strong personal interest in IT issues, and the hope is that the IT job won't be lost within the energy post." He adds that Timms could consider how the successful liberalisation of the home energy market could be transferred to home telecoms.At the Cabinet Office, Douglas Alexander, the previous e-minister, retained responsibility for e-government. However, with the departure of the previous lead minister Lord MacDonald, Alexander goes from deputy to the only minister,At the Department of Health, John Hutton has taken NHS IT, after the   post was left empty for three months following Lord Hunt's resignation in protest at the war in Iraq. The gap suggests that the government does not think it is an important job, even though the NHS is now choosing suppliers for its &#163;2.3bn IT development programme.The same conclusion could be drawn from confusion over who would get the job. Five junior health ministers were appointed in the reshuffle, but policy areas were not allocated. Last week, the department said that Lord Warner was likely to take NHS IT. By Friday, the department said there had been a rethink.But does this simply reflect a government moving from the big picture to the detail on IT? "There probably is a change from providing a strategic overview to delivery," says Nick   Kalisperas, senior programme manager at IT supplier organisation Intellect. "That puts a greater responsibility on officials, rather than ministers."The government has appointed several powerful civil servants, such as Andrew Pinder, the e-envoy responsible for e-government, once the director of IT at the Inland Revenue, and Richard Granger, formerly a senior partner at Deloitte Consulting, now the director general of NHS IT. It has established an office of government commerce, which negotiated cut-price deals for state use of several kinds of software.Derek Wyatt, a Labour backbencher with a strong interest in IT, says that a lot of infrastructure is in place. "The libraries are done, the schools are done, and we're getting   the health service up to speed," he says of internet connections. "We haven't got &#91;domestic and business&#93; connections, although that is coming with broadband and wireless."This allows a change in government emphasis. "In 1997 and 1998, it was the grand strategy," he says. "Now it's down to the nitty-gritty."But perhaps those at the top of government feel IT is no longer that important, which, in the fashion of transport secretary Alistair Darling taking on the job as Scottish secretary as well, is reflected in the structure of ministerial jobs."You got the impression they were selling it very hard at the beginning - everyone wanted to be involved," says the Lib-Dems' Allan. "The government's interest has ebbed and flowed with the value of IT stocks."
Last week, a court in the US ruled that companies in certain circumstances should retain their Instant Messaging communications for three years. Although the ruling does not apply in the UK, where electronic mail is more prevalent than IM, it willset many people thinking about how long they ought to keep electronic communications.Peter Scargill, chair of the Federation of Small Business' IT committee,   says there are no rules. "If people send a company letters they are filed automatically, so I think the same should apply to email". He is all for storing as much as possible, and says he's won arguments purely because he has a copy of old correspondence.He will need to be careful in future, however. Jane Thatcher-Browne, partner at lawyer Morrison Foerster (MoFo), points out that all sorts of information is covered by the Data Pro tection Act, which since 1998 has covered hard copy and electronic data.Hoarding everything isn't going to be permissible when there are limits to how long you can hold personal data - and an obligation to release personal data to its subject on demand. The act applies only to personal data as distinct from business information, but there are grey areas when someone is identifiable personally from the details in a mail.This last point raises the problem of organising email in the first place. Derek Overton, ICT adviser for Business Link Surrey, has seen a lot of disorganised mail set-ups. "One company kept all mails on disk, a paper copy in the project folder then another copy in a chronological folder." This is a bit extreme. Other people are constrained by the mail system they use.Email housekeeping can take a number of forms. Overton points to systems that allow for the creation of new folders, into which emails can be categorised. There are two sorts of email handlers, he suggests; those who attend to everything immediately, and those who keep everything on disk as far as they can.Between the two is a healthy medium. There are areas in which it's wise, or even obligatory, to keep any sort of communications. Tax records   need to be kept for seven years. Other guidelines have been offered: the former Information Commissioner, Elizabeth France, put forward some last year, says Thatcher-Browne. France thought it reasonable, for example, to keep references of potential employees for a year. Sickness records can be kept for three years and annual appraisal information for five years.Until more specific legislation is introduced, Thatcher-Browne's suggestion is to keep an orderly house. "If you are deemed to be a 'data controller' under the act, you attract a number of responsibilities. These include ensuring that personal data is processed fairly and lawfully, taking steps to ensure that such data is up to date and accurate, and not keeping it for longer than is needed for the lawful purpose. This is an important compliance issue for anyone holding personal data."
Fastest PentiumIntel has released a Pentium 4 chip running at 3.2GHz, which may prove to be the last in the line before its replacement, codenamed Prescott, arrives later this year. Prescott will have the same architecture but carries extra instructions for multimedia processing. Next week, Intel is also expected to release its next server chip, codenamed Madison, to replace the Itanium 2 processor. The initial version will run at 1.5GHz in single-processor systems. A dual processor version is expected later for high-performance, clustered servers.www.intel.com/products/desktop/RSI helpAbilityNet, a charity sponsored by Microsoft, is preparing a document to show how computers can be customised to reduce the risk of repetitive strain injury. The information will cover how features within Windows can be implemented to reduce repetitive tasks and how the mouse and keyboard can best be set up. RSI is cited as the reason for 5.4m sick days each year and employees who use a keyboard for six hours or more per day are most at risk.&lt;A HREF="http://www.abilitynet.org.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.abilitynet.org.ukASP livesHewlett-Packard and NetLedger, the developers of Oracle's Small Business Suite, are working together to produce online applications and optimised hardware. At the CeBIT exhibition in New York last week, the companies said this would allow small and medium-sized businesses access to high-end applications similar to those   used by corporates. HP will initially offer NetLedger's NetSuite customer relationship management (CRM) and enterprise resource planning (ERP) software as an online service. NetLedger will act as the application service provider (ASP) using HP servers running Linux.Instant controlUS securities regulators have introduced regulations that may influence the adoption of instant messaging (IM) in other industries. The National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) has decreed that every US securities company must retain IM records for at least three years. This will herald a rush to stop employees from using consumer software that does not allow IM   conversations to be recorded, stored or monitored.http://www.nasdr.com/news/pr2003/release_03_026.htmlBenefit cardsAsylum seekers have become the first to use Home Office smart cards to control cash benefit payments and eliminate fraud. The asylum registration cards, developed by Applied Card Technologies and SodexhoPass UK, use terminals in post offices to identify personal allowances allocated to each asylum seeker. The cards can only be used in a specific post office's terminal, which communicates daily with a Home Office database to determine benefit levels and download a list of invalid cards. As part of the validation process, each card is cancelled as it is processed and then returned to the   Home Office for re-use. The cards replace paper vouchers that could be copied or altered.Local difficultiesLocal government is only paying lip service to the e-government initiative, according to a survey published by Kana,   an enterprise customer support and communications applications provider. It says more than 80% of portals lack detailed information in their frequently asked questions (FAQs) and self-help sections, while over half took longer than a week to answer emails requesting important information.Keen e-votersSwindon borough council says that 94% of 6,500 users of internet voting who responded to its research would use it in a general election. Similar research by Sheffield city council found that 97% of the e-voters it surveyed would. too. However, a report from the Electoral Reform Society says e-voting did not increase turnout in the trials. It recommends voter education and changes in the voting system, so individual votes are more likely to make a difference to the outcome.www.electoral-reform.org.ukFreer accessLord Filkin, a minister in the new department for constitutional affairs, said the Freedom of Information Act means that public sector staff must move from telling the public what they think they need to know, to giving citizens access to a broad range of information. The act comes into force at the start of January 2005, and requires the UK's 100,000 public sector bodies to answer questions on their activities within 20 days of a written request.www.gnn.gov.ukGPs end IT controlThe new NHS contract for general practitioners, endorsed by the members of the British Medical Association last week, means that surgery IT will be run by the local primary care trust, rather than GPs. According to health IT website e-health-media.com, this will allow central procurement and integration of health records, but also means that GPs will lose some control of their IT.
Mobile working is being hailed as another next big thing by everyone from mobile network operators to Microsoft; even the government is weighing in with plans for flexible working. Email isn't the only tool you want out of the office, but it's the one getting attention now that GPRS makes it less painful to collect messages when you're away from your network connection, and mobile operators are coming up with sensible data tariffs and better roaming agreements.There's a confusing range of options for doing mobile email, from free forwarding of web mail to your phone as text messages, to integrating with enterprise email servers to make email, calendars and contact books available on phones, smartphones, PDAs or web interfaces. And more devices are on the way.If you want to reply to a text message with more than a yes or no, you need something with a reasonable email client, like a smartphone, PDA or combination PDA and phone. There are also devices that start by doing email and add phone functions on the side. Danger hasn't found a UK network to take the Hiptop yet, but T-Mobile is launching its Instant Email service with a sleeker, lighter, colour Blackberry device for smaller businesses not wanting to spend the usual &#163;10,000 for a Blackberry server.Even with a colour screen, it lasts about a week between charges and collects email from accounts accessible over the web. If you prefer a smartphone, T-Mobile has the Sony Ericsson P800 with a Blackberry client. There's a Blackberry client for the Nokia 6800, which has a keyboard that folds out either side of the screen, one for Palm PDAs and we should see one for Pocket PCs soon.Along with the name change to Windows Mobile 2003 software for Pocket PCs - to emphasis the Windows-ness of the underlying Windows CE .NET 4.2 operating system - the new Pocket PCs announced this week have better tools for mobile email.Detecting Wi-Fi access points and offering a list of connections the way Windows XP does will be useful once Wi-Fi hotspots get cheap and ubiquitous enough to rely on. Building in Bluetooth simplifies collecting email via a GPRS mobile phone, and adding a VPN client means you can synchronise with a server securely.The Pocket PC Phone version builds in the GPRS phone and adds improvements Microsoft designed for its smartphone, which stops you losing the data connection when the   phone goes to sleep. It also recovers the connection automatically if it's interrupted by a voice call. Writing and answering email will be easier on Pocket PCs with built-in keyboards, but better USB support means you could plug in a standard keyboard rather than a proprietary folding one.Microsoft has also teamed up with HP and Vodafone to offer Outlook Anywhere. For around &#163;1 per user per day - plus the cost of phone calls - HP kits your business out with a Proliant server running Windows Server 2000 and Mobile Information Server, pre-configured iPaqs and Sony Ericsson T68i mobile phones with Vodafone connections and free support. If you've already got phones, PDAs and other parts of the puzzle, they'll set it all up for you.Mobile doesn't have to mean handheld; Orange, Vodafone, T-Mobile and O2 have GPRS cards that fit into a lap top's PC Card slot and Nokia makes a card combining GPRS and Wi-Fi.How you get email to a device depends on how much work you want to do on the server. Any device with a GPRS connection can dial up and use a VPN to access email, or just use web mail, but that doesn't tell you when you've got new mail. "Pushing" either the email itself or an alert to go look for mail to the device keeps you far more up to date, but that needs a connection between your email server and the GPRS network.You can put in your own access point (APN), or buy a dedicated connection from your mobile operator and run server software like Microsoft Mobile Information Server. You can also sign up with a mobile operator who will run a service like MIS for you or use a third-party APN, but that may involve replicating your mail on to an external server rather   than delivering it straight to devices.Orange's Office Freedom service connects directly to your Exchange or Domino servers by VPN or SSL and your IT team administers accounts on the service. It's cheaper than some solutions, at &#163;495 plus monthly GPRS tariffs, but unless you use the Orange SPV, email arrives via SMS and you reply or check contacts and calendar details in a browser. The web interface means you can check mail from an internet cafe, though.If you want to use the software in your phone directly, Psion Software is developing Transcend Mail, which it plans to sell through partners in the autumn. This will give you real-time mobile email to Symbian phones through any APN, with software on the phone checking for new messages in much the same way desktop email software does, reflecting all changes back to your office   email system instantly.Even if you already have devices that support mobile email, you're going to have to invest in software and connections. Vague productivity improvements from people answering email more quickly aren't enough for most budgets, but mobile email can make financial sense.If it replaces several expensive mobile calls, mobile email can save money; it's far quicker to email a map than give directions over the phone and you can coordinate several people more simply by mail. It can also mean you spend more on calls, because you're responding to more customers. Equipment costs are rarely the most significant factor; smartphones are pricier but they also mean only one device to administer.Unavoidable as it is, email isn't always the most important flow of information around a business. Making key business applications mobile may be more important, especially where you have many workers who rarely see a desk.Clear and simple interfaces are vital, and users with less technical knowledge often find a stylus simpler than a keyboard. More productive workers equal savings, if you get more done with the same resources: as IBM's Eugene Cox says: "You can pay for quite a few phone calls with a 25% reduction in your costs."Email is not a panacea, and you have to be sure it contributes to the business. If your company has a CC culture, where every email is copied to a manager to cover someone's back, those messages are clogging up your processes as well as inboxes. Simply pushing them on to more devices won't help. Expecting workers to be on call 24 hours a day just because you can email them isn't realistic unless it is already part of the job.Security is always an issue with mobile devices - look for options to wipe remotely such devices as the Blackberry if they're lost - but a good security policy will cover mobile access anyway. If you're going to make mobile email worthwhile, it's more important to decide what you need to know than what device you're going to find it on.
Sun's recent JavaOne show brought the usual crop of announcements. One of the most important is the release of Beta 2 of J2EE 1.4. With Java applications at the heart of many businesses, any new version of Sun's enterprise development framework will catch the attention of developers and application architects. Possibly the most important feature in this latest release is its support for the Web Services Interoperability Organisation (WS-I) Basic Profile specification.Web services are an important component of modern application architectures. First popularised by Microsoft's .NET development framework, they use XML technologies to link applications. Sometimes described as "websites for machines", XML messages deliver requests and return responses to and from applications using familiar web technologies, while XML Schemas provide descriptions of data. Over the past three years, web services have become a feature of virtually every development framework and language - from Perl and Python to C++ and Java.While Sun and Microsoft spend a lot of time competing, they're also part of an industry move to standard ise web services. The WS-I was set up by various web services vendors to provide standards for handling the exchange of messages between services. It plans to produce "generic protocols", which it describes as being independent of the messages they carry, only handling secure, reliable and efficient message delivery. The Basic Profile is the first major interoperability proposal to come out of the WS-I's work, and it contains rules for how applications should create the structures of web services XML messages and documents. That helps ensure that applications built using tools from competing vendors can work together.Like the companies behind them, Java and .NET are often seen as competing technologies, and many businesses do see a choice between alternative approaches. There's little to separate the two technologies; both are answers to the same set of problems, and so implementation decisions are often made on the basis of available skills or existing software investment. In practice, Java applications are usually found on enterprise servers, with .NET deployed at a departmental level. With businesses demanding more control over departmental activities, it's not   necessary to completely re-engineer business systems just to link their applications. As both technologies have web services support, integration is just a matter of adding extra functionality to existing applications, saving time and money.Application server vendors have a large part to play in developing interoperable web service frameworks, and IBM and BEA are both founder members of the WS-I. As well as supporting interoperability standards, application servers often add their own proprietary features that extend the web services model. It's easy enough to see what's proprietary and what's part of the platform - the class libraries used by both .NET and Java mean that core classes all have standard naming conventions. If you need to produce portable code, work   with the core libraries and avoid application server-specific functions.Any business choosing a development platform needs to consider more than just the languages they're going to use, as any choice will be with them for many years. Platforms such as Java and .NET are layered solutions, and the frameworks of classes libraries and tools that surround them are there to speed up business application development, providing tools that handle common tasks. Instead of writing hundreds of lines of fresh code each time they need to connect applications to external databases, developers just choose the classes they want to use. Component development techniques also mean application vendors can provide integration tools for their applications that just plug into the   existing frameworks.Microsoft's Visual Studio.NET development environment makes it easy to work with registered components, adding them to its class libraries. It even uses them in its IntelliSense code completion tools. J2EE application servers and development tools take a similar approach. BEA's WebLogic Workshop uses third party plug-ins to add support of external applications, while Oracle's JDeveloper uses Business Components for Java to make working with Oracle's own applications easier, while offering team development features. Sun's Project Rave is intended to deliver a similar Java development environment. It's not just Java and .NET development that take advantage of the component approach; the component model at the heart of both technologies means Macromedia can deliver tools to link Flash to both .NET and J2EE applications.BT is an enthusiastic adopter of web services using J2EE and .NET, and its Global Services division views them as a business opportunity. It is offering partners a managed web service transport layer. Web services are often viewed as a lowest common denominator tool for building distributed computing application, and many features required for critical business applications are missing. As interoperability standards evolve, they'll include these features, but for now the BT platform adds proprietary tools for managing web service provisioning, auditing and security.As web services mature, tomorrow's advanced interoperability specifications will make it easier for businesses to connect their internal and external systems. There's a major cultural and technological shift happening here, with what have always been seen as discrete applications beginning to behave like components. Instead of thinking of individual applications, businesses will need to start developing service oriented architectures: web service linked systems that are aligned to business processes and supported by flexible infrastructures - systems that will be built around both J2EE and .NET.
If we're to get anywhere near our target of 500 public services online by the end of 2005, we're going to need the enthusiastic cooperation of public servants. So this is not the ideal time to tell them that one goal of e-government is to put them out of a job.Hence the cautious language in the latest pillar of the e-government edifice to be wheeled out of the office of the e-envoy. It's a strategy for encouraging "intermediaries" such as private companies and voluntary groups to run online government functions. Imagine being able to vote or claim benefits while shopping on a supermarket website. Or renewing your car tax disc by annual standing order to your insurance company.Ideas for a "mixed economy" have been part of the the e-government plan for nearly three years. However, a long-awaited "policy framework" has only just appeared on thee-envoy's website, and as a consultation document only.It announces that the key question is "how such a mixed economy might be developed and how it might be used". The word might is a little misleading: the decision in principle has been taken.To some enthusiasts on the political right, creating a mixed (or even purely private) economy is the point of e-government. By cutting the cost of entry and allowing access to data across departmental boundaries, the internet becomes a tool for dismantling government.No such sentiment appears overtly in the e-envoy's strategy. Instead, the main reason for inviting in "intermediaries" is to encourage   the take-up of e-government with a little private marketing flair.It won't be easy. "Government culture, processes and systems combined with lengthy bureaucratic processes and negotiation lead-times do not always lend themselves easily to intermediation and some departments have in the past been hesitant to open up services to alternative suppliers."The policy suggests encouraging intermediaries in nine areas, including contacts with business and agriculture, benefits and tax, transport, education, health, crime, land and property and e-democracy.It sets out 12 principles for nurturing the market. From now on, "all departments should involve private and voluntary sector intermediaries as part of their e-government strategy". Intermediaries should be free to target any cus tomers, offer any service (so long as it is legal) and no department will be able to block a business proposition without good reason.In the long run, the policy suggests that intermediaries will cut the cost of government: "By offering additional, complementary ways of delivering the front end of public services, intermediaries offer government the potential to reduce the cost involved in providing universal/wide access to public services." However, costs will only fall if resources can, over time, be "focused on fewer direct channels".As the "fewer direct channels" usually mean paper - government will have to keep the option of doing business on paper almost indefinitely - the suggestion is that having set up the e-state, the e-envoy will encourage it to wither away. Interesting.
MyOrigo moves with the timesComing in the autumn is a new type of smartphone that harnesses the motion in a person's hands to control many of its features.  Users of MyDevice, from Finnish company MyOrigo, will be able to scroll down web pages or documents by tilting or rotating the phone. The handset, which has been signed up by one of the big UK networks, also has a large screen that can be used vertically or horizontally.Another innovative feature is motion feedback (a kind of a jolt) to confirm each time the user has made a keystroke. MyDevice's roll call of features includes internet access, email, MP3 playback and multimedia messaging via its integrated VGA standard digital camera. The device is powered by the Tao Group's Intent operating system.MyOrigo is also offering the motion control feature to other handset manufacturers, and is considering launching a version of its handset targeted at games' fans.www.myorigo.comRaven shieldTalented European developer Game Loft has just released its latest Tom Clancy conversion, bringing the PC and console shooter Raven Shield to Nokia's series 30 and 40 phones.In it, terrorists have rigged a Venezuelan oil refinery with explosives, and are threatening to detonate it. You lead the anti-terrorist unit out to stop them. The top-down 2D graphics hark back to mid-1980s arcade classics such as Ikari Warriors and Commando, but there's also a Metal Gear Solid stealth element. Players can engage a scout mode, where the direction pad is used to scroll around the screen to look for enemy guards.Game Loft's previous Clancy effort, Splinter Cell (free with T-Mobile's Nokia 3510i) has proved very popular, and this neat little shooter should impress gamers looking for a similarly tactical blast. If you have a Nokia 3510i, 7210, 6610, 7250 or 6100 you can download the game now fromwww.gameloft.com, or from Vodafone, T-Mobile and O2 portals within the month. The price of each game starts at around &#163;4.50.Block againDenki Blocks!, the cute and insanely addictive block-shifting puzzler from Dundee outfit Denki is getting a sequel. The original won best handheld game and game of the show at E3 2001, and is one of the most widely available and successful Java games.The sequel offers dozens of fiendish new puzzles based around the simple premise of manoeuvring coloured blocks around the screen until they all connect. It's much more difficult and engaging than it sounds.Set for release by publisher Digital Bridges this month, Denki Blocks! 2 should be available for pretty much all Java-enabled phones. Go towww.denki.co.ukfor more information.DJ phoneThe roll-out of Siemens' new mobiles continues this month, with a handset aimed at the youth market. A small-ish phone available in several colours, the triple band M55 is also the first handset with Cubasis DJ software. This is a basic four-track recording system that lets the user create and mix tracks that can then be used as ringtones.The phone also features MMS and is compatible with Siemens Quick Pic snap-on camera accessory. Rounding off its specification is a selection of games including Cliff Diving and Mountain Biking. Users can also download new games via GPRS. The phone goes on sale early next month with T-Mobile at a retail price with contract of around &#163;200.www.siemens.co.ukLife saversResearchers at Toshiba's UK Labs in Bristol have developed a mobile phone system designed to help emergency services rescue people trapped in avalanches or earthquakes.Survivors of the disaster dial an emergency number from their mobiles, which then transmit an alert message to all other mobiles in the area. The   phones then ring with an audible alarm tone. Anyone who is safe switches their phone off, leaving the victims' phones ringing, thereby enabling rescue services to locate them. The phones also emit a radio signal to further help guide rescue crews. Although it is purely a prototype system at the moment, Toshiba hopes the technology will be incorporated into phones and networks soon.www.toshiba-europe.com/research/trlTreo lives onIf you thought Palm's buy out of rival Handspring would sound the death knell for the latter's Treo range of smart phones, think again. Handspring confirmed this week that it will ship the compact smartphone it paraded several weeks ago at a US exhibition to the UK this autumn.Just like its predecessors, the Treo 600 pairs personal organiser facilities run via Palm's 0S 5 system with GPRS-powered email and web browsing. Innovations for this Treo include a new keyboard with dome-shaped keys, which Handspring claims is faster and easier to use than keypads from rivals, and an integrated digital camera supported by messaging facilities. There's no set price yet, but expect it to retail for around &#163;350. An agreement between the two companies means it is almost certain to be available first via the Orange network.www.handspring.co.ukNew NokiasMobile phone giant Nokia last week unveiled the new handsets and accessories due in shops later in the year.Scheduled for a late summer launch is the 3100, a tiny upright model with a glow-in-the-dark cover that flashes when the phone rings. Expected to retail for around &#163;100 with contract, the handset also features Java games and multimedia messaging.Nokia is also targeting corporate users with a heavily specified, yet compact, triple band smartphone - the 6600. It features a large screen, email and web-browsing facilities, an integrated VGA camera, a video recorder and Real One player and Bluetooth connectivity. The 6600 is slated to retail for around &#163;250 with contract when it launches in October.The company also showed its Fun   Camera, a stand-alone snapper that can transfer images to several Nokia handsets (including the 3100), which can then send them as multimedia messages, a clip-on FM radio and a wireless head set. All will launch in late summer.Announced several months ago, but due to be arrive in the next couple of weeks, is the 3300, an oval-shaped phone that pairs multimedia messaging features (though no integrated camera) with an MP3/AAC music player and FM stereo radio. It is expected to retail for under &#163;100 with contract. Completing Nokia's range for 2003 is the N-Gage personal game console /phone hybrid, which will launch in the autumn.www.nokia.co.uk
Wi-Fi?I use a Dell Latitude laptop with aSierra wireless modem, which isn't really Wi-Fi as I'm not reliant on finding a hotspot. You just put a Sim card into the PCI slot on your computer and you're wireless. I get driven from work in London to our house and I can do all my email before I get home.Broadband?We haveBT Openworldin the office, as there isn't a digital exchange near our house. It's fantastic and fast -   the only slight problem is that we can receive big files quickly but have to send them out on another line because we couldn't keep our "@hemingway design" email address, as it has to include some mention of BT.How do you get around that?We have to send things via our Tesco.net connection, which is across aBT Business Highway lineso it's still reasonably quick. They say they won't let us relay because it stops spam but it's a bit annoying just because I don't want BT as part of my email address.Were you involved with building HemingwayDesign.com?My 16-year-old son Jack did the site. There's no Flash on it, as we wanted to keep it as simple as possible and not try to be clever. The thing I like most is that we regularly get emails from web design ers saying "when you want to do a proper website come to us". I send them back an email saying thanks but ours is much better and a 16-year-old lad designed it!Do some sites overdo the gimmicks?The majority are over-designed. Maybe if you're looking at a band's site then Shockwave and Flash can be exciting. If you're just wanting information, then surely the cleverest thing would not be to have an intro for people to skip but to anticipate why people are using your site and get them straight to what they want. When it comes to design, less is always more.Is the paperless office a reality for you?Very much so - it's more a case now of working out where to store all the disks! That's one of the next jobs for our son, working out a disk-archiving system. Every week I copy tonnes of work   and photography on to disks, so we need a way of accessing those quickly.Digital camera?I always carry one of the really thinLogitech digital camerasand also an Olympus in my bag. I don't think a day goes past where I don't take pictures. Digital cameras and computer technology have transformed our working life as designers. I use things like Photoshop or Pro-Engineer  or various other systems, depending on what company's design teams we're working with.Internet radio?No need really. I have a couple of DAB radios and DAB has more than enough new channels.Visit:www.hemingwaydesign.com
Poor Prince William. At the University of St Andrews, the young diligent prince faces regular onslaughts from a curiously well-organised army of star-struck students. What are their weapons? "A quite sophisticated text messaging network has sprung up," one campus insider confided in the Daily Record. "If William is spotted anywhere in the town, then messages are sent out. It starts off quite small. The first messages are then forwarded to more girls and so on. It just has a snowball effect. Informing 100 girls of his movements takes just seconds."The speed at which mobile coordination takes place has the potential to work as a tool to spur social, as well as political, change. In his new book, social forecaster Howard Rheingold describes an emerging   phenomenon of Smart Mobs. Smart Mobs, according to Rheingold, "cooperate in ways never before possible because they carry devices that possess both communication and computing capabilities".In their haste to declare a new era, techno-enthusiasts often exaggerate. There remains, however, a largely latent potential that coordination through mobile might give form to the expression of already existing social and political interests.The use of mobile phones during the riots at the 1999 World Trade Organisation meeting in Seattle illustrated for many the potential for using mobile devices to coordinate political action, allowing activists to outwit the centralised radio system of the police. Text messaging was also instrumental in organising the public demonstrations that forced Philippine President Joseph   Estrada from office in January 2001.In countries where information is strictly controlled, the ubiquity of mobiles can pose a direct threat to the existing order. China, for example, is the world's biggest market for mobile phones: last November, the number of Chinese mobile users passed 200 million.During a strict media and political blackout about the existence of Sars earlier this year, many Chinese people heard of the virus first through their mobile phone. On February 8, a text message "There is a fatal flu in Guangzhou", was sent 40m times, 41m times the following day, and 45m times the day after that. As a direct result of the epidemic of texting, the media and subsequently the Chinese government were forced to admit the existence of the virus.Closer to home, anecdotal evidence   suggests that mobiles have been the coordinating force behind apparently spontaneous eruptions of public dissent, such as the congregation of schoolchildren in Downing Street in March to protest against the war in Iraq.In the same month, British police took the trouble to confiscate mobile phones from a party of anti-war demonstrators travelling to a demonstration. That the police are cracking down on activists who come equipped with mobiles - and are apparently empowered to do so under the provisions of the Terrorism Act 2000 - is a good indication that the authorities are taking its potential seriously. So should we.&#183;James Harkin is the author of Mobilisation: the growing public interest in mobile technologies, published by Demos this week.
How mobile is your local council? It's a question likely to be asked more urgently as summer progresses. The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister is planning to launch an e-government project to promote mobile working in local authorities across the country. It aims to recommend best practices for field workers; it will review the suitability of mobile solutions and will draw up common technical standards for interfaces. The business case for the initiative is being reviewed and Whitehall insiders expect it to be launched in a few months' time.Councils such as Lewisham are already piloting mobile initiatives. Staff are using PDAs to report housing repairs; to put together environmental reports about incidents such as graffiti; and social workers are using tablet PCs to assess the needs of elderly pensioners.Simon Berlin, head of e-government for Lewisham, says staff are responding enthusiastically to new mobile technologies. "We're not meeting the resistance you sometimes meet with new technologies."Social workers in Lewisham report that tablet PCs are more acceptable than laptops to pensioners as no screen goes up which can sometimes act as a barrier to conversations. The new devices are also enabling staff to spend more time in the community rather than in the office filling in forms. During an assessment interview, care information is inputted on to a tablet PC. The customer signs it, and the data can be swiftly uploaded into the relevant council database.Cambridge county council is using tablet PCs in a similar way. "In our experience so far, the customers are not fazed by the technology. They like the fact that only one person is coming and asking them questions and they don't endlessly have to repeat their name and address," explains Ian Laughton, modernisation manager for Cambridge county council.The forthcoming national mobile project will share experiences of mobile initiatives and explore ways of equipping councillors with PDAs. They can thus report requests directly into council systems to prevent information going astray.But, inevitably, there are issues that could thwart the dawn of a new era of mobile councils. Birmingham city council has been experimenting with mobile surgeries for reporting housing repairs. But the council has found that costs can quickly escalate. "You can set up a half-day surgery. It becomes so popular that it becomes two days and the ISDN bills on that laptop can become very expensive," explains Derek Crook, head of IT for the council's housing department.Private e-government software suppliers have given a guarded welcome to the government's latest technology project. "There is a great temptation to implement mobile technologies for its own sake. It's very easy to get carried away with the latest whizzy technologies. The government should define its ultimate objectives and allow the private sector to work in partnership with local authorities to meet those objectives," says Simon Parkes, managing director of Civica Systems.Some councils regard the introduction of mobile solutions as an opportunity to slash accommodation costs by encouraging staff to give up traditional desk space. But the cultural management issues that will arise from introducing mobile working in the local government arena is likely to be problematic.Other concerns centre on the investment in the infrastructure and the cost of mobile devices. Security and privacy will also have to be tackled. What happens, for example, if a council worker loses a mobile device containing personal health data?Many e-government champions are aware that mobile technology is also likely to change the scope of people's jobs. A street inspector might be able to use his PDA to carry out tasks traditionally performed by an individual in a housing department office. If implementations are not managed carefully, mobile technologies could generate industrial relations issues.Despite these hurdles, analysts agree that mobile solutions still have plenty to offer local government if they are well targeted. Nick Jones, research fellow for Gartner, says: "Local authorities have lots of business processes where mobility can help."
Apple chief executive Steve Jobs pulled the wraps off what he called "the world's fastest personal computer" this week and promised that a new generation of faster Macintosh machines was now on the way.The new computer - called the Power Mac G5 - was unveiled at a developers' conference in San Francisco on Monday night by Jobs, who trumpeted it as having "the world's first 64-bit desktop processor".The new chip at the heart of the machine, made by IBM, processes data in bigger chunks, meaning the machine can make use of more memory than its predecessors.Apple's claim to a 64-bit first was immediately disputed by some, who pointed to earlier 64-bit desktops from DEC, built in the 1990s. But it is certain that the new chips represent a huge boost for Apple.For, just as importantly as the 64-bit architecture, the new chip has a much faster headline speed. In recent years, the company has seen its computers become noticeably slower than ones using Intel and Athalon chips, and the headline megahertz speed, used in most PC advertising, has fallen even further behind.The new Power Mac G5 runs at up to 2GHz, almost double the speed of its G4 predecessor. The machines also include such features as very fast internal "bus" connections and Apple's Velocity engine to speed up graphics performance, which is designed to appeal to professional users.In a series of "bake-off" tests between Apple and Intel systems, Jobs showed the G5 system completing a variety of graphical tasks well   ahead of its Intel-powered rival.The tests, revived after a long absence from Apple's regular, evangelistic gatherings, were greeted with applause at the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference.During his two-hour keynote, Jobs said the new processors were "a whole new generation of architecture for Apple", and added: "You can basically say we've caught up."Some Apple staffers were suggesting this week's announcements were as significant as Apple's original move to PowerPC chips in the early 1990s, which dramatically increased the speed and functionality of the company's computers.But some analysts were less impressed in the wake of the announcements. Martin Reynolds, a Gartner Group analyst, told Associated Press that the tests "don't always translate to real-world performance".He said: "The real value in the Mac isn't in the processors, it's in how the system and the user interface works."But Pascal Cagni, Apple's vice-president for Europe, said the new hardware presented a strong argument for professional users to upgrade their machines, after a period that has seen the replacement age of computers increase by 33% to 40%.And he said there was major significance in IBM's heavy investment in research and infrastructure needed to produce the new chips for Apple."The important thing to notice is that you've got John Kelly on stage, a senior vice-president &#91;at IBM&#93;, the head of a $5bn a year R&amp;D department, the decision maker on their $3bn processor plant," said Cagni."&#91;He&#93; is stating that after a decade of partnership with Apple, they are   looking for a different kind of partnership going forward, and committing to a long road map. I think that's immense. This renewed IBM partnership, the investment that IBM is making in it, that is critical."The new Power Macs towers start at &#163;1,318.30, rising to &#163;1,956.60 for a dual 2GHz version (ex VAT).One other piece of hardware was   also launched - a &#163;119 digital camera designed to sit on top of screens, to make video conferencing easier.The company also used the event to promote a major revision of its Unix-based OS X operating system. The new version, called Panther, sports a number of new features:FinderA new version of Apple's file management program, designed to   make it easier to search out files on hard drives, networks and online.iChat AVA new version of the instant message client that sports video and audio messaging between iChat users.Expos&#233;An effort to make it easier to cope with multiple open windows and applications. Expos&#233; can shuffle and reduce open windows to thumbnails, allowing the user to pick the window to work in next.FileVaultA new option to have your personal files encrypted and decrypted "on the fly" as you use them, to improve data security -especially for mobile users concerned their laptops might get stolen.Fast user switchingIn what is likely to be a boon for users of shared machines at work or home, a new pull-down menu allows a change of users with a couple of clicks, rather than having to log out.Apple says Panther will be released "sometime before the end of the year", although no firm date has been set. It will cost $129.During the keynote, Jobs also delivered an upbeat assessment of Apple's performance in the first six months of the year. He said the millionth iPod was shipped this week, while the iTunes music store, which offers legal music downloads to US Apple users from major record labels, had sold more than 5m songs in its first eight weeks. A recent $2bn surge in Apple's stock market value has been attributed to the success of the store.&#183;Seewww.apple.com&#183;Neil McIntosh was one of a group of European journalists flown to Berlin by Apple for the launch.
Grand Theft Auto: Vice CityPC, &#163;34.99 Rockstar/Take 2, *****There are very few games that are truly unmissable. Grand Theft Auto 3 was one, and its semi-sequel Vice City is another.Yes, it's the same mix of mindless violence and ethnic stereotypes and based on the same engine; but once again, the cocktail of sights, sounds and thrills is irresistible. Your job is to get to know the Miami Vice-style world of Vice City, earn money by any means possible (from driving a taxi to working as a paramedic) and slowly work your way up the criminal food chain. How you do it, and when you accept the scripted missions from assorted gangstas, is up to you.Here's just a snapshot - I'm screaming down Ocean Drive on a bike at sunset, with six cops on my tail and a target in my sights. Do I cut him off as soon as possible, lose the cops or head for a garage for a respray? I find a fourth option; laughing so hard at one of the in-car radio stations that I skid off my bike and into the wall of a hospital. Did I mention the quality of the script or acting, featuring the likes of Ray Liotta and Luis Guzman?There are minor irritations. Some of the skills are poorly thought out and there are occasional clipping bugs in the graphics. However, if you missed GTA3, don't make the same mistake again, and if you're already hooked on the series, this is another quality episode.Mike AnderieszWarioWorldGameCube, &#163;39.99 Treasure/Nintendo,****You would not want to meet Wario in real life - he is a fat, obnoxious, lazy slob who eats garlic by the bulb and picks his nose. But as a videogame character, he makes his rival Mario seem wimpy and sanctimonious.Aficionados of the unfancied anti-hero will be pleased to hear that WarioWorld absolutely dumps on the disappointing Super Mario Sunshine. It is, of course, a platform game in the classic Nintendo vein, full of Dal&#237;esque surreal touches, downright weird adversaries and puzzles. The plot is too preposterous for words, involving an evil black gem corrupting Wario's pile of treasure, but it merely provides an excuse for Wario to show off his moves - notably the Wild Swing-Ding, which enables you to pick up enemies once you have stunned them and whirl them around furiously.Satisfyingly, it can even be performed on 70-foot-long boss monsters, of which there are plenty. Each level involves collecting jewels hidden in underground rooms accessible via trapdoors - a process that can involve a surprising amount of brain-power - and working out how to negotiate the above-ground levels, which involves much jumping on to sticky gold balls, performing Wild Swing-Dings on circular platforms in order to levitate them, and so on. Plus, of course, defeating hordes of monsters (including giant tortoises equipped with cannon).The levels could be longer, but they do become weirder as the game progresses. Unlike Super Mario Sunshine, WarioWorld never becomes annoyingly hard, and camera issues rarely surface, which is just as well, as you have minimal control over camera angles. Sorry, Mario fans: the plumber isn't even fit to unblock Wario's sink.Steve BoxerLara Croft Tomb Raider: The Angel of DarknessPlayStation 2, &#163;34.99 Core/Eidos, ***Forget the tombs, this time round Lara's going urban. Presumably following the archaeological inter-railing route, Angel of Darkness sees Lara adventuring around Paris and Prague.This is the first Tomb Raider game for the PlayStation 2 but it follows a well-trodden path. There are plenty of puzzles to be solved, levers pulled and gaps to jump. It's no revolution, but there are some innovations thrown in. Wrench open doors and Lara's strength will grow, allowing her access to different areas. And you can now influence conversations by choosing what Lara should say. Sadly, these additions are half-baked. The strength-building element is negated by its simplistic and illogical nature, which sees Lara lugging boxes to earn the power to open nearby doors. Choosing Lara's words has relatively little effect, as the plot carries on regardless.The introduction of a new playable male character also adds little. Luckily, the graphics have been spiced up, with dark and grimy urban environments. But it is the sadistic controls that really needed an upgrade. The best videogames make you forget you are holding a joypad. Sadly, Lara's rigid and unpredictable movements serve to constantly remind the player he is sitting in the lounge and not a Parisian cafe.The erratic controls make it advisable to save regularly, if only to preserve your sanity after yet another failed jump. This breaks up the action and dissipates the tension. And then there are the interface flaws, such as the illegible object item icons and lengthy loading times. Sadly, Angel of Darkness sees Lara Croft stuck in a gaming time warp.Greg Howson
Broad choiceI've heard that hooking up your broadband modem through your Ethernet port is better and faster than going through the USB port. However, all the ISP providers like BT seem to only offer USB modems. I am using a Mac G3 running OS X.Jonathan Swanwww.new-ways.co.ukJack Schofield replies:Broadband service providers typically offer USB connections to home users and Ethernet routers to business users, who pay a higher price. Ethernet is better: it is the industry standard networking system, is operating system independent, needs no drivers, and makes less use of the processor than USB. (With some Windows machines, the USB modem can draw too much power, causing problems with other USB peripherals, unless you add a powered USB hub.) But it is more expensive: ADSL modem/ routers - which can also include a Wi-Fi wireless hub - cost more than USB modems. Also, each computer needs an RJ-45 port or a separate Ethernet card, though most new-ish PCs and Macs have one built in as standard.Buy a 4-port router and you can easily plug in four machines, either PCs or Macs, all working independently and probably consuming more bandwidth. The cynic in me suspects this may be why some ISPs are less keen on the idea. However, things are improving. For example, from July 1,MyZoneswill offer a broadband with Wi-Fi support that allows you to share your connection with your neighbours, thus becoming a mini-ISP yourself.The obvious solution is to buy a "wires only" broadband connection. You have to set this up yourself but you should be able to use almost any equipment you like, and you don't need to run any rubbish ISP software. However, it would be wise to check that the ISP does officially allow the use of a router, and supports the equipment you plan to install. Finally, before buying, search the web to see if you can find any known problems with your chosen set-up. SEG Communications has a good practical guide to the background (www.seg.co.uk/products/ads): at least read What is 'NAT'?ISP Reviewtracks the various providers.Word wiseWhen I type my name - Hutton - in Microsoft Word or Excel, it is automatically changed to Button. I can type hutton and that is left alone. I have deleted Button from the Custom Dictionary but the problem persists.Bob HuttonJS:Look under Insert|AutoText or Tools|AutoCorrect: both call up the same tabbed dialogue box. Someone has probably made an AutoCorrect entry that converts Hutton to Button, possibly as a joke. AutoCorrect is a good way to correct common mistypings, or get a quick way to type phrases you use often. AutoText pops up a "tip" to automatically complete common phrases and dates, and you can add entries. If you don't like these functions, you can turn them off.Free web spaceI have been running a website for my historical society for over five years (http://members.lycos.co.uk/barwickhistoricalusing a free service provider, but the banner advertising on all the pages is unacceptable. Are there alternatives?Harold SmithJS:Lots of people provide free web space: seeThe Free Site,www.free-web-space-finder.comandwww.freewebspace.netfor examples. However, such sites tend to be slow or limit your use of bandwidth. An alternative may be to use the free web space provided with some ISP accounts (especially broadband accounts) or by companies selling domain names and mail services. Some members of your society may have free space they are not using.Backchat* Neil Sinclair asked about recording internet radio broadcasts to his hard disk, and I suggested High Criteria's Total Recorder. Jamil Shehadeh says he "messed about with" this and other programs until he found he already had a copy of Wave Studio, which came with his SoundBlaster sound card. "Just double-click the Volume control, go to Options|Properties and select Recording, then tick What U Hear. Open Wave Studio, open a New File and press Record." (Seewww.maxwell.syr.edu/ict/help/software/wave_studio.htm)* Gavin McKenzie triedOpD2d, which is free, but now uses "the wonderfulLoop Recorder. Both capture any sound going through the sound card. Once the stream is captured, I use mp3DirectCut, free fromwww.rz.uni-frankfurt.de/~pesch, either directly saved from Loop Recorder as mp3, or converted with dbPowerAmp, free fromwww.dbpoweramp.com. It's also worth disabling the clicks in the Windows browser." Ian McRobert useshttp://rawav recorder.homestead.com, which "records RealAudio as a wav file".* Colin Chambers needed a firewall. Gareth Jones recommends Agnitum Outpost, free fromwww.agnitum.com/products/outpost, saying it is easier to use than rivals such asZone AlarmandKerio.
"Greg Joswiak, vice president of hardware product marketing at Apple, in a phone interview today, defended Apple's performance claims for its upcoming Power Mac G5, after they came under fire in the wake of yesterday's announcement. Read on for the details" and the debate atSlashdot.
John Naughton, Observer columnist and author of a Brief History of the Future, is doing alive chatover on Guardian Unlimited's talk boards, starting at 4pm UK time. Some interesting questions already posted, including a lot on spam - the subject of our cover story tomorrow.
Following this week's launch of the PocketPC 2003 version of Windows CE, Gateway and JVC plan to use if for handheld computers, reportsInformation Week. HP has also expanded its line of iPaqs. For marketing purposes, Microsoft has now decided to call this ARM-based handheld platform Windows Mobile, even though the underlying operating system is completely different from both DOS/Windows and Windows NT/W2K/XP.
