Christopher Homfray was promised a free upgrade every three years when he purchased his Vodafone Five Star mobile phone insurance.It wasn't the only reason he bought the insurance policy but it made the deal even better value, he says.Recently he took his phone back to the shop in Glasgow where he bought it and asked if a broken back piece could be mended.He was told not to worry about the phone casing because he qualified for an upgrade. He happily accepted his new phone but then realised the original sales pitch was misleading."They told me I needed the insurance to get the upgrade, but all the time it was part of the contract that I got an upgrade after 18 months," he says."It shows how mobile phone users need to watch out for these sharp practices when they buy insurance because it is so difficult knowing what you are paying for and what is already covered."
Stella Kibuuka's only phone is an ageing mobile borrowed from a friend, which has a tendency to crackle and cut out. She has been forced to rely on a borrowed phone after she lost her handset in August.She says she reported the loss to the police, her network provider T-Mobile and the insurance company used by T-Mobile, Home Care Insurance."T-Mobile was prompt in sending a new SIM card but it took over a month and a complaint letter before I was sent a phone. I had already paid the &#163;20 excess charge," she says.The new phone didn't work and she sent it back. She has been waiting for a replacement ever since. "Part of the problem was asking for assistance from   T-Mobile when, as I found out later on, they don't deal with insurance matters."Unfortunately that confusion persists. T-Mobile rang to say it wanted to address Ms Kibuuka's problem quickly. It would normally pass all calls about insurance to HomeCare Insurance but in her case and the two others highlighted by Jobs &amp; Money affecting T-Mobile it would take charge.A week passed and Ms Kibuuka heard nothing. She relies on her mobile phone and was distressed that nothing seemed to be happening to resolve her case. We called HomeCare Insurance. The company said it was keen to look into the problem but needed more time to find out more and how much progress had been made by   T-Mobile.Hopefully it won't be too long before Ms Kibuuka's phone insurance counts for something.
Comdex is effectively over and it is time to sort through the flyers and chuck the unwanted stuff (a task that only takes 36 hours). Time also for the round-ups ofthe good, the bad and the ugly. PC World has a good one.
It's unusual to see Yahoo Tech run a story on a research project butMicrosoft Creating Virtual Brainclearly has the right sort of resonance. As it happens, it isn't about developing a brain but a computer-based memory, MyLifeBits. And it's odd to mention the project without mentioning thatGordon Bellis one of the world's greatest computer scientists. At DEC, he worked on the PDP range of minicomputers, and was responsible for the VAX architecture that drove DEC from a $1bn corportation to a $10bn corporation in the 80s. The MyLifeBits is related to theCyberMuseumproject. TheGordon Bell Prizesare given each year to recognise outstanding achievements in supercomputing.
Good stuff in this week'sEconomistabout the expected battle between Nokia and Microsoft for the soul (and operating system) of the mobile phone. Of course (and as the article acknowledges) it's not just between these two companies: the whole mobile industry also has to wage a battle with a sceptical public, to persuade us of the merits of souped-up mobiles. And a few other players - like Sony Ericsson and the Symbian consortium - would also like to think they have a big role to play. But it would be naive to think that there isn't going to be quite a clash between the big, arrogant giant of the mobile world, and the big arrogant giant of the PC world, as their worlds (at least in part) collide.
It has been a good week for old chestnuts, with a product concept that has been rolled out many times before revived in London, and another one being trumpeted - again - at the Comdex exhibition in Las Vegas.Do you (still) fancy the internet on your TV? This time it comes from French company Netgem, whose i-Player teams up a web browser and 56k modem with a decoder for the recently launched digital terrestrial TV service Freeview.On the surface the deal looks a good one. "Viewers willing to pay the £99 one-off cost to access Freeview, will be offered a device that gives them all 30 channels plus Internet access for £149.99," runs the blurb.And, given its budget price, the box punters get is impressive. Usefully, alongside the Scart lead for hooking up to the TV, there is also a USB socket for connecting a printer.Flash memory means users can grab images from a digital camera, which can then be sent as e-mail attachments. There's even a tiny portable 20Gb hard disk as an optional extra that allows user to record TV programmes.The i-Player is accompanied by a specially adapted remote control for basic surfing/e-mailing. However, to send any kind of meaningful e-mail, the consumer has to add a further £29.99 for wireless keyboard.The biggest obstacle facing Netgem is consumers' reluctance to surf the internet from their sofa on a screen several feet away.But there are other drawbacks too. While there is a "walled garden" of easy to access general information websites (weather, shopping, entertainment and so on), other internet pages have to be re-purposed for the TV. Inevitably they lack the clarity of those displayed on a PC screen.Netgem's other major problem will be the price of surfing. Surfers who use their box pay standard phone rates. But these days very few people have metered internet access. Those without broadband often take advantage of attractive deals that offer the internet anytime for as little as £10 a month.Sending a 500k JPEG photograph on the Netgem box, or accessing a host of graphics-heavy, sites could work be time-consuming and, so, pricey.Perhaps I am being a little too negative. After all an extra £50 over the price of a standard Freeview decoder gives internet newbies the chance to send e-mail and sample the web - not bad for the price.Yet at the height of the internet boom, neither of the great UK budget consumer electronics champions - Sky (with its Open Internet system) or Bush (with its Internet TV) - could realise the potential analysts had predicted for the web on a TV. I can't imagine how several years down the line Netgem will be able to pull it off.Meanwhile, over in Las Vegas, the PC industry has also revisited an old favourite. At a panel discussion at the Comdex exhibition speakers from both Microsoft and Apple outlined how the computer is set to take centre stage from television.Both Microsoft and Apple were touting the software too. The former's Windows Media Centre edition, a "fun" version of the operating system, offers the user the opportunity to control entertainment features by using a TV style remote control.Apple has technology called Rendezvous, which is integrated into the 10.2 version of Mac OS X. Next year it will allow Mac owners to stream music stored on one Mac to other Macs on the same domestic network.While there is no doubting that both Media Center and Rendezvous are innovative technologies, history shows that when they attempt to muscle in on consumer electronics territory PC software manufacturers don't always get it right.Media Center is in fact the latest in a long line of Microsoft technologies that have targeted the living room including WebTV - an internet on your set system that was moderately successful in the USA, but not popular enough to make the trip across the Atlantic.Ultimately the future of consumer electronics is likely to be shaped by companies like Sony and Philips, who are all too painfully aware that within a decade the piles of electronic boxes in a home will be replaced by a server, a mini network, flat screens and user interfaces. And that developing entertainment software systems is central to their business.Perhaps in the future both Microsoft and Apple will seek alliances with consumer electronics companies. Maybe then we will see realistic paths towards convergence between the PC and the TV.
Lastminute.com, the internet company that became a by-word for the misplaced optimism of the dotcom heyday, has pulled off a turnaround by posting its first-ever profit.The online retailer moved into the black for the first time in the final quarter of its current financial year, from July to September.Lastminute.com today announced pre-tax profits  £302,000 for the period, although the figure excludes one-off costs.     During the quarter, the most important for the travel sector, the total transaction value of items sold on its site was £112.4m, an 84% increase on the previous quarter and 140% over the same period last time.The group still posted a loss for the financial year as a whole, although this  was reduced to £38.1m from £53.7m the previous year.However, analysts are forecasting the group will  make its first annual pre-tax profit next year, when stripping out one-off charges, and its first bottom-line pre-tax profits in 2004.     "We are absolutely delighted - it is our strongest quarter, determined by the travel sector, and now we are in profit," said David Howell, the company's finance director.     Earlier this year Lastminute.com paid £12m for holiday provider The Destination Group and spent £9m snapping up online flight booking service Travelselect.com."Organically the business has grown by 55% during the year and we supported that by key acquisitions," Mr Howell said, adding the group continued to be on the lookout for acquisitions to boost the business.      The group said its new financial year - starting at the beginning of October - had begun strongly and it was confident of "another year of sustained and improving performance"."No company is recession-proof but I think we are well placed with a broad range of products to fare well in a recessionary environment," Mr Howell added.Lastminute.com floated at the height of the internet boom in March 2000 but never returned to its debut share price of 380p, slumping to 17p in September last year.Shares in the group were down 5p to 111.5p when the market opened this morning.
IT in AfricaIn response to your article regarding IT aid to Africa (Second sight, November 14), I would like to add my support to the argument in favour of IT support, in all its forms, to the developing world. I am one of the VSO IT volunteers who recently returned from three years in Ethiopia. With my involvement at higher education institutions and at the ministry of education as IT advisor, I witnessed the government's commitment to developing the use of IT at all levels of education.Unfortunately, they are in the catch-22 situation of not having sufficient trained personnel to instruct future staff and hence are unable to produce experienced and qualified people to sustain this initiative. If IT aid is to work then I would suggest a greater focus on the use of international staff on short- term placements from global corporations. The provision of IT staff from developed country universities and   corporations may prove to be more effective than simply providing financial aid as funds or IT equipment only.I would also like to point out the need to review the purchasing process that is imposed on the developing countries from the IMF or the World Bank. Although the measures put in place are commendable in minimising corruption, they seriously inhibit the opportunity for more cost-effective use of budgets. For instance, these restrictions would deny us the chance to approach a single global supplier and build a win-win partnership.Ethiopia is very ambitious in its plans and I hope the international community can support this.Andrew SchofieldAndy_vso@softhome.netLetters homeOn a continent where it takes six months and a lot of luck for a letter to reach its recipient, IT has a crucial role to play. But investment in basic infrastructure is essential. That is where Bill Gates could spend his billions. IT has also been important in the democratic movement in Africa. In Zimbabwe, only those with access to the internet and email can find out what is happening and it has been a source of information to Zimbabweans around the world.Jenny Cavenjen@jennycaven.free-online.co.ukTablet PCsUnusually Jack Schofield fails to appreciate the key virtue offered by a new technology, the Tablet PC (Corridor warriors, November 14).With tablet devices, wirelessly connected to the network, we should be able to access any document stored anywhere in the world, whenever we need it, such as in the middle of a meeting. This universal access from a truly portable device will be why the Tablet PC will take off.Jim Cuthbertjim.cuthbert@cornwell.co.ukMobile gamesI enjoyed your article on mobile phone gaming (The aim of the game, November 14), another attempt by the mobile network operators to increase their profits.One thought did cross my mind, though. All the problems of the phone's resources being firewalled to software running on the handset processor does not apply to the SIM processor. The most common processor in the handsets, the .ARM 32 bit RISC core , exists in Java base SIMs today. Why aren't the games written to run on the SIM? Games could then SMS other handsets to allow (heaven forbid) interactive gaming, increasing even more the operators' profit.The other solution is for the operators to start supply ing their own branded phones. This would allow them to control the terminal software, and open up all the interfaces. Judging from their past record, though, if they specified the phone, it would probably be as stylish as a pyrex toilet.Philip Barnettpbarnett@atmi.comFile sharingJack Schofield's comprehensive review of music file-sharing services (Working the web, November 7) fails to mention the single most important fact about them - that they are cynically profiting from music without paying a cent to the artists and songwriters.The music industry is not anti-technology, but it is pro-choice for people who make music. File-sharing services are OK, provided the artists and copyright holders agree to giving their music away. But it is not OK to build a business if it means taking music created by others without their consent.Jay BermanChairman and chief executive,International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI)OutrageousHow can you defend your article on file sharing? You even suggest installing KazaaLite. While KaZaA itself is suspect, due to the   illegal use that is made of it, KaZaALite clearly points out ithat it is itself a piece of illegal software (being a hacked, spyware-free version of KaZaa). I find your article difficult to justify morally. I have, nevertheless, circulated it widely. I and many friends are happily sharing music, audiobooks and porn videos. Thanks!Simon Fildes(email address supplied)
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:A tanker carrying 70,000 tonnes of oil which sunk off the Spanish coast this week is one of 300 pre-1980, single-hulled Japanese tankers still in use. Should these ships be banned immediately? What do you think?Pashmina:did u see jacko hangin his baby out the windowBronco:its me screensaver*LadeezMan has entered the NewsRoom*LadeezMan:yo roomBronco:the police should arrest himLadeezMan:whoPashmina:they can't! If they burst in he might chuck all his kids out!Bronco:wot are his demands thenLadeezMan:whoPashmina:world peace &amp; new noseLadeezMan:oh michael jackson yeahBronco:lolHost_Chris2:there are more important things happening in the world, peopleLadeezMan:don't say celeb big brother cos I taped itBronco:was caprice in the houseLadeezMan:I said I taped it I didnt say I watched itHost_Chris2:I was thinking of the oil spill, the argument over top-up fees, the firefighters' pay dispute...LadeezMan:don't say the autopsy cos I taped that tooBronco:I watched that when I got back from the pubLadeezMan:don't tell me about itBronco:it was really vilentPashmina:u r sick!!!!Host_Chris2:well, if nothing else such things force us to confront our own mortalityBronco:lots of bloodLadeezMan:did I just say dont tell mePashmina:yickBronco:&amp; v good car chasesHost_Chris2:Bronco, are you sure you were watching the autopsy on C4?Pashmina:CAN WE STOP NOWBronco:was Clint Eastwood in itHost_Chris2:noPashmina:it is time to return to the topic I thinkBronco:was who was the star thenLadeezMan:a dead guyPashmina:Jackos hostige baby: the seage continuesBronco:james coburn?Host_Chris2:Pashmina, I don't think Jackson is actually holding his child hostagePashmina:I might of known youd take his sideBronco:send dirty harry into get himHost_Chris2:let's return to the real topic - the sinking of the PrestigeLadeezMan:u deserve to loose prestige if u throw a baby off a balcanyPashmina:excatly. Stop defending him Chris2connection to server has been terminated...
It's Thursday, so a new issue ofOnlineis online....
Stephen Wolframpiqued the interest of those who attended his Comdex keynote by having a shell put on each chair. The shell pattern, he argued, was "printed" using the same kind of program as followed by cellular automata inLife.
USA Todayhas highlighted a few of the things on show here. There are many more....
The market for digital cameras has now overtaken the market for still cameras, and the range of models stretches from cheap novelties that double as key-rings to Sinar studio cameras capable of the highest quality. The manufacturers are therefore looking forward to a bumper Christmas. But while digital cameras have never been better, or cheaper, buyers still have to make compromises.Nor does this mean that traditional film-based cameras have gone away. In fact, Jon Tarrant, editor of the weekly British Journal of Photography, points out that "film cameras are still miles ahead by units, and miles ahead by value as well. The UK probably did sell more digital cameras this year, by value, but in global terms, digital is just a drop in the ocean. Of course, it's where the growth is."Last year, according to research firm GfK Merchandising, UK buyers snapped up 3.1m film cameras and 0.8m digital cameras. What got manufacturers excited was that digital cameras cost about &#163;311 each, on average, whereas film cameras cost about &#163;70. Digital cameras were well behind in unit sales, but almost   identical in value.This year, digital will take a clear lead, according to Colin Martin, marketing director of the Jessops chain of camera shops. UK sales of film cameras fell from 3.4m in 2000 to 3.1m in 2001, on GfK figures, and he thinks they will fall again this year. By contrast, sales of digital cameras have been growing fast, and he expects them to reach 1.5m this year.Everyone acknowledges that the comparison depends on ignoring UK sales of 13.1m single-use "disposable" cameras: they could be counted as sales of either cameras or film. But there is no doubt about which way the market is going. And with only 9% of UK households now owning a digital camera, according to GfK, there is plenty of room for growth.What is not clear is who is going to come out ahead. Digital photography is a particularly exciting market because it takes in a battle between long-established companies with strong traditions in optics - Nikon, Canon, Olympus, etc - and newcomers with roots in electronics, computing, or even printing. Toshiba, Samsung, Epson and Hewlett-Packard would probably not have entered a market based on derivatives of the Leica, but electronics gave them an edge. Hewlett-Packard, originally an electronics company, exploited its knowledge of colour printers, inks and paper to produce finely tuned systems that worked well together.It has been an invigorating battle. It has produced designs such as the Sony Cybershot range, with the lens right at the curved end, which would be impossible in a film-based camera. However, in general, it does seem that the boxy formats developed over decades of film camera use still work well, and perhaps it is no surprise that digital and film cameras are now starting to look much the same. In fact, Colin Martin thinks digital, APS (Advanced Photo System) and 35mm film cameras will eventually be mixed in Jessops stores, instead of being displayed in separate areas. But the displays will undoubtedly include cameras from firms such as Sony and Fuji, who grabbed market share when the established camera manufacturers thought digital image quality was too low to represent a serious threat.Traditional camera manufacturers also lost out because the market concentrated on the resolution of digital cameras - the number of megapixels - at the expense of established criteria such as lens quality and handling. As Simon Joinson, editor of Total Digital Photography, quips: "Resolution is what people buy because they don't under stand the rest of the specification."However, things are changing because resolution is ceasing to be a key differentiator. Joinson says: "Four to five megapixels is all an average user will ever need, unless they want to enlarge a small part of the frame. In a good camera, 5mp is more than enough for all but the most serious user."The general feeling is that cameras offering 1.3mp to 2mp are good enough to print snapshots up to about 6 by 4 inches. Those with 3mp to 4mp should be OK for 10 by 8 inch prints. You don't usually need more unless you go to larger sizes such as 12 by 16, which average users rarely do.If you take only pictures for the web or to email to friends, you can probably manage with less. What used to be the PC's standard graphics resolution, VGA, is only 640 x 480 pixels, or 0.3mp. You can take pictures at 2048 by 1536 pixels (3.1mp) but you'll have to reduce them to fit the screen.Lens quality is also significant. Like many people, I bought a digital camera mainly on its specification: at the time, 1.3mp was considered good value for &#163;599.   There are now "better" cameras - more megapixels - that produce worse results. Of course, I would never have expected a cheap camera to produce negatives as sharp as a Nikon just because both used 35mm film, but somehow I was surprised to find that applied to digital cameras, too.Another shock was to find that digital cameras can produce different results even when they have the similar mp ratings and quality lenses. This isn't because of the size of the CCD but because of the way the image is compressed. Some digital cameras can produce a RAW (uncompressed) image of what the CCD sees, but that could be a large file. In real life, the image is compressed into a JPeg: you sacrifice some quality for a much smaller file size. This means many more pictures can fit on a 16MB or 32MB storage card. But JPeg is a "lossy" format (information is lost in the compression). If the camera compresses the image too much, the quality goes down.Digital camera manufacturers often give you a choice of image size, typically between 640 by 480 (VGA)    and 2272 by 1704 pixels (3.7mp). They rarely give you much choice of compression, though it is possible. The Canon Powershot S45, for example, offers three compression settings, including Fine and Superfine. Setting the largest image size (2272 by 1704) and Superfine resolution produces JPegs of about 1.6MB to 1.8MB each. If you typically take 60K VGA snaps or average 200K to 600K files, you might be surprised by the detail. But if you want more, you can choose Canon's CCD-RAW format, download the uncompressed image data, and worry about converting   it into a usable format later.If you have a negative, you can always try to get more out of it, by scanning it again with better settings or by using a better scanner. But once you have taken a digital photograph, that's it. Anything you did not capture at the time has gone forever. To an extent, you can fake it by using "interpolation": in other words, get some software to examine two pixels side by side and guess what would have been between them, if it had been recorded. But the result is never the same.But the very worst drawback with digital cameras is what I call latency, and Join son calls "shutter lag". Having grown up with film cameras, I expect to press a button and capture what I see in the viewfinder. For this article I snapped someone cycling past my house, and by the time the picture was taken, he was almost out of the frame. This makes it hard to take decent pictures with digital cameras, but how often does anyone mention it?"We check shutter lag when we review cameras," says Joinson, "but we don't measure it. The camera has got to set the focus, set the exposure, send a signal to the shutter and so on, and it can take half a second or a second. With some early cameras it could be more than a second. It can be a serious problem, and only the very latest cameras have what I would call an acceptable shutter lag. Half a second is still considered good by most manufacturers."Shutter lag is one reason why you should never buy a digital camera without trying it first - and in digital's favour, at least you can go into a good camera shop, take lots of pictures and see the results instantly, if only on the LCD screen built into the back.There may be a solution.    Recording digital images is free - it consumes no film - so the camera could "take" a series of pictures before you press the button, says Joinson. Then when you take the picture, it just saves the last one in memory. A combined still/movie camera that can apparently work this way is the forthcomingFuji FinePix M603. Fuji expects to have two models out before Christmas at &#163;549.99 and &#163;599.99.Photography has boomed at times when amateurs and hobbyists have been able get access to the same cameras as professionals, or cheaper equivalents that often took the same lenses. That was true in the great days of the Leica and Contax rangefinder cameras, and more recently, when Nikon, Canon and Olympus SLRs were all the rage. It's not true in digital photography today. Pros are often using cameras that cost &#163;2,000 to &#163;5,000 while most "affordable" digital cameras are little more than souped-up snapshot cameras.But we are getting there. And once the megapixel wars are over, and the focus switches back to picture taking qualities, digital photography could be not just convenient and fun but, finally, satisfying.&#183;In the days before personal computing, Jack Schofield edited a number of camera magazines including ZOOM, Photo Technique, You and Your Camera, and the Photographic Journal of the Royal Photographic Society.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The runaway success of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City - it grossed more than £12m in its first few days in the UK - is a timely reminder that Britain's  video games industry is one of the few growth sectors in a period of manufacturing decline.Games developers in the UK account for 16% of world sales, a market share that our motor industry can only dream about. Its continued success, however, cannot be taken for granted as a little reported government survey concluded last month.This is mainly because our global share of games publishing (as opposed to development) is a relatively modest 5.7% and it is the publishers that have the clout and the world reach. Only Eidos remains as an independent UK-owned publisher and it is frequently mentioned as a takeover candidate. If that happens then Britain's games publishing industry, like the motor industry, will be almost entirely owned by overseas corporations.Is there a lesson here for Britain's fledgling mobile games industry? We are about to witness an explosion of games for mobile phones not least because, as Forrester notes, sales of mobiles are reaching saturation point at 76% of households. The race is now on to squeeze extra profits out of "content" and (leaving aside porn and gambling) that means games.Until recently there was a danger that UK creativity would be strangled at birth by the myopic rapacity of the telecoms operators. They were trying to monopolise this territory while at the same time offering games developers derisory revenue shares that didn't justify the investment in time and money needed to bring a game to market.Developers were being offered as little as 10 to 20% of the revenue generated by their games as opposed to 80% in Japan.They didn't seem to realise that if true market forces were operating the telecom companies and other publishers would be falling over themselves to offer rich rewards to the comparatively small number developers capable of  producing world beating content.Now it is changing. Service providers are moving heavily into selling games. Vodafone's own label GX 10 enables you to download games from the web at up to £5 a time (added to your phone bill) with almost worrying ease.The Orange smart phone will enable you to play arcade games such as Tomb Raider on your phone - at a price - while handset manufacturers including Nokia are also getting in on the act by offering games based on Java to be downloaded from their web portals.Nokia will shortly introduce a phone than is effectively a mobile games console. It has also just signed up an astonishing one million people to play its new version of Nokia Game based on text messaging.But the interesting trend is a move to bypass the oligopolistic telecommunications companies and handset manufacturers by selling directly to the public. Tesco has started selling boxed mobile games based on Java in its stores in time for Christmas.Other retailers, buoyed by the success of selling polyphonic ringtones, are likely to climb on the bandwagon. This leaves the way open for developers to bypass the operators and sell their own games either through retail stores, or through memory cards or through downloads from the web. Selling through stores makes sense if a recent Mintel survey is correct - that 80% of consumers prefer to purchase mobile content through traditional stores.     There are still a lot of obstacles to overcome before the industry takes off - like ensuring interoperability between different telephone systems and between different versions of Java. The best thing the government - and especially the regulator - could do is to help to bring about a level playing field, fair payments systems and as much standardisation of platforms as possible.With a potential user base of well over 400 million mobile phones worldwide (and growing) the rewards for a successful game  - which could be downloaded from a website - are awesome. The industry looks like a jungle at the moment.But Britain has at least as good a creative base as any other country in Europe and better than most. It remains to be seen whether the mobile equivalent of Grand Theft Auto will emerge from a small company buried in the British countryside. And, if it does, whether it is snapped up by an overseas publisher.Vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
It's not every day that close relatives of notorious dictators communicate with my computer, certainly not twice in one day. So when an implausible email from the "brother" of the late Sani Abacha dropped into my mailbox, I paused before deleting it. When, half an hour later, it was followed by an "urgent" message from the "son" of the late President Mobutu, I couldn't help laughing.Surely the Nigerian fraudsters behind this clever, but well-exposed, scam would not be so inept. Both letters promised a huge wodge of cash in exchange for a modest favour. Mariam Abacha inquired if I would retrieve $58m from a Canadian trunk on his behalf. Mr Bello Sese Seko sought my "humble and confidential assistance to take custody of Fifteen Million United States Dollars only".Had I been tempted to pursue these offers, requests for money to cover "expenses" would have followed. In a recent US case, a Berkeley bookkeeper embezzled $2.1m of company funds at the behest of the con artists. Other gullible victims are lured to overseas meetings where violence - even murder - can accompany further attempts to extort money.Advance fee fraud is as old as the hills. The Nigerian brand - known as the 419 scam after the Nigerian crim  inal statute that deals with it - began in the conventional post in the 1980s. Email is now its preferred medium. The fraudsters use the same tools as the rest of the spam industry to locate email addresses. According to theFBI's Internet Fraud Complaint Center, the scam has encompassed virtually all internet domains.But while the internet presents a cheap entry point into millions of homes worldwide, it is also a great medium for unravelling the fraud and fighting back. Official and unofficial sites have flooded cyberspace with warnings. TheMetropolitan Policemessage is simple. "If it sounds too good to be true, then it is!"The Nigerian Government andCentral Bank of Nigeriaclaim success in publicising the 419 menace and they issue online warnings.Crimes of Persuasionlists more than 2,000 variations of names used in the scam, including that of former President Nelson Mandela, whose reputation was recently exploited in a scam detected in Johannesburg.TheNigerian Fraud Email Gallerydisplays 416 examples of 419 letters. It says while    emails are attributed to a variety of "officials" or relatives of recently departed politicians, they can usually be traced to Nigeria.Internet-Fraud.composts examples of the scammers' tools of the trade, including forged bank certificates, fake passports and IDs. Contrary to police advice, it advocates adopting a disposable email address and playing along with the scam. The goal is to get the scammer to reveal a bank account number on which authorities can act.Scamorama.com promotes the distinctive literary talents of the "Lads from Lagos" as a form of entertainment, publishing amusing email exchanges between the fraudsters and fake victims.  Anti-spammer Brad Christensen has compiled a "museum" of comic email correspondence with the "419ers".In one message, he tells a Dr Elvis Anyim he will only travel to a meeting in Accra if he can be guaranteed to see a large pterosaur. Dr Elvis replies: "I had it on good authority that those species of bird are found in abundant &#91;sic&#93; in Ghana."  Other intrepid scambusters use webcams to trap the shadowy businessmen. But they are fast wising up to    anti-scam tactics.Three webcams were trained on a meeting spot in Amsterdam this month and a chat channel lined up to discuss the action. However, the "victim", a Dr Tim, missed his appointment. A multimedia"spam joke page"posts pictures of scammers, together with a collection of voicemails and even a movie showing a scammer counting fake money.The con has spawned countless message boards, email discussion groups and even merchandise such as Brian Wizard's 419 e-novelGame Over.Quatloos!, a site sponsored by Financial &amp; Tax Fraud Education Associates Inc of California, recognises donations with a 419 commemorative mug.According to the419 Coalition website, monies stolen by 419 operations are almost never recovered from Nigeria, although progress in anti-419 matters has been made under the Obasanjo government.Judging from the scores of messages on anti-scam sites, the internet crusade is having an impact. "Avoid these scams like the plague!" is the unequivocal message from scambusters.org. I have purged my mailbox of the urgent business proposals from Mr Seso Seko and Mr Abacha. Unfortunately, the anti-spam brigade has warned me to expect more from a mysterious Colonel Bundu of the Congo.
A new website launched today will make thousands of children's books from 100 different cultures available for free to children around the world.When it is completed in about five years, theInternational Children's Digital Librarywill hold about 10,000 books targeted at children aged between three and 13. It currently holds 200 titles from more than 27 cultures in more than 15 different languages.The site's goal is to expand children's reading and learning skills while teaching them about other cultures.A group of children played an important role in developing the website, which was designed by the University of Maryland and the Internet Archive, a San Francisco-based not for profit company.When some of the children  said they wanted to search for books based on how the stories make them feel, the designers responded, creating special indexes for funny or scary stories.The site has colourful icons that allow even the youngest children to navigate without knowing what all the words mean. With the click of a mouse, children can see the thumbnail-sized pages of a book unwind in a spiral or unfold like the panels of a comic book.Many of the titles are classics, such as Alice in Wonderland and Robinson Crusoe, that are no longer under copyright restriction.Some publishers, including Random House, Scholastic and HarperCollins, have contributed a few newer works from their extensive collections.Access to the library initially requires a high speed internet connection, such as a cable modem or ADSL line. Those connecting by phone modems will be able to access the site in summer 2003.
It's been a bad few weeks for Apple. The company announced a $45m loss for the three months ending September. At the same time, BusinessWeek stated that Apple had one of the eight worst boards of directors in the US. All the while, the firm's chief executive, Steve Jobs, was drawing the highest salary in corporate America.News like that brings out the doomsayers - and their "evidence" is abundant. Apple   has a low market share. In 1996, when Gil Amelio was brought in as chief executive, Apple's market share hovered at 7%. Today, its market share is below 3.5%. With Mike Spindler and Gil Amelio running the business, the company was plagued by quality problems. Its PowerBook 5300 was known as the "hindenbook" for its propensity to burst into flames.The company is notoriously bad at forecasting. In 1999, it underestimated demand for its PowerPC-based desktops forcing buyers towards Dell and IBM. Then it overestimated demand in 2000 and 2001, forcing an inventory write-down that cost the company $1bn.Surely Apple is about to slide into the footnotes of technology history?First, from a financial perspective, it won't. With $4.3bn in cash and a loyal customer base, it would take Herculean mismanagement.It is true that Apple has lost any operating system battle with Microsoft. But the operating system debate is as over as surely as the Netscape-vs-Microsoft browser war.The internet has meant that, outside the games arena, the operating system is less and less important now that   HTTP and XML are the standard for connecting distributed applications. Proprietary barriers are becoming much less popular.Second, it isn't just how many customers you have that counts, it is also how well connected they are. My informal survey of that group tells me that Apple attracts journalists, consultants and &#252;ber-geeks.For those who care about which is the best operating system, it's not Windows. It's Unix. Apple's latest operating system, OS X, has the face of the Mac and the mind of a Unix system. Unix is the platform of choice for serious applications: the ones that power most large websites and the internet in general, as well as large company programs.And so the Mac-toting Unix geek has arrived. These are developers who have eschewed their Linux-powered Intel laptops for Apple's portables running Mac OS X. Silicon Valley journalist Jon Udell reckons that the Mac may be "mainstreaming": bursting out of its traditional enclaves, the creative industry, into other areas such as the vital developer community and into companies and homes.Many large enterprises have started to investigate Linux as a desktop replace ment to Windows. Some, like Scottish police, have taken the plunge. And that was before the arrival of the most consumer-friendly desktop of them all, OS X.That isn't to say that Apple hardware is going to surge into corporations and leave Wintel slumped on the ropes. Far from it, the Windows share of market will hold fast. But it means that Apple's value proposition is attractive to customers, large and small.Apple still excels at forging new markets, just as it did with publishing and video editing. Under OS X, with the support of the open source community, groundbreaking developments are commonplace. The best "news aggregator" is NetNewsWire Lite, available only on the Mac. News aggregation is an emerging market that will change online habits as surely as file sharing did. It is a far cry from 1997, when surfing the web on a Mac normally   ended in a system crash.Apple is also at the forefront of digital media: this year, the iPod will have had a 15% share of the digital music player market, according to the Needham &amp; Co bank. The iPod, iMovie and iTunes are merely the beachheads. Its support for writable CDs and DVDs are a foothold.The vision from Cupertino for the "digital home" is one that consumers are starting to lap up. Despite its clunkiness - pre-iTunes - digital music was compelling enough for millions of people to legally go MP3. Imagine the demand when the engines of the digital home will have the elegance of the Mac.Apple is far from dead or dying. The existing customer-base is loyal. And it is sending an attractive message to new ones. More importantly, it proves that Apple is still relevant. Relevance isn't something that appears on a balance sheet. But it is a lodestone that attracts developer excitement and market buzz. Relevant firms rarely die. Far from it, they flourish.&#183;Azeem Azhar is athttp://azeem.azhar.co.uk&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Other than your writing, for what do you use the computer?I travel a lot so the supply of newspapers is a nightmare. I get a huge amount of news and information from the net. I also do much factual research online. Email has practically taken over my life! I log on to my computer upwards of a dozen times a day. I'm a keen user ofFamily Tree Makerand I've spent a long time gathering old family photos. I'm planning on getting a good scanner and sending the pictures to relatives so they can't get lost again!Microsoft?If Bill Gates were a car manufacturer he'd be arrested! It's a scandal that systems are put out without being properly tested. Software systems are so important now, our lives are based around them! A lot are released too soon for commercial purposes, and require updates and security patches!Is the ebook dead in the water?I'm interested in new ways of publishing but the experience ofebookshas been poor. They keep talking about "reader-friendly electronic screens" and so on, but the tactile nature of a book beats the pants off any electronic book. So many people have had bad experiences trying to publish electronically that I remain to be convinced.Has the computer changed the way you write?Yes, very much so. I started off beside a pool with a pad, pencil and bottle of wine. Nowadays, when you sit in front of a screen it does change the way you approach writing. Your mental processes are different. The great thing the computer allows you to do is experiment. I'm very keen on the pacing of books and writing, and sometimes computers can be a huge help in getting that pacing right. Bog-standard things like spellchecker are an enormous help, too - if humiliating!Government online?As long as the quality of what you're getting is good then there are a lot of services that could be made available online much more effectively. So many things come online before they're tested properly. You still can't get on to the1901 census siteproperly. EvenNectarhad a nightmare launch though the commercial sector often overcomes technical problems more effectively than government does. Maybe it's time the computer world made sure they can actually do things instead of just saying they can!Is the net replacing the library?As a first-stop resource possibly, but it does not come close to matching a library for the quality of information. I use the net to push the door ajar - it's like the road map; the library is still the destination.Favourite sites?www.bbc.co.uk;www.easyjet.com;www.alltheweb.com;www.churchill-society-london.org.uk;www.winstonchurchill.org; andwww.ebookers.com.Visit:www.fireandwater.com/
This evening, I dropped by the third annual Pocket PC Fan Fest at Bally's Skyview. Microsoft laid on a slap-up feast, and to get in, you just had to show a PocketPC. There were some competitive events such as beam relay races between teams of five (you had to beam a theme to one another). Dale Coffing ofPocket PC Passionwas a lively and entertaining MC and, courtesy ofDatanywhere.com, gave away lots of spot prizes for the oldest palmtop (a Philips Nino), the newest (it was still in the box), the person with the most contact addresses (about 1,700), and so on. There were a few vendors showing things on trestle tables but Microsoft itself was invisible and I only bumped into one PR. The fans seemed to have a good time.
Starting this week, viewers of Miss World will be able to participate in the first global text voting campaign by looking at pictures of contestants on the web.The global audience text vote will account for half of the total votes in deciding the winners of Miss World 2002. The contest is not without controversy following the decision by finalists including Miss South Africa, Miss Spain and others to withdraw in protest at host nation's Nigeria's threat to stone a woman to death for adultery.Nigeria now says Amina Lawal won't be stoned but has not yet taken any action to lift her death sentence.  UK-based wireless marketing company Flytxt, which has a three-year agreement with Miss World, is looking at ways to display texted protests on a live website. Its main service, however, will let viewers vote for a contestant by sending a text message (SMS) vote.In the UK, Germany, Italy, and France, viewers can text their choice to a short code (a short mobile number). For example, to choose Miss England, UK voters would text MW England to a five-digit num  ber. French voters would text MW Angleterre but send the message to a different five-digit number. Viewers in 126 countries will also be able to vote by SMS. Such votes will cost around 25p in Europe, but much less in China, where mobile charges are lower.Pamir Gelenbe, business development director of Flytxt, says: "SMS will increasingly be linked with global media properties, such as the Eurovision song contest or quiz game Who Wants to be a Millionaire."Eurovision has done some localised trials of text voting, and is expected to adopt it more widely. Global SMS campaigns could also be linked to international sporting events. Big consumer brands are considering using text messaging globally, for test marketing for example.Mars ran a vote for its M&amp;Ms chocolates earlier this year. Customers were invited to vote via SMS for their favourite colour, which would be added to the standard colours. The winner was blue.This campaign showed the marketing potential of SMS, says Andrew Jones, managing director of UK-based wireless marketer Aerodeon.Global SMS campaigns could also help non-governmental organisations such as Amnesty International get a faster response to worldwide petitions, such as its campaign to stop Nigerian Amina Lawal's death sentence.It will be some time before everyone can protest to a single global mobile short code. However, Mike Short, chairman of the Mobile Data Association, believes Europe-wide short codes will happen, as    pan-European fixed-phone numbers prefixed 388 are being introduced."If a viewer in Ireland watches a UK programme with interactive voting, the instructions often say 'UK only' because otherwise the programme makers would have to clutter the screen with details like: 'Type +44 first if you are calling from Ireland - tariffs may differ'."But setting up a global SMS platform is not without    obstacles. Flytxt's platform has direct connections to all four UK mobile operators' SMS systems and to some overseas operators' systems. From these networks, SMS votes can be sent directly into its database. In countries where it does not have a direct link, SMSs are routed via another country.The company also had a number of hurdles to overcome. For example, in some countries the texter must SMS a full mobile number, though these also tend to be the countries where premium rate text messages aren't allowed and only a standard SMS charge applies. Miss World typically attracts two billion viewers who will be able to vote from November 18 until December 6. The votes of a panel of judges will decide the other 50% of the outcome. It's a pity for Ms Lawal that so few judges are deciding her fate.Links:ww.missworld.orgwww.mertonai.org/aminawww.flytxt.comwww.aerodeon.com
Oval anticsThe Whitehouse.gov website was once more famous for being a simple mis-type away from a porn site than      anything else. Now, there might be more reason to visit the official site: members of the presidential team, including Dubya      himself, are taking time out from their schedules to show us round the home of world-wide power.Your fears over what Vice      President Dick Cheney has been up to in the past year will be allayed: he has been working on a video tour of the interior,      presented here. But don't expect too much of a critical look. For instance, in the text dealing with the Oval Office, the only      reference to Nixon has him talking to astronauts, and there is no mention of Bill Clinton's more recent antics therein. Never      mind: it will confirm to addicts of the West Wing TV series that the makers have got their sets just right.www.whitehouse.gov/history/lifeEgo surfingGuardian Online is "spotty with http", and certainly "fatter than usual". Tony      Blair, among many things, is "almost boyishly impressed". By what, we are not told. Today "is all about greed". Supplier of      this wisdom is Googlism; a site that claims to let you find out what the world thinks about your chosen subject by scanning      Google search results. Some results are uncannily correct, while others are hilariously skewed. The temptation to enter your      own name and see what it throws back is irresistible. Ego surfing is back.www.googlism.comDark placesThere is something      fascinating about abandoned buildings, but it is still much safer to indulge your interest online. Let someone else clamber      down disused railway tunnels, wade through ancient sewers, and wander round abandoned hospitals. Regular readers will know      about Abandoned Places, but may not have discovered Dark Passage. It's a quirky collection of photographs and stories from      eerie empty spaces in the US, with the promise of more exhibits soon.www.darkpassage.comwww.abandoned-places.comTreasure troveYou might have read yesterday of the launch of a vast, free to access archive of 3,500 hours of Pathe      newsreels. Sixty years of often historic images, 91,000 stories and all the cheesy links in between are now immortalised      online. The clips are designed to be downloaded using a 56k modem, but if you were looking for a wholesome reason to get      broadband, this lottery-funded wonder might prove just the ticket.www.britishpathe.comIsle willEver wanted to own a bit      of land somewhere picturesque? Now's your chance, and the price isn't going to bring your bank manager out in a rash.      Richard Haigh, an entrepreneur based in Inverness, bought the tiny island of Clett, off the north-west tip of Skye, last year.      Now he is selling off 25,000 single square foot plots for $35 (£22) each over the internet. The target market is, inevitably,      the US, where the notion of owning a tiny bit of one of Scotland's more godforsaken spots might seem romantic. But fans of      60s folk singer Donovan may also be interested: the crooner once bought the island with the intention of setting up a      self-sufficient hippy commune.www.clett.comMoney to burnRemember the boom days, when companies with no revenue      raised - and blew - heady amounts of capital? Well, you bought the stock, now buy the game: in Burn Rate you are the chief      executive of a dotcom, engaged in a battle to be the last to spend all your cash. No doubt the game makers will make lots      more selling this £15 game than many dotcoms ever did.www.burnrategame.comNew &amp; noted* CIA World Handbook: new      edition:www.cia.gov/cia/publications/factbook* Rescue old tape recordings:www.preciousvoices.co.ukSix of the bestUK MacExpoShow sitewww.macexpo.co.ukRumours. About the Mac.www.macrumors.comMac dramawww.appleturns.comMacgeeks unitewww.macslash.comMac weblogwww.myapplemenu.comApple in the UKwww.apple.com/uk
So, we are number two. After a humiliating run of poor placings in world rankings of broadband connections and other      e-indicators, the UK this week managed second place (behind the US) in an international league table of e-readiness.This is      just as well, because the study*, covering the G7 nations plus Australia and Sweden, was commissioned to test the prime      minister's ambition for the UK to be the best environment in the world for e-commerce by the end of the year.Tony Blair      can now cite independent evidence that his e-policies are working - but that there is no room for complacency, especially in      the public sector."We are doing well, but not well enough," he said on Tuesday, launching the report at an international      e-summit in London. Opposition politicians will attack the £300,000 study as a masterpiece of spin. For a start, it omits      Singapore, which might well have pushed the UK into third place. But the report is likely to have a strong influence on      government policy, especially in e-government, where it suggests the UK is lagging. Although the UK managed number two in      what the study calls overall environment, it came fifth out of nine in government "e-maturity", behind the US, Canada,      Sweden and Australia.In the other two categories the report assessed, "e-maturity of citizens" and "e-maturity of      businesses", the UK did slightly better, ranking fourth. The relative poor showing of government is a surprising finding.      Most pundits had assumed that citizens, with their notoriously poor literacy and IT skills, would let the side down. In his      first "e-speech" since he launched his UK Online project two years ago, Blair announced plans for the government to get its      act together.Here, there were no big surprises. As we have known since the chancellor's comprehensive spending review,      the government is chucking money at IT: £1bn alone on broadband networks for public services over the next three years,      Blair revealed.The headline grabber was schools: broadband for all primaries and secondaries by 2006. As expected, the      NHS will get its new broadband network "to make it possible for an ambulance crew arriving at the scene of an accident to      check the patient's record using handheld devices".A similar network will help rebuild the criminal justice system around      victims and reduce the waste of police time. With less obvious direct benefit to the public, Blair also promised more      bandwidth to the offices of the Department for Work and Pensions. Blair acknowledged two weaknesses in e-government,      first, in takeup of e-services.Only about one in 10 Britons has used an e-government service, well behind the figures in      other rich nations. He didn't say what the government would do about it. Officials said the answer would be to concentrate      on the most regularly used e-government services. But Blair hinted that one focus will be on motorists, who will be able to      "conduct all their dealings with governments online".We can look forward to the long overdue launch of online car tax (held      up because of the lack of elec tronic data on insurance and MOT), vehicle registration and driving licence applications. He      also announced the revival of the Transport Direct website, one of the many casualties of railway chaos at the turn of the      millennium. The second weakness is the tendency for big IT projects to go wrong. Blair said he had asked the head of the      Office of Government Commerce, Peter Gershon, "to bring forward immediate proposals for further strengthening the      successful delivery of IT in government".Ideas for preventing disasters would emerge, officials said. A final ingredient is      public sector reform. These new networks and measures will pave the way for "fundamental improvements in efficiency,      convenience and quality of public services", Blair said.But, presumably with an eye to current confrontations with      firefighters and NHS consultants, he did not specify what changes would be necessary in the white heat of the IT revolution.
Representatives of Microsoft, Symbian and Palm Source participated in a panel debate about the "single device paradigm", chaired by IDC analyst Roger Kay. There wasn't much disagreement, though Symbian's David Wood did his best to put the boot into Microsoft's Ed Suwanjindar over the sudden Sendo defection. (Sendo, a small British company, dropped out after failing to launch a long-delayed phone based on Microsoft Smartphone 2002.) Suwanjindar said it was "a baffling decision. It's particularly puzzling because they've had the software for a few years...."
Yet anothervulnerabilityin a Microsoft product, this time affecting Windows 98/SE, Me, NT, and 2000. SeeMicrosoft's explanationand download the patch. More technical details are in the Microsoft Security Bulletin MS02-065here
What do you get when you gather 830 people and their PCs together in one place, throw in some of the best computer games around, add sleep deprivation and a constant supply of pizza and Red Bull? The answer is insomnia 14, Britain's biggest local area network (LAN) party. Courtesy of organisers Multiplay UK, this regular three-day event brings together hundreds of gamers to hook up their PCs to a high-speed offline network and compete in games such as Counter-Strike and Quake III."I think gamers in the UK were getting fed up waiting for fast connections which is why they set up LANs," explains Steve Randall, who runs his own small LAN parties as a hobby. "So that got them out of their rooms playing faster games and getting a better overall gaming experience." Although networks are now providing faster connections for home use, Randall points out that this hasn't driven people back to solitary gaming because in the time it took for providers to launch these services, LAN parties had become well established. In his opinion, players are "no longer doing it just for the connection speed, now it's because they like getting away for a fun weekend and meeting like-minded people."It's easy to see what draws players to the insomnia LANs, which have been held four times a year since March 1999. Everywhere you look there are flickering monitors, frantic shouting and cheers from the hundreds of people who have each paid &#163;60. Agitated men run around with loops of cable, while players tinker with machines with all the care and concern of a mechanic fine-tuning a Ferrari 355.This continues long into the night, and the local Domino's pizza is kept busy, delivering straight to the players' desks. When people sleep, it's usually in the colony of tents pitched around the site, or on the floor next to their PCs.The man in the middle of   this is Craig Fletcher, the managing director of Multiplay UK, who left a medical degree to start running LAN parties. "There are much easier ways of making money than this, but I like seeing the guys here enjoying themselves," claims Fletcher. "No gaming experience compares with having a person sat right next to you. A lot of the people only know their clan mates online, and here they get to meet them face to face."One of the clans that regularly gets together at these events is the WWW (What Women Want) clan, run by 19-year-old Liz Burnett, who plays under the name Mamacita, after the feisty female wrestler. Despite the fact that more women are playing games online, only a few were participating in i14."A lot of people, especially women, don't like roughing it, then there's the travel and packing up your computer," explains Burnett, and the air is indeed decidedly testosterone filled. "It's still a very male-dominated event, but there are always more women coming, so it won't be too long before we're rivalling the men."Many of the games played at i14 are just friendlies that allow players to sharpen their skills, but the stakes are being raised with the introduction of small tournaments where players could win cash prizes, including a Rainbow Six: Raven Shield tournament with a top prize of &#163;1,500. The idea of having cash prizes instead of hardware prizes - as most of the top players have all the hardware they need - is a deliberate attempt by Multiplay to kick-start professional   gaming in this country.The reality of gaming becoming a spectator sport has only emerged in the past few years, and although it's taking off in America and Korea, the UK is still lagging behind. "Companies don't seem as willing to put up the money in this country,"says Fletcher, who believes that gaming needs strong sponsorship if it is to emerge as a professional sport."Just look at the amount of money that's being spent on other sports, and gaming is effectively a sport now, even if people don't choose to recognise it as such. Companies will eventually wake up to this, but whether they miss the boat or not is up to them."Here's hoping that companies do pick up on this growing trend in multi-player gaming, because not only is LAN gaming free from abuse and cheating, but events such as i14 are helping players break away from the stigma of gaming being for lonely geeks. They are extremely sociable events where gamers can mix, learn from other gamers, and not feel awkward or embarrassed about their favourite hobby. After all, one day it might be you cheering them on.
How would you like an alarm clock that not only knows when you need to get up, but why? The alarm clock knows, from consulting your appointments diary, that you have to go to the airport, to catch a flight to Seattle. And being connected to the internet, it can check the weather in both places, and the traffic to the airport, so the information is available at a touch of its screen. It could be just what you need, especially if you happen to be a multibillionaire Seattle resident, like the chairman of Microsoft.Bill Gates - who else - showed the smart alarm clock   during his keynote speech to mark the opening of Comdex, the world's most important computer trade show, held this week in Las Vegas, Nevada. About 12,000 people crammed into the MGM Garden Arena to see what the future might hold.The answer, as you might expect, had an overwhelming    flavour of Microsoft. Gates and his crew not only demonstrated the new Smart Personal Object Technology (Spot) of alarm clocks and fridge magnets, but Microsoft Xbox Live online gaming and Microsoft-powered Tablet PCs. PocketPCs and Media Centres, Microsoft Mira smart displays, Microsoft.Net web   services, Microsoft Movie Maker II, a free download for Windows XP, and Microsoft OneNote, a new application that will be part of next year's Microsoft Office 11.It wasn't a bad show. One video clip - a spoof of VH1's Behind the Music featuring browser pinup Marc Andreessen, John Sculley, father of the Apple Newton, Bill Clinton, Sean "P. Diddy" Combs and others - was actually funny. But it didn't do anything to revitalise a PC industry that has stopped growing, or a Comdex show that is in decline.It didn't feel like that: you could barely move for enthusiastic crowds. But Comdex used to fill the Las Vegas Convention Center, the Sands convention centre, and overspill into half a dozen hotels. The 23rd annual didn't even fill the LVCC. With the bursting of the dotcom bubble and the travel cutbacks following 9/11, the number of exhibitors has plunged from 2,337 in 2000 to about 1,100 this year. And whereas there were 211,000 visitors two years ago, it could be half that now.Depending on how things go, the show's organiser, Key3Media, may decide to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy at the end of the week, according to Associated Press.There were, of course, lots of things to see. Dell Computer got a plug from Gates for its new Axim X5 PocketPC handhelds, with models at $199 and $299 (including $50 rebates). HP boss Carly Fiorina responded, during her own keynote, but brandishing a new iPaq h5450, which includes Bluetooth and Wi-Fi wireless communications plus "biometric security" - a built-in fingerprint recognition system. It will be available in the UK late next month for &#163;599 including VAT.Four companies, including Gateway, launched PCs running Microsoft Windows XP Media Center Edition, which allows a PC to be used like a TV, via a handheld remote control.The PC/TV/movie-making connection was also reinforced by nVidia, which provides the graphics chips used by many PCs and by the Microsoft Xbox. NVidia said it was introducing "cinematic com puting" with the launch of its new 500MHz GeForce FX graphics chip and new CineFX architecture. However, graphics cards featuring the new processor are not expected to reach the shops until February.Last but not least, a small company called Danger showed off a new $99 GSM/GPRS PDA-phone called the Hiptop, presumably because you can wear it in a holster on your belt. The Hiptop has a black-and-white screen, which swings around to reveal a little keyboard, and comes with a plug-in camera. According to chief technology officer Joe Britt, it does email, web surfing, SMS and AOL Instant Messaging. That kind of always-on use would usually flatten the batteries in a few hours, but since AIM is also running on Danger's servers, not on the device itself, apparently it doesn't.The Hiptop has recently gone on sale in the US as the T-Mobile Sidekick, at $199. Monthly charges are $39.99 or $59.99 per month, depending on the number of minutes of voice calls. GSM data is included in the flat rate charge.But Comdex isn't the first place the Hiptop has appeared: it won a Best of Show award at the rival Consumer Electronics Show (CES), which is also held in Las Vegas. Worse, all the Tablet PCs, flat screens, set-top boxes, digital cameras, handheld computers and mobile phones shown at Comdex could just as easily be shown at CES, instead.Since consumers are still buying gadgets, CES is still growing strong, and it increasingly looks as though it could take over. That won't worry Gates, of course. He already does a keynote at CES, too.
Dick Tracey fans who dream of carrying round personal information in their watch may not have too long to wait. US      company Fossil has unveiled a watch that doubles as a personal organiser by using the PDA maker Palm's operating system.      Due to be introduced in the middle of next year, the Wrist PDA (Palm) made its debut at the Comdex technology exhibition in      Las Vegas this week.Palm users will recognise the familiar application icons on the watch's square touch screen. These can      be accessed via a tiny stylus in the band, or by using a rocker switch on the side of the watch. Owners input information via      Palm's virtual handwriting system, Graffiti, or by using the Palm software on their PC or Mac and synching with the Wrist      PDA via its USB connection.The watch's infrared can be used to beam business cards or addresses to owners of other      Palm-powered devices. The Wrist PDA comes with Palm's 4.1 operating system and its applications list includes address      book, date book, calculator, memo pad and to do list. Palm expects a host of third-party applications to be available for      download via the internet, the scope of which is limited by the storage on the watch - 2MB. Fossil is claiming that the Wrist      PDA will run for around four days before batteries need recharging.It remains tight-lipped about price, though its less      sophisticated watch PDAs have sold for around £100. See www.fossil.com&#183;Fuji claims to have bridged the gap between a      digital still camera and a camcorder with the FinePix M603 which reaches stores later this month. The M603 captures      digital video at 640 x 480 pixels at 30 frames per second, footage that Fuji claims is good enough to view on a standard      television. While the supplied 512MB IBM Micro Drive storage cartridge will only store seven minutes of footage, the camera      features a slot for an xD-card.Such cards, developed jointly by Olympus and Fuji will eventually offer significantly more      storage. An 8GB version capable of storing two hours of video is in the pipeline. Other facilities sported by the M603 include      a 3.1mega pixel CCD, a 4.4 x digital zoom, voice memo and a very large 2.5inch TFT LCD screen. It will be on sale later this      month priced at £700.Seewww.fujifilm.co.uk
Official Football Manager (Southampton, Arsenal, Man City, Chelsea, Leeds)PC £24.99 Smoking Gun/ Just Football ****Football management games have been around since the mid-80s, and have carved a big niche in the gaming world. Over      recent years, one brand - Championship Manager - has risen to the top, with its comprehensive database, regular updates      and addictiveness. But as the series has grown, so has its complexity. Then there is the lack of focus on any one club.Recognising a gap in the market, Just Football has nipped in with the Official Football Manager series - a number of games      based on individual clubs. Not only can you choose your own team, but you also get specific images of the stadium, changing      rooms and fans. If you support one of the teams, you'll thrive on this level of detail.It is also easier to play and more      focused than Champ Manager. Yes, you've got lots to deal with, but you could finish a season in an evening, leaving the      assistant manager to look after the training schedule. There are no graphical match highlights. Instead, games are shown as      a series of textual events, with imagination still vital.Hardcore CM players will be disappointed with the lack of in-depth      statistics, although there is more than enough to give you a feeling of control. If the thought of leading, say, Southampton      to victory at Anfield makes your pulse quicken, then this is for you. (GH)Kingdom HeartsPS2 	&#163;39.99 Sony/Squaresoft		****For those of us who grew up with such classic Disney films as The Jungle Book and Snow White, the big budget Disneyfied movies now produced are less likely to impart a feeling of childhood wonder than induce the feeling that you've just bitten a sugar pig. A Disney spin on the classic Final Fantasy games is therefore seemingly fraught with danger. In fact, Kingdom Hearts perfectly encapsulates the magic from both worlds.The story starts with Sora, a young boy who hasn't known anything but his idyllic island life. He is thrown into a mysterious universe where he learns that an evil force has disrupted the king doms of the world, and only he holds the key to repairing the damage. Disney's magical kingdom is also in turmoil after the disappearance of King Mickey, and the Disney characters call on Sora to help solve the mystery.Aside from the fact that it's in real time rather than turn based, the gameplay mechanics and overall style has many of the typical Final Fantasy hallmarks. The animations are both beautiful and nostalgic, as alongside many recognisable Final Fantasy characters, almost every Disney creation you can think of makes an appearance.Kingdom Hearts is heavy on the cutesy eye candy, but a little of the darker Disney days of The Black Cauldron and Fantasia has been allowed to creep in to give the game a bit more depth. For adults to write this off as "just for the kiddies" would be doing themselves out of a magical trip into everyone's childhood fantasy world.  (RP)Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4PS2/Xbox/ GameCube		&#163;39.99 Neversoft/ Activision 	***** A yearly instalment of Tony Hawk's Pro Skater has    become as inevitable as death and taxes. But it's always a lot more welcome, and Activision has neatly sidestepped potential allegations of cashing in by giving the fourth iteration of its all-conquering skateboarding game a substantial restructuring.  Instead of having two minutes to fulfil the objectives laid out at the start of    each level, those missions are now acquired by talking to characters within the stages, leaving you free to explore.The silky control system remains the same, although two moves have been added: Spine Transfers and Skitching (in which you cling on to the back of moving vehicles). Everything about the game is bigger and better, notably the    levels and the number and diversity of missions.  Some of the things you must do to progress are hilarious, such as knocking fishermen's catches into the San Francisco Bay to distract sea lions from a tourist they have cornered, or smashing a wino's pink elephant hallucinations.The game's new format (each level has 16 goals) mercilessly exposes gaps in your ability to string tricks together and now, more than ever, the game allows you to perform stunts that will have onlookers gasping.  Precious few games are enjoyable to watch as well as play, but this is. And as it is both funny and exhilarating, it can be seen as a lesson in how to keep an ageing franchise fresh and relevant.  (SB)
USB linkCan you provide more information on connecting two PCs using a USB cable? According to theusb.org website, it's illegal. It's not clear if their proposal using USB bridges will work - and it may be more costly than doing it through Ethernet. Has anyone done it?Jim DormandJack Schofield replies:Thanks for the reference to this site: if I had known about it, I would have included a warning with last week's answer. My preferred system for connecting two personal computers is to use Ethernet and a cheap hub. This is reasonably affordable now that    many, if not most, PCs and all Macs include an Ethernet port as standard.However, it is possible to run a network connection that connects two PCs via a USB cable such as the Belkin USB Direct Connect and Laplink's USB Network Cable. But be warned: it is vital to install the special networking software first, and not attempt to use the Direct Cable Connection software in Windows.ISDN?I can't get broadband, but I'm told an ISDN line could double my internet connection speed. I'm not sure it would be worth it.Allan J CochraneJS:BT sells ISDN under theHome Highway label, and it is expensive at about &#163;25 per month. ISDN splits one phone line into two, and if you use both channels together, you get 128kbps - more than twice dial-up speed. ISDN is not "always on" but it connects quickly enough to work as a substitute for broadband. However, you also need an internet service provider that will support channel bonding under a flat rate "surf anytime" deal at a reasonable price. You may be able to find one from the listings atISP Review.Kernowserve, for    example, offers 128K ISDN HomeFree for &#163;32 per month, but warns that it "is not intended as an always-on service".Quik Internethas a range of options. Unfortunately, the total cost is unlikely to be worth it, except to business users.File changeI have a PC with Windows XP Home installed, with a 250MB Iomega Zip drive. If I change the file format from FAT to NTFS, should I back up data files first? And will my Iomega Zip drive work?  David MerrittJS:You should  always back up data files! Otherwise, Iomega does not support or recommend the use of NTFS on Zip disks, and NTFS is too big for floppies. You can continue to use both Zip disks and floppies with the old DOS (FAT) format, and XP should have no problems reading and writing to them. The files remain the same no matter which format is used to store them.Contact pointI used to have a pane, bottom left, showing entries in the address book in Outlook Express. Can I get it back?Chris RogersJS:Go to View|Layout and tick the entry for Contacts.USB drivesWhen a USB memory pen is plugged in to a Windows PC, will it appear as a removable drive or will the new hardware wizard pop up?Keith ScottJS:In general, USB drives are recognised automatically in Windows Me, 2000 and XP. Windows 98 needs a driver installed. I have just discovered that many digital cameras with USB cables are also recognised as removable drives in the same way. That means you can download photos by dragging them across in Windows Explorer, without installing the camera manufacturer's software - very handy if you are away from home. Linux 2.4.0 and Mac OS 8.6 and later versions can also recognise USB drives automatically.Mice madnessI want to cut and paste blocks of text in Microsoft Word. However, as soon as I pull down beyond the screen view, the document highlights rush to the end.Heather GovierJS:There does not seem to be a way to stop this "mouse madness", so the only solution is to avoid it. There are other ways to select text. The obvious way is to hold down the shift key and use the cursor keys to select what you want. You can use the Page Down    key if there is a lot of it. The clever way is to click where you want the selection to start, then use the scroll bar to scroll down the text. When you get there, hold down the shift key and click the mouse where you want the selection to end.Backchat&#183;Last week, Pat Baker had set up a web page for a chess club and was having problems getting it listed by search engines. Torven Zeffertt says to submit the site "usingJim Toolsor any other free site submitter atGoogle directories."&#183;David Wood has some better ideas about dealing with versions of Zone Alarm that dial out without being asked. "For Windows 98, the workaround I like and use is to uncheck 'Load ZoneAlarm at startup' in Preferences, then click on the Zone Alarm icon the first time I want to connect to the internet, rather than using a Dial-Up Networking (DUN) connection. This will load ZA and dial out. Alternatively, select 'Never dial a connection' in Control Panel|Internet Options| Connections."&#183;Phil Openshaw has a better idea for getting music files with WinMX. "Install the free extractor atwww.infamus.com",    he says, "run WinMX, and type in the search box ALBW for a list of complete albums as opposed to individual tracks. After downloading the files, unwrap the tracks with the extractor."&#183;Peter Rose reports that his PC problems were fixed by downloading the 4160 Engine Hotfix for the McAfee virus scanner. Network Associates lists the potential problems as: blue screens, excessive machine slowdown; system clock time loss; jerky mouse cursor movement; and "stuttering" sound cards. Seewww.nai.com/naicommon/download/enginehotfix.asp
The Movielink online service backed by major studios doesn't support the Mac because the Mac doesn't support digital rights management (DRM), reportsCNet. Cinema Now, Yahoo's Launch music service, PressPlay, MusicNet, Listen's Rhapsody and FullAudio don't support the Mac either. Apple is taking a big gamble on the MPEG-4 standard. This is particularly risky sinceMicrosoft's proprietary WMP9(Corona) includes DRM and already delivers superior quality. [Free registration required.]
Things go from bad to worse at UK cable company NTL. It now has a new way to deal with those annoying customers calling up to report the all-too-frequent faults. The poor call centre workers, doubtless sick of answering queries about the company's appalling level of service, are now simply picking up, blurting out "we're too busy to take your call now, bye!" and cutting off the caller.That's if you get through to anyone: the company has introduced a tortuous call handling system that siphons users off into a terminal loop of lengthy recorded messages in lieu of putting you through to a human being.Next time you hear them insisting its customer service is getting better - and they are prone to claiming this - pop over to the newNTL:hellsite to see what the real story is. We used to like the oldNTLhellworldsite, but NTL - despite suffering from enormous debt that almost brought it down this year - found the cash to buy the site up.
The newsreel began with the printed words: "We believe it our duty to screen these pictures as a warning to future generations."What followed left audiences all over Britain in a silence still remembered by those who are old enough.The three-minute film ended, according to the Pathe News catalogue, with a "panning shot of the dead and charred bodies spread across endless fields. Most are skeletons".Yesterday this first footage of Belsen concentration camp, screened in cinemas on March 30 1945, went online - with 100,000 other historic stories - for the benefit of new generations who have seen only flickering extracts from them on television.It is part of an archive of 3,500 hours of news bulletins starting in the era of silent cinema in 1902, when Pathe News opened in Britain, and ending in 1970.For much of the 20th century, it was the public's main communal source of visual news. It was killed by colour television and by the increasingly out-of-date flavour of deferential pomposity in its news coverage.But its archive is a priceless asset whose images have been mined by television, films, home video and advertisers. It has 84 clips of the great mid-century footballer Stanley Matthews, the first in 1932.The twice-weekly bulletins covered events including the Titanic disaster in 1912, the first world war, the 1926 British general strike, the American depression, the atomic bombs which ended the second world war, and the first moon walk.The footage was digitised as part of a &#163;50m programme under the national lottery new opportunities fund. A mock-up of the Pathe News cockerel, whose image opened each bulletin, walked Trafalgar Square yesterday as the culture secretary, Tessa Jowell, launched the website.Some 15,000 hits were counted on the site by lunchtime yesterday and 3,500 people downloaded film clips. Clips are free at present but web pages already have forms which would allow prices to be charged. A spokesman for Pathe News, which is owned by the Daily Mail and General Trust Group, said subscriptions would be introduced in several years' time, "but they will not be prohibitively expensive".He added: "The site will be immensely useful to historians and to others. There are enough footballers on it to keep a fan going for months."A long-running complaint against Pathe News was that it followed the views of governments too closely in framing news for its mass audiences. A tendency towards propaganda is reflected in the archive.Clips on the general strike emphasise the reassuring presence of soldiers and volunteer civilian reservists rather than the issues of the strike.The Hiroshima and Nagasaki newsreel opens with women in Trafalgar Square "barn dancing" with joy at the Japanese surrender. Only later, according to Pathe's catalogue, is it made clear the surrender was caused by "two huge explosions at night".The archive is atwww.britishpathe.com
Microsoft hasrevealedthe profit levels of its various divisions, and the 86% profits made on Windows have attractedcomment. To hear these people talk, you might think this kind of margin was unusual. It isn't. For example, IBM -- a much bigger company than Microsoft -- hasa gross margin of 75.2%in its software business. Adobe's gross profit margin has slumped recently from96.8% to 93.6%. Autodesk has just reported a gross profit margin of89.5%. Microsoft's most recent gross profit margin was88.4%. In sum, this kind of gross margin is an entirely typical and predictable characteristic of a successful software company. It reflects the fact that, once written, software costs little or nothing to duplicate, and may cost almost nothing to distribute (eg if users download it at their own expense). I know the world is full of idiots whose brains are incapable of understanding anything except a manufacturing business model -- "cost plus" pricing where the CD costs 25p, a manual costs 50p and so on -- but there is really no excuse for it. (And, by the way, if this was not typical of the software industry, the open source development model would not work either. Just try making cars by getting individuals to make the parts and give them away.) The really shocking thing about Windows is that the margins are not closer to 100%, since it is basically a royalties business. The PC manufacturer bears the cost of duplication, supplies the manuals, distributes the product, and provides the support. Microsoft just has to ship a couple of "masters" to, say, Dell, at negligible cost, then collect the fees for 16 million sales. Microsoft is hugely profitable, of course, but it could clearly make more if it did not spend vast sums on programmers and R&amp;D. Perhaps Gates should take a look at how much money Elvis makes, even though he's been dead for years.
Tuesday lunchtime's debate on "intellectual property rights" at Comdex put Richard Stallman (founder of the free software movement) and John Perry Barlow (Electronic Frontier Foundation) on stage against some unfortunate representives of the entertainment businesses. It seemed to be a lively and entertaining debate, spoiled by mediocre presentation. To be specific, from where I was sitting, speakers were largely inaudible for much of the time. At least Infoworld's reporter heard enough to file a story,here. Stallman was in fine form, saying it was "tyrannical to try to stop people making copies and only a police state can stop you." He added: "I would like to see the record industry abolished." Stallman is best known for starting the development of what is now known as Linux (long before Linus Torvalds came along) and for devising the GPL, a software license that could have been designed to abolish the commercial software industry.
Four Linux providers promised to support a common version, and they got together at Comdex to launchUnitedLinuxfor servers. At the moment there are no plans for a desktop version. However,Lindows-- a desktop version of Linux that claims some level of compatibility with Microsoft Windows -- has also been released in version 3. It costs $129 (or $119 if you download it), which makes it two to three times more expensive than OEM versions of Windows.
... may not be a straight fight between PCs and games consoles, reports The San Jose Mercury News. Another competitor could be theDVD player.CNethas a good account of the debate.
Microsoft has now posted a summary of Gates's Comdex keynotehere. Of course, if you want the verbatim record, that's on the Microsoft web site,here. Finally, if you have 90 minutes to spare, you can watch the whole thing streamed using DirectShow. Section 4 includes the best bit of acting. Neil Charney is lying fully dressed on a bed, asleep, with a poker chip stuck to his face, when the phone rings...
Let's face it, what every geek really wants today is a Segway Personal Transporter, and they are finallyon sale at Amazon.comat $4,950. You're allowed to order two....
Back in the days when money was money and you got a full 240 pennies to the pound, no trip to the cinema was complete without the 10-minute news reel. Shortly after the ice-cream lady had come round in the intermission between the double feature - you got two films for the price of one then - the cockerel logo would appear on screen and you would settle back to the Path&#233; News round-up of the week's events from around the world.Well, round-up and news may be putting it a little strongly. By the 1960s Path&#233; had become rather idiosyncratic, having decided it couldn't compete with the hard reportage of daily television news. What you   tended to get was a quaint snapshot of British life. You'd start with a clip of a few loyal subjects being deferential to Her Maj on one of her royal tours, and end with a visit of the Windmill girls to Paris or a dolly-bird in a pink mini-skirt hanging out next to a pink Mini. It was all very comforting and reassuring, and often, it has to be said, a great deal more entertaining than the main film.If TV news put the first nails in the Path&#233; coffin, it was colour TV that buried it six feet under. Throughout the 60s Path&#233; had managed to keep an audience by filming in colour, but once TV got in on the act, the game was up. The last Path&#233; News was screened on February 26, 1970. "It contained an item called 'Prelude to a Royal journey to New Zealand',"   laughs Julian Aston, managing director of British Path&#233;. "The cameramen knew their jobs were coming to an end and they just wanted to get as much foreign travel in while they still could."Bizarrely the very medium that knocked Path&#233; off the screen has sustained it for the past 30 years, as Path&#233; has made a very lucrative business of selling broadcast-quality clips back to telly. Up till now, though, its film stock has not been available to the general public as this was thought to be too difficult and cumbersome to manage. From today all that has changed, as British Path&#233; has digitised its archive and put it online. For the next three years low res images will be free, higher res will cost &#163;75 for seven clips. "We believe we have a   unique resource of moving images," Aston continues, "and we hope that everyone from schools, libraries, universities to individuals make use of it."Paris in the last decade of the 19th century was the centre of the pioneering work in motion pictures. It was here that Gaumont and Lumi&#232;re    were based, and it was here that Charles and Emile Path&#233; set up shop in 1896. Aston sees parallels between the birth of moving pictures and the start of the internet. "They found a way of distributing information that had hitherto been impossible," says Aston. "They realised that all they had   to do was equip theatres with film projectors and they had a captive audience and a ready market."Les fr&#232;res Path&#233; started producing short news reels and by the early 20th century they had offices in both London and New York. One of Path&#233;'s oldest items is Queen Victoria's funeral in 1901. For the next 70 years the company documented nearly every major world event, including the death of the suffragette Emily Davison at the Derby, the Hindenburg disaster, both world wars and the liberation of the Nazi death camps. "At the beginning of the first world war the Germans had no motion cameramen." Aston says. "They were lent some by the French so that their history of the war could be recorded."Inevitably much of the footage and the voiceovers appear dated and stilted now. "It was a different era and British Path&#233; developed an unmistakable style that was proudly patriotic," Aston explains. "There wasn't any censorship as such - people just didn't film anything that wasn't going to be shown. We have hours and hours of footage of the Queen from a baby to an adult and we've looked for a clip of her making a mistake but we can't find one. Of course she must have made mistakes, but the cameramen were too polite to record them."The only exception is the wedding of the Edward VIII and Wallis Simpson. The world's press was invited to a photocall in Paris, and we have some footage of the couple standing together, but it was never screened. It was considered too disloyal to the new king, George VI. But that's just the way things were; it wasn't until Princess Margaret and Group-Captain Peter Townsend split up in the 1950s that the press broke rank and door-stepped St James's palace."Path&#233; also made thousands of hours of magazine footage. These include the first ever dedicated women's programme, Eve's Film Review, which ran from 1921 to 1933. Its first edition featured "a popular actress has a stork painted on her shapely shoulders", "a hotel waiter shows how to create dainty shapes with serviettes" and "a charming picture of the minuet dance in an old-world garden". "Oh yes," smiles Jenny Hammerton, Path&#233;'s archivist and author of For Ladies Only, a history of Eve's Film Review. "Watching it taught me how to be a flapper." At least I think that's what she said.The trend toward magazine-style features became more marked in the 1960s when news coverage gave way to lifestyle values, and there are endless clips of the swinging sixties - though if you watch closely you quickly realise that by and large, the swinging was all being done by a few famous faces within several square miles of central London.Digitising the archive was made possible by a cash injection of &#163;1m from Path&#233;'s parent company and matched funding from the National Opportunities Fund. Aston naturally hopes everyone will sign up for the high-res option, but perhaps he isn't aware how little money schools have. In any case, the low-res images look good to me. So log on while you can. Your three-year window starts now.www.britishpathe.com
Pleased to see inthe Registerthat streaming radio for 3G phones has taken another step closer to reality. Ten companies are getting together to attempt what sounds like quite a neat interactive "radio" service, sending customised music, news and video-clips to users' handsets. The Reg takes quite a sceptical view towards the chances of success for such a service, but the fact is few people have any clue what is going to be a "killer" 3G service - even if there is going to be one. So the fact interactive radio doesn't figure high up on people's wish lists today probably means nothing.
This morning's keynote speech -- HP boss Carly Fiorina at 9.00am -- was packed out. If Comdex is down this year, it is impossible to tell from the crowds. I congratulated myself for getting to the event at about 8.30, because there is a limit to how many thousand people you can fit into a corridor -- and that's what the Convention Center concourse is, even though it is a fat one. Unfortunately I neglected to consider that the problem would be considerably worse on the way out. Oh yes, the answer is that you can fit several thousand people in a corridor, but they don't go very far very fast....As for Carly, she showed us her new TV adverts, which are really no better than her old TV adverts. Her first and last message was to Think Positive: "Progress is not made by the cynics and doubters. Progress is made by those who believe that everything is possible," she said. The second message was that HP is a big important world-beating company that can challenge IBM, not just one that sells dinky colour printers to home users. She did get in what some referees might consider a low blow: HP is open, she said, "not a company pretending to be open in order to get you to buy more of its proprietary technology."Incidentally, AOL has come through again, with this posting being made by good old-fashioned dial-up. I just spent most of an hour in a black hole, trying to sort out a non-working Wi-Fi system. It seems the Comdex press room network has about 400 IP addresses but there are about 650 people trying to use them. Having failed to get a working wireless connection, I eventually tracked down a working Ethernet router ... only to find it wouldn't talk to my ThinkPad. Phone lines are like gold dust. It was actually a lot easier to communicate from Comdex in pre-Internet times. The systems were much more primitive, of course, but there weren't so many people trying to use them.
The long-awaited new CD from ex Take That star Robbie Williams hits the shelves today, and Bernhard Warner ofReuterstakes the opportunity to look at how record companies are fighting music piracy. Instead of trying to ban the file-sharers, they are simply flooding the networks with Robbie Williams MP3s that are either silent, or which fade out after 30 seconds. Smart stuff. They might be playing dirty on the quiet, but these tactics are a lot more net-savvy than their heavy-handed attempts to silence the file-sharers in court. And, I expect, they will be a lot more effective too.
Advertising may be getting more sophisticated all the time, but the rarefied world of publishing is one area which has remained doggedly unchanged by advancing technology. Book sales have traditionally relied on word of mouth and the odd poster campaign or newspaper review, but today sees the start of a new genre in literary advertising - the animated trailer.The Life of Pi, winner of this year's Booker prize, is one of four books that have been selected as the inspiration for a series of five-minute animation sequences which can only be accessed online and which, its creators hope, will take book-buying to a whole new audience.   Peter Collingridge, of the Edinburgh-based company Screenbase, which produced the films, says he was driven by a desire to reach a wider audience which was web-literate but who were not traditional book buyers. "Book advertising tends to be creatively lacking and we want to bring a more global approach to it, in the way that brands like Levi's and PlayStation approach their marketing," he says."By doing this we are hoping to reach beyond those people who traditionally buy three books a month and get to a younger audience, who are more aware of media other than print."David Graham, the managing director of Canongate which published The Life of Pi, is convinced that flash films will be part of the future of book advertising. "It's impossible to know exactly how it will translate in terms of book sales, but it is innovative and exciting and will hopefully make an impact on the rather staid world of book advertising." And he is sure that other publishers will follow Canongate's lead. "Publishers are currently missing a lot of opportunities on the web and they are spending a lot of money missing those opportunities."Collingridge, who used to work at Canongate, says The Life of Pi made an obvious choice for this type of film. Author Yann Martel's rather surreal cast of characters immediately lend themselves to the idea of an "off-the-wall film".The book is about Pi, the only human survivor of the wreck of a cargo ship in the Pacific ocean who spends 227 days clinging to a lifeboat in the company of a hyena, a whingeing zebra with a broken leg, an orang-utan and a 450lb Royal Bengal tiger called Richard Parker.The film was directed by Hoss Gifford, a website designer who has worked for Burger King, J&amp;B whisky and BBC Choice, but who is chiefly known for his Spank the Monkey site. He spent 18 months working on his film and was first given the book when it was still in manuscript form and all thoughts of literary awards were pie in the sky. "The book is great and I have done quite an abstract piece of work for it, although there are clues as to what the book is about. We didn't want to just make a straightforward trailer," he says."I have tried to create something that works on its own as a short film but that will also enhance the reading of the book. If you go back to the film after reading the book, there are things which will suddenly make sense to you." Gifford has made visual allusions to things that are initially hidden in the novel.Although the blurb on the back reveals that Richard Parker is a tiger, the reader is not told until halfway through. Gifford has played along with this by making the lifeboat orange and lashing it with black ropes to resemble a tiger's stripes but without giving the game away. Collingridge says he and Canongate originally wanted to give both up-and-coming and well established film-makers a book to read and ask them to make a film about it. But they quickly realised that film was not the best medium for the web and turned instead to flash animation, which is designed for the internet and allows the user to interact."We both watch a lot of pop videos and were frustrated by the fact that they are often beautifully shot but there is no narrative. The idea for the films was partly born out of that. We were very clear that it didn't have to be a dramatisation of the book. The directors were allowed to do exactly what they wanted and the idea was that people would see the film and think it was so off-the-wall that they would want to read the book that inspired it," he says.Gifford decided to make his contribution part film and part video game. At the start the viewer is given a certain amount of control over what happens to Pi but as the "game" progresses, the keys will no longer do what you expect and by the end, you have no control over what is happening onscreen, in the same way that Pi has no control over his destiny.The other three books to have been given the flash treatment are a poem by Gil Scott-Heron, from his book Now and Then, directed by Julian House, who has worked on a number of videos for the band Primal Scream, the book of Genesis, with a foreword by the geneticist Steven Rose and animation by Israeli director Gili Dolev, and Smokescreen by Robert Sabbag which was directed by the awarding-winning company Hi-Res!.Screenbase, which has also designed sites for the Edinburgh Festival and last week launched a series of 30-second films for Channel 4, is currently in talks with some of the major publishing houses about future deals on other books and is hopeful that the films will eventually be aired in cinemas and on television."I would love to do the Penguin classics for example. So many books just get lost in the general white noise that is book marketing and this is about lifting them out of that. We also hope that it will have a positive effect on sales," he says.Martel, who has provided the voices for the film, says simply that it is "perfect".   The films will be live from today and can be accessed by visitingwww.canongate.net/pi.
For one day a year, the hottest ticket in Las Vegas is not for a pop star or sporting event but for a computer geek - when Microsoft's co-founder Bill Gates gives the opening keynote speech for Comdex, the giant computer trade show.Last night more than 10,000 people crammed into the MGM Garden Arena, many of them hoping for something that would revive the depressed IT industry. Instead, they got what was largely an extended Microsoft commercial.A revivalist message was certainly needed in Las Vegas this year. The 23rd annual Comdex/Fall has shrunk from something that dominated the city to a level where it doesn't even fill the Las Vegas Convention Center. The number of exhibitors has plunged from 2,337 in 2000 to about 1,100 this year. While the number of visitors is not yet known, everyone expects the attendance will be down, possibly below 125,000.Depending on how things go, the show's organiser, Key3Media, may decide to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy at the end of the week, according to Associated Press.Reversing the economic cycle, and getting Americans to travel the way they did before 9/11, are clearly beyond even Gates's Harry Potter-style wizardry. However, Microsoft's power does allow it to launch "platforms" that other companies can build hardware around, write software for, or simply sell, thus giving the market a stimulus.Gates often uses his Comdex keynote to present new platforms to a global audience, the most recent example being Tablet PCs with built-in handwriting recognition. This year, Gates did show off a few if the results, including Dell's first palmtop computer, a handful of Tablet PCs, and remote screen displays, code-named Mira, which have yet to reach the shops. But this year, there was little that was new for the industry to exploit.Gates did, as expected, unveil Microsoft Spot, or Smart Personal Object Technology. This is based on the idea of personalising electronics devices. A smart alarm clock, for example, could know your schedule and collect appropriate information.If you were flying to Microsoft's home town of Seattle -- the example demonstrated -- it could check the weather, traffic conditions and flight times. A Spot-based alarm is expected to go on sale next year, but the whole idea could turn out to be a dog.There may, of course, be a large market for smart personal devices such as TV sets and smart-top boxes, digital cameras, handheld computers and mobile phones. But instead of saving Comdex, all these are more likely to boost the rival Consumer Electronics Show (CES), which is held in Las Vegas in January. Gates provides a keynote for that show, too.
Until it was broken up, the Landslide website offered its subscribers access to the most violent and obscene pictures of child abuse available. Some of its members entertained one another by raping and torturing babies and children live on the net. Others swapped soundtracks of children screaming as they were assaulted. By the time American investigators infiltrated the website three years ago, it had more than 80,000 paying subscribers, and was making &#163;1m a month. When they cracked the codes surrounding the site, and jailed the couple who set it up, investigators were able to use credit card details to identify the subscribers. More than 7,000 of those people appeared to live in the UK, and some 2,500 had visited the site at least 10 times. Last year, information on these suspects was passed on to the British police, who sent the details on to individual forces in early summer. And that's when the problems began.You might imagine that the police would take instant action when presented with the names and addresses of thousands of people who appear to have committed serious crimes. After all, most policemen spend much of their time fruitlessly engaged in the opposite occupation: they know a crime has been committed, but they can't identify the criminal. What could be easier than arresting people on the basis of detailed evidence supplied by the FBI?That isn't what has happened. Fewer than 200 people have been charged. The vast majority of those on the list haven't been investigated yet, and children's charities fear that they never will be. It turns out that most of Britain's police forces simply don't have the necessary resources or the computing expertise.It takes six officers simply to arrest a suspect. Two watch the back and the front of the house, while two make the arrest. Then the whole house has to be searched. The computer has to be dismantled and removed, but the images that the police are looking for can be hidden anywhere - in tiny memory sticks, disks, videos, boxes of photographs or digital cameras. Then the difficult work begins. The computer and its hard drive need to be analysed, but the majority of forces have only a handful of officers who are technically competent to do the work. Consultants can be called in, but they need to be vetted, and charge around &#163;2,000 for every machine. Every negative has to be developed, and every tape and CD-rom, no matter how apparently innocuous, has to be watched in its entirety.Peter Spindler, a detective superintendent who specialises in child protection for the Metropolitan police, says the detailed analysis is necessary because the police aren't just trying to corroborate the American evidence. They're also looking for any indications that suspects are abusing children themselves. Someone has to produce all those millions of images, and the Americans have found that a third of all their net paedophiles have been active abusers. In Britain, the Greater Manchester police are finding that the figure is one in five (by which estimate, some 1,400 of the 7,000 people named by the Americans were - still are, perhaps - actively abusing children themselves). So investigators here might find that a video of a James Bond movie is suddenly interrupted by a five-minute record of a child being raped. All the children that the suspect has come into contact with have to be considered as potential victims. They have to be traced and interviewed, and, if necessary, taken into police protection.Faced with this reality, police forces are concentrating their resources on identifying people who are in sensitive occupations or who have easy access to children - teachers, doctors, policemen or lawyers. These are the suspects who have been picked up in the last few months. But the police say they need more money if they're to track down the rest.Surely, though, the police already control huge budgets, and isn't policing their job? What could be more important than protecting terrified children from violence and violation, and identifying the people who consume the images of their destruction so greedily?It turns out that many things are more important. Child protection is not listed as one of the priorities that the government sets for police forces. Burglary, drug-dealing, street robbery and car crime are what ministers think the electorate cares about this year. Only a handful of police authorities, such as the Met, have chosen to add child protection as a local priority. Most forces have no incentive to spend money on this area, because it isn't one of their targets, and they won't be judged on it.Children's charities are dismayed by the low priority some forces give to this problem. Cambridgeshire, for example, received its list in early July, but deferred looking into it until August 5. On August 4, Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman went missing, so the meeting was postponed until September 10. Only then was it realised that one of the leading officers in the Soham investigation was on the list.The Met's deputy assistant commissioner Carole Howlett, who speaks for Britain's police on this issue, says that the Home Office must make children's protection a national priority in the first ever national policing plan, which is due at the end of the month. If it did so, every force would divert resources to deal with it.She's also lobbying for more money -&#163;2m this year - on the grounds that the scale, complexity and rapid growth of this relatively new area of crime is more than the police can absorb. The Home Office has yet to respond to her request. It points out that it has already funded a national hi-tech crime unit and overseen increased police budgets. But the police who are working in this area feel overwhelmed. The practical and social constraints that restricted paedophiles in the past, when child porn could only arrive by parcels in the post, have evaporated.   Curious individuals now find that their fantasies legitimised and fuelled by what they read and see on the net.Peter Spindler says that individual ministers are committed to action. The real constraint, he says, is us, the public. We can't bear to know what's happening behind so many front doors. We focus on the rare cases of child abductions, but we don't want to acknowledge that the most paedophile violence takes place within the home, with children being secretly and systematically raped by stepfathers, uncles, and others. We don't want to lift the lid on it. And we certainly don't want to pay the costs of dealing with it.Even if we were to locate and arrest just the 7,000 suspects from this single website, what would we do with them then? Do these people need punishment, or treatment? We'd find it impossible, currently, to offer them either. Sending them   all to jail would raise the population of our overcrowded prisons by 10%. Yet we can't treat them outside jail, because the only residential clinic that treats paedophiles has lost its premises, and no community is willing to offer it another.This government is considering new measures to cope with paedophiles. Electronic tags may be implanted in those convicted. The sexual offences bill, which will be outlined this week, proposes to make the grooming of children for sexual purposes a criminal offence and to remove the concept that young teenagers can consent to sex with adults. But creating new offences and dealing with known offenders isn't sufficient. We have to confront the real issue: thousands of children are being abused, and we simply don't know how to protect them.jennirussell1@hotmail.com
It's almost 8.00am here and I've done the morning round (shower, breakfast etc) and made the first mail pick-up. Astonishingly it took me three goes to connect via AOL. Usually I would bet money that I can get onto AOL from an American hotel room quicker than I can figure out the taps. Well, the first failure was because the hotel forgot to turn on my room phone. The second was because I plugged the phone handset into my notebook, instead of the plugging in the outgoing line. Doh! Anyway, the next job is to register for Comdex, and it will be interesting to see how long the queue is. There's the feeling that the great days of Comdex -- traditionally, the world's most important computer trade show -- have passed.How many people will turn up? The Gates keynote, which will be held this evening, used to attract such a huge crowd they moved it to the MGM Grand Arena, where he appeared between world championship boxing matches and Britney Spears. (Not on the same night or at the same time, which would, of course, have been interesting.) This evening I'll be trying to count the empty spaces....
I'd Ask Jack, but since he's off to Vegas and Comdex, I'll see if any blog readers have the answer: judging by the flashing lights, my Apple Airport and Cable modem appear to be having quite a conversation between themselves even when the computers that normally use them are both switched off. Is there a bit of software out there that lets you see what's going on over the network? I'm running OSX &amp; 9.1. Any answers in the comments box most welcome... I'll report back when I find out more.
The government is alerting consumers to watch out for email, text messaging and fax scams - a warning prompted by Jobs &amp; Money revelations of a plague of texts designed to trap the unwary into losing cash in &#163;1.50 a minute calls.Our revelations in August were followed by premium rate phones watchdog Icstis fining text sender MobyMonkey &#163;50,000. It lured consumers with phoney "awards".In another text scam mobile users received "I fancy you" and an invitation to call a premium rate num ber without revealing call charges.And we have also printed regular warnings of junk faxes promoting everything from cheap air tickets to property auctions, where a reply can cost as much as &#163;40.Another racket involves asking hotel and restaurant owners to fax brochures and menus to a potential "client" on a &#163;1.50 a minute line.Consumer Minister Melanie Johnson says: "Every day, people open mail, turn on computers or switch on mobiles to learn they've won 'an exciting prize' in a draw, lottery or some other promotion."But other than warning them, the government is often powerless to protect consumers."Millions of promotional texts are sent but phone owners can currently do little to prevent getting them," says Icstis. There is particular concern as texts are especially popular among children.Attempts to stem junk faxes and phoney text messages often fail as new companies are set up to keep ahead of the authorities.And as we warned last week in our expose of offshore currency option scams, many emails are sent from tax haven islands beyond the UK government's jurisdiction.Equally, attempts to stop the millions of phoney lottery letters - mostly targeted at the elderly - have failed because they are sent from countries ranging from Malaysia to Canada, where local post offices seem to be impotent.But the UK authorities can use stop-now orders against firms within the European Union, while a recent EU directive is designed to combat spam emails by insisting messages should make it clear in the title what they are so the recipient can delete them at once if they wish.
The Registerhas a cracking story about Orange's rather lax attitude towards protecting customers' data. One of the Reg's readers returned a broken Nokia 7650 and (amazingly enough) had to take arefurbishedone as replacement. As if that wasn't bad enough, the new phone had its previous owner's data still in it: contacts, pictures, SMS messages, the lot. Orange's answer was to reset the phone, which would only have left the previous owner's data still on. And they didn't seem that concerned that this might not be the only case of user data being passed on in such a way. Looks like this phone company, at least, has still to get used to the notion that some mobile phones hold a lot more than a contacts book these days.
Interesting you should say that the mobile phone industry is "still in its infancy" (Leader November 11) because as far as I'm concerned that's exactly what its users are. A grown person with a mobile phone clamped to his or her ear resembles nothing so much as a great big baby with a great big dummy stuck in its mouth.The mobile is an umbilical cord. We have so-called adults on the streets, oblivious to strangers and desperate to maintain contact with someone they already know. (Is it any wonder that they're so easy to attack?) As each new safety net slides into place, the anxiety threshold lowers and our "cool" society now views even a car journey without a mobile phone as a major leap into the dark. We have spawned a nation of mummy's boys and mummy's girls who daren't leave home without their comforter.Angela PartingtonFaringdon, Oxon&#183;Thanks to mobile phones, many Saharawi people have been able to talk to their families for the first time in over 25 years. Since Morocco invaded the Western Sahara in 1975, Saharawi refugees have been unable to make contact with relatives who stayed behind. Letters and landlines to the occupied territories are monitored and Morocco refuses to allow family contacts. But mobiles have proved censor-proof, and have provided many Saharawis with emotional moments as they hear their loved ones' voices again.Tim BraunholtzWestern Sahara Campaign UK
