Despite the champagne and balloons for V-reg day last week, a flurry of customer "satisfaction" surveys show that motorists are sick of being forced to pay Europe's highest prices for new cars.The reaction comes in the wake of the latest EU survey of car prices, which shows 62 of the 75 best selling cars in Europe are more expensive in the UK than anywhere else. A poll from the Consumers' Association (CA) reflects growing fury that UK drivers are being ripped off - and 75% of respondents say they want the government to take urgent action. "They're fed up with being taken for a ride," says the CA's Nick Stace, "Consumers want lower prices   and they want the stranglehold over dealers broken. They want the government to act in the consumers' interest, not the interests of the car manufacturer."After it found the average new car was &#163;3,108 cheaper outside the UK, What Car? magazine is openly encouraging readers to investigate the option of buying abroad. Deputy editor Steve Fowler says, "There is every reason to hop on a ferry and take a look for yourself. We were not only amazed at how low the prices were, but also at how easy it is to negotiate with foreign dealers."Following the magazine's advice, up to 300 drivers per week are returning through Harwich alone with new   cars bought abroad. Stena, which provides transport arrangements for drivers heading over the water for a bargain, says the Holland is the most fertile hunting ground. "You can jump on a train in London, pick up a new car and drive home to the return ferry" says spokesman Paul Ovington.In the face of deepening hostility, the car makers' trade body, the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders, is presenting a united front. "You can look at the deals available, and if you don't like them, use a train or bus. But people are voting with their feet and more than two million of them buy a new car every year in the UK. They're not forced to!" says spokesman Al Clarke.Clarke points out that car prices have remained below the retail price index since 1996, so the cost "in real terms" has been falling since then. Not all marques in the UK are staying in line though: having conducted its own research through MORI, Korean car maker Kia announced last week that it "accepts that car prices in the UK are too high and has made a long-term commitment, not a promotion or gimmick, to seeking fairer pricing across Europe".And rumours also abound that Ford might break ranks and slash its prices - cutting the list price of an entry level 1.4 Focus from &#163;13,000 to as little as &#163;10,500. Ford, however, swiftly moved to counter these suggestions. Spokesman John Gardiner says it is unfair to suggest Britain is a honey pot for the manufacturer: "Our turnover last year was &#163;6bn, of which we made about &#163;60m profit, which is hardly excessive. Our position hasn't changed - it wasn't long ago since the UK was the second cheapest European market, but a 25% increase in sterling's value has shifted prices up."If any makers do cut their prices though, it may be a case of jump-or-be-pushed. Behind the scenes there is increasing momentum for legal action against car manufacturers. In March this year, the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) referred the entire   &#163;24bn a year new-car market to the Monopolies and Mergers Commission (MMC, now known as the Competition Commission, CC), following evidence suggesting that "the practices employed by manufacturers and dealers are distorting competition."The OFT looked at 12,500 dealer transactions and noted that "the market isn't working properly and there is an imbalance of power between manufacturers and dealers characterised by suppliers' continued refusal to give volume discounts to dealers which could then be passed onto the consumer as lower prices."The OFT's investigation suggests recommended resale prices (RRP), set by manufacturers are the chief contention, because they are set at levels that "allow even the most inefficient dealership to make adequate returns." The final warning is clear: "The MMC decided in the case of electrical goods that RRPs reduced price competition and they were subsequently outlawed. It will be for the CC to assess whether a similar remedy is required for the car market."Will the CC act though? Its report is due at the end of this year and a spokeswoman says no results are likely to be published before February 2000. However, under the provisions of the impending Competition Act, which comes into play next March, the OFT will have the power to fine manufacturers 10% of their annual UK turnover for up to three years.Meanwhile, if you do feel aggrieved, you should perhaps direct your anger not at your local dealer, but at the chap next to you in the company car. the Retail Motor Industry Federation, which acts for car dealers, says they're now firmly on the side of the consumer, not the manufacturer: "Our view is yes, prices are too high because of all the big discounts that are given for fleet deals," says spokeswoman Sue Robinson. "It's a unique arrangement and fleets are getting between 30 and 35% off the list price. Someone has to pay for that."And that someone, she says, is you.
Britain  could face mayhem on Thursday. Emergency services are on alert amid warnings that computers could be hit by a bug triggered on the ninth of the ninth 1999.While computer users have been alerted to confusion when the year changes to 2000, 9/9/99 is also critical because it was used as a code by programmers in older systems to shut them down.The Maritime and Coastguard Agency is on standby for accidents in British waters caused by failure of navigational or safety equipment with outdated computer chips inside. Emergency tugs will pull damaged ships from the shore.Bill Smith, senior operations manager at the agency,  said: "We are most worried about older ships and those from Third World countries which are unlikely to have had their computer systems checked for millennium compliance. We are taking the potential risks of the 9/9/99 bug very seriously and in the event of an accident we want to protect the coastline."
 
Ambulance and fire services will operate millennium contingency procedures at midnight on Wednesday in close contact with police.Earlier this month Britain's nuclear watchdog warned atomic power stations about the 9/9/99 bug. The Nuclear Installations Inspectorate demanded they prepare contingency plans in case a shutdown caused havoc to electricity supplies.
The Observer has learnt that in July the NHS executive warned hospitals their medical equipment could fail.  Medical equipment is thought to be more vulnerable to the bug because of the way machines are callibrated.Testing of computers by Action 2000, the Government task force on the millennium bug, found an example of a hospital machine malfunctioning. It also found that a critical piece of rail safety equipment switched off on the date 9/9/99. Railtrack uses the machine to alert engineers if a train is potentially causing rails to crack.Elsewhere the Financial Services Authority has told  banks and other City institutions to expect problems on Thursday and guard against fraud from hackers. The authority warned customers to beware of con artists who might use bug fears to persuade them to divulge banking information, as has happened in the US.Insurance policies which exclude paying out for damage from computer failures on 31 December 1999 will also not pay claims from computer faults this Thursday.
Action 2000 stressed that the chances of major problems on Thursday are remote but glitches are expected. Operations director Tony Stock said: "We are not saying nothing will happen but from all the evidence we have amassed internationally we believe any problems will be minimal. All of us will be keeping a close eye on what goes on but we would urge organisations not to let up on their efforts to deal with the real millennium bug."Experts believe the most likely problem on Thursday will be data loss or rogue information entering databases. The danger is that when operators inputting information do not include a specific date some systems default to 9/9/99.Paul Barry-Walsh, of disaster recovery specialists Safetynet said: "All sorts of things could happen this Thursday but while serious difficulties can't be ruled out most of the problems are likely to cause inconvenience more than anything else."
Is 'Big Brother' lurking in every computer or did a software designer simply use an unfortunate acronym?That was the questioning exercising internet chat rooms this weekend following claims that America's National Security Agency (NSA) had inserted a secret key into all post-1995 versions of Microsoft's Windows operating system so that it could read private e-mails and documents.The claim, furiously denied by Microscoft, follows a chance discovery by a cryptographer working for a Canadian software firm. While dissecting Microsoft security software, Andrew Fernandes, Chief Scientist at the Cryptonym Corporation in Ontario, found an element in the Windows operating system labelled 'NSA key'.When Fernandes' discovery was made public on Friday, it sparked a wave of speculation on the Internet.Cryptographers say the key is evidence of a long-suspected secret deal between Microsoft and America's spy agency. Embedded in every copy of Windows 95, 98, NT4 and 2000, the key could enable the NSA to read confidential communications at a keystroke, they say.But Microsoft claims there is no Big Brother in its software and that the choice of initials reflects the fact the NSA is responsible for reviewing data-scrambling software and hardware to ensure compliance with US export regulations.'These charges are completely false,' said Scott Culp, Microsoft's security manager for the Windows system. 'These are just used to ensure that we're compliant with US export regulations. We have not shared the private keys.'However, following the discovery last week of a security flaw allowing hackers into the e-mail of more than 40 million users of Microsoft's Hotmail service, many experts are skeptical.They say that Microsoft is a highly compartmentalised firm and that modifications could have been inserted at the NSA's request without the knowledge of product managers. They also point out the NSA has a record of rigging export software.In the Seventies the NSA had de-encryption devices inserted into systems sold to Swiss software manufacturer Crypto AG, so the agency could read the coded diplomatic and military traffic of more than 130 countries.The same technique was re-used in 1995 when the NSA became concerned about cryptographic security systems being built into Internet and e-mail software by Microsoft, Netscape and Lotus. The companies agreed to adapt their software to reduce the level of security for users outside America.In Lotus products exported to Sweden, the NSA 'help information' trapdoor built into Notes software was found to have compromised confidential mail of Swedish MPs and tax office staff.Computer security specialists were aware that unusual features were contained inside the standard Windows key used to authenticate software components, and two years ago noted the existence of a 'second' key whose existence they could not account for. But the discovery of the identifying 'NSA' tag, which had been disguised in earlier versions of Microsoft software, has been seized on by conspiracy theorists.
You're socially concerned and you're online. Perhaps you'd like to download details of MI6 operatives. Or perhaps the minutes of the last cabinet meeting. You'd quite like to find out what official records are stored on you and download those too. And that's all between filing your tax return, and organising your travel arrangements by ordering a new passport and getting your visas sorted.But you can't do any of this now (certainly not officially, in the case of MI6). Not that it's technically impossible or even difficult. You just can't do it. That's not because there's nowhere to do it. It's de rigueur for all government departments or agencies to have their own site nowadays. And if the government ever introduces anything resembling a real Freedom of Information Bill, then those sites would be vital conduits of information and services.In the aftermath of the last election, there was much good white-heat-of-technology talk about. The information superhighway was the way for the Blair government to distinguish itself from its predecessors.The prime minister's declared aim in October 1997 was that "within five years a quarter of dealings with government can be done by a member of the public electronically, through their telephone, TV or computer". And every six months it produces a briefing on the "25%" project while the clock ticks on the self-imposed deadline of 2002 and the next general election.It's an issue that could soon become even more important: the national audit office has contracted out a major research project into the state of government websites which will shortly come before the public accounts committee. That's besides the latest "modernising government" action plan.Launched last month on the back of theModernising Governmentwhite paper - which means by the end of the this year, there will be a trial government gateway, providing one-stop access to government. And, by October, all govern  ment departments and agencies have to have standards in place. Some departments have taken this to heart. To see how a good government site can work, look no further than the foreign and commonwealth office atwww.fco.gov.uk.The site has just won two more awards to add to its growing collection - Best Use of New Media from the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising and Best Government/Charity site from online magazineNew Media Age. Relaunched in May 1998 it's the most-visited government site. Looking for a ministerial speech from this morning? You'll find it there, together with regularly-updated travel advice, a personalised front-end and a powerful archive, as well as an invaluable email service.During the Kosovo crisis, it ran a special joint site with the Ministry of Defence atwww.mod.uk/news/kosovowith the FCO providing most of the (English and Serb-Croat) content while resting the pages on the MoD server. During the war, it had at least 1,300 hits a day from Yugoslav addresses. In its first year, the site provided the equivalent of 60,000 hours of customer service based on a time-cost of 4000 person-hours. Use of the site has grown by 60%.Mike Butcher, editor of New Media Age, says it was the obvious winner of the NMA award. "It was offering the sorts of services you might expect to find on a commercial site but not on a government site," he says. For Moray Angus, the FCO's head of new media, recognition is particularly gratifying. The site is run by "two and a half" staff who have to integrate their software with the FCO's aged Uniplex system. "Reports come from all around the world, and all around this building - often on scrappy bits of paper," says Angus."And, to be effective, you have to be quick. But it's getting to    the point where we get much more of a response internally. They're coming round to the idea that it's a good way to get the message out to a lot of people." He sees potential outside his own department for what the site provides."There are other departments whose work is much more appropriate for the net than we are. Apart from travel advice, we don't have that much of a service role - we don't do passports or visas," says Angus. But it's the constant updating and general availability of information that makes it impressive. While few other departments match up to the quality of the FCO, they have improved in the last two years.The department of trade and industry atwww.dti.gov.ukhas a well-designed site that reflects its erstwhile secretary of state, Peter Mandelson. Mandelson embraced the technology fervently after being shown the net for the first time by the actor Stephen Fry.  In November 1998, Mandelson announced the appointment of a high-ranking digital envoy to spearhead the government's drive to make the United Kingdom the best environment in which to trade electronically. It was to be reflective of the government's attitude to technology. The job still hasn't been filled - although an announcement is due next month.But Mandelson's former department maintains a competent site which includes new links for business in Kosovo although, as one commentator noted recently, the huge amount of DTI statistics that could be online    are nowhere to be found. It's the same with departments such as culture, media and sport atwww.heritage.gov.ukor the weaker home office site atwww.homeoffice.gov.uk.Looking for full statements? You can usually find them, if not immediately then usually within a couple of days (speed is still a problem for many of the sites). But try to access anything a little more interesting and the site sticks up a wall as surely as any Sir Humphrey might have done. And those are the sites that know how to use the net. Some agencies are clearly not quite comfortable with being online. The benefits agency atwww.dss.gov.uk/basupplies    information on specific benefits. Yet you can't apply for them online.The passport agency atwww.open.gov.uk/ukpass  provides background information on applying for a passport and a statement of the obvious on the waiting situation ("Some customers are experiencing delays with their passport applications") yet, again, you can't apply    online or even print off an application form. NHS Direct atwww.doh.gov.uk/nhsexec/direct.htm, the new flagship medical advice service has a homepage too. But if you're looking for medical advice, forget it - it just gives a phone number. "Government sites tend to do this in a very small fashion," says New Media Age's Mike Butcher."They think it's just about getting a home page - it's all very 2D thinking." And according to Butcher, it's not getting any better. "They're all losing the plot," he says. A story doing the rounds of technology journalists reflects, many say, the real government attitudes not the far-sighted speeches. At a press conference    on the vital issue of encryption, a journalist asked the civil servant running the show what would happen when a user lost their digital "keys" (ie, their access to the information).The civil servant replied, in all seriousness, that when he lost his keys he usually found them down the back of the sofa.  Good as some British government sites are, they compare poorly with their US equivalents in terms of awareness. In 1994, Vice President Al Gore was talking about the importance of the web. Now the government, by and large, practises it there.   Combined with the advanced US Freedom of Information legislation, it means there's very little you can't get online on the US government.The CIA recently published thousands of previously secret reports on its involvement in revolutionary Nicaragua - all were available online.You can also find, on other sites, bankruptcy filings, the federal budget, election funding details (with presidential candidate filings) and a database of property ownership. And you can file your tax return. It's all public information and it's all publicly available.But even without the same freedom of information, there    are many public facts in the UK that could be widely available. However, if you wanted to get hold of government statistics for a particular street or area, the first port of call would be the award-winning UpMyStreet.com - rather than a government site.One day you will be able to log on and do all those nasty personal admin tasks online, conveniently, while finding out what the government is really getting up to.One day you'll even get "25% or more" government services available electronically. One day it will all be easy.But don't hold your breath.Opening governmentFind out more about Freedom of Information and get links to many of the US and UK sites mentioned in this piece on the Guardian network atwww.newsunlimited.co.uk/freedomYou can find a full directory of British government sites atwww.open.gov.uk
Apple Computer's enigmatic interim CEO Steve Jobs has unveiled the company's latest top-end range of machines - the G4 Power Macs, promising they will bring "the power of a super computer to the desktop".In a bullish speech to the Seybold publishing conference in San Francisco on Tuesday, he also hailed Apple's continued prosperity, gave a sneak preview of the company's new Mac OS 9 and showed off a sleek new 22-inch flat-panel display which the company says is the largest monitor of its kind ever sold.The top-end 500MHz G4 will, Jobs said, be able to perform more than one billion operations per second. Jobs claimed this will make it twice as fast as 600MHz Pentium III PCs when running applications like Photoshop. It will be aimed at graphics and publishing professionals, as well as high-end consumers."The Power Mac G4 is not only the fastest Mac ever, it's the fastest personal computer ever," Jobs told the conference. He quoted Intel figures which he said showed the 500MHz G4 was 2.94 times faster than the 600MHz Pentium III. However, within hours of the announcement industry analysts were disputing his figures. "There are lies,   damned lies and demos," David Wu, an analyst at ABN AMRO, told News.com.As well as the top-end machine, which will sell for $3,499, there will be G4s running at 450 and 400 MHz, costing $2,499 and $1,599 respectively. All the systems will come with a Photoshop plug-in to optimise their performance when running the popular image-editing software.In contrast to the expected G4 announcement, the unveiling of the Apple Cinema Display took the audience by surprise. The 22-inch letterbox format screen will offer a visible display area equivalent to a 24-inch conventional screen and sell for $3,999, although supplies will be limited; the screens will be available only when bundled with G4 systems bought direct from Apple's website.Jobs also revealed that 140,000 of the new iBook laptop computers have been pre-ordered before their launch in the US later this month, and the company has not even begun to take orders in the potentially vast Japanese market."We are thrilled by the customer response to the   iBook, and we're working hard to ensure that we can meet the demand," Jobs told the conference.Apple users, who have been waiting expectantly for the company's delayed Mac OS9, may have been disappointed by Jobs's preview of the system, which is due to ship in October in the US for $99. He gave little away; the OS will have the slogan "Your internet co-pilot" and "nine internet power features". It will have version II of Sherlock, Apple's popular search engine, new multi-user functions, voice-authenticated passwords, automatic OS updates via the internet and built-in encryption capabilities.It was also revealed that Apple has enjoyed its seventh profitable quarter in a row, boosted by the 2 million iMacs sold since the colourful personal computer was launched a year ago. The iMac is proving particularly popular for new buyers wanting to get online - 90% of iMac users are online, with one third saying the iMac is their first PC.Partly as a result of the iMac's success, Apple is now holding $3bn in cash with "very little debt". Inventory   control is also stronger, Jobs said; at the end of the last quarter there were just "15 hours" of supplies in stock.He also promoted Apple's QuickTime multimedia technology, QuickTime TV; a new online network intended to promote the live audio and video-streaming capabilities of QuickTime over rival technologies including RealPlayer and Microsoft's Windows Media Player. Jobs revealed music giant Warner Bros had signed up to launch a channel on QuickTime TV, which will allow users to watch music videos and order CDs online.There was one major disappointment for Apple-watchers: Jobs failed to mention a new generation of iMacs, expected to be launched in time for Christmas. Rumours have suggested the new iMacs could have larger screens, a revamped design or faster processors.&#149; Intel has also announced a new chip - the Coppermine Pentium III, which will have a speed of "at least" 700MHz, according to chief executive Craig Barrett. The chip, an enhanced version of its fastest model, will be available sooner and run faster than many analysts expected. The new chips will also run in notebook computers - which could help bridge the gap between PC desktops and portables.
The collapse of security at Microsoft's Hotmail service, reported through the week in the Guardian, must rank as one of the biggest glitches of its kind to hit the internet.Aside from the fact that two of computing's biggest names - Hotmail and its owner Microsoft - were left looking sheepish, a total of 50m email accounts were left open to prying eyes. As one consultant said, a lot of people will suddenly have strong views on internet privacy.Of course, many netizens will be aware of the old hands' sage-like warnings that email should never be used for messages you would rather keep confidential. But email has become a hugely important   part of many peoples' professional and private lives: with messages flying to and fro, there can be few Hotmail subscribers who would like the contents of their mail folders open for all to see.Microsoft, has now made sure the "back door" has been bolted, and other web-based email services have attempted to reassure their users with promises that it couldn't happen to them.But the fiasco will have harmed confidence in security on the net, which is - at least in the UK - already very low. Research from De La Rue, released in May, showed that just 7% of British consumers felt secure in submitting their credit card details online.Lack of trust is one of the last hurdles to successful e-commerce in Britain: if people don't feel secure passing on their details, they won't order anything over the web.As long as gaffes like Hotmail's keep cropping up, the internet industry will have a long way to go to persuade users, old and new, that their systems really are safe.
Free domain names are now on offer from the Internet Technology Group (ITG). Instead of an email or website address that includes the name of the supplier - such as AOL, Freeserve, or GeoCities - users will be able to have a name of their choice if it hasn't already been taken.Fred Bloggs can try for www.fredbloggs.co.uk, or a family address like www.thebloggs.org.uk. Small businesses are also expected to register for free names at www.freenetnames.co.uk. Freenetnames will also send CD-roms to users who call its customer services number, 0800-376 6910.Internet domain names have typically cost from &#163;40 to &#163;100. However, Nominet, the organisation which registers .uk names. has cut the price of .uk domain names to members like ITG from &#163;20 each to &#163;5 (excluding VAT). This is because registrations have grown from "around 8,000 per month to 28,000".ITG's Freenetnames   service includes 20 megabytes of free web space, email, and other facilities. However, development director Rhian Ball says ITG will pick up the bill only as long as people use Freenetnames as their internet service provider. Like Freeserve, its income comes from a proportion of the cost of the local calls made to access the service.ITG claims it is already the UK's largest independent ISP, running services like Global Internet, and free services for the Ministry of Sound, FHM and others. Ball says: "I've based my business case for this service on a target of 200,000 users and we've invested in the network capacity to support three times that number. It's a drop in the ocean as far as we're concerned."Another British company, Fasthosts, expects to offer the cheapest .uk domain names that can be registered apart from an internet service. Last week, managing director Andrew Michael said: "At the moment we do it for &#163;25, and when Nominet lowers its charges we're going to do it for about &#163;12."From yesterday, users could register names on Fasthost's websitewww.ukreg.comand point them at existing websites on Freeserve, GeoCities, and other sites offering free web space.
Lionel Jospin, the French prime minister, has pledged to push his country on to the net. Only 4% of French households are connected to the web compared with 18% in Britain.Jospin acknowledged the problem in his speech last week at the annual information technology conference in Hourtin, near Bordeaux, when he said: "The role of information technology in the global economy is more important today than the automobile industry."But if it has not embraced the web, France does have the 2CV of information technology: the Minitel.Like the 2CV, Minitel - a type of teletext through the telephone - looks old fashioned with its chunky text interface. But like the 2CV it is robust and reliable and everywhere. It can be accessed through 10m terminals across the country in homes and in public places: you can use them to find out   what's showing at a cinema, check the train times to get to the show and pay online for your tickets.The web that the French started weaving some 20 years ago now serves some 17m users, roughly 20% of the population.But like the 2CV its time is coming to an end. Facing the competition of the internet, France T&eacute;l&eacute;com and IBM started a joint project, Internet Service Integrated (ISI), in October 1998 to create a platform to access both the Minitel and the internet. ISI is being tested in 600 homes in Paris and Toulouse. Dominique Lamiche of France T&eacute;l&eacute;com explains: "Our goal is a new terminal as simple as the Minitel for the internet - without forgetting the Minitel."We are working with IBM on a platform to ease access to services and to guarantee a good quality of services."The terminals are screenphones, combining a phone, a small tactile screen and a key board. Screenphones have to be very simple; Lamiche speaks of "plug and play" machines aimed at people who are not computer-literate. Although screenphones look quite efficient and provide good quality images, their price, at about &#163;300, may well drive away potential purchasers, especially at a time when PCs are getting cheaper.Lamiche thinks the Minitel should be in use at least until 2005-2010 with the help of the ISI project. A France T&eacute;l&eacute;com study supports Lamiche's forecasts. It states that 59% of French net surfers use the Minitel more often now than they did before they joined the web. According to the same study, two kinds of uses of the internet emerge: entertainment and the search for practical information. "We see these two uses as two complementary markets," says   Estelle Rozine, spokesperson for France T&eacute;l&eacute;com. Lamiche adds: "We'll always have people who prefer to buy a train ticket on the Minitel because it's fast and one knows how to manage it. You don't need the internet's animated pictures to buy a simple train ticket."Secure payment is Minitel's   main advantage. All terminals have a chip to enable electronic payment, and France T&eacute;l&eacute;com guarantees the safety of the network. As a result, French people are used to buying goods on the Minitel. For 1998, e-commerce was worth 6bn Francs (about &#163;600m), but only 15m Francs (about &#163;1.5m) on the internet. Screenphone also integrates the payment chip.According to France T&eacute;l&eacute;com, the Minitel won't be obsolete in France as long as the internet does not guarantee secure electronic payments.France T&eacute;l&eacute;com became a member of the Internet Society in 1994, launched Wanadoo, its internet access, in May 1996, and voila.fr, its browser, in early 1998.The first gate between the Minitel and the internet was set up three years ago, with Minitelnet, a site giving an electronic address accessible   to both networks. Then France T&eacute;l&eacute;com, formerly a state-owned company was privatised in 1997.Another change brought by the internet in the French online services system is the principle of free information. The Minitel services are not free but are billed at a rate of between 10p and 60p per minute.Customers pay for accessing online services through their telephone bills. France T&eacute;l&eacute;com keeps a commission and pays each provider according to the time customers actually spent on their service.This system allows online publishers to avoid running a finance division, and enables France T&eacute;l&eacute;com to control and guarantee the operation of the whole system.This has made Minitel hugely profitable for France T&eacute;l&eacute;com. But the challenge of the internet has ended the company's information monopoly and forced it to look for new channels.
Dreamcast delayDreamcast's British launch has been put back from September 23 to October 14. Sega has given no specific reasons for the setback to its next generation games console - except for saying it is not ready. Since the Dreamcast has been on sale in Japan since last year, it is unlikely to be the hardware that has caused the problem. However, there is speculation that the delay may have something to do with the built-in 33.6K modem and/or internet connection.SMAC attackSMAC addicts - players of Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri strategy game - are to be offered "an entirely new game experience" in the form of an expansion pack called Alien Crossfire. It seems the    original inhabitants of Alpha Centauri have returned and in the battle for the planet the human colonists are caught in the alien crossfire. It is not clear when the new scenario (and associated factions) will be published, but fans are promised weekly updates on the website atwww.alphacentauri.comThe bossesThe Finals of UK PC Games Championships atwww.ukpcgc.comwill be held at The Playing Fields(www.ThePlayingFields.co.uk)in London on Saturday September 17. That promises to separate the men from the mice. Hard-core gamers will be able to get into shape next Saturday (September 11) when The Playing Fields holds an All Nighter. Play will run from 10pm until    10am, with breakfast provided.MS gamesMicrosoft has already shipped Pandora's Box, a puzzle game from Tetris-creator Alexey Pajitnov, and five new sports sims should be in the shops now: International Football 2000, NBS Inside Drive 2000 (basketball), Baseball 2000, and Links Extreme (golf). However, Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings - the sequel to Microsoft's only original smash hit game - is not expected until October 29. Now that Tiberian Sun has finally shipped, Age of Kings and Havas Interactive's oft-delayed Homeworld are the strategy games to watch out for. Also nearing release, at least in the US, is Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Rogue Spear, the sequel to last year's unexpected hit, Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six.HamstercamThe hamsters are back on Thresh's Firing Squad website and the hamster cam is therefore in operation again atwww.firingsquad.com/mouseThe new rodents don't have names yet. Thresh is, of course, the fighting name of the world's best Quake player, Dennis Fong.
Meteor menMiG AlleyPC CD-rom &#163;34.99 Empire Interactive 0181-343 7337Set in the early 1950s, MiG Alley places you in charge of the Korean War Allied Air campaign. This campaign was the first to involve primarily jet-to-jet combat. But unlike the computer aided automatons of today the F84s and Meteors on display here are sluggish and tough to control. They are also deeply satisfying to fly with a distinctive style of their own.Would-be Top Gunners can swiftly enter the fray but most gratification comes from taking full control of the campaign.Donning your Commander-in-Chief's mantle, you get the chance to halt the Communist advance using the numerous aircraft at your disposal. Your decisions have ramifications throughout the campaign although, with the benefit of hindsight and the option of action replays, the odds are tilted in your favourAlthough the landscape is based on 50s spy satellite topography the graphics are merely adequate. More memorable are nice touches such as the Forward Air Controller who assists wayward bombers, marking out targets with handy smoke rockets. (GH)Ripe wipeWip3outPlayStation &#163;34.99 Psygnosis/SonyWipEout is a car racing game without the cars: you fly a small, sleek spacecraft . The first version helped sell loads of PlayStations when the machine was launched in 1995.The second, Wipeout 2097, made it playable, as well as   introducing far better graphics and sound. For one thing, the scenery no longer popped up around you as you streaked past.WipeOut 3 or Wip3out, due for release on September 10, goes a stage further. Graphics are better than you'd expect this ageing machine to deliver - it's all in high-res mode - and the music's not bad either, especially if you play it loud through a hi-fi.Otherwise it's pretty much what you'd expect, with such   obvious enhancements as a split-screen two-player mode and support for the Dual Shock controller.Either Psygnosis has "closely guarded the heritage of the original", as the PR bumf says, or shown a remarkable disdain for originality. If you liked the last version, you'll probably like this highly polished rendition even more. But if you couldn't see what all the fuss was about, this probably isn't going to change your mind.  (JS)
How do you describe theglobe.com?theglobe is an online community that aggregates users around interests. This means we have the very best in community tools such as email lists, home page building and web publishing, chat and discussion forums.How did you first discover computers/ IT?I grew up in the Bay Area of California - Silicon Valley. Ironically, when I got to college, I wanted to get away from it all so I went to upstate New York to study bio-genetics. It was only in my third year of College education that I got pulled back in. We used anything we could get our hands on for cheap. We had a lot of old Unix computers, Sunboxes, and a lot of Apple computer products at the time.What kind of machines do you use now?A mix of Sun Microsystem products as well as Pentium based computers.What do you use your computer for?The primary use is browsing the internet, using our own product. After that comes email. A distant third and fourth are spread-sheets, Excel and Microsoft Word.What other websites do you browse?A lot of the usual suspects like theWall Street JournalorCNN. My favourite "for fun" site has to beThe Onion.Do you think we're a generation of online addicts?Yes. I think people thought in the beginning that the internet was going to be just for younger people. But the greatest surprise to me is how the demographics are actually moving up in many ways. Even people like my parents who, and remember we grew up in Silicon Valley, never thought about buying a computer at home, are now addicts. I think what you can use it for is now so broad.When did you first hatch the idea for theglobe?In the fall of '94. The two of us were beginning our third year of university and one night we spent several hours chatting and we joked with each other that we'd just spent this time doing something fun, interacting with people all over the world - this is when that was still extremely novel - and we thought if we can get people to spend time on something that we build then that would be a great advertising business.Were you expecting The Globe to be so successful?Things are going extremely well - we've been drawing the business, we've moved to new offices and we just released our second quarter numbers which were extremely positive.Do you consider yourself a geek? Any favourite geeks?The answer to the first question is no. But maybe I'm in denial. My favourite geek would have to be Steve Jobs.
The internet may seem to have become a religion for a whole generation, but there's plenty of the real thing out there, and it's biting back via the net.If you're on a spiritual quest, but have a pathological nervousness about going to church or talking to anyone who might be carrying a Bible, the internet is now the way forward. You can do most things from buying a Bible, to attending a service, praying, through to buying Christian music and yes, even becoming a Christian, and getting married.The Revd Peter Murphy, a vicar from the New Forest,pmurphy@newforestparishes.comheld one of the first internet   wedding services in the mid-1990s. He dressed in his ecclesiastical robes, laid out the altar, and went through the Church of England's marriage service with the couple.At the crucial moment when the couple were just about to say "I do", the line went down, due, he says to workmen digging up the road in a nearby street.When the internet link was finally restored, the not-quite-newly-weds had to be found and extricated from where they were already celebrating their union."You can do every service on the internet except for baptisms," says Peter. "I can't get my head around the idea of virtual water."Others have adopted this    idea. Atwww.churches.comyou can attend a pre-arranged service, or design one of your own. When I attended (at 9.25am on a Monday morning) there were 34 other people in the virtual congregation.If you wouldn't want to talk to 34 other people after the service, then the net has obvious advantages.You can choose which sermon you want to hear (easily ruling out the scarier sounding titles, such as After I am Saved, will I be Perfect?) and pick your own hymns.There's a good mix of ancient pew-thumpers and modern hand-wavers to choose from.Perhaps the best bit about this site is the prayer board. You can pin up your own prayer or pray for someone else. Bob Romanelli asked "for a new computer" while Jaqueline asked for prayer to "control my sexuality".If you'd prefer to attend a real service, then the Church of England is (in parts) cranking into gear to let you know where you can go and when.The Winchester Diocese    for example has its own website atwww.win.diocese.org.ukwhich lets you know about 32 churches.In the picturesque village of Twyford in Hampshire you can even attend the ancient service of Compline at 6pm on the fourth Sunday of every month, according to the web listing.Cathedrals are also getting on the net. Last month, Chester Cathedral opened the country's first cathedral on-line shopping mall on its website.Well, it's a small stall, actually. It has only eight pieces of jewellery featuring the Chester cross, but it's provoked a strong response from Salisbury Cathedral, which has announced the "imminent" arrival of its wares on the web. Salisbury aims to have 50-60 items ranging from gifts to clothing.If you like your religion    funky, then there's scope for that on the net too courtesy of the site of the World Wide Message Tribewww.message.org.uk. The Manchester-based band features Radio 1 DJ Cameron Dante and has arguably the coolest of the Christian sites.You can find out about buying the band's music, or a six-week video course introduction to the Christian faith, written by the band's former leader Andy Hawthorne, and even apply to be a rapper/dancer with the Tribe.There are plenty of ways in which the Church will be happy to separate you from your money on the net.Try the self-proclaimed World's Largest Dealer in Rare Bibleswww.greatsite.com. Its subtle title is matched by its subtle prices. A 1392 copy of the Complete New Testament   handwritten by John Wycliffe, will set you back a cool $2m.The Christian charity, Tearfund, has its own net shop atwww.tearfund.org/shopwhich will relieve you of your money in a good cause, in this case, survivors of Hurricane Mitch, who have filed reports on the site. Happy as I am to give, I found that my shopping basket had two unnamed articles in it at &#163;7.99 each. Goodness knows what I've bought.So you've shopped, you've got married, you've bought a very expensive Bible. There's only one thing left to do - become a Christian. This, somewhat weirdly, you can do at the Christian Surf Shop (members.aol.com/stantlinge/thought.htm).Following the question "Would you like Jesus to come into your life right now?" you can click on the box marked "yes".This has the encouraging motif "click here to ask him into your life". Or you can pick "no" and see the words "click here to find out what the wages of sin are in eternity". Cheery.
The internet is the largest mutual society the world has ever known. Yet its phenomenal growth has coincided with the rapid erosion of the traditional mutual society offering home loans or insurance on a not-for-profit basis. You would have thought that the advantages of the internet (low start-up costs, global access and cutting out the middle man) would have led to a surge of mutual societies to exceed the explosion of the 19th century when they were first spawned. But it hasn't.Although the internet is in the throes of being privatised as big business moves in, it retains the mutualism that gave birth to it. People, institutions, newspapers, governments and even companies are prepared to give vast amounts of information away free for no other reason than the mutual advantage of everyone involved. Never has there been so much knowledge freely available for those fortunate to be able to afford access.Anyone with a connection to the web can get free running news, stockmarket prices, music, videos, access to vast archives and art galleries, chatting and emailing facilities and so on and so on. It is as if mankind had rediscovered the buried virtues of giving without expecting anything in return. For mutual advantage.If people had to pay for these services it would increase the country's economic wealth (gross domestic product) but since it is free, it isn't recorded as activity except for the cost of the telephone call. To this extent the internet is creating a "real" virtual economy that exists only within its own boundaries.Sure, some of the mutualism is enforced - giving something away free now in the hope of making a bundle out of it later - like Freeserve, the net service provider, numerous   free email services and most of the browsers. There are also pseudo-mutuals likewww.themutual.co.ukwhich offers up to 50% of its shares free to subscribers in order to build up a quick customer base. By retaining 50% the entrepreneurs who set it up have ensured fortunes for themselves should it succeed thereby excluding the company from the true culture of mutualism.They are not real mutuals owned and run in the interest of all members who don't benefit in terms of profit but in other ways - like lower prices or better service.The hard core of existing mutuals (ie those resisting privatisation) have been   slow to embrace the potential of the internet. This is because they encounter the same digital dilemma as quoted companies: either they build an internet rival to their traditional activities (like offering cheap banking or mortgage services on the web) which could destroy their traditional businesses. Or they ignore the web and get buried alive by new internet start-ups freed from the need to build expensive infrastructures.This may explain why mutuals as far apart as Nationwide Building Society and the John Lewis Partnership have been slow to exploit the full potential of the web. Partners at   John Lewis seem much more interested in the unearned capital gains they could reap for themselves if they de-mutualised (up to &#163;100,000 per employee has been reported) than in putting, say, their famed wedding list online.This is an activity that lends itself perfectly to the web and could easily be imitated by competitors.The new environment offers unrivalled opportunities for completely new mutual companies to sprout on the web with the whole world as their market place. Some of the new internet companies that, say, borrow at 7 % and lend out at 7.2% won't be able to sustain such narrow spreads because of their long-term need to make money to   reward share-holders. But true mutuals, which have no dividend-hungry shareholders, operate under no such constraints.Where are the social entrepreneurs who will set up consumer mutuals to buy collectively in large quantities on the web to secure maximum discounts for members, or to attract savings at competitive rates to lend on for mortgages? Or even to build affordable houses for the poor, an activity that most building societies have long since shunned.While it looks inevitable that big business will soon start to dominate the net because of the coming explosion of e-commerce activity, there will still be a huge role for mutualism. The internet will bifurcate into two parallel universes - the commercial and the mutual. Both will increasingly exist outside traditional political and economic boundaries.
It doesn't matter if you are a bargain hunter, memorabilia collector, inveterate compulsive shopper or just a browser: auction sites have quickly become the hottest locations on the web, and they are set to get even bigger.On Tuesday, internet access giant America Online and eBay, the world's most popular auction site , announced an initiative to bring AOL's 18m users a version of eBay. The marketing deal gives eBay - recently dogged by a series of server problems - a huge boost as competition intensifies from the likes of Amazon and Yahoo.The online auction market, pioneered by eBaywww.ebay.comin the US and QXLwww.qxl.comin the UK, is huge. Millions of surfers visit online auction sites every day to bid fiercely to get their hands on the latest merchandise available in cyberspace."Auction sites are like games centres," says Therese Torris, Forrester Research's European director. " Buyers and sellers are being brought together in real time. You never know what the outcome will be."With more than three and a half million registered users, eBay is the biggest player in this buoyant web-based market. In 1998 it managed to generate net revenues of $47.4m, a breathtaking 724% increase over the previous year.To keep the customers coming back, the web-based auction house offers aspiring collectors an attractive weekly menu of items to whet their appetites. A recent list included a Manchester United football signed by Sir Alex Ferguson and David Beckham, the latest Star Wars figures, a well-preserved Victorian teapot and a Tour de France jersey.So how does eBay explain online auctions' popularity? E-Bay's European vice president, Michael van Swaaij, who use to work for AOL, says traditional auctions are intimidating, with less choice and items and pricing which made it difficult to get involved."A lot of the online auction growth is now coming from word of mouth," he says. "As a trading community, we do not have to push prod ucts hard like a retail site. People come of their own accord."One of eBay's key advantages is its size. With more than 250,000 new items added daily, in more than 1,600 categories including movies and music, jewellery and gemstones; bargain-hunters know there is a good chance they will find what they are looking for.The Henley Centre, the consumer research group, estimates that about 140,000 people in the UK visited an online auction site over the past six months. During the same period about &#163;55,000 was spent by online collectors and that figure is expected to   grow. The centre's internet consultant Chad Wollen says auctions are giving e-commerce a shot in the arm. "Online auctions are putting the thrill back into online shopping," he says. "They're turning the standard retail model of buying a product at a fixed rate on its head. They're tapping into people's interests and offering new access to markets for people who wouldn't have contemplated being able to sell anything before."Even eBay's Michael van Swaaij admits he was surprised when he found out that there was an online market for the old Matchbox model cars he used to collect as a kid, and so now he is collecting more.Forrester Research estimates that the sales volume on online auction sites in the US will reach $19bn by the year 2003. As investors salivate   at the potential returns, UK companies like QXL are tipped to float by the end of the year.QXL's chief executive Jim Rose is bullish about the future and wants to establish a blue chip European e-commerce company. "Online auctions are a great consumer proposition," he says. "It is entertaining and great fun."Rose says the dynamic and variable pricing of online auctions puts us back in touch with our preferred trading habits. Since the start of time he says we have always enjoyed bartering and now online auctions allow us to reclaim those instincts.Rose says QXL is unruffled by the fact that the giant portal sites such as Amazon (which has recently linked with Sotheby's) and Yahoo! are muscling in with their own auction services. He sees these as non core activities which are primarily smart marketing ploys."Auctions are the stickiest of applications," he explains. "They will always attract long term traffic to your sites."QXL's focus groups show that the average online bidder is in his or her mid thirties and is relatively affluent. This is a clear reflection of the mainstream internet user.   However, there is a hard core of collectors who are fanatical. They visit the chat rooms and read the message boards every day.Some analysts think the online auction model throws down a challenge to other e-commerce companies demanding that they ditch traditional mindsets and create new online trading models. Already increasing numbers of companies are beginning to use auctions as web-based promotional tools offering items such as last minute airline tickets .The major online auction owners feel it in their bones that they are onto a winner. As a practical joke and probably to try to prick the bubble of growing self-confidence, one subscriber to Funmail recently submitted QXL as an auction item on eBay's site. It was quickly removed before the bidding started in earnest.
Let kids knowWith regard to Nick Ryan's hate sites article: it will probably never be possible to legally control websites, although I'm not saying attempts should not be made.But there is only one way to tackle the targeting of children. That is to make sure they know the intent of such messages - hatred - is wrong.It would also do no harm to encourage in everyone an attitude of intelligent scepticism towards the validity of all information disseminated on the net - just as with other forms of communication. I'm not suggesting we bring our children up to be little cynics, just that checking one's facts is a lesson it's never too early to learn.Kim BlakeSheffieldmIRC-y stuffMatthew Somerville (Feedback, August 26) underestimates the power of IRC. The excellent mIRC program (on any good computer magazine disk) incorporates a Notify list which enables users to see which of their friends are on line - so we don't need to use ICQ even for that.Eric ThompsonLondon NW2Hot air trapMichael Brooks ("Hot work at a higher frontier") obviously knows more about fire etc than most of us, but I wish he would not fall into the all too frequent trap of mistaking cause and effect.The way he and many others put it is that the hot air rises, as if this is what it decides to do, and the surrounding cold air is drawn in to take its place.Where gravity is king, the cold air has the weight that the warmer air, occupying more volume, does not , and so the warmer air is literally muscled out the way by the cold air.Put a cork in a bucket of marbles and shake, and the   cork loses the fight for bottom spot and is levered out of its place and up by the more dense marbles.It, like the warm and less dense air, simply cannot compete and so is hoisted up to the top. The cold air yanks the warm air up and is the cause of the warm air rising - not the effect.Please pass on to all who are in the business of propagating science to schoolchildren and the masses generally.George WestgarthChesterDarwin knewDo mathematicians read any other scientific writings?  It may be useful to prove mathematically the fact that the hexagon is the most efficient storage shape for a hive bee.  But this is not some great unexplained natural wonder as the article implies.Rather it is confirmation of the observation and argument of Charles Darwin, who, in The Origin of Species, explained how purely by instinct the small insect could easily create a perfect hexagonal honeycomb.  He also pointed out that   those insects that used the minimum of wax would have an advantage over other bees who use other more wasteful types of storage shapes.Karl Marx, another 19th century writer, also pointed out that even the worst human architect had advantages to the bee as s/he visualises the project beforehand.  The bee simply follows its instinct when building a honeycomb. It is this product of consciousness that differentiates humans from animals.Duncan BrownGlasgowISPs not freeI've just moved back to the UK from the States and am becoming increasingly frustrated at the cost of accessing the web.I work from home and need to use the internet frequently during the day. There are an increasing number of ISPs offering "free phone calls" but, when you dig a little deeper, the small print says "evenings and weekends only".NTL seems to be the only ISP offering genuine free call access (at a cost of &#163;480 per annum, still significantly   more expensive than the US), but I'm not in their area.Does any ISP offer genuine free call access? Advertisers like C&amp;W should mention that their claimed "75 hours of free internet calls" does not include peak-rate periods.Dave Huckleniloticus1@hotmail.comThe biggest problem with all uses of the internet and not only instant messaging (Feedback 26 August) is the extortionate cost of staying online. I support Luke Mellor's call for the Guardian to   support unmetered phone calls.You could begin by promoting the Campaign for Unmetered Telecommunications atwww.unmetered.org.ukAdam FunkSheffield
Film funIt doesn't happen often, but sometimes you stumble onto a website that is so amazingly brilliant that your jaw drops and you wonder "Why, oh God, why?" Simon Jansen, a programmer based in New Zealand, has produced just such a site: Star Wars In Asciimation. Jansen is recreating, scene by scene, the original Star Wars movie, entirely in monospaced (typewriter style) text. It's even worth turning on Java to watch the story so far atwww.asciimation.co.nzOh yes, why? "Well, it seemed like a good idea at the time."Price is rightIf BOGOF is your favourite acronym - Buy One Get One Free - then head straight for the new Price Offers Limited website atwww.priceoffers.co.uk. Not only does it have a compilation of the BOGOF offers at British supermarkets, it tracks other special offers by shop and by product category. The site is light on graphics and you'll probably save more than enough to pay for the online time.Inside the CIAWhat did the CIA, America's Central Intelligence Agency, get up to last year? A comprehensive (but no doubt incomplete) account, as given to the US congress, has been posted atwww.odci.gov/cia/publications/fy98intellrpt/index.html. It includes information about the spooks' strategic priorities by country, its counterintelligence efforts, and its accomplishments.The next 20American computer magazine publisher Ziff-Davis is holding a series of conferences on The Next Twenty Years (TNTY). Yesterday's event, the third in this year's series, was held in San Francisco. The next will be held in London, at the Queen Elizabeth Hall on the South Bank, on September 29. For details, seewww.next20years.com/home.htmlI can voteICANN, which is supervising the internet domain name business, plans to invite individual internet users to vote for an "at-large council" with 18 members. Apparently no election will be held until at least 5,000 people have signed up to vote. You'll be able to do that when details appear atwww.icann.orgSex timesThe History Channel, as seen on cable TV, is not known for being racy, but it has just launched "an eye-opening online exhibit" based on its recent series, The History of Sex. The site covers the past 300 years from an American viewpoint, and includes coverage of birth control, homosexuality, and prostitution. Go towww.historychannel.com/sexWWIIThe World at War was the first great documentary series produced in the UK for independent television, with the first of 26 hour-long episodes being broadcast on October 31, 1973. Now Pearson Television Digital Online has launched a WorldatWar site atwww.theworldatwar.com. It includes video interviews with many of the participants, as well as clips from the series, maps, and links to other second world war websites.Dolls in cyberspaceMattel, the American toy giant, has launched Generation Girl, a lively website about Tori, Ana, Nichelle, Chelsie (sic), Lara and, of course, the most famous doll of all: Barbie. The content is the usual stuff of girls' magazines including a quiz (which film star would you like to date?). Although the site atwww.generationgirl.comdoesn't have much for those who are more interested in Barbie's boyfriend, Ken, there's always Keeping Ken atwww.keepingken.com. There's Gold Medal Ken, Tropical Splash Ken, Animal Lovin' Ken, and many more. The site is the work of Jef Beck (not the guitarist), who considers Ken a best friend. "I have to thank my partner Jim for letting Ken move in with us," he writes. "Also thanks to my cats Jaspar and Casper for their understanding as well. After all, Ken took over their room!" Readers with nerves of steel can explore further and look up a cyberdolly called Tanya. She's a new British challenger to Barbie and Sindy and the only one with "a realistic walking movement".
NewsThe Year 2000 Information CenterComprehensive US sitey2k.news.co.ukUK-based news from Klimax2000Y2K cultureDaily news and views on the problem2K-TimesDirectory of miscellaneous articlesY2KnewsUS and business-oriented news serviceUK GovernmentAction 2000The Government's site for beating the bugThe Millennium BombThe Central Computer and Telecommunications Agency's Y2K database on Government departmental spending and readiness to combat the bugA Definition of Year 2000 Conformity RequirementsFrom the British Standards InstituteFrom Hansard:Barbara Roche MP on infrastructure and utilitiesBug costs: DTI estimatesSpending on Action 2000Government creates Pledge 2000US GovernmentThe President's council on Year 2000 conversionMain US official siteFinancing the US militaryStatement on policy from the Defense Information Systems AgencyUS Navy Y2K siteUS Army Y2K siteEuropeY2K euroSite maintained by the European CommissionEuro 2000 InfocenterSite includes news and millennium solutionsInvestmentThe Year 2000 problemReport from JP Morgan analystsProgrammingVisual Basic and the year 2000The Microsoft guideIBM's Year 2000 technical support centreBritish Computer SocietySupportThe Institution of Electrical Engineers risk management guideMillennium Times EuropeNewsletter of Taskforce 2000The Pocket Guide to the Year 2000Year 2000 management briefingFree online guide from Interactive Training TechnologiesYear 2000 date problemCompInfo's support centreMitre Year 2000 site&#91;Commercial only:&#93;The Year 2000 support centreYear 2000 booksFurther linksWormhole
More than anything else, I do not want to touch Miss Moneypenny. She is 40ft long and as white and as clean as a new washing machine. But Happy Hooker is drifting, and the gap between her and Moneypenny is shrinking fast. Instinctively, I hit the brakes.I am, after all, in the driver's seat of a Ford Fiesta. Here's the standard Fiesta dashboard, the regular Fiesta steering wheel. There's the radio and here is the gear stick. Push this and the hooter hoots. Waggle that and the wipers wipe. Ease down the accelerator and away we go. Stand on the brake pedal and...And nothing happens. Except that Moneypenny's chaste paintwork draws nearer and a collision seems inevitable. Then with the resignation of a driving instructor shepherding a first-time learner back into the safety of the carpark for another chat about clutch control, Tim Dutton tugs at a lever between our seats, gives the steering wheel a spin and tells me to remove my welly from the redundant brake pedal and give the engine some diesel.Suddenly, we are in a nautical version of a handbrake turn. Our rear end is where our front was, and we are putting fizzy water between us and that cruiser. "You have to think ahead," says Dutton, easing his grip on the wheel. "And mind the other boats."It's interesting that he says "other" boats. So the car I was driving five minutes   ago is no longer a car but a boat, right? My nearside has become my port (repeat: "A little red port left in the bottle"), my bonnet is my bow and my boot is my stern. And if I want to slow down or stop, I must forget all about wheels and brakes and instead pull back that lever to throw the jet propulsion unit into reverse.Only as I drive on to the slipway does the Dutton Commander again become a car. "Put it into first gear," says my instructor, thoughtfully grabbing the wheel again in order to tweak us away from a dinghy that is coming down the ramp towards us, "wait until the wheels grip the concrete, then bring your foot off the clutch and drive out of the water."To the disappointment of the children who have congregated beside Littlehampton Marina, I manage to emerge gracefully from the waters, a sort of mechanical Ursula Andress, without stalling the engine. But then I'm familiar with wheels.Not quite as familiar as Tim Dutton, though. Born into the family   that brought the first Porsche to this country (the brand remains his car of choice) he produced the Dutton kit car until 1989, when recession finally overtook his customers. But after a spell designing low-tech vehicles for developing countries, he hit on the idea of making an amphibious car that would avoid the problems that beset its predecessors.Chief among those was corrosion. The last production amphibious car was the Amphicar, and nearly 4,000 were made in Berlin between 1961 and 1968. But the Amphicar had a mild steel body that should never have gone out in the rain, let alone been submerged in brine.Dutton went for glass fibre, and a monocoque body comprising a pair of one-piece mouldings - a hull and a deck - sealed together and enveloping most of the mechanics.To avoid the second problem of amphibious vehicles - high cost - the sum of these mechanical parts is the ubiquitous Ford Fiesta, with the addition of a jet unit that is hydraulically powered from the engine, a water-tight exhaust system and a few refinements of a nautical nature.The first model, the Mariner S2, was based on the Fiesta Mk3 and sells for around &#163;12,000. The new Commander is based on the Fiesta Mk4 diesel and still costs under &#163;19,500. "The idea was to keep it simple," says Dutton. "We buy the Fiestas in Belgium, where they are &#163;2,500 cheaper."He and his staff of three at Littlehampton   work on several cars at a time, producing them to order in weeks. In the four years since launching the Mariner, they have made 45 vehicles. Six have been sold to UK buyers."Half of our customers buy them for a bit of fun - it's one up from a jet-ski," says Dutton. "The other half actually use them. Two went to people who live on islands, and another customer finds it a convenient way of getting to and from a moored boat."And what about using it for cross-Channel shopping ("I'm just popping out to the offie darling. I may be some time.")? With ample luggage space behind the rear seats, surely this vehicle was made for the dedicated importer of cut-price liquor?"I got to within three miles of the French coast in a prototype," says Dutton. "The wind was Force 4 in the middle, and it took one-and-a-half-  metre waves in its stride. But although the diesel can do 100mph on the road, the drag of the wheels means that, like all amphibious cars, the top speed in the water is around six knots. That means a five-hour crossing, which can be pretty boring."And there's another problem facing anyone hoping to notch up a few loyalty points at their nearest hypermarch&eacute; - namely that the French arrest anyone attempting to cross La Manche in an unorthodox craft."I can see their point," says Dutton. "They're trying to stop anyone setting off in a Reliant Robin with all the holes blocked up. But this is not an unorthodox craft. It satisfies every requirement." And he points out all the marine paraphernalia such as navigation lights and bilge pumps and automatic fire extinguishers. "It was an overheating problem that   stopped us. But we've fixed it now, and when we try again in a few weeks, we'll take it over by ferry or in the tunnel, slip it in somewhere along the coast and be out of French waters before they catch us."We are motoring now, driving towards the centre of Littlehampton, and I am beginning to understand how it must feel to be famous - one of those irritating celebrities who moan that they can't even go to the supermarket without people stopping them to demand photographs.A two-a-penny Range Rover pulls alongside and a man leans out in a flurry of tattooes and gold chains. "Scoos me, does that go in the water?" We confirm his suspicions and he drives off happy in the knowledge that he   will drink free for the rest of his days.At one point, I stop at a zebra crossing for a gaggle of pedestrians. But instead of venturing on to the stripes, they stand there, mouths agape, clinging on to the belisha beacon.Is it a boat? Is it a car? Are they about to be abducted by a couple of mermen, and if so, how do we operate the pedals? With our tail fins?"As a general rule in engineering, if something looks right then it invariably is right," says Dutton, and there's no doubting which particular something he is referring to.But the fact remains that form follows function, and the mixed-up function of this particular conveyance gives rise to a somewhat disconcerting appearance.Not surprisingly, the design of a car-boat involved one or two compromises - notably at the front end.Using language that betrays his grounding in automotive rather than marine engineering, Dutton says that, in order to carry out its watery duties efficiently, "the pointy bit" would have to be sharp, like in a speedboat. "After a year working on it, we ended up with something more punt-like. You can't go around harpooning pedestrians, can you?"But 20 minutes and a couple of circuits of Littlehampton later, I'm beginning to sympathise with those poor celebrities. So many staring eyes. So many idiot questions.That bit about harpooning pedestrians, Tim. Would it really be such a terrible thing?&#149; For information on the Dutton Commander call 01903 721036. It is on display today at the British Waterways exhibition, at West India Quay in London's Docklands. Information: 0870 241 0363.
If you've got a Y2K countdown clock, you'll probably love the idea of a car badged to mark the occasion. In which case, Honda has just the ticket: the all-new S2000.The line began with the SSM (Sports Style Model) first aired at Tokyo's motor show in 1995. The car was an oblique and eccentric stab in the direction of the MX5/MGF market. From the front, it looked like a gummy shark, largely because back then the headlamps were just inches from the ground.But its marketing trajectory has changed. A car that may have been initially groomed to go out and wrestle with Mazda's MX5 or Rover's MGF has emerged as a   direct challenge to a richer buyer. When the S2000 reaches the showrooms, it will be cost not much less than &#163;28,000, pitching straight for Audi's TT, BMW's popular Z3 2.8 and Porsche's Boxster.First the drawbacks. The cabin is compact to the point of being over-snug. Given that you share space between the axles with the engine (it's just under the dash), that's no shock. What is, though, is that there is no glovebox, while the lockable bin between the seats is barely big enough to house a cheese roll. A quota of minor quibbles also beg attention: although it will disappear in just six seconds, the electric hood is skimpy and features a flimsy rear   window, and the buttons on the dash are strewn willy-nilly. Best mis-positioned knob award must go to the wipe-wash: in the preview car, it sits just where your left elbow goes in a fast gearchange.Iginition is where things get better. With the key turned, you have to prod the big red "start" button on the dash. Seconds later, anything negative you might have dared think melts away, because driving this car is raw, undiluted fun.I'll qualify that: if you want a roadster that puts performance and athleticism ahead of all other qualities, the S2000 will be the new obvious choice. It all starts with the engine - a variable valve VTEC-timing design, tuned for top-end antics. The double overhead cam unit might be just two litres, but it has 240bhp at 8,200rpm. You might think such heights are impractical, but within a few yards, you realise that this car not only likes to linger beyond 5,000rpm, it wants to make   7,000rpm your new idle speed. The rev limiter, incidentally, cuts in at a ludicrously high 9,000rpm.To the untuned ear, drilling along at 8,000rpm might seem vulgar. But such a broad power band and flexible gearing makes for addictive driving. On an open road, the   S2000 knows no difference between caravans and GTis; they are all 30-mph-somethings; all rear-view has-beens.Yet despite all that, it's incredibly civilised. Despite being open-topped, there is no detectable flex or shake and the suspension is plankish yet smooth. Handling, thanks to double wishbones all around, to complete the picture, is super-tight and wind intrusion, with the hood down, is very low. On paper, the S2000's 150mph ability and 6.2 seconds 0-60mph dash make it fairly tempting. On the road, and next to the cars it seeks to beat, it has a definite engineering edge.
Shut up in the back!If you're heading home with the kids from your bank holiday weekend, listen up. In an RAC survey, 90% of parents questioned said they got distracted by their children while driving. This, they said, led to nearly driving into the car in front, and getting lost, while 7% admitted that child distraction had actually led to accidents. All the usual advice to keep them occupied then: tapes, I spy, frequent breaks and drive at night if possible.Quote of the Week"I'd streak down Oxford Street on Christmas Eve. I'd stroll up to Mike Tyson and explain that I'd just slept with his girlfriend. I'd even sleep with Robin Cook and, if necessary, have a little cuddle afterwards."- Jeremy Clarkson on what he'd do to get a Nissan Skyline, the Sun
What are you driving?It's a Seat Toledo - a nippy little thing. Five doors. I also have a scooter for zipping about town. My Dad had a Triumph Dolomite Sprint which I loved.Are you a different person on the scooter?Yes. I love little things. I love having the opportunity to just nip in and out. I never do more than 35mph.What does the car say about you?Big and sensible. Gets about. Likes a bit of speed but does the shopping.What are you like as a driver?Because I use a scooter I'm very aware of cyclists, especially when I'm in London. In summer I run, around Regents Park.So do you get recognised?Well, I haven't been snapped yet. I pull the cap down over my face and tend to look as bad as possible.What's life like for your passengers?I like driving on my own listening to music - Radiohead, Supergrass, the Verve. The last person I drove was my brother - I took him home last night. He thinks I'm good. Everybody seems really calm with me in the car. I seem really in control - like in the rest of my life. I used to be pretty reckless when I was younger. When I was a runner for a   production company, I drove a massive 16-seater van. I was only 18. I mean I look young now, but then I looked about 12.What about road rage?I never get road rage.Oh, come on...What does piss me off is when you let someone out and they don't thank you. I'm usually very happy when I'm driving - waving, you know, 'I'm in a car and that's great'. You let someone out and someone else looks at you as though they are saying 'you shouldn't have done that'. I just hate the way the British aren't nice to each other. I don't want much - just a smile, or a wave. It takes up too much energy getting angry.Do you like speed?I was in a car with Eddie Irvine the other day. We were going around a Formula 1 racing track, in his Alfa Romeo. I screamed and screamed. I got out and felt 'wow'. I'm a complete rollercoaster freak.This is the last time I will ever ask this question. Have you ever had sex in a car?Err, not for a long time. That's all I'll say. I can't remember the car, my mind was on other things.&#149; Gail Porter presents Top of the Pops and The Film Show on Channel 5
Microsoft last night attempted to play down fears that three of its most popular software packages may not be millennium compliant after they were singled out for criticism by the government watchdog, Action 2000.Popular Microsoft software programmes such as Word 97, Excel 95 and Outlook 98 were pinpointed after Microsoft changed their year 2000 compliance status.The FileMaker Pro 4 database software from Claris and Intuit's Quicken 6 and Quickbook accounting packages were also identified as products which have had their status changed to a category which suggested they may not be functional until early next year.Action 2000 chairman Don Cruickshank said many businesses may have been "lulled into a false sense of security", regarding the packages' functionality next year, by testing them using advice from the manufacturer which has since changed. He also condemned the software companies for allowing the situation to develop and for changing their minds over whether the software was 2000 compliant."Software managers have not prompted customers enough to go back and re-check," he said. "This is an alarming situation at this late stage."Microsoft confirmed that the three products failed compliance tests and needed "fixes" obtainable on its website. But a spokesman insisted their products were compliant and steps were being taken to make the remainder compliant."We have been testing Y2K compliancy for three years and welcome anything that raises the issue. We urge customers to visit our website for guidance if they are concerned about the compliancy of their software. We also urge them to check their hardware as well."Microsoft plans to distribute 60m leaflets to customers in October and November asking them to make last-minute Y2K checks, the spokesman added.
The US Justice Department wants to be able to break into private premises and disable security precautions on personal computers, The Washington Post reported late last week. The envisaged Cyberspace Electronic Security Act is the department's response to the use of encryption programs "to facilitate criminal activity, such as drug trafficking, terrorism, white-collar crime and the distribution of child pornography", according to a department memo quoted by the Post.The proposal would appear to trample all over America's Bill of Rights, but why not? US law enforcement officers can already break into premises to install hidden microphones. No doubt crimes could be reduced even further by installing cameras and microphones in every home... and George Orwell's novel, 1984, could be republished with a new date, 2004.Britain is a few years behind the US in the use of encryption and the internet. Our home secretary Jack Straw is still trying to monitor citizens from a safe distance or, as he puts it, "maintain interception   as the most powerful weapon in the armoury against crime".The home office's latest proposals for "tapping the net" were published in June in a consultation paper, Interception of Communications in the United Kingdom. Last week, Demon Internet, which pioneered low cost internet access in the UK, responded with a long paper about the practical problems of implementing surveillancewww.dispatches.demon.net/pr/1999/pr1999-08-19a.html, though it politely stopped short of saying that the whole idea was stupid.However, Demon's response makes one telling point. "We believe that if the law enforcement agencies were paying for interception capabilities then this would require them to show that they were getting Value For Money," it says."If the ISPs are coerced into providing this capability without regard to the cost then the agencies are likely to use interception when other methods of investigation would be far cheaper when considered overall." Clearly, any analysis of Value for Money should also include the cost to UK competitiveness, the loss of overseas business and other incidentals.Of course, should Straw get his way, everyone will start encrypting everything and his expensive interception capabilities will become useless, so he'll need to be able to break into private premises and disable security precautions on personal computers...
The coldblooded murder of 12 Columbine High School students and a teacher by two fellow students, who then killed themselves, generated revulsion and soul-searching among millions of Americans. The incident in Littleton, Colorado, on April 20 was the sixth and worst such school-based "massacre" in less than two years. Much of the analysis and criticism focused on guns and their easy availability, the responsibilities of parents and teachers in watching for trouble signs amongst an increasingly alienated youth, and the supposedly desensitising effects of video games, violent films and rock lyrics.Yet soon the media was talking about the killers' links to the internet. Their teachers described them as net experts, and they made numerous visits to white supremacist and neo-Nazi websites, helping them build an arsenal of weapons and military knowledge.A short time later, 21-year-old student Benjamin Smith went on a three-day shooting spree across Indiana and Illinois, killing two people and wounding half a dozen more. Smith, who also turned the gun on himself, belonged to an infamous white power organisation called the World Church of the Creator. This is one of the most proactive white supremacist groups on the net today, with a    sophisticated website which particularly targets the younger generation. If you believe the scare stories, the net is a hive of hate, from anti-abortionists promoting hitlists to an international trade in white power music CDs - and even a British far right with an increasingly active web presence.Such concerns are not new. In January 1985, America's best-known anti-hate pressure group, the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), released a report entitled Computerized Networks of Hate. It exposed a computerised bulletin board created by and for white supremacists and accessible to anyone with a modem and a home computer. Aryan Nations, a paramilitary group affiliated with the "Identity Church" pseudo-theological hate movement, sponsored the bulletin board and named it "Aryan Nation Liberty Net".The project was the work of Louis Beam, then a Knight of the Ku Klux Klan and Aryan Nations leader, and George Dietz, the man behind the largest neo-Nazi publishing mill in the United States. Beam went on to join    neo-Nazi group The Order, which robbed banks and murdered a prominent Jewish radio host, before dissolving in a hail of FBI bullets. His ideas of "leaderless resistance" - the formation of autonomous cells of "Aryan" fighters - have seeped into neo-Nazi ideology around world, partly thanks to the internet.Computerized Networks of Hate detailed five ways the "Aryan Nation Liberty Net" served the white supremacist movement, all of which remain important to extremism on the internet today. First, the bulletin board was designed to draw young people to the hate movement with appealing propaganda. Second, it stirred up hatred against the "enemies" of white supremacy.Third, it was a means to make money. Fourth, the system offered the potential for circulating secret, coded messages among extremists, and finally, it bypassed embargoes that nations outside the United States placed on hate literature. The same month that ADL released Computerized Networks of Hate, white supremacist Stephen Donald (Don) Black was released    from prison.While serving just over two years, Black had learned to use computers and launched Stormfront, the first extremist hate site on the web "There is the potential here to reach millions," Black said at the time. "I think it's a major breakthrough." He likened it to having his own TV show: "I don't know if it's the ultimate solution to developing a white rights movement in this country, but it's certainly a significant advance." Today, hundreds of bigotry-laden sites promoting a variety of philosophies have joined Stormfront on the web."The growth of hate on the net since then has been dramatic," says Jordan Kessler of the ADL. "Hundreds of hate sites are now available at the click of a finger... These groups use it to spread propaganda, recruit new members, communicate with each other, sell their wares, and threaten their enemies. "Racist skinhead sites tend to focus on brief, graphic information related to music: album reviews, band photos, and downloadable (often MP3) songs.In contrast, Holocaust deniers post thousands of pages of detailed text filled with lies and distortions." Though it is not always easy to draw a connection between online speech and violence, extremist groups with histories of violence have extensive websites. "Words can lead to action," says   Kessler. "The Williams brothers in California, who are charged with killing a gay couple and are primary suspects in three synagogue arsons, reportedly learned about Christian Identity on the web." Extremists have used the internet to comment favourably on violence. One website calls John William King, convicted murderer of James Byrd, an "American Hero" and asks readers to "give thanks to God" for King's act. Another site's "memorial" to a gay murder victim Matthew Shepard claims he "got himself killed" because of his "satanic lifestyle" and "will be in hell for all eternity".Usenet is popular for posting thousands of off-topic messages, and has been used for years by a wide variety of neo-Nazi and far right sympathisers. Chat rooms on mainstream websites are often used to proselytise unsuspecting internet users. Unsolicited email is another popular tool of white supremacists - in effect, spamming for hate. "Haters are using the technology as it develops, just like mainstream web users," according to Kessler.Stern magazine in Germany recently revealed that young neo-Nazis were pretending to be leftwing or anti-fascist activists on various chat rooms.Using pseudonyms and   "denouncing" their far right colleagues, they tricked other young activists into parting with their telephone numbers then tracked down their addresses.One 20-year-old, nicknamed DavidLane after an infamous US member of The Order, is suspected of posting at least two death threats on the net, offering substantial rewards for the murder of named individuals. Another German neo-Nazi posts his target names and addresses on a US website to circumvent local laws. Meck88 says: "This is a page where I publish the names, addresses, telephone numbers etc of people who have earned a proper beating. If an activist who is prepared for violence sees this, then he doesn't need to hesitate in finishing off these people in any way he can."German Oi! offers a page called The Small Explosives Master, an extensive programme giving tips on making and using explosives. The home page was placed on the net via the US internet services provider Geocities.Such extremism is illegal on UK sites so the National Socialist Movement (NSM), a spin-off from the notorious neo-Nazi gang, Combat 18 (C18), advertises via a US web site.It is linked to some of America's most notorious   neo-Nazis and white supremacists. Several UK members have already been recruited via this site, including some since connected to extreme acts of violence. Others are known to have accessed military information via US web sites, such as Death 2 ZOG (Zionist Occupation Government), which posts bomb-making instructions.The Shropshire-based Order of Nine Angles, one of the world's most extreme Satanic cults (which advocates assassinations and a "culling" of opponents) has links to the NSM and advertises on the US Satanic Syndicate site. It ran links and posted email addresses to many other groups around the world, until it was exposed by investigative journalists. Another group, White Action88, said "well done" to the Brixton nailbomber on its front page.America's largest neo-Nazi organisation, the National Alliance, has an extensive website which links to the British National Party (BNP) over here. The BNP's deputy leader, Cambridge graduate Nick Griffin, has close links to the Alliance's Professor William Pierce, the man who   wrote the Turner Diaries (about a mythical white power uprising around the world) which is alleged to have inspired Oklahoma bomber Timothy McVeigh. The BNP has three sites offering merchandise, streaming video and numerous press releases and essays.Nick Lowles, of the anti-fascist Searchlight pressure group, says: "The BNP are politically marginalised in society - they can't stock their material in libraries and bookshops, for example, nor do they hold many public meetings or rallies any more. So the net is a perfect way for them to get their message out, in whatever form they want. It makes it more difficult to expose the lies and scaremongering. But if you want to know what they're really about, just take a look at some of the links they have - you'll find some of the most extreme neo-Nazi groups in the world up there."Extremist sites the world over target younger individuals. The BNP already has a Young BNP site urging secondary school pupils "to stand up for the rights of your fellow Britons". It encouraged pupils   to put pressure on their teachers to insist the BNP was included in mock European elections at schools.Other hate groups such as the World Church of the Creator, with about 3,000 members, have posted sites filled with simple propaganda devoted to wooing children. Its leader, the self-styled "Reverend" Matt Hale - a 27-year-old with degrees in music, political science and law - advertises the site as "one of the finest White Power pages on the web". On the home page is an advert for a White Man's Bible. It also includes the Women's Frontier, a site devoted to "the White Sisters in the Church worldwide".There are other Aryan web sites devoted to women, including a number of white-only dating services. In the UK, Sharron Edwards writes on the BNP site, encouraging "less faint-hearted women to stand as candidates" for public office.The sprawling Oi! and skinhead music scene is another way to target the young and their pockets. British gangs such as Combat 18 made hundreds of thousands of pounds selling illegal CDs by hand and via PO boxes; now a young British nazi can visit an infamous US site such as Resistance Records and pay via a credit card, or download MP3 files from sites such as Skrewdriver and Blood And   Honour, named after infamous white power bands and music organisations. Many are devoted to Ian Stewart Donaldson, a near mythical figure in the far right; Donaldson was the British lead singer of Oi! band Skrewdriver and created Blood and Honour (taken over by C18) before dying in a car crash in 1993.The violent US music organisation, the Hammerskins, already has a British chapter proudly boasting its existence from a colourful web page.Combating this online extremism is enormously difficult. In the US, the First Amendment's protection of free speech shields most extremist propaganda, and ISPs are free to choose whether to house these sites or not. Often the sites simply migrate to other internet service prov iders if banned.Organisations such as Hatewatch try to expose such groups, linking to their sites and interviewing their leaders online. The ADL has even introduced Hatefilter for parents worried about their kids accessing hate groups.In February, the Nuremberg Files, a US anti-abortion site which included a "hit list" of doctors who performed abortions, was fined more than $100m by a federal court.Yet such actions are, according to Jordan Kessler, "a drop in the ocean".
Not so fastSpeed FreaksSony PlayStation &#163;34.99When it comes to cartoony kart-racing games, Nintendo rules. Super Mario Kart and Rare's Diddy Kong Racing have never been bettered.It's an exaggeration to say that Sony/Funcom's Speed Freaks, due out tomorrow, comes close, but it's probably the best attempt yet. The kart feels suitably karty, the tracks are excellent, and the graphics give a terrific impression of speed. The game also makes good use of vibrations from the Dual Shock controller.Once the four easy tracks are out of the way, there are   some frustrating challenges for single players to overcome: the difficulty levels seem well judged for the eight-15 year old target market.Sony also plans to release Speed Freaks in a cut-price pack with the Multi Tap accessory which allows four people to race each other: this should satisfy the back-from-the-pub crowd.But the game skimps on detail: the characters are crudely drawn and the karts are little more than wheels.Speed Freaks isn't wholly derivative - it has some novel ideas - and is great fun to play, but no one's going to buy a PlayStation to run it. Especially not if they have an N64.Tiberian sun shines at lastCommand &amp; Conquer: Tiberian SunPC CD-Rom, &#163;39.99 EA/Westwood StudiosFour years is a long time to wait for anything and if, as it did for many, the trailer for Tiberian Sun at the end of the original C&amp;C started you salivating, you'll have drowned in your own drool long ago.A lot has happened in four years: as well as the oddly unbalanced Red Alert, there   has been a battalion of very good RTS (real-time strategy) games. Fortunately, the likes of Dark Forces, M.A.X. and Total Annihilation have upped the ante: it is probably only thanks to them that this features a waypoint system, raised terrain, real line of sight and a promotion/ upgrade system for units.Tiberian Sun raises the stakes with destructible terrain, bridges that can be destroyed and rebuilt, tunnels, bonus pickups, and some seriously cool hardware (although the single most welcome change must be the loss of the kamikaze harvester).Despite the innovations,   gameplay is essentially the same. Solo missions are still pretty much about sneaking in the back way or amassing an army of Somme proportions; multiplayer is a question of who gets the superweapon first.This is no bad thing. The bad things are the manual, the less catchy music (an underestimated factor in the original's success) and the video sequences, for all the talents of James Earl Jones, Michael Biehn and some women with large breasts.Minor gripes aside, Tiberian Sun is about as good a sequel as you could hope for.But four years?
Price warRival console manufacturers Sony and Nintendo both cut prices last week ahead of the launch of Sega's new Dreamcast games machine, due in the US on September 9 and in the UK on September 23. In the US, the Nintendo 64 and   PlayStation both cost less than $100. In the UK, Sony lopped &#163;20 off the PlayStation price, bringing it down to &#163;79.99, while Nintendo launched a standalone N64 at the same price. (It costs &#163;99.99 with the Goldeneye 007 game or &#163;119.99 in a Star Wars pack.)Legends returnZelda Gaiden will not be a sequel to the best-selling Nintendo 64 game Legend of Zelda: The Ocarina of Time, but will take place in a parallel world of Hyrule. Many familiar characters and locations will feature in the new game. Another character due to reappear is UbiSoft's Rayman (pictured) from the 1995    PlayStation platformer of the same name. Rayman 2: The Great Escape is due on October 22. Seewww.Rayman2.comLara's themeToday's Trendz, a Chicago-based clothing company, has just bought licensing rights to use pictures of Tomb Raider    heroine Lara Croft on "a new line of adult, junior and youth apparel" (think tee-shirts). It's part of game publisher Eidos Interactive's strategy of maximising Lara's exposure (think commercial exploita tion). In the UK, the range of Lara merchandise already includes tee-shirts, posters, mousemats, a watch, action figures from Playmates toys, and a Lara beach towel.
Apple suesApple has suedeMachinesover the design of its new eOne desktop computer, which it thinks looks a bit too much like the iMac. The $799 eOne (below) is made by Trigem, a South Korean company which owns 51% of eMachines. In July, Apple also sued Future Power, a company backed by South Korea's Daewoo Group, because of the even more similar appearance of its E-Power computer. Both these iMacalikes run Microsoft's Windows 98 operating system not Apple's proprietary Mac OS, but the similarity of the cases or "trade dress" is the issue. In the early 1980s, IBM also took or threatened legal action against companies selling clone PCs in cases that looked too similar to the original IBM PC.Encarta cutMicrosoft will slash the price of its Encarta CD-Rom encyclopaedia to &#163;19.99 when it launches the Encarta 2000 version on September 17. However, people will be tempted to spend more on the Deluxe edition (with interactive maps and a curriculum guide, &#163;69.99) or the Encarta Reference Suite, which includes the Encarta Interactive World Atlas and Bloomsbury's Encarta World English Dictionary for &#163;99.99. Microsoft is also planning to ship two new mice that don't have any balls: they use IntelliEyes (sic) instead. The IntelliMouse and IntelliMouse Explorer use an optical sensor and digital signal processing chip to track a surface up to 1,500 times a second. They work on almost any surface: you can use your head as a mouse mat. The IntelliMouse will be launched on October 1 at &#163;39.99. The IntelliMouse Explorer - a flash-looking titanium-coloured version   with extra forward and back buttons for web-surfing - will cost &#163;49.99.Hi techie!Techies of the world unite and celebrate the first National Techies Day, in the US on October 5. It is being promoted "to bring attention to the pressing need for educational programmes that interest young people in seeking tech jobs and offer them the specialised training they need to prepare for tech careers", says C/net founder Halsy Minor. Backers include C/net, Compaq and FedEx. Download the National Techies Day Activity Kit from the official website atwww.techiesday.org.Mini mailerAmerican phone giant SBC Communications - which    combines Southwestern Bell Telephone and Pacific Bell Telephone - plans to test-market a 2.2lb portable computer designed only to send and receive electronic mail. It says the device "will help bridge the information technology gap for the 50% of US households that do not have a home computer". What SBC calls the eMessage was actually launched last month by Cidco, a Californian company, as the MailStation. Cidco has been selling MailStations from its website atwww.cidco.com/mailstationsince July 13.Star buySilicon Valley's Sun Microsystems, the largest supplier of Unix-based servers and workstations, may soon announce the take-over of Star Division, the small German company that produces the Star Office software suite. Sun has expanded its range to include Netscape's server programs (as part of a three-way deal involving AOL's takeover of Netscape). Star Office will help Sun make another assault on the desktop  computer market early next month. Star Office is popular in the ABM (Anything But Microsoft) camp, having been written for the OS/2 operating system with which IBM tried to crush the upstarts from Redmond in the early 1990s.    Star is now giving its office suite away for personal use. Versions for Windows, OS/2, and the Sun Solaris and GNU/Linux versions of Unix can be downloaded fromwww.stardivision.com
At first sight, ordering cars over the internet doesn't look like a winning idea. A car is a little bigger than a book or CD, and rather more expensive; it is a purchase we want to fret about, sit in and run the rule over before committing cash.But the concept could take off in this country if we overcome our fears and follow the example of our cousins in the US, where a quarter of car shoppers now get their vital car buying information online.And the folks on the other side of the pond aren't just reading about cars on the web: they're buying them too. Some showrooms in the US attribute more than three quarters of their sales to online orders.But for the UK shopper, contemplating splashing out over the next week or two on a new-reg dream machine, what is there on the web? As you'd expect, every manufacturer has its own website - the address is normally simply the name, like Ford, with a .co.uk on the end. But most are little more than online brochures - fine for looking at pretty pictures, but not much more.There is more useful information out there. You can try the BBC's excellent Top Gear site, atwww.topgear.beeb.com/for impartial comment on thousands of cars - it brands one well-known vehicle "miserable and disappointing", while another is praised because "potholes and dead animals   are wafted over in a way that only a Citroen Xantia can match". You'll never find that kind of comment between the soft-focus pictures on the manufacturers' sites.Quentin Willson and friends are not the only plain-speaking car buffs on the net. What Car magazine's site atwww.whatcar.co.ukis an excellent resource, which includes the results of its controversial crash tests, where they drive cars into walls to determine how safe they are (and if you nurse a weird fascination with pictures of wrecked cars, this is the place to visit). There's also a comprehensive collection of more conventional car reviews, with pictures, and a commendably easy-to-use second-hand car valuation feature which tells you how much your current car is worth.Autotrader(owned by by the Guardian's parent company) also has an easy-to-use website atwww.autotrader,co,ukwhich draws on TopGear for new   car information, but also has a strong section - as you'd expect - on used car sales. You can simply select which car you'd like, tell the site where you live and how far you are willing to travel to run the rule over the motor, and it will try to pin down a suitable set of wheels.There's also Autohit, atwww.autohit.comwhich is less well written than the competition and a little more laddish in tone, but still a big repository of information for the prospective buyer.But what if you want to go one stage further and actually set about buying online? The British version of the successful US-based Autobytel.com, which claims to have shifted 1.5m cars in three years, arrived on these shores in the spring.Its service, which is free, lets you find the car you want, add the extras you'd like, finds you finance and insurance, and then puts you in touch with a local, specially-trained dealer   who will let you take a test drive and then, all things be equal, seal the deal.If you know what you are looking for, then Autobytel is a pretty straightforward way of adding up the various costs of a car: it's easy to compare the prices of models, add options, examine different credit arrangements and see the on-the-road price. For those of us wary of car showrooms and salespeople keen to sell us the most expensive model possible, it's a convenient way of seeing if we can afford to indulge ourselves and go for the metallic paint, air conditioning or a more powerful model.But bear in mind you don't buy your car directly from Autobytel, which is both a good and a bad thing. You still have to deal with a   showroom to complete the deal, so you don't get the chance to bypass dealerships altogether, alas.On the other hand, surfers worried about transaction security, or those who would rather at least be able to sit in the car they're planning to buy, will be reassured that there is some human contact in the process. And, with the help of the site, you should be certain about what you want, cutting down on the amount of sales patter you have to endure.The one thing you can't do is haggle - Autobytel dealers are supposed to come up with a cracking deal straight away. But then, if you're not yearning for the forecourt after gazing at all these sites' pictures and stats, you're probably not the haggling type anyway.
Tell us about your computer use.I was born in Iowa in 1951 and I didn't see a computer until 1971. I first got involved in computing as an undergraduate at Stanford in the early 1970s. The first computer I programmed was an IBM 360/67mainframe. My first real" computing experience came when I took a computer architecture course at Stanford. We got to program an early minicomputer  the   HP 2116a  writing our code in assembly language and directly controlling the hardware devices of the machines. It led to my interest in operating systems.What machine(s) do you use now?I have three Pentium II PCs that I use in my office (for software development, testing, mail, document creation, etc), plus a laptop for trips and presentations. At home   I have a home-built Pentium III system connected to the Internet through ADSL and a laptop for use around the house connected via an 11 MHz wireless LAN.How much of your life is spent at a computer?I'm a computer scientist and operating system designer so my workday tends to be centred around the computer. At home I use the computer probably one or two additional hours either for work or pleasure.How real is the idea of the global village?There are colleagues I work with on a regular basis who live in other countries. I can pick up a phone, send email or share applications and data with them. I routinely read messages posted to bulletin boards from around the world and access websites in other countries.Any favourite websites?I tend to frequent news websites (msnbc.com, cnn.com, cnet.com, zdnet.com, etc.), computer game websites (next-generation. com, avault.com, ign.com, etc.) and science fiction websites (dailysci-fi.com, scifi.com). I also enjoy shopping for books, DVDs and electronic items online.Any favourite software/hardware?My favourite imaginary hardware/ software would be the Star Trek   lapel pin" communicator device.What changes do you envisage in the future for computers/technology?Within five years we will be able to create 3D scenes in real-time that begin to rival the visual complexity of the real world.   We will have single hard drives with over   a terabyte of disk capacity and will be able to store on a single PC as much text as can be found today on the global internet. Wide area network speeds will make the distinction between local and remote networking largely irrelevant and well over one billion people will have access to wireless data and voice communication.What are you working on at the moment?I've been working on a project to build an operating system for a network of computers. The goal is to create an environment in which application developers can write programs without worrying about what computer or what network they are going to run on. I'm also working on a computer game called Allegiance which Microsoft will be distributing this winter, a massively multiplayer internet space combat action/strategy game.
ICANN stands for the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, a private corporation set up to manage the internet's plumbing - the Domain Name System, the IP addresses (such as 212.44.158.4), and the protocols or standards that make the whole thing work.The idea was launched by the US government, which de facto, had responsibility for many of these tasks - but also had the wisdom to recognise that the net does not belong to the US (government) alone. It belongs to its creators and users.During a long-drawn-out process, the US government called on the net community to create a body to which it would hand these responsibilities. Of course, none of this was entirely smooth, and the organisation that resulted had its flaws - including bylaws that left ICANN insufficiently accountable to the public.That has been changed, with lots of lively input (read criticism) from the internet community. But where are we now?Today, ICANN's third board meeting in Santiago should have made its first decisions to affect the outside world. That concerns policies for the allocation of domain names in the .com, .net and .org "top-level" domains - for now, the most popular ones.Our challenge is to find some consensus on where to draw the line between "abusive" registrations, where someone is stealing the value created by someone else and recognised by a trademark and cases where someone has registered a name that may be someone else's trademark in good faith.The trick is to draw the line carefully and explicitly, distinguishing good-faith from bad-faith registrations in case of disputes. Bad faith is where someone with no   rights to a name tries to sell it to someone with rights, or attempts to steal some other site's identity - that is pass themselves off as the original. Good faith would cover a political site (ICANNsucks. com) - where use of the trademark is free speech rather than a commercial misappropriation.The benefits of such uniform policies and procedures for dispute resolution will be to make the whole system more predictable and more fair, with clear rules.It is hard to find consensus on these issues. Some people say there is no need for an ICANN: let the market take care of it, or let it "self-organise" as it always has.Why do we need ICANN at all? The internet grew organically, with its own rules, and without government oversight. The system was funded by the US government, but it started out as a simple list of   names and addresses developed by engineers. It got its legitimacy and authority because it worked. But there are compelling reasons we cannot simply continue with the same system.The first is that the old system is no longer working so smoothly. Like it or not, governments around the world - not just the US - want to see someone "in charge".If it cannot be a government - and which government should it be? - then they want a neutral body with the accountability of a government but a limited set of powers that do not usurp government functions.Indeed, our powers are limited: our decisions have to be based on the consensus of the internet community - as well as we can determine it! - and we can enforce those policies only through contracts with various players - domain name registries and registrars, address registries and the like. We have no governmental powers.The second reason is that some years ago the US government assigned responsibility for registering .com, .net and .org to a commercial company, Network Solutions. That contract, which had become extremely lucrative, expired last year. It was renewed,   but at the same time the US government decided to turn what had been a monopoly into a competitive market, and ICANN is overseeing that process.Why cannot all this just be left to the market? Wouldn't it be simpler? Is ICANN just the seed of a burgeoning bureaucracy that will impose costs, retard technological progress, and reward its friends? Is it just a sneaky way of handing a US treasure to foreigners? Of ceding a "public space" to commercial interests?Or is it secretly controlled by governments, big-business interests, internet technocrats?The fact that we are accused of all of these gives me some comfort. They cannot all be true, and in fact none of them is true.Moving from monopoly to an open market is a complicated process, as experience in the telephone market teaches all of us. In the long run, the market should work, but making the transition requires oversight. That is our job.In addition to dispute resolution, ICANN is trying to figure out the consensus of the internet community on a variety of other issues going forward.Most visible of these is the question of new generic top-level domains: In addition to .com, .net and .org, do we want .store, .air for airlines or .fin for financial institutions? That would provide some competition for .com. But who would have the right to manage these domains?Should there simply be as many as people care to create? That still leaves the question of who gets to run any particular new domain, some of which may be very popular. We are still looking for opinions on all these questions.At the same time, the current obsession with the domain name system in general and with .com in particular is probably a passing fancy. Within a few years, systems such as RealNames and a variety of directory services will supersede or at least be competing with the domain name system.ICANN's challenge is to help that happen smoothly - not to get so wedded to fixing the current system that it cannot recognise the value of something better.&#149; Help form the consensus by writing to:comments@icann.org
The fastest PC you can buy this week doesn't have "Intel inside" but the Athlon or K7 from Intel's main rival, Advanced Micro Devices. AMD's new processor offers speeds up to 650MHz compared with the market leader's fastest 600MHz. Even when the chips run at the same speed, AMD claims its new design performs better than the equivalent Intel Pentium III.This is important not only in giving consumers a choice but in giving Intel some competition. Users have already benefited from the success of AMD's earlier K6 chip, which helped bring the price of low-end PCs from around 1,000 to around 500.But Athlon represents a huge gamble for the struggling chip manufacturer. AMD lost $104 million on its 1998 turnover of $2.5bn, after losing $21m on its 1997 revenues of $2.4bn. Intel, which supplies more than 80% of the Pentium chips used to run Microsoft Windows on desktop computers, made $6bn profit on 1998 sales worth $26.3bn.Things have been even tougher recently. AMD has been funding a new $1.9bn factory in Dresden, Germany, while Intel has been slashing the price of its Celeron (Pentium II) chips.If the strategy works, it will raise AMD to a new level. As UK marketing manager Richard Baker says: "The Athlon moves us from selling chips for $60 to selling chips for $600."
Today's Athlon is only the first step in the process. It may be an advanced chip, but it is made using conventional processes in AMD's existing factory in Texas. When the new factory comes on stream, the chip will be smaller and even faster (thanks to using 0.18 micron instead of 0.25 micron manufacturing, which shrinks the size of the 22 million transistors on the die). It will also be made using next-generation copper instead of traditional aluminium connections, which will increase the speed still further.Using the new process, AMD will introduce new types of Athlon chip to compete with Intel across the desktop PC processor market. Today, Intel sells three types of Pentium: the Celeron for "value" (low-cost) consumer PCs, the Pentium III for "performance PCs" for the business market and enthusiasts, and the Xeon for high-powered graphics workstations and servers. AMD plans to compete with the Athlon Select for the value market, the Athlon Professional for business PCs, and the Athlon Ultra for workstations and servers. Ultimately, Baker says, AMD is aiming to get 30% of the desktop processor market.
The company's strategy does not, of course, depend on the new Athlon's marginal advantage in clock speed - just as well, because Intel will have 650MHz Pentiums soon and 700MHz versions late this year or early next year.Athlon machines also get a speed advantage by using faster motherboards, running at 200MHz compared with 66MHz or 100MHz with most Intel processors. AMD is using EV6 bus circuitry developed for the Digital Alpha processor, which reached 600MHz speeds several years ago.The disadvantage is that Athlon requires different motherboards, processor sockets and support chips from those Intel uses.The Athlon design also offers better floating point maths performance than the Pentium, through having three maths processors on the chip, working in parallel. This provides better multimedia performance, with smoother moving video and graphics.The differences show up in benchmark tests, where the 600MHz Athlon typically runs about 15%-25% faster than a Pentium III. But this is not enough to be  noticeable in most circumstances. I tried an AMD-made 600MHz alongside a 500MHz Pentium III-based PC with a similar specification and they were indistinguishable in ordinary use, except for the AMD machine's superior Riva TNT2 Ultra graphics card. (Athlon will get faster in the future - but so will Intel's chips.)There are situations where Athlon's extra speed is a significant advantage. People creating 3D graphics sequences for films and games - such as Cal Rodgers of Vizix Digital Studio and Jake Rodgers of Digital Anvil - say the Athlon can halve rendering times.
Those running demanding programs like Adobe PhotoShop, 3D Studio MAX and AutoCAD on PCs should certainly try an Athlon, and expect to be impressed. Athlon machines should also appeal to 3D games players (as long as they do not skimp on the graphics card).But for everyday use, faster processors from both Intel and AMD now provide diminishing returns. Most people would be better off putting the extra cash into a better graphics card, monitor and keyboard, better loudspeakers, and entertaining add-ons like force-feedback steering wheels.
On messagePolly Sprenger (Weblife, August 19) says: "We may someday get a universal standard for exchanging instant messages, but it won't happen next week."The IRC (Internet Relay Chat) protocol has been around (as RFC1459) for over six years, and though not exactly the same as Instant Messaging, it lets you hold instant conversations with   people far away. You don't need to register, there is no advertising, it can take up as much of the computer screen as you like and it works with any IRC software on any platform, meaning your friends can all use whichever program they prefer - unlike Instant Messaging. It doesn't tell you if your friends are online though - use ICQ for that!Matthew SomervilleManchesterThe biggest problem with instant messaging in the UK is that it is simply uneconomical to remain online constantly. It would be great if the Guardian would act as a promoter/catalyst of fixed fee phone bills in the same way that it promoted the Freedom of Information Bill.Luke MellorCreative Capital PartnersJack and MacApple's speed claims, like all in the industry, are biased and unreliable, but they are not always as wild as Jack Schofield seems to think, and in the portable arena are dead-on.A Mobile Pentium is not a Pentium at all, but a slow, bare-bones subset of the desktop chip offering a fraction of the performance of its portly namesake.Apple's machines consistently outperform Wintel notebooks because they have a "real" desktop CPU inside instead of some shrunken, slothful, and simplified implementation that bears little resemblance to the chip the marketing men (Intel's main strength) named it after.John A SorrelsLondon
NeuromancyForget the hype over Star Wars: Episode 1. Real geeks and the digerati will be far more excited at the prospect that, at last, they can jack in to the Matrix when the film version of William Gibson's Neuromancer comes to the big screen. When? The official website atwww.neuromancer.org, isn't saying much about anything, but the opening Flash sequence  is nice. Brit music video director Chris Cunningham is doing us the honours of filming the 1984 novel in which Gibson coined the word "cyberspace" and pretty much envisioned the then-nonexistent world wide web. Interestingly, the film's creators also want to develop a parallel website. "Our goal with the Neuromancer   website is to provide an opportunity for artists, writers, technologists, and fans to collaborate and create a vision for the internet of the future," they say. Unfortunately there are no further details about that project either, but this looks like a site worth watching.Let's playMix the writings of psychologist August Klein and the deconstructed memories of artist Arthur Doyle and you just might   end up with the hypnotic website Play-lets atwww.clubi.ie/stunned/playlets,   a web project by artist Conor McGarrigle. The hypertextual site was one of 13 international entries chosen for the art gallery at the venerable computer animation conference SIGGRAPH this month in Los Angeles. If it all sounds too arty, keep in mind that there's a cool Javascript simulation of Asteroids (above) included in the site.Keep in touchBe sure to pack this address along with the walking shoes and sunscreen. The perfect website for the wired traveller is Net Caf* Guide, atwww.netcafeguide.com/mail, which gives information on 1,300 cybercafes around the world and also fetches your email from any POP server. All you have to do is type in your email address and - if you aren't squeamish about such things - your password; there's no need to set up a special online email account. Check out the site's privacy statement if you want more detail on how the site is run.Grammar schoolWhy not educate yourself instead of wasting time looking at frivolous web pages? Sign up for free grammar lessons at Daily Grammar atwww.dailygrammar.com. An American English teacher emails out a brief lesson five days a week, and at the end   of the week, you also get   the extra pleasure of a quiz   on all you've learned. If that sounds like it will sap too much of your already-scarce August energy,   you can, like 200,000 linguaphiles, opt instead   to receive a word and its definition a day from   A Word A Day atwww.wordsmith.org/awadSpeakeasyPeacefire, the youth alliance against internet censorship, features a "blocked site of the day": a site which has been censored by governments, "nanny" software or other organisations. The website atwww.peacefire.comprovides some historical background for blocked sites and explains who is doing the blocking, and why. Peacefire also has links to other material related to online censorship, including texts of government bills, pending lawsuits, and information about the possibility of a PC version of the "V-chip" - a censoring chip designed for television sets.World viewDid you know that the UK   has 170 paved medium-sized airports, while Brazil has only 130? Such essential pieces of information, comparing any two countries or entire regions like the EU or   African continent, are generated by Your Nation atwww.your-nation.com. Pick what you'd like to compare and contrast and the results are displayed in a nice little bar chart.Skin deepGo on, admit it: your VCR still says it is eternally noon because you can't be bothered to dig through the manual to figure out how to set the time. Yet seven year olds have no difficulty setting the clock on a PC. According to online magazine Feed's editor Stephen Johnson, that's because the interfaces on home electronics have barely changed in a decade, while PC interfaces - at least, DOS-based ones - keep advancing. Johnson thinks the next big innovation will be the wide adoption of the concept of "skins" - changeable, customisable interfaces that first appeared with the WinAmp program, an application that lets PC users play MP3 music files. Johnson delves into the idea of flexible computer interfaces in his column atwww.feedmag.com.Who's there?Ever wonder how many people are linking to your own website? You can get   that information for free   from Link Popularity,www.linkpopularity.com.   Just type in your page's address and this tool queries the search engines AltaVista, HotBot and InfoSeek for webpages with references to your site.Six of the best: Fiction and literary sitesVast Victorian websitewww.stg.brown.edu/projects/hypertext/ landow/victorian/ victov.htmlLibyrinth: Borges, Joyce, Marquez &amp; Cohttp://rpg.net/quail/libyrinthLiterary Gothic. Spooky!www.siue.edu/~jvoller/gothic.htmlBeat Generationwww.levity.com/corduroyLuminarium: medieval-17th centurywww.luminarium.org/lumina.htmBanned Books Onlinewww.cs.cmu.edu/People/spok/banned-books.html
Bank customers risk being deceived into handing over their account details and cash-machine numbers to fraudsters using the millennium bug as cover for an attempt to steal their money, regulators warned yesterday. The swindle has been imported from Canada and the United States, but no losses have yet been reported in Britain.Potential victims are telephoned by people claiming to be bank staff, who "explain" that the bank is having trouble ironing Year 2000 problems out of its computer systems. As a result, the customers are told, the existing account is not proof against the bug and the customer will need a new, bug-proof account.The fraudsters assure the customer that transfer to the new account can be executed over the telephone, but that the customer will need to give account information, including account number, sort codes, PIN numbers and passwords. Thus armed, the fraudsters clean out the funds.Yesterday the Financial Services Authority (FSA), the chief regulator, said: "Never disclose account numbers, personal identification numbers or other account information to someone you do not know ... report any suspicious request for information to your bank or building society ... look at statements on a timely basis and question discrepancies."A spokesman said the fraud was designed to exploit popular worries about the effect of the millennium bug - the feared inability of older computer software to recognise the 2000 date-change - on personal banking and savings. The FSA has been aware of its arrival in Britain for some weeks.He said: "No one &#91;in Britain&#93; has fallen for it as far as we know," and the FSA reassured the public that "no high impact financial institutions face a serious risk of material disruption" from the millennium bug."Banks and building societies have tested customer-facing systems and are confident that these tests have confirmed delivery of service as usual at the year-end."This is a variation on a swindle that has proliferated, of persuading people to hand over banking details by various pretexts, the most common being that the fraudster will pay "commission" for the use of the account to transfer his own funds, from offshore or elsewhere. The commission does not materialise and the victim's account is emptied.
Bill Gates, the Microsoft co-founder once accused of parsimony, has become the United States' biggest donor to charity after giving $6bn (&#163;3.8bn) to his private foundation.The richest man in the world, with stock valued at more than $100bn, put the money into the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, taking its assets to $17.1bnMost of the money has been contributed this year to the foundation, which was set up five years ago. Patty Stonesifer, co-chair of the foundation, said she expected the Gates to continue this level of giving.The foundation, which was set up five years ago, has concentrated on international health projects, giving $100m for vaccination of children in developing countries. It also gave $200m to help schools and libraries in poor areas of North America to connect to the internet.The extra money is meant to go towards more education initiatives - such as computer training for teachers - and further vaccine research. "It gives us a chance to think long-term of programmes that will last and reach into the 21st century," Ms Stonesifer said.Mr Gates and his wife created the trust by merging the William H Gates Foundation and the Gates Learning Centre, according to the Chronicle of Philanthropy - but the world's largest charity is still the Wellcome Trust in London, which has assets of $19.2bn.Ted Turner, the founder of CNN television, has criticised Mr Gates in the past, alleging that he did not give enough of his private wealth to charitable causes.Useful sites:Guardian Unlimited documentary: Microsoft on TrialThe Chronicle of PhilanthropyThe Bill and Melinda Gates FoundationsDownload Bill Gates being hit by a custard pie.
Last year, a market research company did a trial on behalf of a car company planning an advertising campaign aimed at women. The researchers in the street stopped 100 assorted woman across the country, asked them to watch the next five cars that drove past and correctly name the make and model. How many got such a simple task right? Two. That's right, gasp if you must, tut, sigh and roll your eyes in haughty feminist indignation, but the answer is still two.Even if we accept that the feeble tool of market research is hardly an exact science, it would be simple minded to ignore the implication of those depressing results. Shock horror, hold the front page. Women don't seem terribly interested in cars.Yes, of course they buy them, drive them, can't live without them. But the key word is interest. Car shows are constantly citing the equal numbers of men and women that come through their turnstiles, without pointing out that the man is standing awe-struck in front of the new Jaguar with his hands in his parka pocket, while the woman is by the buggy trying to keep the children quiet with a free helium balloon printed with the logo of a spark plugs manufacturer.They simply don't find the miracle of the internal combustion engine fascinating, certainly not sufficiently fascinating to warrant three quarters of an hour on the toilet seat flicking through pictures and articles devoted to its worship.But no one, unfortunately, has whispered that bleeding obvious truth to the publishers of a new woman's magazine, cozily entitled Your Car. Of course the organ is predictably being pushed as an alternative to all those nasty male magazines, the ones that concern themselves with irrelevancies like how fast the car goes, what it looks like, and how it handles.Those few of us who are women, but spookily against the laws of nature happen to be extremely interested in cars, have seemingly been led astray if we're satisfied by the glossy informative, winey and comprehensive publications currently on sale. Put down that copy of Car, Auto Car, Evo or Top Gear sister, and hang your heads in shame.If, according to the ethos of Your Car, you're a real woman, what you desperately want to read about is baby seats, what to do if the car breaks down, and what Ulrika bloody Jonsson thinks about men in Porches. What next? Breast feeding and air bags? L'Oreal screen wash, because your Fiat's worth it?It's painful to dignify such patronising and offensive bollocks by any kind of criticism, but what the hell is going on with publishers and women? There is already no stupider corner of the media than that of the women's magazine, a culture that suggests all women care about is orgasms, the onset of fine lines around their eyes, and vulgar under-educated singers marrying vulgar under-educated footballers.But the endless rows of gorgeous car magazines, bike magazines, cinema, fishing, sailing, rock climbing and football monthlies, all unashamedly aimed squarely at the male market, suggest that men are getting rather a better deal.So why, you cry, moan about a new magazine trying to change that and offer something else? Because it isn't. It's offering the same uninformative, dumbed down girlie crap, but about cars instead of couch covers.If the makers of Your Car really wanted to bring women more to the fore in those hobbyist areas, then the real task would have been not to produce a hand-knitted, pansy alternative, but to compete with the boys and produce a magazine about cars that appeals to both men and women. They could call it ... let's think ... Car, Classic Car, or hey ... Top Gear. Yeah, great, and there would be new car reviews, road tests, witty columns from well known motoring journalists.Listen up, You Car editorial team. Women who like cars would read about them. Honestly they would. How can we be so sure? Because they already do, you shower of patronising gits.
One of the most strangely affecting moments in English literature occurs in book eight of Tom Jones, when Jones and Partridge travel, without incident for once, to Gloucester. "Being arrived there," says Henry Fielding, "they chose for their house of entertainment the sign of the Bell, an excellent house indeed, and which I do most seriously recommend to every reader who shall visit this ancient city."Fielding goes on to describe the landlord and his wife, and concludes that "the guests must be of a very morose disposition who are not extremely well satisfied in her house."Why does that move me so much? There is the fact that it is fact: that Fielding has stepped out of the book to recommend a really good inn, a great place to put your feet up; for a moment, an inn at least 250 years old has come alive for us; and also that it, and everyone there is dead, and utterly irretrievable - save through a reading of Tom Jones.It also represents the complete antithesis to the overwhelmingly impersonal experience of modern rural travel. I say "rural" but only advisedly, as motorway travel (getting somewhere, as opposed to pootling round B-roads looking for the perfect pub), while it actually goes through the countryside, cannot be said to have anything pastoral about it. And when we pause our journeys by car, we do not go to some delightful memorable spot, we stop at a service station. And our feelings about service stations are deeply ambivalent.A halt at a service station is analogous to what marketing people call a distress purchase: you go there because you have to, not because you want to. You need petrol, a pee, a coffee, a Mars bar, a switch of drivers. You look at the signs that say there is one service station a mile ahead, but also one 16 miles ahead, and seriously consider pushing on to the next one, even though your head is drooping or your bladder bursting. You really can't face going to a service station, not just yet.But when you gotta go, you gotta go. We may have sniggered at John Major's call for more places where motorway drivers could go to the lavvie, which indeed bears eloquent testimony to the depth and scope of his vision, but I'd like to see you and your family manage without a wee or a break anywhere between London and Cardiff. (Has anyone else noticed that one stops more often on East-West journeys than on North-South journeys?)In America, out-of-town retail outlets reached only by freeways have been around since the 1930s, but in this country they have that dated-modern feel, the first designated Motorway Service Area (or MSA as they are officially known by the people who build them) having been built either in Watford Gap or Newport Pagnell in 1960, depending on the terms you use.The Watford Gap MSA was, technically, a couple of transport caffs yoked together on either side of the motorway; but it fulfilled the government definition of an MSA, being open 24 hours a day, providing meals for the truckers, who, as the railways were being slaughtered, were becoming the backbone of the nation's haulage industry.The government was also keen to make motorways safer, and allowing motorists pit-stops every 25 miles or so is a good way of going about it. The truckers' food was subsidised, and there was a government-imposed apartheid between them and ordinary motorists.I gathered these and other interesting facts from David Lawrence, who has written a history of the MSA in Britain (published in October, by Between Books). You want to know more? Of course you do. MSAs were owned by the government, and privately leased until 1981, when private contractors were finally allowed to invest and expand, and indeed make their MSAs more tolerable.The Forton, Lancaster MSA on the M6, with its 60ft observation tower, was a popular hang-out with pop groups in the 1960s although I am prepared to admit my leg might be being pulled with regard to that one. MSAs are not allowed to advertise themselves as destinations in their own right, or offer more than 5,000 square feet of retail. Contravention of these rules means that motorway signs announcing them are taken down.But, as we all know, MSAs are vaguely intolerable places; weird, low-rent caravanserai populated by a brutally exact cross-section of the motoring populace with the proviso that the more squeamish middle-class patrons get the hell out of there as soon as they can.These are places for those who can cope with modernity, places of Ballardian anonymity and functionality, unapologetically utilitarian. To be at home in these places is, in that quintessentially modern paradox, to be at odds with your time.Are these places intrinsically free of romance or is it that we have yet to learn how to recognise the romance in them? Maurice Kelly, managing director of Granada Road Services, has had a vision of a more beautiful MSA, the kind of place you wouldn't mind dropping in to anyway, which has now been put into practice on Junction 23A of the M1, by Castle Donnington at a cost of 26m. It looks like a Holiday Inn partly because the motel rooms are incorporated into the structure of the building itself, rather than being shoved to one side.Inside, there is a central piazza, with the shops and food counters around the perimeter; it is deliberately meant to conjure up memories of airports (like the MSA, another peculiarly modern "pain zone", whose pain the architects are paid fortunes to minimise). Light and airy, it contains, along with the usual retail suspects (Knickerbox, newsagents with ranks upon ranks of Coke bottles, Burger King) a Tandy store and an Early Learning Centre - a clever touch, being somewhere for Dad to buy something for the kids so he doesn't feel too guilty about being away from them.My companion and I had a perfectly acceptable cod and chips from a Harry Ramsden's. Beyond the outside seating area, not yet accessible except in an emergency, is a plantation of saplings, with definite ambitions to become a copse some time in the next century. Looking about the place, I murmured, "it's not very lumpen, is it?"And there was something of the low-key aspirational about the place, not big-headed, but making an effort nonetheless. The architecture is baby-faced, pastel post-modern. As I said, its model is continental. Whether it is always as uncrowded as we found it is another matter.Funnily enough, I had initially misheard the relevant junction number, and stopped first at 21A, which was an MSA of the old school: nasty 1960s architecture like a Dr Who dystopia, the refinement du jour being a complete breakdown of the water supply so that staff had to be posted outside the loos warning customers only to go in if they had very strong constitutions.Which, now I think of it, brings home a remark David Lawrence made to me: that, cars being more reliable, MSAs are now about the relief of the body, not of the machine. These places are becoming more and more humanised; and perhaps there is a contemporary Henry Fielding out there, waiting to bring the service station, finally, into our hearts.
The millennium bug could jeopardise the safety of Britain's nuclear power plants, according to a report which raises alarming questions over the international nuclear industry's preparedness for year 2000 computer problems.Nuclear engineer John Large fears some stations could shut down and security could be compromised at others, including British Nuclear Fuels Ltd's nuclear reprocessing centre at Sellafield. America's Nuclear Regulatory Commission has admitted that one of its stations is likely to fail and estimates there could be 12 breaches of security at other nuclear power stations.'The US is being open about its problems,' said Large, who was commissioned by Greenpeace to write the report. 'The UK faces similar problems but it is hard to get a realistic pic ture of what is happening.'  His report states: 'Most if not all plants have undergone upgrades and refurbishment which would have introduced modern, digital equipment that could be Y2K sensitive.' The report goes on to suggest that several minor problems could occur at a nuclear plant simultaneously over the millennium which could confuse the system and generate 'erroneous data'.  One of the major concerns is that facilities linked to the nuclear plants such as the National Grid and local telecommunications networks may fail at the time when the plants need them most. There would then be a shutdown, or emergency equipment might be used which itself was not millenium compliant.Large's concerns have been echoed by figures in the industry. Frank Barnaby, a nuclear physicist working for the independent Oxford Research Group, and ex-director of the Stockholm International Peace Institute for nuclear technology, said: 'There seems to be a very strange complacency about the whole Y2K issue within the UK nuclear industry. I would wholeheartedly agree with Large's concerns and was very impressed with the report.'  A spokesperson from Britain's nuclear energy regulatory body, The Nuclear Installations Inspectorate, said: 'They have nothing to worry about.'The spokesperson added: 'The Inspectorate has asked each operator to state their readiness for each Y2K date. We draw a line six weeks before each key date and they have to satisfy us that they are safe. Or they shut. Six weeks is enough time to shut a reactor down.'The NII insists that all stations are monitored con stantly. 'No one will ever give you a 100 per cent guarantee but I don't believe that any nuclear inspector is going to go to bed worried on 31 December.'  BNFL told The Observer that their eight reactors had supplied satisfactory information to the NII assuring them of their readiness for 9 September 1999, well in advance of the NII's six-week deadline.In the United States many nuclear power stations have undergone simulations. Even so, the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission has admitted that it is likely one of their plants will experience an unplanned interruption over the millenium period.In the UK, BNFL has carried out no simulations on reactors. The NII could not say exactly how many of Britain's 18 nuclear power stations had delivered proof they were 'Y2K ready'.
There is a story going around that the directors of a US internet company planning to go public suddenly discovered that on current projections it would be making a profit in the next quarter instead of the losses that seem de rigueur for internet start-ups. Worried that Wall Street analysts might take fright, the company started juggling with its marketing and other budgets to bring the losses back again.Remember, you've got to be a dot.con before you can become a dot.com.It is worth reporting this because even after the recent shakeout in internet   stocks - some of the biggest like Amazon.com, eBay and AOL are barely 50% of what they were valued in April - the web's concept of wealth still looks like a digital version of Alice in Wonderland. The internet is barely five years old as a mass activity - and even shorter as a corporate phenomenon. Yet gurus are already laying down new laws and paradigms as if they were set in stone rather than the product of a new world in a constant state of flux.The first Great Myth about the internet is that it has ushered in a dematerialised or "weightless" world. Phooey. Of course it is true that digitisation - the ability to convert words, music and pictures into the 1s and 0s of computer code - is at least as important as the industrial revolution. But the end result will be more, not fewer, material goods.Every time you buy a car, a house or a book online you will end up with the same goods you did before. In the case of the car, all that has happened is that the middle- person's large profit margin has been taken away (which wasn't something you could touch in the first place).Cutting the intermediary's profit means that you will now have more money to spend on other (mainly) material things. If online shopping catches on at supermarkets like Tesco it   will mean more jobs and more investment in vehicles to deliver goods you previously took home yourself.Practically everything you do on the internet is generating demand for more hardware somewhere along the line whether it is more cable capacity or a mobile internet computer or an MP3 player to listen to downloaded digital music. One of the biggest corporate successes in the US is Cisco which makes routers and other equipment to guide your internet communications around the world.The second Great Myth of the internet is that first movers - companies like Amazon.com, (the world's biggest bookshop) America OnLine (the biggest internet service provider) and eBay (the biggest online auction house) - have a permanent comparative advantage. It is more likely that the opposite is true. Certainly prior to the internet revolution it was better to be the developer rather than the pioneer. Those who came second normally ended up first. None of the top personal computer companies - Dell, Compaq or Gateway - were key players at the start of the PC revolution and Microsoft, the most highly valued company in the world, made its fortune by exploiting products invented by others.In the case of Japan, an entire country made its   fortune by exploiting the inventions of others. The secret is to let others spend the money to pioneer then capitalise on their mistakes (a lesson too late to be learned by the pioneering satellite phone company, Iridium, which went into technical bankruptcy last week).Amazon.com is already facing fierce competition from rival booksellers which know that loyalty is only a mouse click away. They are already forcing Amazon to drop its prices to levels that push big profitability ever further into the future. Rivals to eBay are springing up in Europe hoping to avoid the horrendous technical problems that have downed eBay's entire computer systems and confident that they have better knowledge of local markets.America OnLine's global dominance of internet access (for which it charges a monthly fee) has been already successfully challenged in the UK by Dixon's Freeserve, which ousted it from number one by offering free internet access. Freeserve has been valued at &#163;2bn even though it is losing money.Now Freeserve's model is being challenged by new UK start-ups like Sharkhunt.com offering to pay you to use their portals when accessing the web. They in turn are already being challenged by a new breed of company offering punters free shares to surf with them. Themutual.net, formed in June, is handing over 50% of its shares to registered users offering them the chance to share in the paper wealth generated if it goes public like Freeserve.Today yet another internet start-up is announced - Blue Carrots (see page 5) - offering potential surfers more than 80% of the equity of the company if they use it for a specified amount of time. The rationale behind this is that if each customer using a portal is worth $1,000 (as American analysts believe) then a company that can attract 1.5m regular users by virtue of offering them free equity will become a self-fulfilling success story. If the users can also be persuaded to become e-commerce customers then they will be worth even more to the company's market capitalisation.The third Great Myth about the internet is that it increases efficiency by destroying the middle-person in a transaction. I've long believed this to be true and I am sure it will happen in the long term - but so far practice isn't living up to theory.Two of the internet's biggest success stories have become so by establishing themselves as the biggest intermediary on the block. Amazon.com is the world's biggest bookshop online or offline and last week Homestore.com, the biggest online estate agent, went public in the US. It has succeeded not by bypassing local estate agents but by signing them up to become the middleman's middleman.The moral is that no one yet knows where the web is going and it is barmy to lay down iron laws about a phenomenon barely five years old whose main characteristic is an ability to change direction overnight.Management gurus are already eating their words about recent theories like downsizing and re-engineering. But that is nothing compared to how wrong they will be about their web models.There is no doubt that the internet is the most powerful force for change this century and that vast fortunes will be made. But not necessarily by the prime movers.
They had dubbed him Robonaldo - and it was an apt name, even if for the wrong reasons. Like Brazil's star striker, the droid was saddled with a nagging joint injury and collapsed under World Cup pressure. The motorised footballer was motionless throughout the game and could barely manage a plaintive whirr as Austria hammered home 11-0 in the group stages."Our goalie wasn't working, our forward had a wheel problem, and there was some interference on the defender's frequency so it wasn't moving straight," said a philosophical Rodrigo Rodrigues, one of the team coaches, at the post-match conference. "What you saw wasn't really a team. More like a bunch of delinquents."Not just the Brazilians suffered from disciplinary problems. The South Koreans kept accelerating into their opponents - if the ball was anywhere near this was a happy coincidence - and the Austrians could not persuade their robots to accept their software commands and had to borrow players from China.As was evident at this month's fourth Robot World Cup in Campinas, Brazil, robot soccer already has the structure of a proper sport - even if it lacks some of the basic components, such as fully-working robots. There is a world governing body FIRA (the Federation of International Robot-Soccer Associations), modelled on Fifa, and a competitive structure with national and international tournaments.The rules of the game are set down in 14 laws. The most important is that the machines are "autonomous". Once play has started no human input is allowed. There are also specifications for fouls, goal-kicks, penalties and robot shape (2a(vi)): "robots are allowed to be equipped with appendages such as arms and legs".) And there is a similarity to inter national boxing: FIRA has a rival association RoboCup, which held its championship last month in Stockholm.Universities around the world are keen to invest in robot soccer because it develops artificial intelligence techniques that may have important applications - for instance in the area of mine clearance. Football also has the advantage of appealing to a wider audience - hence being good PR for the research institutions - and also making young people interested in science. Dr Lim Yuen Siong, of Singapore Polytechnic, said: "Our institution believes that by doing this project it enhances our ability to relate theory to real applications, rather than being purely academic."FIRA teams are three-a-side. The ball is an orange   golfball. The hope of robot soccer enthusiasts is that with the progress of artificial intelligence it will be possible to gradually increase the number of robots in a team until it reaches 11, and the size of the ball until it is the size of a standard leather football. Some even hope that at some date in the future a Robot XI will be able to play against a human team.As the game stands, this is a long way off. The robots look like Rubik's cubes on wheels and the way they whack and whirr around often looks arbitrary. They bashed into each other, spun uncontrollably and stopped dead with amateurish frequency. It was more dysfunctional R2D2 than elegant C-3P0.Once the ball entered play it took an average of about 30 seconds for there to be a goal or - just as common - a stalemate position where all the robots are still. (This can be because the ball is trapped between robots or because it is in a position for which the software strategy does not have a solution.)FIRA rules stipulate that managers play 1-1-1. In other   words, each team is made up of a designated goalkeeper and the other two up front.The modus operandi is simple. A camera above the table tennis-sized pitch picks up the positions and transmits the coordinates to a computer. A computer then analyses the information and sends directions remotely to each of the team's robots. All the human "coach" does is press Enter when the whistle blows.The simplicity, however, is deceptive. The software must calculate where the ball is going to and then send one of the robots to get it. Just working out which one is confusing because the ball is moving and so constantly changing the variables. Often a stalemate occurs when the computer switches rapidly back and forth between sending one robot and the other. The ball might also collide with something and confuse the program further.The South Koreans, who were represented by three teams, are currently the best in the world. Last week they humiliated other countries with victories that seem to wreak vengeance for all their defeats in the human version of the sport. They beat a team from Brazil 31-0, representing a goal every 30 seconds.Dr Lim Yuen Siong puts   the Korean supremacy down to the "protocols" they use for interpreting the visual data and passing the information to the robots. The Korean machines almost always got to the ball fastest and then - much like the real Ronaldo in his prime - motored directly to the goal.It was not very elegant. Just efficient. The Korean style of play was so ruthless it didn't seem to be using any co-operation between robots - the robot chosen to get to the ball would do so, then would score, bashing any opposing robot out the way if it was in its path. Explaining the adversary's weakness, Dr Lim said: "If you don't have a leg then the strategy doesn't matter. There is no point having a brain if you can't see."The Austrians - who won this year's European Cup after defeating Germany 25-1 and England 23-0 - were demolished 24-0 by one of the three Korean teams at Campinas. Gernot Kronrief, of Vienna University, said the Koreans were not being sporting because there was no evident co-operation between team robots."The whole idea is about co-operating robots," he said. "We have invested a lot in strategy, between making decisions between offensive   and defensive strategies. We play football ourselves and try to put a little of football strategy in the game. When one robot goes forward, the other will go back to cover."In response, In Yong Ha, of Korea University in Seoul - who wrote his 20,000 line football program in six months - just laughed. "My robots would pass the ball but whenever any of my robots go forward, no one else is fast enough to stop him so he doesn't need to bother."Roberto Tavares Filho, of Brazil's Bravo team, says that the science of "autonomous mobile robots" is just starting and should not be confused with the majority of current robot research - in which robots are controlled by humans. "We are just at the beginning of the science that is the basis for independent robots like those in the Star Wars films," he said.There are several challenges for research. "Normally robots only understand what is a friend and what is enemy. But the ball is neuter. It is neither a friend nor an enemy. In real life many things have neutral value," he explains."Robot soccer is also a way for us to perfect the technol ogy of computer vision. What we learn from robot football we can implement in other projects."And it is a rare opportunity to explain something very sophisticated to a lay audience. Behind the game is some very sophisticated understanding. To many young Brazilians, the robot is the thing which took away their father's job. We hope to show how robots can create jobs."Robot soccer was invented four years ago by the Korean scientist Jong-Hwain Kim. The annual World Cups have been held in Korea, twice, and France. Ten countries were due to compete last week in Brazil but five - including the English - dropped out at the last minute. Organisers said that the US team pulled out because it was not sure of winning, and losing might have affected its sponsorship.So - three years before the real football World Cup kicks off in Seoul - it was left to the Koreans to exercise their dominance in the beautiful game's not-yet-quite-so-beautiful, artificial cousin."At the moment there's not that much rivalry because the Koreans are in a different category," said Dr Lim. "But once we have another look at our motor system, we'll give them a run for their money."
It's proving difficult to avoid America OnLine. First, Microsoft scored an own goal in its summer-long spat with AOL over instant messaging. The companies have been indulging in a tit-for-tat battle during which Microsoft attempted to make its upstart messaging service compatible with market leader AOL, which retaliated by making its software incompatible.The AOL cause was aided last week by a Microsoft employee, who was found to be masquerading as a supposedly independent consultant who had attempted to discredit America OnLine's tactics in the battle.  Meanwhile, there were announcements of new tie-ups to offer downloadable music on AOL's properties, and news of investment in an interactive television company which is developing ways to customise our television viewing, so we can watch what we like when we like.Then, on Monday, bad news: telecoms giant AT&amp;T won a court battle to use the terms "You have mail", "Buddy List" and "IM" - which, AOL argued, not unreasonably, were all made famous on its service. The ISP will appeal. Of course, in the upside-down internet world, any publicity is good publicity, and AOL must be rejoicing in its seemingly effortless ability to dominate the headlines. The Microsoft squabbles and court fights are certainly not harming business - it also announced on Tuesday it has 18 million subscribers worldwide, beating forecasts and boding well for the launch of its "next-generation client", AOL 5.0, this autumn. More, it seems certain, is to follow.
How important are computers to your work?Critical. My use of computers forms a large part of my identity, and it is about equal to my photography. I consider myself an image maker, but my primary method of making images is manipulating photography on the computer. I once heard an editor refer to a new kind of photographer emerging today, who blends traditional still photo, video, and computer graphics, as a "platypus", being a little bit of everything but not completely any one thing. I think that's a reasonable way to define it, though I think the particular blend of things that I do is my own.How important to the world in general?It's become so deeply entrenched in the lives of everyone I know and will only continue to grow as such. At the end of the day it's only important in how it affects the way people relate to one another.Any favourite software/hardware?Adobe Photoshop and a Nikon E2 professional digital camera are currently my tools of choice.Give us a brief history of your computer use.I jockeyed my first computer only about four years ago, learning by working at a digital printing bureau. I worked alone on the evening shift, so I had until the morning guys showed up the next day to get my stack of jobs done. Afterwards I worked at Microsoft doing image and graphics work for CD-Rom titles, back before the net exploded and everyone thought CDs were IT - funny, isn't it? I was part of the Microsoft Network when it initially emerged as an internet service with an entertainment slant, and began doing photography that was digital from concept to realisation.What machines do you use now?I have always been a Mac aficionado. I still use my trusty PowerMac 8500 and PowerBook 3400. Doing graphics work on a PC is like writing with your left hand if you are right-handed.Any favourite gadgets?My CD burner. I must spend half my time making music mixes to listen to while I play in Photoshop.Does technology make it harder for a photographer's work to stand out?There may be new tools, but the end result is still an image, and it's either good or it's bad. The challenge photographers face is in publishing and usage on the net. For the first time, still photographers can create something that may never be seen in print, but only in this new medium. Photographers have always made their money in licensing and usage fees, and now it's necessary to think in terms of what will work in this new arena, rather than those of the print world.What do you see in the future?I'd like to see artists using the computer to take image making to the next level - conceiving a project where the idea and the technology complement each other, being made for the medium, rather than just using the computer to mimic the same old tricks more efficiently.
Progress?While I sympathise greatly with Douglas Rushkoff and his sadly unspontaneous Manhattan social life (Second Sight, August 12) I am mystified by his suggestion that "those who haven't spent their money on the latest Java-equipped secure transaction browser will have to trek to the nearest ticket counter or bookstore or bodega etc, etc".I'm sure Douglas, as a self-confessed "early adopter", knows only too well that while the burgeoning online world encourages us to cough up for more and more it has   yet to have the chutzpah to ask that we pay for the browser on which its very life depends.Tim Trouttimtrout@btinternet.comDouglas Rushkoff's objections to Moviephone are just a high-tech version of what happened to English cricket. Advance bookings via telephone and credit card pre-empted the more spontaneous attendance of West Indian supporters. That, plus the ban on instruments, killed the atmosphere at Test matches - and England still lose regardless.D. Camerond.f.i.cameron@staffs.ac.ukChallengeOK Jack, I challenge you. We've been reading these letters about your anti Mac bias for years now.Reply! Put your money where your mouth is and tell us just why (for example) you didn't properly compare the speeds of the iBook and its   Windows counterpart. Surely you knew better than to just quote the MHz numbers, as mentioned by Alastair Nisbet in last week's Feedback?What's the explanation? I think we should know. After all we spend money to read the supposedly informed opinions in the Guardian.John MacKinnonPerceton, Irvine, AyrshireJack Schofield replies:Apple's speed claims are based on one benchmark, Byte magazine's Bytemark, which I think is inadequate. Benchmarks like the SPEC suite atwww.spec.organd tests based on real applications produce different results. Why doesn't Apple quote SPECmarks as well?However, I also think that speed is far from being the most important factor in the choice of a notebook. PC users don't seem to have a problem with some "slow" but stylish Sony VAIO machines, for example - and at least they have a wide choice of faster and slower hardware from different manufacturers,    which they don't have with Apple's proprietary system. Indeed, Mac users could have had faster notebooks for years if Apple had not stopped other firms from making them.No longer in the redA letter from Mark Etherington states incorrectly that the   iMac does not have infra-red.  The original Rev A and B iMacs do have IRDA but it was removed in the coloured big brothers, because the data transfer rate is too poor, and unreliable.  Most companies are going down the USB connectivity road, including the Palm series of PDAs.Gareth HayApple Centre AberdeenWrong lightIn Online July 29, in the article One in the eye, it was stated that "the recent incorporation of ultra-violet laser technology &#91;in virtual retina displays&#93; has dramatically reduced power consumption and size &#91;of such devices&#93;."Microvision, the company which has developed the technology, has asked us to point out this statement is incorrect. Not only are ultra-violet lasers invisible to humans, they are also extremely dangerous to eyes, and are not used in the company's systems. The passage in question should have referred instead to blue light which, used in conjunction with green and red light, forms a full colour display.
Pin upsThe pinboard or corkboard has now been emulated in cyberspace by eBoard, which is testing a pre-release version of its nicely-designed system atwww.eBoard.com. You can set up a personal pinboard with text and images in a few minutes, and let friends add comments. The "virtual pinboard" could be really useful for members of a team, or a family or other group, as long as they're all on the net or within reach of a cybercafe.Make roomY6B is not the follow-up to Y2K, the so-called Year 2000    computer date problem. This year, the world population is expected to pass the 6bn mark, and the website atwww.y6b.orgis dedicated to raising awareness about it.Bits of rap"In a 32-bit world, you're a 2-bit user/ You've got your own newsgroup, alt.total-loser." Weird Al Yankovic's latest pop video, It's All About the Pentiums, is now online atwww.thepentiums.comThe song, a parody of Puff Daddy's It's    All About The Benjamins, can be viewed in Real's G2 streaming video format, Microsoft's NetShow with MP4, and Apple's QuickTime 4.Look hereDifferent search engines give different results. So do different "metasearch" engines, which search a range of search engines and compile the results. Two new metasearch engines undergoing user (beta) testing are C4 ATwww.c4.comand SurfWax ATwww.surfwax.com.C4 takes in several leading news sites, while SurfWax uses Focuswords to help refine searches. (Homonym corner: "SurfWax substitutes a carrot for any apostrophe".)    The LookSmart search engine has added an unusual element: people. It has 200 editors who will answer questions to help users find information. The new service, LookSmart Live, can be found atwww.looksmart.com/live.Soap siteNeighbours, the Australian "soap", now has an official website atwww.neighbours.comwith details of the cast and both the Australian and British story lines. A Magic Moments section offers videoclips and true fans can download a Neighbours screensaver. The site has been produced by Pearson Television Digital Online, which    also runs websites for Baywatchwww.baywatch.com, and The Bill atwww.thebill.com.Pass friendForget all your passwords. The PassCenter atwww.passcenter.comin Brighton is offering to store all your user names and passwords online and enter them into websites on your behalf. You don't need a password for PassCenter as it uses "passfaces": just pick the right faces, which appear in different places when you log on. Passfaces was launched last year by PassCenter's parent company, ID Arts, which will let you try the system and try to win a digital camera atwww.id-arts.com/competition.Speak easyPioneering surf'n'chat software Gooey (Webwatch, June 24) now has a rival from netElement, a Silicon Valley start-up. Like Gooey atwww.getgooey.com, netElement's Chat lets people who are visiting a website exchange messages in real time. The first version, for Microsoft Internet Explorer, can be downloaded free fromwww.netelement.com.Winging itBird fanciers can download photographs from a website atwww.rspb-images.comlaunched by The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and London-based Seven Interactive. Find something you like and you can    buy a print, slide or high-resolution image of the file - and help to finance the RSPB.Idle thoughtsSlow down and avoid "hurry sickness". BBC Education has posted the Seven Habits of Totally Ineffective Idlers atwww.bbc.co.uk/education/clock.Tina talks&lt; British media groupies, who are following Tina Brown's career, are talking about Talk, her latest project. A promotion for the premiere issue has been posted online atwww.talkmagazine.com.
Iomega tinyAlmost two years after Zip-maker Iomega announced its latest storage gadget, the ultra-small Clik! drive, in the US, it has finally made it to the UK. The wafer-thin, metal-cased Clik! disks, which are less than two inches square, can store 40Mb - which Iomega says is enough for 75 minutes of music in MP3 format or "1,500 A4 letters to your bank manager". The drives will come in two forms; a portable and rechargable version in slinky metallic case, selling for &#163;249, or a credit card-sized PC Card (PCMCIA-type) drive which will cost &#163;179.Get cabledThere's good news for net junkies in the south of England - cable TV giant NTL has launched its HiSpeed internet service in Surrey and Hampshire. The move, which came after successful trials of cable modem technology in    Guildford, gives users access to the internet at up to four times the speed of BT's Home Highway service. NTL, which plans eventually to roll the service out across the rest of its franchises in the UK, is charging &#163;40 a month for the "always on" service, which means users will not have to worry about connection or service charges. NTL is also offering 3Com cable modems from &#163;149.99.Kids safeA child-friendly internet service with 50,000 "safe" web addresses is to be launched next week by ISP Cable &amp; Wireless. The Planet Kids service, which will cost &#163;2.95 a month, will allow access only to pages on its "white list" - sites which have been vetted and approved as suitable for five to 11 year-olds. C&amp;W hopes that the system    will be more effective than current filter packages, which censor sites on the basis of unsuitable words and images.3D revelationSpecial 3D glasses can be used to view stereoscopic still images and movies, and now many PC users can get similar results with existing games by donning glasses made by Elsa atwww.elsa.com. The Revelator 3D glasses were designed to work with Elsa's own graphics cards. However, the German company says it has now adapted them to work with the Nvidia graphics chips used by Riva TNT, TNT2 and TNT2 Ultra cards and Microsoft's Direct3D graphics drivers. The Revelator glasses create 3D effects by alternately blanking out one lens after the other up to 125 times per second. The 3D information is already built into most of today's high-tech games which use a z-buffer to work out which parts of scenes are visible and which parts are hidden.Cracking gearYour secrets are no longer safe. Cryptography expert    Adi Shamir has designed a $2m optical computer called Twinkle that should be able to crack 512-bit RSA keys in a few days. Shamir is an expert on the RSA encryption system widely used by commercial companies and governments, being one of its three inventors. (RSA stands for Rivest Shamir Adelman.) Twinkle is named after the Israeli institute where Shamir works -it's an acronym for The Weismann Institute Key Locating Engine.Steer'n'surfIf you're planning to buy a Cadillac with white wall tyres, wait until next year. America's General Motors has formed an independent business called e-GM to expand into e-commerce, and to create "Web cars" with voice-controlled internet access. Email and web surfing will be added to GM's OnStar system, which can already provide directions, track a stolen car, or unlock a car remotely.
A memorable scene from last summer's unmemorable film You've Got Mail saw Meg Ryan staring goggle-eyed at her computer screen, assaulted with her first taste of America OnLine's Instant Messenger. She stares in wonder at the message that has sprung to life before her, while her beefy cyberbeau, Tom Hanks, types out an explanation of what she is looking at.The instant messaging that so amazed Meg Ryan has captured the attention and leisure hours of 100m people around the world. These software products let people hold electronic conversations, instantly transmitting lines of text, as   they are written, to a person in another locale.With instant messenger services, of which hundreds are available, internet users can have electronic conversations that are far more immediate than email, like talking on the phone (without the long distance charges), or face-to-face.Many of the larger software and internet companies offer instant messaging, though the most popular is ICQ (I Seek You atwww.icq.com, formerly owned by Israeli company Mirabilis, but now part of the AOL empire. AOL also has its own product, AOL Instant Messenger, AIM atwww.aol.com/aim. According to AOL, nearly 80% of people using an instant messenger program use one of its two products.ICQ and AIM are free to download - as are Infoseek instant messaging atwww.peoplelink.com/v1down_infoseek, Yahoo Messenger at, and TribalVoice's PowWow atwww.tribalvoice.com/powwow.Web users can download the software directly from these sites, usually after answering a few questions about age, income, and type of computer used. The companies offering them make up revenue in advertising, among other things, specifically targeted to users' profiles.Instant messages are usually contained in small window less than a quarter of the total computer screen. In the advertising-driven messaging services, a small portion of that window will have a banner advert.Now instant messenger services are becoming more popular, installing them couldn't be easier. The downloaded software ends up as an executable (.exe) file on the desktop. Once you've clicked on that, the program installs itself, and usually asks you to register online.Since ICQ took off in the mid-90s, most of the new   instant messengers on the market have followed its carrot-and-stick principle for getting new people to sign on: anyone can download the software for free, but in order to use it, you need to sign up all your friends.And someone using AIM can't send a quick message to someone using Yahoo Messenger.But once you've convinced everyone in your immediate circle to download your chosen instant messaging service, you can exchange messages by creating what AOL calls a "buddy list". This is the list of names and email addresses of other people using the same messenger service.The software will tell you which of those people are online, and by clicking on their name, you can shoot off a missive that appears out of the blue on their desktop, usually with a distinctive and annoying bell to notify them (this bell can, thankfully, be turned off).Instant messaging was a fairly innocuous participant in the world of internet until recently. There wasn't much money to be made, and most companies   seemed to view it simply as an attractive give-away to lure punters to their site.But a nasty skirmish erupted in late July when that behemoth of all software companies, Microsoft, decided to introduce instant messaging to its MSN internet service.Called MS Messenger, this was the first mainstream product which could be used to chat with people on other services.Specifically, MSN Messenger chatters could link up with AIM chatters, and Microsoft boasted that 700,000 people had downloaded the product in the first week it was offered.AOL was furious, saying Microsoft's product was tantamount to malicious hacking and quickly altered its instant messenger to disconnect anyone who came from MSN, or tried to   log in using an MSN address. The company also fired off a quick spam to all MSN customers who had used its messaging system, suggesting that perhaps they'd like to switch to AOL instead.Microsoft is claiming the moral high ground, saying that it is trying to repair the Balkanisation of the instant messaging world, and allow people to use whatever program they want to.Yahoo has joined Microsoft in asking AOL to stop blocking other addresses, and help create a standard way of sending instant messages so people on any service can talk to people on any other service.Microsoft didn't stop there, it quickly rewrote MSN Messenger to work around AOL's block. The two have parried back and forth in this manner ever since.But how this battle of the Titans will shake out isn't much up to us consumers.Internet industry speculators say that we may someday get a universal standard for exchanging instant messages, but it won't happen next week, and in all likelihood, it won't have happened by next year.
Alice in fragfestlandLewis Carroll's Alice is expected to pack some serious firepower in a game based on iD Software's forthcoming shooter, Quake 3. It is being developed by former iD employee American McGee and Dallas-based Rogue Entertainment, and will be published by Electronic Arts late next year.EA describes the project as "a dark and twisted 3D-action adaptation" of Alice in Wonderland. It has opened the official Alice Web Experience site    athttp://alice.ea.com(Macromedia Flash 4 required). For further information, see the Cheshire Cat.Pain reliefPsygnosis, developer of the forthcoming 3D action-adventure Drakan, says the game will feature Quake-style gore settings. By using a password, parents will be able to set the level to excessive, some or none, in what may be the first of many moves to quell the recent backlash against violence in games.Ubisoft has hit on a more radical solution. In its cutesy sword-and-sorcery game, Hype: The Time Quest, the villains won't get killed at all. They'll just fall over, get up, rub their heads and scarper.I Wasn't Expecting YouEA Sports has signed a big name for its next footie-fest, Fifa 2000. David Beckham? Tony Adams? Jimmy Hill? No, that well-known sporting hero and paragon of healthy living, Robbie Williams. The Take That wide boy-turned-solo sex pixie has already started recording music for the game, including a track called It's Only Us. Well, he did go out with Sporty Spice for a bit.Shifting upKonami's Metal Gear Solid is still the best-selling game in the UK this year, according to games trade weekly, MCV. GTI's Driver has just entered the chart in second place, motoring past EA's Fifa 99 and Eidos's Championship Manager 3. Although MGS has sold 311,900 copies for the Sony PlayStation, compared with Driver's 229,700, it could well be overtaken. Driver is still at the top of the sales charts whereas MGS has crashed out of the Top 40.NextGames retailers are sick of being asked "When will Tiberian Sun be out?", but they should have Westwood Studio's latest Command &amp; Conquer game on the shelves next Friday.Another two long-awaited titles are also due on August 27: GTI's Unreal Tournament Edition (PC) and Eidos's Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver (PC and PSX). PlayStation owners could also be tempted by Sony's Speed Freaks (not unlike Nintendo's Mario Kart, apparently) or Namco's sequel, Point Blank 2.Nintendo 64 owners will get their first footie management game, Gremlin's Premier Manager 99.
Down among the dead menShadowmanPC CD-Rom &#163;34.99 Acclaim 0171-344 500Youve got to feel a bit sorry for New Orleans-based Mike Leroi. Not only is he an English literature graduate, he also possesses the unenviable ability to enter the physical afterlife or "Deadside".This unwelcoming and hazardous environment is not suitable for the weak of bladder. A close encounter with voodoo magic means Mike can visit only as his alter-ego, Shadowman.This is great news for the rest of us, especially as the undead legions are limbering up for a bit of apocalyptic argy-bargy. Only Mike/Shadowman has the chance to prevent mankind's messy end.Like a purgatory Tomb Raider with a Zelda-like freedom, Shadowman is an ambitious and sprawling undertaking. Regular jumping between the "live" and "dead" sides gives a pleasing non-linearity with plenty of chance to do your own thing.The graphics have a crisp   feel, which is heightened by an impressive draw distance. This means that the tower on the horizon is fully reachable and not mere decoration.Similarly impressive is the sound, with wailing tortured souls and an excellently hammed-up narrative.A range of game-styles, encompassing action, puzzles and voodoo magic, keep boredom at bay but it is the plot development that engrosses.Any game that involves Jack the Ripper, a talking   Irish snake and a voodoo high priestess called Nettie is worth some attention.Despite its comic book origins, Shadowman is definitely one for the grown- ups. Its sombre, depressing atmosphere and hellish demeanour is genuinely disturbing in places.The challenge is tough and while the constant dimension-hopping can be a chore, you'd have to be soulless not to relish all the unpleasantness.Space ballsOmega BoostPlayStation, Sony &#163;34.99Space is not a vacuum: it's filled with trillions of luminescent golfballs.In between coding Gran Turismo and its sequel, Japanese developer Polyphony Digital has banged out this gorgeous-looking space blaster, in which countless little white dots constantly swerve and rush around you to enhance the illusion of depth and movement.You're a giant robot who has to shoot things -sometimes in space, sometimes on   planetary surfaces or in time tunnels. Nearly every other enemy is a boss: beautifully crafted spaceships, a giant sandworm, and a nasty spidery thing with a tractor beam.They look lovely, although they always blow apart in exactly the same fashion.Omega Boost is impressive with its speed, magnificent design, dazzling lighting and excellent sound effects: the clang of metal upon metal, the whine of missiles, the whoosh as a rival robot zooms past .Then you find the gameplay is highly uninvolving: the movement controls are sluggish, and firing your missiles requires just a dumb lab-rat reaction to their automatic   targeting. You can't choose which part to shoot or when. And the environments aren't true free-roaming 3D, but voids punctuated by ships.Western gamers will also lament the paucity of power-ups. You get lasers, missiles, and the Viper Boost, which consists amusingly of ramming yourself into the enemy, leaving a huge twisty light trail. But that's it.Omega Boost is fun only for about half an hour. But never mind; its real value to Sony is as a technical demo of what its five-year-old hardware can still achieve, when maxed out by a gang of Japanese heavy-metal fans.
"When I'm stuck on hold, I suffer from telephone rage," says David Berger. "Do you remember when you used to ring people, and get through to them?" "It infuriates me," says Chris Birch, "you give them all the information, then you go through to someone else and you have to give them the same information again." "It drives me absolutely crazy. When you call, people don't seem to understand what they are selling, or why," says Mike Wheatley.It's not unusual to hear these opinions about call centres - the "big sheds" of operators that sell anything from satellite dishes to cinema tickets, and according to market researcher Datamonitor now employ 2% of the UK's working population. As phone users, Berger, Birch and Wheatley are, like us, occasional victims of bad call centres.As respectively the managing director of call centre consultancy CallCentric, business development manager of Virgin Atlantic, and managing director of customer service software supplier Brightware, it's fair to say that it's their job to solve the problem. Call centres are failing their customers. For example, you want the person on the end of the telephone to have all your details - but according to Forrester Research, only one in 50 companies can    do this. The other 49 put you on hold, ask you the same questions again, or despatch you to yet another operator.If you're emailing from a website, it's just as bad: Hewson Consulting Group mailed 150 UK companies which use an internet address in their advertising with an urgent request from a potential customer. One in seven replied in 24 hours, but 39% never replied at all. If we're looking for someone to blame CallCentric's Berger should be the likely candidate. Having run companies that sold call centre computer systems since 1984, he admits he "helped to build" the industry.But two years ago, he stopped selling equipment because "95% of call centres are a waste of time". Now he advises customers from Lloyds TSB to Thomas Cook on the right way - and the wrong way - to use a call centre.   His main complaint? "Technology - interactive voice recognition or voice messaging, for example - is being exploited at the expense of customers. Companies engineer call centres for their needs, not for yours." Those needs, he says, are often simply to cut costs.So operators aren't trained, software is badly designed, and no one is employed to answer the email. For example Interactive Voice Recognition (IVR in the industry jargon), replaces the human operator with software that recognises your voice, or    the tone from your telephone keypad. It has the potential to save companies huge sums and speed up customer service (Lloyds TSB estimates handling calls by computer cuts call centre costs by a factor of 10).Used badly it can also, in Berger's words, "alienate all of your customers very quickly". That's why some companies are keeping human contact - even when selling over the internet. At Virgin Atlantic, 150 operators sell around &#163;100m of air tickets a year, about 10% of the airline's turnover. "We don't want to take away the human touch, because when you're purchasing a ticket, it's a big decision," says Birch. He has extended his idea to the company's new website, where customers pick their flight online and then have the option to hit a button labelled Phone Me, and receive an immediate call from a Virgin sales rep to   answer any questions. "Virgin customers aren't slow to tell us exactly what they want. That gave us our list of what features to put on our site," he explains, adding that the opportunity to speak to a person was near the top of his request list.Damon Oldcorn, managing director of PhoneMe, the company that created Virgin's button, is another refugee from the call centre business where he admits he was "drowning in technology". The Phone Me button is now a feature of e-commerce sites run by Dell, Go and Halifax, among others, and some of his clients report that four out of five customers want to speak to a real voice when buying online. "It offsets technology like IVR where people are pushed from pillar to post," he says. "Buying a ticket to San Francisco by going through nine computer screens, for example, isn't something I want to do."Nevertheless, software is cheaper than telephone operators - so for many call centres, the goal is to design a computer that responds like a person. Microsoft and Intel have invested &#163;90m in Lernout &amp; Hauspie, a company whose goal is to produce software that understands your question and replies.You may already be communicating with a computer without realising. "Our Answer Agent software does what a call centre rep does. If you're getting 200 or 300 emails a day, answering them is your highest cost, because a customer representative can only handle about 40 emails a day. We can answer 30 a minute," says Mike Wheatley, managing director of Brightware. His figures show that each email you send costs a company &#163;5 to answer - if you even get a reply.Wheatley's software looks at incoming emails, "guesses" what they mean, and picks a reply to send if it is confident it has guessed correctly. Abbey National, for example, uses it to reply to four-fifths of its incoming mail. Around 10 companies in the UK are also users - but they are keeping mum about it."Organisations aren't sure yet that they want their customers to know they are being answered by software," Wheatley laughs. "One customer asked us to build in a delay before the reply was sent so it seemed like a real person was handling it."Call centres: the good, bad and the uglyFirst DirectTel: 0345 100100Star rating5Waiting time:noneBerger:Textbook. Answered before the phone can ring. A perfect example of a system designed for its customers'BT CellnetTel: 0800 238238Star rating4Waiting time:none - a simple computerised systemBerger:Positive, straightforward. Used voice recognition well. Prompt and helpfulOdeon CinemasTel: 0870 505 0007Star rating:2Waiting time:initially none - then a long-winded computer-generated system takes overBerger:They can't count! One menu goes one, zero, three, four, five! Phantom Menace as the film being promoted was very appropriate.BskyBTel: 0990 102030Star rating:nilWaiting time:"Please bear with us" - one option took 90 seconds before even the hold music startsBerger:Option two gives a phone number and then hangs up. This number was busy. Option three gives a phone number and then goes round a loop repeating.American ExpressTel: 01273 576123Star rating:minusWaiting time:minimum five minutes to speak to a real personBerger:It says: "We are currently experiencing a higher number of calls than usual - your call is important to us". Every call gets this response, so what is usual?
The City's regulator yesterday told financial business managers that they were responsible for their firms' readiness to cope with the millennium bug and urged them not to become complacent during the next five months.Michael Foot, managing director of the financial services authority, was speaking after issuing a timetable for the end of the year.The FSA's millennium event office and the Bank of England's liaison unit will be open from Wednesday December 29, or possibly earlier, until January 7 2000 to receive regular updates.Both offices will be open 24 hours a day from December 31 until mid-morning on January   4 and will make reports to the cabinet office, which will in turn decide what to make public.The regulator will be monitoring the status of automated teller machines and the progress of financial institutions."It is imperative that in this final stage the top management of every financial institution continues to take key responsibility for key year 2000 issues," Mr Foot said.The regulator, who has used traffic lights to signal companies' readiness for the bug, still has two "medium impact" firms coded red for posing a "serious risk of material disruption". More than 100 firms are coded amber. The regulator has refused to identify the firms.
