Hobbyists have been using the internet to save money on phone bills for up to 10 years. But making internet calls was difficult because of dial-up connections, bad support for microphones and no "presence" information.Now internet telephony is becoming a reality for the rest of us, for several reasons. Broadband means users have the internet "on" all the time, instant messaging (IM) has turned the PC into a real-time communications device, and Windows XP means most people have PCs that can handle Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP).You can use your regular phone, or a "softphone" on your computer screen that uses whatever headphones, mics and speakers you have. You can also dial "off-net" to talk to people with regular phones.I tried three systems: Skype, Vonage and Voipbuster. They connect voice calls over the net, using VoIP. They can handle incoming and outgoing "off-net" calls. Beyond that, the systems could hardly be more different.Vonage is a consumer product. You get a Vonage router, plug it into an Ethernet port on your broadband router or modem, and connect an ordinary telephone to the Vonage box. The lights on the Vonage box flash for a few minutes, and when they are steady, you pick up the handset. Hey presto - you have a dialling tone, and can dial numbers as normal.I found Vonage's call quality to be very good - normally better than my regular phone, but with occasional small gaps. The service appears like a regular phone call to other people: they can pick up your Vonage phone number from Caller ID or 1471 and return calls. I had a London area code phone number, and calls back were billed at that rate.Vonage costs &pound;9.99 a month, for which you get unlimited free calls within the UK, low rates (from 5p a minute) to mobiles, and cheap international calls, from 2p a minute to the US to &pound;1.60 a minute to East Timor.However, I already save on my landline by dialling 18866 before each call. This service has a 2p charge per call, after which UK calls are free, and calls to the US cost 2p a minute - and it doesn't need broadband. Other international calls usually cost a bit more than Vonage, but I don't make enough to pay the &pound;10 bill each month.Vonage's sales pitch is convenience - and extra features. You can take the router with you when you travel, and make and receive calls anywhere you have an internet connection. Vonage also has a good voicemail service.Other features include call handling tasks, 1471, and ring-back. Extras include virtual numbers in other cities at &pound;2.99 a month, a softphone for your PC at &pound;5.99 per month, and fax services for &pound;5.99 per month. But paying for a softphone is a mug's game when pure internet phone services give them away - along with call rates that are better than Vonage.Voipbuster, for instance, is a free softphone program for Windows, with incredible call rates. In its trial period, Voipbuster is basically free. You can type in other Voipbuster users' names, or dial a landline in the US or virtually any country in Europe free.Voipbuster's no-frills approach reminds me of 18866, and both are run by the Swiss company Finarea. There is no marketing but there is an online forum to discuss the service.To make free off-net Voipbuster calls, you must register and buy credit. When the trial period ends, Voipbuster's plan is to charge &euro;0.01 per call, with no per-minute charge.Voipbuster includes in-bound calls automatically. Anyone can contact you from another phone, although they must dial an 0845 number, and pay what their provider charges for that.Voipbuster sometimes blocks new subscribers for a few days, but the network seems to have enough capacity for those on board. I used Voipbuster with a very cheap hands-free earpiece and microphone, and found the quality very good. It's not as good as a landline, but very usable.Skype, the most popular internet telephony program, has tens of millions of users. However, I found Skype's quality worse than Voipbuster. In particular, calls to mobiles often sounded as if they were being made under water. Its off-net rates are also higher than Voipbuster.Skype does not try to emulate a "real" phone. Instead, it uses its installed base to offer an instant messaging system with a built-in softphone. You can see who is online, and contact people by typing to them, setting up a voice connection, or doing both at the same time.With its huge user base, Skype also functions as a contact-building service. When you install the program it can inspect your address book and compare it with the Skype directory, offering a list of people on Skype that you may know.You can dial off-net to ordinary phones, using "SkypeOut" credits. Such calls are not free, and the rates tend to be higher than Voipbuster but lower than Vonage. The US, Western Europe, Australia and some other countries cost the "global rate" of &euro;0.017 per minute, while others vary. For comparison, East Timor is &euro;1.17 per minute.You can also buy a "SkypeIn" phone number for &euro;30 per year for others to dial; you then get free voicemail. SkypeIn numbers are available for the US, UK, Denmark, Finland, France, Hong Kong, Poland and Sweden. This is more flexible than Voipbuster's 0845 inbound numbers.Skype and Voipbuster can go with you on a laptop, giving you free (or cheap) calls from wireless hotspots in other countries. Skype is also available on Mac OS X, Linux or Pocket PC handhelds, so you can make Skype calls using a Wi-Fi-enabled PDA or smartphone at public hotspots.Voipbuster proves that basic telephony can be close to free, Vonage offers the convenience of keeping your old phone, while Skype offers the thrill of multimedia IM.Linkswww.vonage.co.ukwww.voipbuster.comwww.skype.comwww.call18866.com
It is nearly two years since Greg Dyke, who was then director general of the BBC, announced plans for the public broadcaster to open its archives to non-commercial use. Since then, although Channel 4, the British Film Institute and the Open University have all signed up to the project, the Creative Archive has released only an hour of footage.So what is happening? The idea, to make the BBC's video and audio archives freely available to the UK public for non-commercial use, has caught the imagination of everyone who has heard it.The potential is obvious: hours and hours of unseen footage to be used for education and creation by the very people whose licence fee paid for it in the first place. From your children's homework, to an artist's digital palette, to your own simple curiosity and self-enlightenment, the potential for the nation is immense.But it has run into a snag. Two, actually. The first is that the existing BBC archive is full of footage where the BBC does not own the right to reuse it in this way, or where no one knows to whom the rights belong. The second is that it is unable to negotiate an agreement with independent producers, and their representative bodies, that will allow future programming to be put in the archive, too.Because of this, the BBC must undergo a year of pilot schemes, tests and inquiries as to whether the Creative Archive might reduce a few companies' profits before it can be allowed to produce value for the whole nation.This should not be an option. Unlike other broadcasters, the BBC should be judged by the public good it does. The Creative Archive would be a public good that puts Lord Reith's original remit in the shade.It isn't a fancy toy for iMovie users: it is a vault of the most important public culture of the past three generations. It is a gift for the future that is so far-sighted, and so much a good thing, that it is the duty of the BBC and, especially, the government to follow through.So the question is, why are the creative industries in the UK allowed to take public money, without fulfilling the obligation to deliver publicly accessible value? Why is this even an option? We have paid for it, now let us use it.The negotiation should be simple: no public rights, no public money. As Lord Reith put it: "There are some people whom it is one's duty to offend."That the government, and parts of the BBC, aren't doing this with the content industries to which they give our money is nothing short of immoral. Their exchange of the public duty for the favours of a few production houses and video libraries is a betrayal of trust, and a negligence in furthering the public good.Digital technology not only makes the Creative Archive possible, but by doing so makes it a moral imperative.Now that we can, we must.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The web is awash with images purporting to be of the long-promised Motorola phone which is compatible with Apple's iTunes music download service. We will find out the specifications soon, but the smart money is on the mobile being an upright phone with stereo speakers and which is compatible with the latest iTunes 4.9 release.The big rumour, however, is that Motorola has struggled to find European networks that will take the phone. Look at what O2 has announced this week, and you will see why: it unveiled the XM, a dedicated mobile phone that connects directly to its own service, O2 Music. Users can preview, download and play tracks, paying for them via their phone bill. The network has also signed a deal with Groove Armada's Andy Cato, who will deliver two exclusive tracks to O2 phones each week.Even though the appeal of the Motorola phone would be strong to iTunes users, it is easy to see why O2 has declined to market a handset that would rival its own download service.It isn't just Motorola that has high hopes for music phones. Almost every maker - from Sony Ericsson, which has a mobile with its iconic Walkman branding coming soon, through to Sagem, which unveiled its new myX6-2 handset this week - is billing new handsets as music phones. Most of the phones will play back MP3 files and either Windows Media Audio or AAC files. However, they are not compatible with tracks downloaded from computer-based online music stores.A solution that might work for Apple, Microsoft and Napster is a deal that would enable users to pay a one-off fee to download a track to their phone, but at a lower quality. This would then enable them to download it on to their PC in copyright-protected, better quality WMA or AAC. Such a deal, however, could still be a long way off.So will the Motorola iTunes phone arrive in the UK? One network, at least, is likely to take a punt on it. In the short term, however, it is too early to predict whether - as some US financial analysts were suggesting last week - the music phone will supersede the iPod.The phones might be able to rival the player in terms of battery life (the Sony Ericsson W800 Walkman phone runs for 30 hours) and sound quality, but storage is a different matter.The iTunes phone is rumoured to have just 128MB of storage (though this can be upgraded by adding more cards), while the Sony Ericsson W800 will ship with 512MB. Only with the arrival of hard disk-based models from Nokia and Samsung will phones truly be able to rival music players for storage.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
What would your ideal mobile phone do - as well as making calls? Browse the web? Play music? Have a real keyboard to write emails? Tell you exactly where you are?HP thinks it is ticking all the boxes with the new hw6510 Mobile Messenger, a Windows Mobile Pocket PC Phone with Qwerty keyboard, built-in GPS, and a copy of TomTom Navigator. It is a go-anywhere, do- anything phone that could be a hit with consumers and businesses, too, for people prepared to pay personal digital assistant prices. You can get it with a camera (&pound;389 without a phone contract) or without a camera (&pound;366).The hw6510 is available now with the Pocket PC Phone operating system. However, when Windows Mobile 5 and Exchange 2003 SP2 arrive later this year, the Mobile Messenger will deliver your email as it arrives, making it serious competition for the BlackBerry.Putting GPS on your mobile means you will be able to find out exactly where you are almost any time. But most of the time you know where you are, so do you actually need it?Your mobile knows roughly where you are because it knows which cell tower it is talking to. That is good enough for services such as Zingo, which calls the nearest London cab, but when you are not in a city, it can be anywhere in a 10km area. This is not much help for deciding whether to turn left or right down a country lane to find the nearest petrol station.You could get more accurate location information without GPS if mobile operators upgraded their networks, or software included databases of cellular masts to triangulate your position based on the relative strength of different signals, but that is not happening quickly. The UK phone networks are talking about opening up APIs (Applications Programming Interfaces) for their cell-based location services, but software would have to cope with all the networks and it wouldn't help if you travel abroad. Instead, we are seeing GPS coming to phones, with clever ways of reducing the power it needs.Mobile Messenger uses assisted GPS, which is found in some 3G phones, such as NEC's e616V. This uses the cell location information to look up a database of where the GPS satellites will be, so you can get a fix more quickly using fewer satellites (two or three rather than four or more). The shorter the time the GPS receiver spends searching for satellites, the longer the battery lasts.You don't need built-in GPS, either: if you have a smartphone with Bluetooth, you can use a Bluetooth GPS unit. These run on batteries for five to 10 hours (the Mobile Messenger manages about two hours of GPS usage) and usually come with car chargers. You can add GPS to the Treo 650 smartphone with an SDIO card. There is even an Xpress-on GPS shell for Nokia's 5140 rugged phone.Once you know where you are, you need to find out where you can go. There are several route finders for Windows Mobile or Symbian smartphones. CoPilot Live and Destinator SP run on Windows Mobile smartphones; T-Mobile offers CoPilot as a bundle with the SDA and MDA Compact smartphones. Microsoft's Pocket Streets will work with a GPS but it just shows where you are on the map.Navicore Personal and Route 66 Mobile Britain run on Symbian Series 60 smartphones, as does Wayfinder Navigator (which Nokia includes with its Bluetooth GPS). TomTom's Mobile 5 is the only package with versions for both platforms, running on Windows Mobile and Nokia 6600.The basic features of all the mobile phone route-finding applications are similar. You can get a route for driving or walking and find points of interest from cash machines to speed cameras, museums to petrol stations - sometimes with phone numbers or opening hours. Because the screens are small and you will be looking at the road, you get spoken turn-by-turn directions, using the speakerphone.Both CoPilot Live and TomTom Mobile 5 let you choose roads you want to avoid, and offer a traffic information service for about &pound;50 a year. CoPilot also lets you email friends to tell them where you are. They can look you up on the ALK website if you give them permission, which means businesses can use CoPilot to track vehicles and workers without installing GPS transponders. Destinator and Navicore also let you send your location as a text message.The main differences are the pricing and whether the route-finding software and maps come on a memory card you can plug straight into your smartphone, or on a CD you'll need to install from a PC.The cheaper packages cost about &pound;65, the more powerful systems start about &pound;100 (or &pound;250 if they include a Bluetooth GPS), but you also have to look at map prices. Some software, such as Wayfinder, needs new maps every year; other packages let you use the maps until you update them.You will need to pay extra for maps of other countries and that can be expensive. Maps covering western Europe usually cost about &pound;130, though with Mobile Messenger you can get them for &pound;80.With 3, you look up routes and places of interest through the browser rather than running local software, and pay about 25p for each lookup.Route mapping isn't the only useful application for GPS, just the most obvious. GPS can also tell you how fast you are going and how far you have come - ideal for athletes who want to record training sessions without carrying a stopwatch, pedometer and calculator. Sportsdo has a range of Windows Mobile smartphone software for runners, cyclists and skiers.Put GPS in your phone and you can tag the photographs with their exact location (geo-coding); there are projects where you can add photos to illustrate maps of the world. Sites includewww.mappr.comandwww.geobloggers.comMore and more location-specific information is becoming available, from details of nearby shops, services and businesses in Google Maps to localised weather and traffic reports. You can even get maps of London air quality atwww.londonair.org.uk, and live feeds from traffic cameras for hundreds of areas across the UK through the BBC's new Backstage API, which is for non-commercial use only.LinksOn the right roadCoPilotwww.alk.eu.comDestinatorwww.destinator1.comWayfinderwww.wayfinder.comNavicore Personalwww.navicoretech.comTomTomwww.tomtom.comRoute 66 Mobile Britainwww.66.comBBC Backstagehttp://backstage.bbc.co.ukMapPointwww.microsoft.com:80/mappoint/
Google viewGoogle has launched a beta test version of Google Earth, which "combines satellite imagery, maps and the power of Google Search to put the world's geographic information at your fingertips". It's based on Keyhole's satellite imagery - Google bought the company. And it's free for personal use, though there are paid-for versions, with Google Earth Pro costing $400. The launch version requires a program download that is available for Windows 2000/XP only, with other systems to follow. It also requires a broadband connection, so that data can be streamed from Google as you zoom around the 3D world.Google has also launched an open source video viewer (based on VLC) for watching Google Video files, which have been uploaded by users. Again, the first version is for Windows 2000/XP only. The service has had some teething problems, particularly with people uploading copyright-protected files such as TV programmes and Hollywood movies.http://earth.google.comhttp://video.google.com/video_download.htmlwww.videolan.org/vlc/Mobile mightIn the UK, Google has also launched a mobile web search service, and an SMS information service. Search from your mobile phone, select Mobile Web (Beta), and the results should be formatted to fit the screen. If you have problems getting to the Mobile Google page, you can try the xhtml and wml addresses.http://mobile.google.co.ukwww.google.co.uk/xhtmlwww.google.co.uk/wmlYahoo tooYahoo has launched a new beta test version of its personalised and social search service, MyWeb 2. It lets you search your "personal web" and share your web with friends using a relevance algorithm it calls MyRank - not to be confused with Google's PageRank. You'd normally get MyWeb going by uploading your favourites/bookmarks, and inviting friends to do the same. (This will be easier if you and your friends are using Yahoo's 360 blogging and social networking tool.) You can tag and add other sites later, probably with the help of the Yahoo Toolbar. All this should appeal to Yahoo users but could be a tough sell for those already using Delicious, another "social bookmarks manager", for similar purposes.http://tinyurl.com/b5ndowww.ysearchblog.com/myweb/http://del.icio.usGood eGovThe European Commission is supporting the creation of eGovernment services across Europe, and reckons we can learn from one another. It has therefore launched a Good Practice Framework that involves collecting a database of examples of "well-defined eGovernment cases". There are 87 entries, including some from the UK. Casual visitors can simply follow the links to interesting sites, such as the one devoted to Belgium's eID card or the geobrowser for South Tyrol.www.egov-goodpractice.orghttp://eid.belgium.bewww.provinz.bz.it/raumordnung/geodata/Project pupilThe EU has also announced this year's eLearning Awards competition, which has been running since 2000. All schools in all European countries are invited to upload their projects to the competition website, which circulates ideas, and the best sites win cash prizes. The deadline for entries is September 30.http://elearningawards.eun.orgAcronym landThe net has had a good acronym server for ages, and now it has another. Acronyma has the same functions as Acronym Server and produces very similar results. However, it does look a little better, and it also has acronyms and abbreviations in several languages, though English dominates. Acronyma has 438,033 English entries, while the second language, French, has only 10,257.www.acronyma.comwww.ucc.ie/cgi-bin/uncgi/acronymNoddy on reportNoddy, left, has relaunched his website, providing fun and educational games for kids aged two to six, with a "report card" system "so parents can monitor their child's learning progress through the activities every time they log-in". The site also sells Noddy merchandise. It's now a Macromedia Flash site aimed at kids who know Noddy from TV, not the original uncensored Enid Blyton books.www.noddy.comSix of the best - LeTour de FranceOfficial sitewww.letour.frOne-stop coveragewww.tourdefrancenews.com/tourdefranceLance Armstronghttp://lancearmstrong.comTour de France bloghttp://notd.blogs.com/tdf/Linkswww.w3os.nl/logos/protour/Wikipediahttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tour_de_France&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Top sellersThe government's top 20 information and communications technology suppliers are losing market share, according to a report from Kable, a UK research company. Last year, the top 20 had 63%, down from 69%, of a market that grew by 19% to &pound;12.3bn (excluding spending on ICT staff). The leading supplier was BT, with &pound;1.4bn in public sector ICT sales, followed by IBM (&pound;673m), Capita (&pound;643m), EDS (&pound;600m) and Fujitsu Services (&pound;455m). The list also includes PC suppliers Dell (&pound;372m) and RM (&pound;261m).www.kablenet.comLaser for lessDell has launched an A4 laser printer for only &pound;69, though that increases to &pound;88.12 including VAT. The Dell 1100 weighs 5.5kg and is said to print 14 pages per minute and up to 5,000 pages per month. Under the Dell recycling programme, Dell will also pick up and recycle your old printer, regardless of manufacturer.www1.euro.dell.comEdinburgh advanceThe University of Edinburgh has opened a new supercomputing centre, the Advanced Computing Facility, in the Technopole science and technology park. It includes three systems "installed in partnership with IBM" and has a combined 20 teraflops of performance. The university has been known for high performance computing since the foundation of the EPCC parallel computing centre in 1990. The AFC was opened by the university's chancellor, the Duke of Edinburgh.Cooking ExchangeO'Reilly has published an Exchange Server Cookbook that it claims will help IT staff now upgrading from what is still the most common version, Exchange 5.5, released in 1997. Co-author Paul Robichaux says: "Exchange Server 2003 is making huge inroads in the Exchange 5.5 installed base, and much of what's in this book is stuff that experienced 5.5 administrators need to know." O'Reilly has put a sample chapter online.www.oreilly.comCustomised toolboxSalesforce.com is opening up its toolbox to developers of online applications. The new capability forms part of the Summer 05 release of the Salesforce and Supportforce customer relationship management suites. Customers can already add their own fields to these products but the advent of Multiforce allows additional on-demand applications to be constructed. The applications run from tabs on the standard interface and access the same data source used by the Salesforce suite. The rapid application development environment is also expected to provide a secondary market for customised products created by Salesforce partners and resellers.www.salesforce.comAuthority to travelThe Society of IT Management (SocITM) is running its second annual competition to find the young information and communications technology professional of the year. The Graham Williamson Challenge offers the winning local authority employee the chance to visit an overseas local authority to broaden their knowledge. Each competitor will write 500 words describing what they hope to gain from their journey and how it might benefit current and future employers. The winner can choose a host country and authority from SocITM's worldwide network of linked organisations, and gets up to &pound;5,000 for expenses. Closing date for entries is August 19.http://www.socitm.gov.ukVocal pointRightNow Technologies is making its on-demand customer relationship management (CRM) software accessible to phone callers. The move follows the company's acquisition of Convergent Voice and its voice-based automation technology. RightNow says that the addition of the eight online modules will save its clients the cost of voice-enabling the helpdesk and sales and marketing departments themselves. The self-help system means that customers can use the telephone to contact RightNow clients' knowledge bases when an internet connection is not available The modules allow access to the knowledge base, incident management, a location finder, order status reports, repair tracking, refund status, password resetting and customer survey creation.www.rightnow.com/productsShelter helperThe 8,000 bus shelters in the four South Yorkshire local authority areas will be better maintained through a near real-time wireless network. The South Yorkshire Passenger Transport Executive is providing maintenance staff with handheld devices that link to the central operations unit. The system, supplied by FlyingSpark, allows staff to be assigned to perform urgent repairs as soon as they are reported. Although the shelters are cleaned and maintained on a weekly basis, the need to ensure passenger safety requires a rapid response to ensure they are always well lit and restored when vandals strike.http://www.flyingspark.com
They used to be humble personal online diaries, but blogs are gaining the attention of big business. This is partly thanks to the numbers: there are millions of blogs out there, with thousands more emerging each day.Another factor is that blogs openly talk about products and services. Some marketing directors are getting distinctly jumpy about their brands being discussed by independent bloggers. Conversations are taking place in the "blogosphere" that companies cannot influence.However, the more progressive companies are fascinated by this fast-growing medium. They want to know more about the possibilities blogs offer for changing the nature of their communications.In yet another camp, executives are fretting because they still can't figure out how a blog is different from a website or discussion forum. The best way to clear that up is to do a Google search and look at some.In a way, the corporate blogging situation is similar to the 90s, when company websites were just starting to appear and there were no established standards. For some clear guidance, a Forrester Research paper written by Charlene Li, at the end of last year, called Blogging: Bubble or Big Deal? is a good place to start.Li forecasts that blogs will become core components of corporate communications in the next five years. She argues that the unique features of blogs means they are better at establishing connections with customers. The rise in texting and email shows people use technology for more personal communications.In contrast, most corporate websites are generally regarded as too static, formal and impersonal. In the main, they are bland brochures. Blogs offer companies the chance to present a more human face and start more natural conversations with customers. Search engines like blogs and feeds such as RSS means their content spreads quickly.For aspiring corporate bloggers, Li recommends starting small with a pilot and a trusted editorial team. In the longer term, strategies can be drawn up for introducing blogs both externally to publicise news, services and products to gather customer feedback and internally to share knowledge on projects. Li envisages a day when you show up for a new job and are told what you can or cannot say in your designated employee blog.However, corporates who enter the blogosphere are going to have to learn to loosen the shackles on their bloggers. Too much control will be the death of a blog and heaps of commercially-oriented material will not lead to much of a return. Traditional marketing material is not going to work in the blogosphere where values such as honesty and personality really count. Style of writing, quality of content and design will be decisive success factors. And, of course, it is important to observe blogging etiquette.As with websites, standards will be mixed. There will undoubtedly be some good, bad, cheesy and truly awful corporate blogs.But in the long run, those companies who feel comfortable having a close, two-way relationship with their customers should do best.
Notebook PCs may be getting larger, but companies such as Motion Computing and Nokia are launching tablet-style systems designed with mobility in mind. Motion Computing's LS800, for example, which was announced today, weighs just 1kg. It is not quite the 7in Haiku Ultramobile 2007 concept computer that Microsoft's Bill Gates talked about at the WinHEC conference earlier this year - for one thing it has a hard drive, and it is also available now - but it is the smallest Tablet PC so far.The LS800's 8.4in screen makes it the Tablet PC equivalent of ultraportables such as the Toshiba Libretto, or the many portables designed for the Asian market that never make it here. The problem with "smaller and lighter" is that it usually means "more expensive", too, but at &pound;1,095, the LS800 is cheaper than many ultraportables.It is an area of the market that Gartner analyst Ken Delaney calls "the 1kg wasteland" because so many products of this size and weight have failed, as they fall between standard notebook PCs and smartphones/ PDAs. "You don't have the benefits of the larger devices or the portability of the smaller devices," says Delaney.Leaving out the keyboard helps reduce size and weight, and tablets are controlled using a stylus or pen instead. But that can leave buyers with a difficult choice between Windows machines with too short a battery life, or WebPads running custom versions of Linux or other operating system with a limited number of applications.Motion's LS800 ultraportable is different: it combines running a full version of Windows with a three-hour battery that you can swap without turning it off. In other respects, however, it uses the same technologies as the LE1600, its big brother. It uses the same ambient light sensor, fingerprint reader, ergonomic pen and high-quality array microphones (for recording or voice control). You can also add the MobileDock to use it on a desk (and plug in a standard keyboard) or use a Bluetooth or USB keyboard, if you don't mind carrying the extra pieces around.If the LS800 is still too big, the even-smaller OQO model 01 is finally available in the UK through Expansys. There is a full PC squeezed in behind the OQO's 5in touch screen, including a retractable keyboard. However, the &pound;1,485 price tag looks hefty compared with the $350 (&pound;185) or so that Nokia will be charging for its similarly sized 770 Internet Tablet when it goes on sale in the autumn.The Nokia 770 is a confusing device in many ways, and it is not clear who it is aimed at. It is not a mobile phone: to browse the web you need a Wi-Fi or Bluetooth connection. It is not a portable mail device: you don't get a Communicator-style keyboard, just a stylus and the handwriting recognition from Nokia phones such as the 7710.Unusually for a Nokia, the 770 runs Linux rather than the Symbian operating system, so many users will find it familiar. The Opera browser, Macromedia Flash and PDF reader, and the 800 x 480 screen resolution, make it more like browsing the web from a PC rather than a PDA - and it should be cheaper than most PDAs.The Nokia 770 also supports internet radio and a wider range of audio, image and video formats than most PDAs, and it has a built-in speaker as well as a standard headphone socket. The three-hour battery life (when using Wi-Fi) is much the same as a PDA used in the same way. However, it is short on storage, and 1GB RS-MMC cards cost about &pound;90 - two or three times the SD cards most PDAs use - and you won't be able to use spare cards from your digital camera.If "Internet Tablet" makes you think of the ill-fated Linux-based WebPads launched by Sony, Honeywell, Gateway, 3Com, Intel and even AOL in the 1990s, Nokia's Mark Squires claims it is a very different beast for a very different market. "They were quite bulky, battery life was not great and they were fragile. &#91;The 770&#93; has all the power of a traditional browser in the palm of your hand. And the internet has become so ubiquitous that to have a very low-cost, very high-spec internet access terminal is a no-brainer."But it remains to be seen whether Maemo, the 770 Internet Tablet's open source development platform, will attract enough applications to rival the thousands already available for the main PDA platforms, including Palm's LifeDrive.Meanwhile, the smallest pen-based system you can get is just a pen. Greenwich council is giving social workers digital pens that write on special paper and digitise what you write. You can buy the pens from Logitech, HP or Nokia, and some HP LaserJets can print the special stationery in your design. You get a digital copy to take back to the office - and a paper copy to leave as a receipt. It is handy wherever any kind of computer would be intrusive, or likely to get stolen.LinksIn the palm of your handBill Gates, WinHEC 2005www.microsoft.com/whdc/winhec/keynote05.mspxMotion Computingwww.motioncomputing.co.ukNokia 770http://www.nokia.co.ukMaemohttp://maemo.orgOQOwww.oqo.comExpansyswww.expansys.comHP Digital Penhttp://h41161.www4.hp.com/fas/uk/en/
What do you do during the day?I usually go for a walk, eat porridge and then sit down and watch the new BT/ BFI online films.Does your interest in silent films go back a long way?Yes, back to the days when I was at school and there was a programme on TV with Michael Bentine called Golden Silents. It was 1969. I fell in love with those films, including the films of Buster Keaton.What influence has the internet had on comedy?I have to say, I'm not an internet user. I'm so crap at that kind of stuff. I'm still trying to deal with typewriters. I need to be guided through it.Not even Google?No, I really don't use it at all - though I have in the past, to order DVDs from America.What's in your iPod?I haven't got one. Nothing. I feel like Field Marshall Montgomery sitting here complaining about beat groups.Next you will be telling me you don't have a mobile phone.I don't, I don't. I know people who have one and I can always borrow one if I want to call a taxi. I haven't embraced the new technology at all. Rather shameful. It's my natural laziness, really. People keep going on at me about broadband and iPods, and I suppose I should look into to it because if you do, you could get really hooked.Computer at home?No.Favourite website?(chuckles)Is new technology a bad influence?Having access to all this information has to be a good thing but do people trust what they read? I suppose you get a nose for it.Have you ever seen a Paul Merton unofficial website?No, I would write for Paulmerton.com but I haven't done anything yet. It costs me &pound;100 a year in rent but I haven't utilised it.You've never seen any of the sites dedicated to you?No. I did once and it was a terrible review that I was completely unaware of. No, it might make you paranoid tapping into the web to find some terrible review. I don't know. It might be a rave review. You don't know whether to take their criticism to heart or ignore it. It might be someone covered in spots and an anorak sitting in a little dark room somewhere in Stoke Newington who hadn't seen daylight for 12 years, tapping away. The more I think about it, the less I want to.Does the web have any influence on jokes?I remember 20 years ago when a major news story came up, a few days later you would hear jokes about it in pubs. The theory was that it was long-distance lorry drivers. A guy in a pub in Euston hears a joke and drives up to Halifax, stopping in a transport cafe and telling loads of lorry drivers. What I am saying is that the internet isn't anything new. In my time, it was lorry drivers and I think you will find it was a bit more efficient. I'm not your ideal subject, am I?Oh, I don't know.Visit:www.screenonline.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Most people know Ray Kurzweil as an IT boffin. Not only did he invent the CCD flatbed scanner, print-to-speech software for the blind and omni-font optical character recognition, but he also created the first commercially marketed, large vocabulary speech recognition software. As if that wasn't enough, he is also known for his IT predictions. Massachuset's Institute of Technology's Marvin Minsky described Kurzweil as a "leading futurist of our time".So it may come as a bit of a surprise that Kurzweil's latest book is about health and longevity.Kurzweil co-authored Fantastic Voyage - Live Long Enough to Live Forever with Terry Grossman, founder and medical director of the Frontier Medical Institute, a longevity clinic. The book purports to make the scientific case that immortality is within our grasp thanks to modern technology, and that it can be reached via three so-called "bridges".The first bridge relies on the latest medical research into ageing and how to counteract the process of getting older with "nutritionals" (food and food supplements), meditation and exercise.The second bridge is about bioengineering and how we will soon be able to grow a new heart in situ, or be vaccinated against diseases that kill millions of people, such as cancer.The third bridge is where we step into more familiar Kurzweil territory: it is about the benefits of technologies such as nanobots, strong artificial intelligence and full-immersion virtual reality, of the kind experienced in the Hollywood blockbuster the Matrix.Health and technology, it turns out, have been twin passions of Kurzweil's for some time - 21 years, in fact. At the age of 35, he was diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes, and found that the necessary insulin injections made him gain weight, exacerbating his health problems. Being a restless inventor, Kurzweil wasn't about to sit around and let the condition get the better of him."I read all the scientific literature and came up with my own approach," Kurzweil says. "I have been free of any indications of diabetes since."His methods might seem bizarre, but he insists there is solid reasoning behind them: to Kurzweil, reprogramming biochemistry is much the same as reprogramming computers."For the first time, we are actually understanding these diseases and ageing processes as information processes," he says.Having noticed the failings of his own body, Kurzweil was a little disappointed with the inefficiencies of human body version 1.0, the flesh-and-blood creation designed by nature. Watching under a microscope, he saw his own white blood cells surround a pathogen and destroy it. But what struck Kurzweil was the sluggish response: the process of killing a germ takes more than an hour. He believes that in the future, nanobots - tiny robots implanted in our bodies - will do the same job in just a few seconds.Neuronal responses don't impress Kurzweil either. The connections in our brain compute at 200 transactions per second, which might have served the human race well over the years, but is millions of times slower than the electronic circuits that power our computers.Not only that, but the human body, particularly the heart, breaks down too easily. All these things can be improved, says Kurzweil, and improved through technology.When we cross the third bridge, he says, nanobots will replace our digestive systems, we will dispense with our heart and - yes, you guessed it - replace it with nanobots that shuffle oxygen and carbon dioxide around our bodies.In Kurzweil's future, we will be able to upgrade our bodies over the internet, downloading new programs to make us fitter, stronger and healthier. The human body version 1.0 is suited to Palaeolithic times and is urgently in need of an upgrade.Unsurprisingly, his claims have caused consternation among some observers. And his assertion that he expects to live forever might be tactics more aimed at grabbing headlines than grabbing hold of the future.But Kurzweil insists that the inherent risks of adopting these technologies will be worth facing. And for a 56-year-old man with a genetic predisposition to heart disease and Type 2 diabetes, he is doing pretty well. According to numerous physiological measures, Kurzweil has the body of a 40-year-old. And he's getting younger all the time.www.kurzweilai.net&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
For all you budding film-makers out there,Channel 4's IDEASFACTORY Scotlandand theEdinburgh Interactive Entertainment Festivalhave teamed up to challenge you to "Machinimate" at this year's EIEF.There are four places to be won at the EIEF's consumerGo Play Gamesfestival, which, among other things (like the UK premiere of a new game beginning with Z) is host to a series ofmachinimamasterclasses withStrange CompanyandMachinima.com's Hugh Hancock. If you've got a brilliant idea for a short film and basic computing skills (and I mean basic - a word processing package is enough) and can convince the panel of judges (including me) that your proposal is the best, you could get a free place on a masterclass which will take you through the process of creating a motion picture masterpiece using a computer game.All of the finalists will receive copies ofFountainhead Entertainment's Machinimation software, a copy of Doom 3 and will have their movies finalised by Hugh andauthorPaul Marino to be re-submitted to a committee of animators, designers and TV and film professionals for a go at the big prize: the chance to be broadcast on Channel 4's IDEASFACTORY website and on the silver screen as part of a special Whatever Works at Edinburgh'sCabaret Voltairewith exclusives from Strange Company and others.More prizes will be announced shortly, but the competition ends Monday 1 August. The workshops will take place on a day of each winner's choosing between 10-14th August. The competition is running in conjunction with the EIEF'sScreeningsandEdinburgh Interactiveprogrammes, where you can check out Paul and Hugh showcasing some of the tip top machinima on the circuit today.To apply, head to the Channel 4 IDEASFACTORYMachinimate siteand read up on the film phenomenon with a special interview withHughand a feature by UK machinimatorRicard Gras. Alternatively, you can bypass all the useful information and get to the application form directly,here.Get those creative juices flowing!
USA Today columnistKevin Maneywants people to stop using tired old quotes -- such as "I think there is a world market for maybe five computers" and "640K ought to be enough for anybody" -- because most of them are either misrepresentations or simply not true.
"US consumers are experimenting with new audio technologies, from online music services to terrestrial and satellite digital radio and multichannel audio formats, but they still rely on CDs and FM radio as primary sources of music," says a survey fromIDC."US consumers can now choose from among an unprecedented number of music formats and devices," explains Susan Kevorkian, senior analyst, Consumer Markets. "Our survey shows that incumbent technologies, such as CD and FM radio, are still favored, while ownership of, awareness of, and intention to purchase MP3 players, satellite radio, music via legitimate online music services, among other devices and technologies, is on the rise."The survey found that 53% reported owning portable CD players, compared to 6% who own portable jukebox MP3 players like the Apple iPod. Only 4% reported using a pay-per-download music services.
Anti-spam campaigners are hoping that one of the world's biggest spammers could be feeling the long arm of the law.Suspected spam king Christopher Smith (also known as "Rizler"), is expected to appear in court today after his arrest at Minneapolis St Paul International airport.Smith was arrested shortly after midnight after stepping off a flight on Thursday 30 June from the Dominican Republic, where he had been operating since a federal judge in May shut down his lucrative businesses, Burnsville Internet and Xpress Pharmacy Direct, and ordered him to stop selling drugs. Smith had since set up a similar operation in the Dominican Republic.Although there have beenrecent prosecutionsfor spam in the US, it is not the sending of unsolicited email that has Smith in trouble, but the illegal sale of drugs - that and the fact that he jumped the country.
Over onObserver Blog, Rafael is asking for suggestions for thebest gadgets yet to be invented:You know the sort of thing: alarm clocks that scan radio stations for tunes you might like to wake up to; phones with built in breathalyser that stop you calling your ex when you're over the limit; electric razors that actually work.Suggestions welcome, with the best ones not only making it into print but also getting "a really quite flash techie prize that the blog wouldn't mind keeping to its greedy self but can't".Go help him out.
Andy Cato, one half of the dance music act Groove Armada, has signed up with O2 to be the first independent artist to regularly release new tracks specifically for mobile phone customers to download.In an attempt to gain control over digital downloading, Cato will make two tracks available exclusively to O2 Mobile customers each week. Released within days of their creation, the tracks will cost &#163;1 each to download and Cato and O2 will split the revenue equally.Cato said the deal with O2 was a way for him to stay on top of the boom in digital music distribution."Piracy is rampant and the digital systems are slightly out of control," he said. "Maybe this is one way of stabilising the situation."Cato also said he was keen to release tracks as soon as they were created, rather than waiting to complete an album. "This means I can spend more time in the studio," he said.Cato's first dance track, Got to Get Together, will be re leased on Friday, to be followed by After the Rain Falls on Sunday. Cato will also collaborate with other artists on tracks for mobile downloads.O2 also plans to release one of Cato's singles to British radio stations but the song will only be available to buy through mobiles. Ringtones, visual images, tour information and tickets could also be offered to users.Fans will need a Siemens SX1 phone, or the new O2 XM phone with an integrated music player to download the tracks.John Ingham, head of content development at O2, said the phone was the first of its kind aimed at the mass market, selling for less than &#163;200. The Siemens phone costs more than &#163;400. O2 has forecast "six figure" sales of the new phone within nine months.No time limit has been put on the music downloading experiment, but it will be regularly reviewed by O2, Cato and his manager. O2 has also been approached by an American artist who is keen to set up a similar arrangement.
Hot off the press from AP:The European Parliament on Wednesday rejected a proposed law to create a single way of patenting software across the European Union, a blow to big companies who had pushed hard for its adoption.The so-called software patent directive, rejected by a 648-14 vote with 18 abstentions, would have given companies EU-wide patent protection for computerized inventions ranging from programs for complex CAT scanners to ABS car-brake systems. Currently, patent disputes are handled by individual member states.The protection would also have extended to computer programs, but only when the software is used in the context of realizing inventions.It seems that the parliament voted against the bill rather than accept the amendments, believing that a bad compromise would be worse than no compromise at all.¶ Both sides seem to be spinning this as a victory of some sort --- pro-patent campaigners because they haven't been forced to adopt some of the stronger amendments, anti-patent campaigners because the bill hasn't been put through. That's not entirely incorrect, but from here it looks like a better deal for those against software patents, especially considering the money spent by big firms on lobbying over the issue.¶ Trade body EICTA says "this decision will ensure that all high tech companies in Europe continue to benefit from a high level of patent protection". But it's certainly not an adoption of the Common Position, which is what the organisation clearly wanted (as expressed at their website,patents4innovation)¶ "It is clear that the Parliament and the Council will not be able to reach a balanced solution on such a controversial issue," says Malcom Harbour, a Conservative MEP who sits on the legal affairs committee. "Certainty and clarity is essential in the area of patent law. The directive as presented to Parliament offered neither."¶ "Following today's decision in the EP, high-tech industries across the EU will continue to co-exist and develop under the existing European Patent Office regime," says Hugo Lueders, Computing Technology Industry Association. "Today's rejection therefore signals a failure of efforts to inhibit and restrain that practice."¶ Despite the spin above, I don't think I'll budge my position: while it's not a total victory for anti-patent campaigners, they've won on points (for now).¶ Reaction from the techie masses atSlashdot: "This isn't a "victory over patents", it just means that the situation isn't resolved"; "look forward to a lot of pressure being put on national governements to pass legislation".¶ The FFII has a wiki of coveragehere¶ "This result clearly shows that thorough analysis, genuinely concerned citizens and factual information have more impact than free ice-cream, boatloads of hired lobbyists and outsourcing threats," says Jonas Maebe, FFII board member.¶ "You should be very, very proud," saysCory Doctorow, though "Software patents have been staked through the heart before, but they keep rising from the grave. There's too much monopoly rent waiting to be extracted by anti-competitive companies for them to simply give up and go home."
On our Gamesblog, Keith Stuart has a niceinterview with Jeff MinterofLlamasoftfame (well, still famous to people who had Amigas, C64s, Speccies etc). Now it seems his latest light-synth will be built into the Xbox 360....Comment:Atari ST, Amiga, Atari Jaguar, Nuon, Xbox 360... Microsoft better hope that's not a trend ;-)
Another week goes by, and another pile of letters and emails arrive at Guardian Towers. Thank goodness the chaps in the postroom don't have to hand-deliver email: they'd have chucked in their jobs years ago if that was the case.Ahead of ourletters pagetomorrow, I'm taking the usual run-through of some of this week's comments. If you see anything on the site that you want to talk about, email us atonline.feedback@guardian.co.ukor leave a comment below.Share and share alikeOn the back of last week's biggest technology story, Rudi Moffitt wrote to say that the Grokster case does not herald a victory for the entertainment industries."The justices focused on the fact that both companies actively encouraged filesharing in copyrighted materials and were actively encouraging infringing." "Companies that distribute such software should continue to do so, as long as they are not actively encouraging the exchange of copyrighted materials and make some effort to prevent this use." I agree, Rudi - andsaid just as muchlast week.TV tuned inThere was also a surprising strength of feeling about the wonderful world of personal video recorders, thanks toour reviewof the Mustek R580.Regular correspondent Mike Whittaker let us know where his money would be going. "The Mustek looks better value than its rivals, but still does not include a Freeview/digital TV tuner," he wrote. "Until someone brings out a combined recorder that will outlast analogue broadcasts, I'm hanging on to my money!"Brian Wedge, however, offered another suggestion. "Although it doesn't have a DVD writer like the Mustek, I would heartily recommend the Topfield PVR 5800 for making hard disk recordings of TV. The unit has twin Freeview tuners, enabling users to record and view different channels including Top-up TV, and using the electronic programme guide to set up recordings makes it simple to use."Thanks for the advice, Brian.Any other business"Bertie" got in touch to complain about the MIT blogging survey which we mentioned in last week'sBlogwatch. "It doesn't, uhhr, allow responses from those using Opera - which seems a bit strange for a technology institute. You'd have thunked they'd have figured out how to make a standards compliant site wouldn't you?". Indeed you would. Unfortunately, I look at the world through a decrepid version of Internet Explorer (don't ask) so I certainly feel your pain.And finally, reader John Colenutt was interested inour story on computer chess"and the theory that human intelligence will likely be superseded by artificial intelligence". But he's clearly not a paranoid conspiracist like the rest of us, cowering in our tinfoil hats: "What happens if one chess computer plays another one? Wouldn't the one that wins be programmed by the smartest computer programmer? Perhaps human intelligence is tops after all."Having experience of some experience of the technology industry, I wouldn't be so faithful in human intelligence (arf). But John's probably right - for now. Until the computers start learning for themselves, and everything goes Skynet on us.If you want to tell us what you think, emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.ukor leave a comment below.
Robo copped: Asimo spotted standing on one leg. Photograph: HondaHonda's putting its Asimo robot through its paces this week at the Youth Engineering Summit, which is being held in the Midlands. He's a clever little number, that can (shock) climb stairs. And judging by this pic it looks like he can dance with the best of them, too.Apparently wheeling out Asimo is meant to encourage these kids to believe that they can get really excited about science and engineering. Well, I don't know about that.But I do know that I like pictures of robots.
I've been playingAnother Codefor a review in the paper this week. The new DS title is essentially a point and click game that makes good use of the dual-screen, with the stylus used to manipulate in-game items. It makes a pleasant change to use your brain in a DS game, even if the conundrums can be wilfully obtuse at times. Solving them though is highly satisfying, which makes the death of the genre on PC even more upsetting.Back in the day (early to mid 90s) the point and click adventure genre was at the pinnacle of PC gaming.Monkey Island, Beneath a Steel Sky, Broken Sword - the list of genuine adventure classics is long. But old. The Longest Journey was the last title of note and that was released five years ago (an upcoming game - Fahrenheit - looks promising, even if it is not a point and click game in the traditional sense).Since then there have been some appalling low-keyEuropean releasesthat lack the style, narrative and class of the 90s classics while retaining the sadistic puzzles. More interestingly a burgeoningretroscene has developed, keeping the likes ofGuybrushgoing strong.But why has the genre died out? Advances in graphics technology mainly. The move to 3D changed the face of PC gaming - once gamers had played Doom or Quake, the slow-paced likes of Monkey Island seemed anachronistic. 3D adventure games were released - most notablyGrim Fandango- but the genre was deemed commercially dead.I think publishers have missed an opportunity here. PC gaming is an expensive business. Graphics cards that become obsolete in months plus regular upgrades are fine for hardcore gamers who want their new generic first-person shooter to look good, but there is a massive untapped market for games that don't need a state-of-the-art system to run. Look at the success of Championship/Football Manager or even World of Warcraft - games that run on PCs more than a year old.This is where point and click comes in. I'm convinced there is still a market for these type of games, especially to older PC gamers, bored of first-person shooters and me-too strategy games. All it needs is some decent writers, a non sci-fi/fantasy setting and, crucially, a bit of marketing spend to attract the non-hardcore gaming audience, especially as the PC games mags dismiss the genre. PC gaming has to expand and I think point and click titles are good way to do this.
One of the best news sources for independent games,Game Tunnel, has produced amid-term report cardfor the indie scene - a slightly more interesting way of rounding up the best games released so far this year. Split into a variety of genres, the report comes up with some real treats including the excellent retro blasterUltratronand the extremely innovative adventure title,Darwinia(pictured above).For those yet to explore beyond the confines of the mainstream industry, this is a wonderful place to encounter the cream of the year's indie productions. Go on, download something unusual today...
A German teenager admitted yesterday that he created last year's devastating "Sasser" computer worm, which brought systems crashing to a halt and caused millions of pounds worth of damage.Sven Jaschan, 19, confessed to having used the computer in his bedroom to invent the virus, which crippled hospitals, closed banks, grounded planes and trains, and even delayed the Taiwanese postHis trial, in the north-western town of Verden, is being held behind closed doors because at the time of the offence - on his 18th birthday - he was still a minor.Mr Jaschan "admitted to the alleged offences in every detail", the court's spokeswoman, Katharina Kreutzfeld, said.He had earlier confessed his guilt to detectives who swooped on his home in the tiny village of Waffensen in May last year. Police said Mr Jaschan, an introverted teenager, spent up to 10 hours a day in front of his computer in the family home he shared with his mother, step-father and four brothers and sisters.Some time during April last year, prosecutors allege, he downloaded basic virus codes from a hackers' website.He then started adding strings of further code to it. Once he had finished, the code was about 15 screens long.On April 29, the evening of his 18th birthday, he hit "send" and launched the virus on the web. It spread swiftly.The Sasser worm, named by computer experts, infected PCs and systems running Windows 2000 and Windows XP. Within hours it had caused mayhem.It paralysed the Taiwan postal service and crashed the computer systems of hospitals and government offices in Hong Kong. It also infected part of the Australian rail network, stranding thousands of passengers.In Britain, the worm shut the computers of the Maritime and Coastguard Agency. It also hit about 1,200 PCs at the European commission headquarters in Brussels, and allegedly wrecked Delta Airlines' systems in Atlanta for seven hours, leading to the cancellation of 40 flights.Before his trial, Mr Jaschan told the German magazine Stern he had merely wanted to create a virus, Netsky A, that would combat two existing viruses, Mydoom and Bagle."I felt as if I had written a first-class essay. How Netsky spread, I think it's terrific and my classmates thought I was terrific."He added: "Then it was reported on TV. That was cool. Only occasionally did I wake up in the middle of the night and think yikes, there might be trouble."At first detectives had little clue who might be responsible.They arrested Mr Jaschan after a fellow pupil at his vocational school tipped off Microsoft. The software giant had offered a $250,000 (&#163;142,000) reward.Mr Jaschan was charged with disrupting public services and illegally altering data, offences that carry a maximum sentence of five years in prison, although Ms Kreutzfeld said that as a minor he faced a lesser penalty.Despite the fact that Mr Jaschan created mayhem with a cheap computer, his teachers said he was not particularly gifted at IT. "He's good in the classroom and good at the tests," Jurgen Ahlden, one of four IT teachers who taught the 19-year-old, said last year. "He's a computer freak. But he's not an exceptional student. There are others in the class who are better than him."In their indictment, prosecutors chose the cases of three German city governments and a public broadcaster whose systems had been disrupted.Five suspected accomplices, including the informant, are under investigation, but Mr Jaschan is "the big fish", prosecutor Helmut Trentmann said before the trial, which is expected to last three days.Because defendants do not enter formal pleas under German law, proceedings continue despite the confession.In the meantime Mr Jaschan has been working for a computer firm that specialises in protecting computers from viruses.
You can readthe whole strip@ Slate....
As reported onOnline Blogandelsewhere, a 22-year-old Cambridge graduate has just become the first person to be convicted for modifying a games console - a crime that, however hard I try, I cannot imagine cropping up on Law and Order Criminal Intent.Importantly though, the felon didn't merely chip his console in order to play imported Japanese dating games. He was selling modified Xbox units complete with larger hard drives each filled with 80 pirated games. However, from October 2003 it has been illegal to perform any kind of modification on a videogame console so import fans could well be in line for the same treatment. Because, of course, the regional coding of videogames is so monumentaly important it must be protected by criminal law.Anyway, the man was sentenced at Caerphilly Magistrates' Court to 150 hours of community service - outside the court building, weeping Microsoft employees and their relatives screamed for justice and pelted police with warranty-invalidated consoles. That last bit may not have happened.Did I tell you about the time I enraged Sega Japan by running a feature in DC:UK magazine instructing readers how to bypass the Dreamcast region lock-out? I'd probably be put away for that nowadays.
Internet cafes in Beijing are increasingly popular. Photograph: Greg Baker/APChina's experiencing an internet boom of massive proportions - but not everybody's happy about the results. Government officials aren't happy about internet cafes, which they say erode morality - and as a result, they're backing clinics to treat "internet addiction", asWired Newsreports.The 12 teenagers and young adults, some in ripped jeans and baggy T-shirts, sit in a circle, chewing gum and fidgeting as they shyly introduce themselves."I'm 12 years old," one boy announces with a smile. "I love playing computer games. That's it." "It's been good to sleep" says another, a 17-year-old with spiky hair, now that he's no longer on the computer all day.The youths are patients at China's first officially licensed clinic for internet addiction, a downside of the online frenzy that has accompanied the nation's breathtaking economic boom.While treatment for addiction is no great surprise, there does seem something rather strange about some of the methods used here: "sessions on a machine that stimulates nerve impulses with 30-volt charges to pressure points" and "intravenous drips" sound particularly scary. I wonder how we'd all fare if government tests were applied to us...
British games industry has been celebrating the first conviction of a console "chipper", after Caerphilly magistrates found a 22-year-old Cambridge graduate guilty of illegally modifying Xboxes. There's not much beyond the press release stage out on the web right now, but here's whatPC Prois saying, just for the record.The 22-year-old was found guilty at Caerphilly Magistrates Court for his sideline in extended Xboxes. He sold the Microsoft consoles via his website for £380, having fitted them with a 200GB hard drive and 80 pre-installed games.Elspa, the British games industry body, has been quick off the mark to comment. "This case sets a major precedent which marks a milestone in the fight against piracy and in protecting the games industry's intellectual property," said honcho Mike Rawlinson. "It sends a clear message to anyone tempted to become involved in 'chipping' consoles that this is a criminal offence and will be dealt with accordingly."Anti-chipping laws have been in place in the UK for about 18 months now, but it's not the same all over the world. And while this young chap was clearly infringing the rights of games developers (putting 80 games in is highly unlikely to be legal), I still remain unconvinced by the arguments around *all* hardware modification for consoles. After all, if I want to invalidate my warranty by getting somebody to stick some extra memory or a chip that allows me to play games from different regions, shouldn't it be my lookout? And it seems unfair that I can buy DVD players which cross regional encoding, but not get my PS2 or Xbox to do the same. Who's the victim here?But right now, getting your console chipped is illegal: that's crystal. The courts are ready and willing to prosecute those who break that law: that too is clear. But while some cases - like this one - will be cut and dried, I very much doubt that they'll all be as simple.
Jeff Minter is one of the videogame industry's true eccentrics - a man who has followed his own agenda for the last twenty years, even if that has meant going off in a completely different direction to everyone else (Tempest 3000for the ill-fated Nuon device to pluck out one example). But strangely, his experiments with various 'light synthesiser' applications throughout the years (go to hisLlamasoft homepagefor a detailed history), may well have finally brought him in line with mainstream thinking. At a time when console manufacturers are desperate for their latest machines to be appreciated as allround audiovisual entertainment centres rather than just games machines (Nintendo excluded, of course), Microsoft is embedding Neon, the latest version of Minter's hypnotic light synth software, onto the Xbox 360.It all fits. As the concept of what actually constitutes a game evolves in the digital, high-defintion, music-streaming, movie downloading, broadband era, tools like this will become more commonplace and more accepted - you can see this in everything from Sing Star to Elektroplankton. Perhaps Minter's light 'games' didn't make much sense to mainstream users ten years ago, but now, with our huge HD LCD displays and Dolby Digital EX surround sound systems, they'll become another form of casual interactive entertainment. When Xbox 360 wasannouncedJ Allard rejected claims that the console was intended as a self-contained hub for all forms of digital media, but he does want it to be seen as a 'digital amplifier' - a means of getting streaming music, video, etc, from a PC or MP3 player to your home theatre set-up. Why not add some amazing light shows in the process?Anyway, I recently got a few questions to Minter about the Xbox 360 version of Neon, and here's what he had to say.So how did Neon on Xbox 360 come about? Did J Allard ring you up? Was someone at Microsoft a fan?It basically happened because a certain well-connected friend of mine really liked what we were doing here with VLM3 on the Gamecube, and brought someone from MS here to see. He in turn got very enthusiastic, and went back to MS and began bending ears. It took a fair bit of prodding and sending of demos but eventually it progressed to the point where I got hold of a devkit. Once we had proper live 360 code running it turned from "maybe" to "definitely!".Curiously enough I heard that J Allard had actually been interested in my doing some work for the original Xbox, and the only reason I didn't hear about that was an email gone astray. Oh well, better late than never.Which version of the dev kits do you have?We have been using Xbox360 alpha dev kits (which are based on a dual-G5 platform).What are your impressions of the Xbox 360 hardware? What does it offer to those developers - like yourself- who aren't looking to create GTA/Metal Gear/Splinter Cell beaters?I really like the hardware - especially important to us is the monster shader performance. Typically in the kind of work I'll be doing, you want a lot of computational power available for generating effects and meshes procedurally in realtime, and the X360 delivers a hell of a lot of grunt in that area. I think the ability to explore procedural methods is important to people like me who don't want to use teams of artists producing literal textures and pre-defined models, but wish to explore the more abstract possibilities afforded by generative methods.Microsoft go on quite a lot about this being a machine with no bottlenecks, nothing inhibiting performance - would you agree with that from your experience?Well, we were working with alpha hardware and still managed to achieve staggering performance with just that, and the alpha kits probably operate at only about 30 percent of the capacity of the final hardware. I'm really looking forward to doing more on final hardware and really pushing the thing as hard as we can.How has Neon pushed the hardware?We've mainly been pushing the shader stuff in Neon - there is an awful lot of per-pixel calculation going on in some of the Neon effects. In terms of actual geometry generation Neon's not that demanding – being in the dashboard we have to coexist with the rest of the OS and can't use it all up for ourselves.How will users interact with Neon via Xbox 360? Will they be able to plug in an iPod, then control things via joypad?Neon is controlled with up to four controllers simultaneously. Each user controls certain aspects of each effect using the analog sticks and the d-pad and buttons. Any layers not controlled by users are controlled by an audio-driven "autopilot" system. The 360 will be able to utilise a variety of different audio sources, and any of those sources can be used to drive Neon.How has your vision of the light synth evolved for Xbox 360? What specific new features have you been able to introduce or finally realise?Neon finally realises an idea I have had since 1990 for doing a truly modular lightsynth, in which it is possible to construct effects by simply plugging modules together, with subsequent modules taking input from previous modules - it's very versatile and is the visual equivalent of the software synthesisers popular in music right now. Until the x360, consumer-level hardware was simply not powerful enough to really implement such a thing properly. Neon in the x360 finally implements and proves the concept, and yields an extraordinary amount of versatility from a very small amount of code (you could fit several copies of Neon on an old floppy disk).As games consoles become more a part of the (lord help us) 'digital home entertainment hub' do you think there will be more and more room for applications like Neon?Yes, I think so. When the x360 is installed as the media hub then users will be doing far more with it than just running games. I know that as soon as I get mine it'll be hooked up to my music server and my plasma telly and I'll never again listen to music at home without a lightsynth accompaniment. I am sure that many more non-game applications will emerge as game consoles transition into media hubs.Do any recently current games interest you as a programmer/gamer? Why?Games always interest me. I like things that attempt to create different styles more than those that simply attempt to generate ever greater amounts of realism (although I like those too). Things like Rez with its distinctive Tron stylings and linking of in-game events, Katamari Damacy which is simply one of the finest games of recent years and pure joy to play, and work like Toshio Iwai's Elektroplankton on the Nintendo DS, which to me almost feels like the musical parallel of what I've been trying to do with my lightsynths over the years. I'd love to collaborate with Iwai some day and do a project involving his generative music stuff and my own Neon graphics synthesis technology.Can we expect more Xbox 360 projects from Llamasoft?I think there is a very good chance of that.
Is he a design guru? Apparently not: he says he's a "symposiarch". But whatever John Thackara is, he's proved to be one of the most important people in technology design. Online sentJim McClellanto speak to him.Read more...
This weekend, the National Film Theatre will be hosting a videogame event celebrating the crossover between the film and interactive industries. Curated and introduced by Iain Simons, co-editor of last year'sDifficult Questions About Videogames(now free!), the two-day series of lectures and workshops will include Ian Livingstone's (standard) talk "Lara went to Hollywood", Peter Molyneux discussing his forthcoming gameThe Moviesand award-winning Hollywood veteran Roger Avery discussing his involvement with Half Life developers Valve, andthe rules of adapting cinema to console. And, if you're between the ages of 16-24 and want to get into the games industry as a career, there'll be a "Breaking In" masterclass just for you. Let's see some girls there!There is more, so check out thewebsite.It's great to see such a non-gaming cultural icon as the NFT embracing interactivity in such a way. The more games are championed as worthy artforms, the more willing the general public will be to consider them as such.
The title of Coldplay's recent comeback single, Speed of Sound, was rather apt. But EMI chairman Eric Nicoli doesn't need reminding how quickly things change in the music industry. In a world where an act can go from being everyone's darlings to yesterday's men in the space of six months, the corporate ride can be something of a rollercoaster too. In February, EMI's share price dived after eagerly awaited albums by Coldplay and Gorillaz were delayed.To make matters worse Coldplay's Chris Martin helpfully said in April that he didn't care about the company, adding that "shareholders are the greatest evil of the modern world" and analysts started to talk again about a potential merger with Warner Music.But with the albums in question now riding high around the world - Coldplay's X&amp;Y having topped the charts on both sides of the Atlantic and in 26 other countries - and the share price in better shape, Mr Nicoli can afford to focus on the wider structural issues facing the music industry.In particular, the recent US supreme court ruling that found peer-to-peer file-sharing company Grokster liable for encouraging its users to swap pirated tracks over the internet which marked an important staging post in the industry's battle with digital piracy.Having seen global sales collapse by 25% over the past six years, Mr Nicoli is confident that a corner has been turned. "The reason we are delighted with the Grokster decision is that it shows that in the world's biggest music market, the courts take a dim view of people who encourage or facilitate and turn a blind eye to online theft as a mechanism for promoting their own business," he says.Just as importantly, he believes the industry is beginning to win the PR war to convince consumers that downloading tracks for nothing is "theft". The carrot-and-stick approach of licensing more content to legal providers such as Apple's iTunes and Napster while pursuing individuals who have made pirated tracks available over the internet is beginning to bear fruit for the beleaguered industry."We're certainly making good progress. We're encouraged that more and more people understand why stealing is a bad thing. Our job is to make it more difficult as well as more dangerous to steal it. But more importantly, to make it easier and more convenient to buy," he says, pointing out that digital sales will account for 5% of the total this year."We want to allow people to access music however they want, whenever they want - as long as they pay for it. And if they don't want to pay for it, we'll be on to them. I think that's fair," says Mr Nicoli, delivering a well practised line and pointing to the untapped potential for legitimate digital sales, particularly in the relatively new mobile market and among older consumers who "rarely visit a record shop".However, he does admit that the industry as a whole was too slow off the mark when digital piracy first emerged as a real threat with the genesis of the first incarnation of Napster in 1999 and the subsequent development of more sophisticated peer-to-peer file sharing services such as Kazaa and Grokster."Clearly, with hindsight, we could and should have been faster," he says. It wasn't until the launch of Apple's iTunes two years ago that a truly attractive legal alternative was available.Mr Nicoli points the finger of blame at EMI's major label rivals: "It's really only in the last couple of years that everyone came on board. Some of the majors were owned by international conglomerates who aspired to be the gatekeeper."Early on there was a reluctance on the part of those companies to cooperate with everyone else. Because of some personnel changes and because of the crisis that the industry faced a couple of years ago, everyone has come on board. Now we're starting to see dramatic growth of digital distribution - and not just downloads but subscriptions, legalised peer-to-peer and all the mobile applications."He accepts the historical argument that because so many tracks were unavailable online, the only way to get hold of them was to download them illegally, hastily adding that it is no longer valid. But he rebuffs the long-held argument that fewer people would download pirated tracks if CDs and downloads were cheaper. "That's bollocks. Are they saying that if CDs were half the price they wouldn't steal it? You can't compete with free," he retorts.Another oft-heard argument is that by locking artists into binding contracts, record companies tend to inhibit creativity and that a freer approach to copyright would lead to better music and a closer relationship between artists and fans. Unsurprisingly it is one with which Nicoli, who has been at the helm of EMI for six bumpy years, has no truck. "I don't buy the argument that if there was a complete free for all there would be more creativity. The reason it's lost steam was because it was crap. If artists can't find a way of getting rewarded for the creation of their content they won't make a career of it," he says.Piracy is just one issue that Mr Nicoli, who is also chairman of the UK Music Forum, believes could be raised by a new music council quango recently suggested by creative industries minister James Purnell. "The fact that music has been raised in the minds of government in recent months is a very good thing," he says.Envisaged as a lobbying body along the lines of the Film Council, Mr Nicoli believes that the traditionally divergent aims of the industry need a powerful voice to lobby on issues such as piracy and its campaign to increase the length of copyright beyond 50 years."It's a good idea for the industry to have a single, credible, powerful voice. We lobby by making credible arguments and explaining ourselves well and better than we have in the past," says Mr Nicoli. He is also keen, he says, to make the case for tax rebates on A&amp;R.In the meantime, Mr Nicoli insists that sales trends are looking brighter than they have for several years. And with Coldplay, Robbie Williams, a reformed Pink Floyd and Joss Stone among the EMI acts to have graced the Live 8 stage in Hyde Park on Saturday, he points to the depth of the company's roster as another reason to be cheerful. Emerging markets such as China and India, up to now completely lost to physical piracy, are also showing signs of developing legitimate markets and are "very encouraging in the long-term," he says."In every single market in the world, we're seeing the physical market trends flattening out and at the same time we're seeing the digital market grow dramatically. We feel from now on that the growth in digital will outstrip the decline in physical."But while the Grokster judgment is an important one for the record industry, it leaves several grey areas. First, it suggests that software companies are only liable if they promote the use of peer-to-peer networks to share pirated material. Then there is the danger, common to all internet crime, that the worst offenders will simply move offshore."What the supreme court did was make a ruling that effectively gives the content owners authority to sue. Now it goes back to the local courts," he says, bullishly. "It gives us encouragement and will get the attention of policymakers everywhere else in the world. We'll keep fighting the battles. If they crop up elsewhere, we'll go after them elsewhere. Where ever they are we'll pursue them."
A teenage father who became irritable if he was interrupted while playing computer games killed one of his four-month-old twin sons and badly injured the other, it was alleged in court today.James Tuffs, now 21, cared for Byron and Tyrese while his girlfriend, Zoe O'Leary, now 18, looked after their daughter, Aaliyah, now two, Norwich crown court was told.In January 2004, doctors declared Byron dead after he was found "grey and floppy" at the family home in Stowmarket, Suffolk, the prosecutor, Oliver Sells QC, told jurors. The boy was found to have a fractured skull and two fractured ribs.Tests also revealed that Tyrese had a fractured skull, multiple rib fractures, a fractured arm and fractures to both legs, Mr Sells said.Medical experts had said the injuries to the children could not have been accidental, according to Mr Sells. "These very extensive and serious injuries were caused ... by this defendant," Mr Sells said. "This defendant must, for whatever reason, have operated a persistent regime of cruelty."Mr Sells told the court that Mr Tuffs and the boys lived downstairs while Miss O'Leary cared for Aaliyah upstairs. "He would look after the twins downstairs in the room where the sofa was. After changing them he spent a lot of time watching television, playing computer games late into the night."You will hear something about his moods - irritable if his computer games were interrupted, on occasion shouting. He would rather play on the computer than anything else."Tuffs denies manslaughter and cruelty. The case continues.
One thing missing from the whole Live8 thing so far - and not just the rest of The Killers set - is the games. Yes, it's a tenuous link but I rememberSoftAid, the post Live Aid game compilation that raised money while simultaneously re-introducing Spectrum and C64 gamers to gaming "classics" like Falcon Patrol. At the time though it was great, and not just because yougot 10 games, plus the Band Aid single, for a fiver. Actually, when I was 12, that was the main reason. But now it's different, and what better way, other than a series of global concerts, is there to raise awareness than with a SoftAid for 2005? After all, anyone under 35 is more likely to empathise with Pro Evolution than Pink Floyd. There have been same low-keycharity compilationsin the last few years but isn't it time for an equivalent of SoftAid for PS2 and Xbox owners today?
There's a bit of an Elite love-fest going on in thecompetition comments, as people recall the games they miss the most.It brought to mindthis articleby Francis Spufford (an excerpt fromthis bookwhich ran in the Guardian's weekend magazine about 18 months ago). It covers the background of Elite, its creators David Braben and Ian Bell, and is a bit of a treat for anyone who's interested.When they began writing their game, eventually to be called Elite, eventually to be a landmark in the history of computer games, what they were thinking of conformed pretty much to the standard video-game formulas of the time, albeit with extra graphical whizz.They wanted exciting space combat in three dimensions against enemy craft that exhibited some degree of tactical guile. Except that, come to think of it, programming the tactics for an organised, military enemy was probably out of reach. They needed disorganised villains. Who fit the bill in the science-fiction universe? Pirates. OK then: 3D combat against space pirates.And they also wanted there to be a bit of the game where you had to dock your spaceship with a space station, à la 2001. They thought Stanley Kubrick's docking sequence was deeply cool, and they wanted one of their own.
There are only two times of the year when I get homesick for the country of my upbringing: Thanksgiving and 4th of July. Well, the latter is upon us and while the Yanks have their annual fireworks festival (in warm weather, thank you - none of thisNovembernonsense), we're celebrating the beginning of July down here in the south of England with some uncharacteristic sun.To assuage my hunger for watered-down lager and patriotic tunes, I've just made a visit to the recently re-instatedAmericanain the virtual worldSecond Life, a simulation of some of the most recognisable monuments in the U.S. of A., lovingly recreated by some of SL's residents. Lest anyone start claiming nationalistic fervour on the part of the primarily-US-based "lifers", two of the builders are actually British.It's all there, from the Washington Monument to the Statue of Liberty to a baseball diamond to a classic schoolhouse to Area 51. I had a burger and some popcorn and a wee tour past the drive-in movie theatre andGrauman's Chinese Theater[sic], and my homesickness has lessened. I even bought some fireworks for an in-game celebration later on.This is one kind of creation that goes on in this strange virtual world. I hit the virtual Stonehenge a couple of weeks ago for the solstice festivities, and both experiences are next best thing to actually being there.
Text messaging may still be the killer data application for mobile phones but ringtones and music downloads are clearly among the top drivers of the mobile phone industry going forward. And it is not just top British pop acts like Coldplay and the weird Crazy Frog phenomenon that are leading this fast-moving trend. The former owner of the massively successful US hip-hop music label Def Jam, 47-year-old Russell Simmons, is also in the vanguard.Simmons was in the UK recently to launch his hip-hop label and show his support for the American half of last weekend's Live 8 concert. Known in the US as the godfather of hip-hop, the articulate and easy-going Simmons is not simply a street kid made good; he is an intelligent voice in the media industry, especially when it comes to talking powerfully to urban youngsters and helping them find their voice.Simmons founded Def Jam Records in 1985 and sold it for an estimated $100m in 1999 to Universal Music, yet the deal he negotiated allows him to use the Def Jam brand in other areas. He also still has close ties with Universal; in fact, his new label Russell Simmons Music Group (RSMG) was formed in April last year as a 50/50 joint label with Island Def Jam Music Group, part of Universal Music Group.When I meet Simmons he is dressed in an argyle-patterned waistcoat, buttoned-down shirt (a la Ralph Lauren, only much baggier) and wearing a baseball cap - all from his own Phat Farm fashion label. The man who signed the Beastie Boys and LL Cool J among others has achieved a comfortable level of wealth and now he is putting the emphasis on "giving it back" to causes he believes in. His business interests run from food and clothing to movie and TV production (he co-produced The Nutty Professor), to financial services, including a Visa-branded debit card targeting the 70 million people in the US who do not have bank accounts. Yet he also has total credibility among the artists and followers of a brand of music that represents the urban poor, both black and white."I'm not Trump rich," says Simmons, whose wealth is estimated at $500m. "But I've made some money. I've been successful."Last year he launched Def Jam Mobile in the US - a joint venture between American Greetings Corporation, a listed greetings card company, and Def Jam Enterprises, part of Simmons' umbrella company Rush Communications. The venture is offering mobile services in the US, such as a hip-hop news service and hip-hop e-greeting cards as well as polyphonic ringtones, mobile street games and wallpaper. In Simmons' world, hip-hop music and mobiles live in perfect harmony. "Hip- hop artists are not only good at branding the technology and making it cool, but as the new technology comes out they are the first to play with it," he says.The appeal of hip-hop and urban music to young people is clear from the sales, which typically top the single charts. Urban music has also featured heavily in the weekly ringtone chart in the UK since it was launched a year ago. Urban music from 50 Cent, Black Eyed Peas, Snoop Dog and Eminem always takes up about half of the top 20 spots. Simmons' plan is to bring his Def Jam Mobile services over from the US to make the most of the European hip hop scene and he also plans to sign new artists to RSMG. "In America, 80% of the people who buy hip-hop are not African American," says Simmons. "What's special about hip-hop to me is that it's poor people of all colours - in fact, there aren't enough white rappers; we need poor white kids from the trailer parks talking about their struggle because there's a connection with black kids in the projects."The worldwide value of mobile entertainment services is growing almost exponentially and could be worth as much as $36bn by 2010, according to Informa Telecoms &amp; Media. The same forecasters say ringtones alone are worth almost $5bn and this could rise to nearly $7bn in five years. The UK ringtone business is expected to top &#163;100m this year and ringtones now outsell singles. Simmons expects to be at the heart of such growth figures and the phone carriers are keen to figure out ways of earn ing extra income with him. At the recent Mobile Entertainment Market in London's Olympia, Simmons met a host of local mobile phone operators to strike up deals to begin Def Jam Mobile's UK push. But it is not only content that makes Simmons's entertainment products and ideas so attractive in the new media marketplace, it is also the fact that the music he represents is a strong fashion statement among youth, just like mobile phones."He's probably the first of the known hip-hop entrepreneurs to make a noise in Europe," says David Simmons (no relation), the chairman of the UK ringtone chart initiative. "I think he'll be extremely successful. He'll prove to be the pioneer in this area because he knows what he's doing; he's in touch with the street."Russell Simmons was an original contributor to the rap music movement that was to become hip-hop. While rap was full of aggressive and controversial artists (including Simmons' brother, Joseph, aka Reverend Run of Run DMC), hip hop was more mature and accessible to the mainstream. "I think hip-hop lends itself to the youth of today. Simmons is savvy about what it could bring to the mobile companies," says Gerard Grech, head of music &amp; video at Orange.The man who has people from Bono to Michael Jordan on his speed dial is not a Mr Bling caricature, he is a sophisticated businessman who understands the marketplace. No African artists at Live 8? "Of course, we'd love to have some African artists, but we don't want to lose the ratings. Big global artists happen to be American and British, that's where all the money is and that's what Live 8 is about, raising awareness and raising money."In the new media world, Simmons also knows where the money is, so when your phone starts ringing with more hip-hop tunes he probably has something to do with it.Top 20 ringtones1Akon2Alicia Keys3Crazy Frog4Black Eyed Peas5Gorillaz6Amerie7Gwen Stefani8Harold Faltermeyer9The Rasmus10Feeder11Coldplay12Audio Bullys (Nancy Sinatra)13Body Rockers14Snoop Dogg &amp; J Timberlake1550 Cent16James Blunt17Nelly18Oasis19Eminem20The Cheeky Girls&#183;Source: KPMG; June 13 -19
Another week, another series of increasingly hard to track incentives to switch to digital television. It is seemingly boomtime for consumers, with all the main players competing to offer the best deal. Want pay TV over broadband? BT and Microsoft are all over it. How about video on demand? Cable. Oh, and Sky; and Home Choice in London. And Sky will also give some bonus features over broadband for its top-tier customers. The simple business of choosing TV provision has become as fiendish as mobile phone call-plans.It is all about the race to analogue switch-off and scooping up as many as possible of those latecomers to the digital party before 2012. Those who have found digital TV perfectly resistible until now must, the logic goes, require some extra incentive, so let us throw some better goodies at them.The question which permeates all these offers is: which platform will dominate come 2012? In the absence of anyone having a magic window on the future, the MediaGuardian Edinburgh International Television Festival commissioned some research to see if we could extrapolate the answer from loosely educated opinion.Online research company YouGov has polled the producers, channel   operators and executives who have registered via the internet for this year's festival to learn their expert opinion of how the industry might look in the couple of years prior to complete analogue switch off. Surprisingly and overwhelmingly, they believe that Freeview is in the best position to benefit, supported by 62% of those registered, compared to 22% for Sky, with just 10% citing cable.In the survey, around two thirds think that Sky is successful in the UK because it was "ahead of the game" and established a significant customer base before Freeview came along, though Sky also achieves the highest score of any platform in terms of offering UK consumers the best overall TV package. Looking ahead five years, 59% believe that Freeview/digital terrestrial TV will be in more UK households that Sky, and more than half believe that TV will be watched on wireless internet mobile hand-held devices, either downloaded for viewing later on, or live.When it comes to content, the overwhelming view is that Freeview is the most likely to support significant original UK production. But Freeview must improve its content, according to the survey, with 60% suggesting more channels, premium services and other must-have channels, like the recently added E4, are essential if Freeview is to offer a better package than Sky.So what does this tell us about the   future? To give the crystal ball gazing some shape, Enders Analysis has helped put together three "endgame" scenarios for the future TV world. UK TV broadcasting has four sources of money: the licence fee; advertising; subscription; and pay per view, or pay as you go.Freeview's current and future success is dependent on ongoing support from the BBC, both in marketing and provision of channel content, funded by the licence fee, as well as the sustainability of advertising. Sky has significant advertising and growing pay as you go income, but it is fundamentally reliant on subscription revenue from its 7.5m customer households. One of the keys to understanding the broadcasting landscape in 2012 is the extent to which consumers and businesses will continue to embrace these funding sources.Scenario One:Sky is the dominant UK TV platform. Just two years ago as the industry gathered in Cambridge to debate this question, the ubiquitous view was that Sky would be the victor, irrespective of changes in the technological, competitive or regulatory landscape. By 2012 under this scenario, public announcements by the government that TV screens will go black have panicked the general public in to taking positive action about going digital. Sky has positioned its marketing to address consumer fears, and so increased its reach to around 14m   subscribers. (Its success in this scenario has been helped by its decision in 2006 to give away free Sky+ set-top boxes to all new paying customers, and the introduction of "Sky Lite", a package of 100 channels for &#163;14.99, which has been instrumental in denying significant growth to Top Up TV).Scenario two:Freeview becomes the most widely distributed means of accessing digital TV, with around 18m households. Although 6m of its sets are not in the main living area and therefore "secondary TV sets", by 2012, Freeview is ahead of Sky even as the principal means of accessing digital TV. Freeview's success has prompted numerous pay channels to follow the example of E4 and opt for an entirely advertising-funded business model,   forgoing Sky carriage fees for free-to-air distribution. Major brands such as Discovery and Paramount Comedy are now available without subscription on Freeview. Sky One is the only major channel exclusive to Sky, but has been unable to match the programme investment of ITV2 and E4, which are now two of many channels commissioning UK original production from indies.Scenario three:Investment by BT and others in local loop unbundling has resulted in very high-speed broadband connections to the home being the norm in 2012, alongside wireless internet connections. Continued innovation by Microsoft, AOL and other big internet players has made TV over the internet both a cost-effective and highly popular way of delivering TV. As a result, power has shifted to the consumer. Individuals can now watch, save, and share content at their convenience. Customers remain loyal to their favourite shows, but the TV channel itself is under threat, and schedulers are becoming the dinosaurs of the business.Advertisers have had to completely rethink their business model, as ad skipping has become standard - viewers now opt in to watching fixed amounts of advertising in return for payment discounts for content. Micro-payment mechanisms now mean that TV programmes can be bought on a "pay as you go" basis, allowing individ uals to pay for TV programmes they actually watch. As a result, the BBC licence fee is under real threat as consumer resentment at paying upfront for programming they never watch starts to grow.If you think this sounds fanciful, take note: at Cambridge two years ago, Sky was perceived as invulnerable and this year's MGEITF delegates appear to believe that Freeview will be the main beneficiary of analogue switch off, so perhaps we should not rule out Bill Gates just yet.&#183;The Freeview vs Pay-TV session will take place at the MediaGuardian Edinburgh International TV Festival, which runs from August 26-28. For further information or to register for a delegate pass, go towww.mgeitf.co.uk.&#183;Paul Robinson is a media consultant
Fever pitch: Sensible SoccerOver the years, I've played many football games on computers, consoles and arcade machines. I like most of them, and love a few: they're the one place that I can *actually* be a god on the pitch, rather than just wanting to be one.Right now, there's no beating Pro Evolution Soccer 4, where my beloved Chelsea are currently on top of the world - holders of the Konami versions of the Champions League, Premier League and the League Cup.But it brought a nostalgic tear to my eye when this week's games reviews looked atSensible Soccer: one of my favourite games of all time. I've already drooled on abouthow much I loved my Amiga, but Sensi Soccer was the best game on that lovely little machine. It was fantastic: a bizarre mixture of football, ping pong and hilariously-named players.So, a stand-alone console just for playing Sensi? Beautiful.In honour of this momentous remembrance, then, here's this week's competition. The prize is, of course, an Arcade Legends: Sensible Soccer Plus console courtesy of Radica (which also contains Cannon Fodder and Mega-Lo-Mania for good measure).Q: What's the game you miss most, and why?Leave a comment and let us know.
Last week we saw the end of the affair between the Treasury and the third channel, as ITV had its licence fee to broadcast dramatically reduced in order to make it seaworthy for the digital multichannel age. Having a flagship broadcasting brand is officially a thing of the past as the rising tide of other channels erodes 50 years of head start.Or at least that's the theory. There was a time, shortly after the launch of Sky, when there were 100 channels available on UK television, and this seemed an unimaginable abundance all of 15 years ago. Now there are 38 shopping channels, 22 children's channels, 26 sports channels, 29 music channels, 30 porn channels and 83 lifestyle channels (if your lifestyle involves playing poker, enjoying footage of the second world war and watching badly-made travelogues of Austrian wine country). Plus dozens and dozens of film, news, religious and ethnic minority channels.At one time to launch a channel was a big deal - hiring a Norwegian to read the weather and a man in a rabbit suit to opine on Britain's rotating presidency of   the EU was a guarantee of headlines, if not audiences. Amid this welter of content - where the Pub Channel sits somewhat provocatively next to the Islam Channel - making an impact with any single channel appears doomed. Viewing figures from Barb show that although the total viewing share of non-terrestrial channels now exceeds the share of the main commercial broadcasters (41% versus 31.9%), this figure is increasingly fragmented. So, for instance, Sky's channels have a total share of audience of 9.7% - on a par with Channel 4 and BBC2 - but spread between 27 channels. As Freeview is now in over 5m homes, the big five terrestrial broadcasters are not surprisingly disproportionately advantaged.It's clear that the firepower in multichannel homes still comes from the terrestrial broadcasters. Channel 4 announced it would add a quiz channel to its small forest of channels last week, in order to cash in on the trend for revenue generation through telephone lines and interactive services .While it might be deliberately contrary to argue that Ofcom gave back far too much far too soon to ITV, which very successfully ar gued the value of its licence would be nil once analogue spectrum was terminated, it does seem as though broadcasters bumped out of their box seats on scarce spectrum are actually going to come out of the move to multichannel rather well. The current strategy, for those who can afford it, is to spread the channel brand across as wide a part of the available multichannel spectrum as possible.It is sobering to realise that, after almost a generation of multichannel television in the UK, not one offering has emerged from the electric soup to challenge the hegemony of the broadcasters.Even the tremendously well-funded Sky has not produced a single channel which can consistently crack more than a 2.5% share of the audience - given that Five has a 7% share this illustrates just how great the lag is. Outside Sky and the terrestrials, only Living TV with a clever strategy of buying close to the best US imports and scheduling them with monotonous regularity has managed to creep up towards the level of E4, Channel 4's key multichannel offering. So,   by freeing ITV from its licence obligations, it seems that the first thing ITV will do is hand back money to its shareholders - a curious response to anyone who is not either an analyst or a shareholder - and the second thing it will do is put &#163;1bn into programmes and extra channels, with ITV4 coming soon to add to the existing three general channels and the one news channel.Unfortunately there is a sense that for ITV this may be too little too late - although it is too early to place such an apocalyptic judgment on an organisation which still has extremely healthy revenues and a strong production arm at a time when having watchable programmes that have shelf life is more important than ever before.And this at the end of the day is the biggest dilemma for all terrestrial broadcasters - what to put first. The resounding answer has to be programmes - one only has to look at the rise in DVD sales and question why, with all these extra channels, overall viewing is barely rising, to realise that it is no good elbowing your way on to a broader piece of digital spectrum if you can't fill it.
Freeview, the free to air digital television service backed by the BBC, is in pole position to benefit from government plans to switch off the existing television signal by 2012, a new study has revealed.A YouGov poll of hundreds of industry executives, channel operators and producers who will attend the MediaGuardian Edinburgh international TV festival in August found that 62% thought that Freeview was best placed to benefit, while just 22% opted for the satellite pay TV service Sky Digital.The results mark a radical shift from two years ago when a similar exercise was conducted at the Royal Television Society's biennial convention in Cambridge. Then, when Freeview was still in its infancy, 56% of executives thought that Sky would triumph and become the dominant commercial force in UK broadcasting.According to research among those who have registered online for the TV festival, six in 10 believe the service will overtake Sky Digital within five years. Freeview is now in 5m households while Sky has 7.7 million subscribers.Last week the broadcasting minister, James Purnell, reiterated the government's plans to switch off the existing TV signal between 2008 and 2012.According to the media regulator, Ofcom, six out of 10 households have some form of digital television but there remains a significant minority who are opposed to upgrading.Freeview, launched by the BBC and the transmission business Crown Castle in 2002 in the wake of the collapse of ITV Digital and providing extra channels for a one-off fee of as little as &#163;39, has proved popular. Some industry observers, including the former BBC director general Greg Dyke, have questioned Sky's strategy of backing Freeview at launch by broadcasting three of its own channels on it.Broadcasters such as ITV and Channel 4 are increasingly turning away from spin-off subscription channels on Sky as a means of combating declining audiences on their main channels and instead relaunching them as advertiser-funded channels on Freeview.The latest to follow this course of action was E4, Channel 4's entertainment service aimed at a younger audience. Later this year it will launch More 4, offering documentaries and factual programmes.But the survey also found that, while Freeview is deemed most likely to support significant original UK production, six out of 10 believed it needed to improve the quality of its line-up if it was to offer a better consumer package than Sky.Sky is not planning to take the challenge from Freeview lying down. As well as continuing to invest in the premium movies and sport content on which it built its business, it has made efforts to highlight the range of channels on offer. Sky's subscription packages offer hundreds of channels compared with 30 or so on Freeview.It has also launched a free to air satellite service of its own and is investing hundreds of millions in interactive services and technologies such as high definition TV that are difficult for Freeview channels to replicate.The BSkyB chief executive, James Murdoch, has argued that the popularity of Freeview will be a temporary phenomenon during the shift to a fully digital television landscape.
Developer websites are often little more than advertising placements for their current titles, but one or two take the time to engage with their fans and actually say something interesting about what they're working on. A very good example is Bizarre Creations, currently running a weekly diary on the development of Xbox 360 driving title Project Gotham 3.Last week's instalmentfeatured a stunning screen of a New York tenement building, chosen to refute claims that an image posted on theprevious week's diarywas a one-off render. Bizarre are getting used to this kind of response though - a screenshot ofsome tarmacshown in the first diary entry managed somehow to cause controversy - was it in-game tarmac or specially rendered tarmac? Was it a road surface of truth or dispicable hardware aggrandising hype?Whatever you think, it's worth coming for the highly detailed descriptions of gameplay and graphics elements, such as:"When you zoom right up to the back of your car, you can actually see gases being vented from the engine! You notice heat haze at the back of your car's exhausts! It ripples the air around it, and gives the impression of heat blasting over the back bumper of your super car. It's simply awesome."This level of detail, both in the screenshots and in the descriptions, really doesn't susprise me, and I'm inclined to believe both. I visited Bizarre Creations several times while they were developing Metropolis Street Racer - the Dreamcast forerunner of the Project Gotham series. I saw the thousands of photographs and hours of video footage taken by the artists of the game's locations: San Francisco, Tokyo and London. I also saw Managing Director Martin Chudley hunched over a development machine for hours, intricately tweaking miniscule elements of the handling engine.There is a subtle often abused line between pride and hype. It is always good to see a developer getting it just about right.
A software engineer and champion of peer-to-peer file sharing is planning legal action after being sacked for expressing his views on BBC's Newsnight.Alex Hanff, 31, was just a week into his job as a consultant at Aldcliffe Computer Systems in Lancaster when he was invited on to last Monday's edition to comment on the US supreme court's decision to hold software companies responsible for permitting illegal file sharing over their networks.The next day managers told him he was fired because the opinions he expressed on the show were "inappropriate", Mr Hanff claimed yesterday.Newsnight interviewed him because in March he was served with legal papers by the Motion Picture Association of America for running a website called DVD-Core that pointed users to files of movies, some illegally copied, distributed using BitTorrent file-sharing software. It was this his employer objected to, saying he should have disclosed it when interviewed.Mr Hanff had shut down the site on his own volition the previous December. He argued that the case, which he plans to fight, was a civil case in a foreign country that had yet to begin. "When they dismissed me they said I should have disclosed it to them. A civil case that hasn't started yet is nothing to do with them," he said yesterday."As far as I was concerned they knew about it. They're an IT company with IT professionals, it wouldn't have taken five minutes on Google to find out," he said, adding that several colleagues had discussed the case with him prior to his dismissal.If the case comes to court, he plans to argue that the site did not host the files itself, was not administered by him, did not make any money, and was more focused on forums and communities than file sharing. "It was a community of people with real bonds and friendships," he said.Managers also knew about the Newsnight interview, he claimed, allowing him to leave work early on Monday. "When I first went to work on Tuesday, everything was fine. The whole office was supportive. At lunchtime the technical director took me to the conference room and dismissed me." He said he had been told that his presence within the company could count against it when bidding for big government contracts.A manager from the parent company Tribal Group later phoned, he said, to improve the offer of one week's redundancy pay to three months. He refused and plans to take legal action, claiming that he was sacked for a "philosophical belief" in contravention of employment law and the European Human Rights Act.Tribal Group said in a statement: "The decision to terminate &#91;Mr Hanff's&#93; employment was made in order to defend our legitimate business interests. Mr Hanff has declared that he is opposed to copyright and intellectual property laws. Since much of our business is based around the protection of our copyright and intellectual property, we consider our dismissal of Mr Hanff entirely justified and appropriate."A BBC spokeswoman added: "Any dispute about employment is a matter between Mr Hanff and his employers."The supreme court ruling, which gives record companies and media owners the ammunition to prosecute software networks in the US, has reignited debate over their determination to go after smaller sites and individuals. US record labels have unleashed more than 700 lawsuits in the wake of the ruling.
All this sounds horribly familiar..."It is Perfect 10's contention that 'search engines' such as A9.com and Google are displaying hundreds of thousands of adult images, from the most tame to the most exceedingly explicit, to draw massive traffic to their Web sites, which they convert into ad revenue or sales revenue," the publisher said in a statement.Beverly Hills, Calif.-based Perfect 10 filed a similar lawsuit against Google in November and said it has sent numerous notices of infringement to both Google and Amazon that have been ignored.says a report onCNet. OK, an old story with regard to text, but it now has an added twist. The CNet story concludes....As search engines expand into images and video, they are increasingly at risk of becoming targets of copyright lawsuits. On Thursday, Google scrambled to remove movies and TV episodes that were uploaded to its new video search site that infringed on copyright.The situation is more dire after the US Supreme Court ruled earlier this week that companies can be held legally liable for copyright piracy that takes place on their online networks.Google caches pages and makes them available even if the original site is down (or so badly written it's slower than a one-legged centipede in a tin of treacle), which is very useful. These are copies, of pages, of course. Are the US courts therefore going to close Google, A9, Yahoo, MSN Search etc?Wouldn't it be simpler if Perfect 10 just hired a Web designer smart enough to include arobots.txtfile, or am I missing something?
Once, when pressed for a decision on some issue, the movie mogul Sam Goldwyn famously said: 'I'll give you a definite maybe.' Last Monday, the US Supreme Court, pressed to decide on the question of peer-to-peer (P2P) file-sharing, said something fairly similar.This is not how it was initially reported, of course. The mainstream media saw it as an open and shut case. 'File-sharing suffers major defeat,' burbled BBC Online. 'The US Supreme Court has ruled that file-sharing companies are to blame for what users do with their software. The unanimous ruling is a victory for recording companies and film studios in what is widely seen as one of the most important copyright cases in years.' Grim-faced corporate lawyers popped up everywhere declaring war on 'pirates' and promising to prosecute anything that moved on the net. The grown-ups were back in charge, at last.On closer inspection, however, things become distinctly murky. The case had its origins in a legal action brought by movie and record companies against Grokster and StreamCast Networks, both makers of P2P software. Lower courts decided that the companies could not be held liable for what users did with their programs - even though this mainly involved the illicit sharing of copyrighted material. There was much harking back to the landmark 1984 Sony case, which held that the manufacturer of a video cassette recorder could not be held liable if a customer used it to make illicit copies of videotapes.The Supremes did not accept that this precedent was relevant to the Grokster case. Instead they concluded there was 'substantial evidence' the defendants had profited by promoting copyright infringement. The action now shifts back to a lower court, where the petitioners will doubtless press for substantial damages.The case kept a lot of people awake at night because there was an important principle at stake. If the Supremes decided that a software company could be held liable for what users did with its products, then this might have a chilling effect on innovation. Who would risk time and energy developing revolutionary software if there was a prospect that, one day, he might be sued by some giant corporation for uses over which he had no control?The good thing about Monday's ruling is that it stops short of such a draconian verdict. Instead it proposes a test: have the makers or proponents of a technology engaged in active inducement of users to employ it in illicit ways? If yes, then they are liable; if no, they are not. On that test, Grokster and StreamCast were deemed liable. But since their business models seem to have been built around inducing people to adopt their software in the full knowledge that most of the resulting use would be illicit, they presented a relatively straightforward case.So I expect Grokster and StreamCast to disappear under a hail of punitive damages, much as the original Napster collapsed under a hail of lawsuits. But that will make little impact on the problem that led MGM and Co to go to law in the first place. For one thing, the file-sharing genie is out of the bottle, as the extraordinary statistics produced by a Cambridge company, CacheLogic, have been showing for months. They reveal that file-sharing is currently the dominant generator of data traffic on the net, with volumes ranging between two and 10 times those of web traffic, depending on the time of day. These are staggering numbers, and no amount of legal posturing or threats is likely to reduce them: not even the record industry can afford to prosecute every teenager in the western world.Secondly, the disappearance of Grokster and StreamCast will simply drive file-sharers to look for more capable P2P programs, such as BitTorrent. And although I am sure that aggressive lawyers will have a go at it, BitTorrent seems to pass the 'active inducement' test set by the Supremes. As Professor Ed Felten of Princeton puts it, BitTorrent 'was originally created to support noninfringing sharing (of concert recordings, with permission). Its creator, Bram Cohen, seems interested only in noninfringing uses, and has said all the right things about infringement.BitTorrent is nicely engineered, offering novel benefits to infringing and non-infringing users alike. It is available for free, so there is no infringement-based business model. In short, BitTorrent looks like a clear example of the kind of dual-use technology that ought to pass the court's active inducement test.Thus we have a strangely paradoxical outcome. The movie studios and record companies have apparently won a famous legal victory in their war against file-sharing. But the main consequence of this victory will be to drive file-sharers to use P2P software that is not only much more powerful than anything Grokster and StreamCast could contrive, but also looks immune to legal challenges. If this is victory, can you imagine what defeat would be like?
The New York Times has a piece onpodcasting, dated July 3, following the hugely successful launch of Apple's support for the idea. This highlights the competition between existing paid-for offerings from companies such as Audible.com and free podcasts:Who will keep our ears well filled with portable entertainment while we move about? On the one ear are older media repackaged and sold in digital form, like music and audio versions of books and magazines. On the other are podcasts, the audio programming from the masses that has popped up in the past year, available free.There's the usual whinge about the stupidity of the name ("Podcast" is an ill-chosen portmanteau that manages to be a double misnomer) but it's catchy so we're probably stuck with it....
For the keen do-it-yourselfer with spare garage space, here are the instructions for awooden cooling systemthat works better than dead gibbons.
Things you might have missed include....FridayWarez groups raided in 11 countriesSony to try legal P2P with MashboxxGates considering Xbox clones?ThursdayNext-gen games hardware may be underpoweredSony could lose $100 on each PS3 selling at $399Wednesday"Ten Years of Chilled Innovation"Record firm slumps: technology not blamedTuesdayAMD files antitrust suit against InteliPods get colour, podcastsMondayGrok crockedLazier, stupider and evil(er) designersSundaySatellite of lovePC makers, distributors pass on Windows XP NClick on the date (eg Wednesday) for all the posts made on that day. The round-up for the previous week ishere.
Last week, Jobs &amp; Money highlighted the price of mobile phone calls while abroad. In Spain, it costs from 30p to &pound;1.50 per minute to receive a call from the UK. In the USA, charges range from 65p to &pound;1.20.But for anyone who makes extensive calls when abroad, the answer is to not add to the UK companies' profits at all but to exploit the often overlooked fact that most phones can take a foreign Sim card.Mobiles are often programmed to only take one company's Sim, but they may provide a code which unlocks the phone for longstanding customers. Failing that, most independent phone shops will do it - perfectly legally - for a few pounds. Foreign Sims can be picked up on the internet. A Spanish one was on eBay for &pound;14.99 last week, including a &euro;6 credit - and atwww.spainsim.com/sims.htm, they go for &euro;35.Once installed, the Sim enables you to receive calls for free and to ring the UK for between 30 and 50 cents a minute depending on the time of day, compared with 60p to &pound;1 for making such calls on UK Sims.The saving on calls within the country being visited are even bigger, being as cheap as 15 cents a minute on the Spanish card. There are commensurate savings for prodigious texters.In America, only triband phones (which most modern mobiles are) will work with either a UK or US Sim. T- mobile US Sims can be bought for around &pound;15. The only cost to receive calls is then the "airtime" charge (which American users pay for receiving all calls) of around 30 cents per minute.Calling the UK direct is just as expensive as on a British phone, but this can be avoided by using a cheaper service provider via a US landline.It is generally cheaper for the person calling you from the UK to do so to a foreign number, particularly an American one, than a UK mobile number.The disadvantage is that a substantial credit has to be bought to get the best rates, with some being wasted if the phone isn't used much. Only those who are given the new number will be able to get the traveller on it - but on holiday, cutting down calls may not be a bad thing.Sometimes better bargains can be had by purchasing Sim cards once you are in the country to which you're travelling. My wife and I bought two Australian cards for around &pound;20. Last summer, in France my Sim cost a rather hefty &euro;49.In Malaysia, however, I picked up a local card for less than &pound;3 and it was sufficient for six days' use. In most developing countries, locally purchased cards will reflect the comparatively low cost of living.
The Bush administration has decided to retain control over the principal computers which control internet traffic in a move likely to prompt global opposition, it was claimed yesterday.The US had pledged to turn control of the 13 computers known as root servers - which inform web browsers and email programs how to direct internet traffic - over to a private, international body.But on Thursday the US reversed its position, announcing that it will maintain control of the computers because of growing security threats and the increased reliance on the internet for global communications. A Japanese government official yesterday criticised the move, claiming it will lend momentum to the debate about who controls the information flow online."When the internet is being increasingly utilised for private use, by business and so forth, there is a societal debate about whether it's befitting to have one country maintaining checks on that ... It's likely to fuel that debate," said Masahiko Fujimoto, of the ministry of internal affairs and communications' data communications division.The computers serve as master directories that contain government-approved lists of the roughly 260 suffices used, such as .com or .co.uk. Anyone who uses the web interacts with them every day. But a policy decision by the US could, at a stroke, make all sites ending in a certain suffix unreachable.Despite many doomsday scenarios, the most recent US decision will have little if any immediate effect on internet users, and given the internet's anarchic nature it may simply represent a desire to assert state control even when it is not possible to do so.Claudia Bernett, 32, a digital design analyst in New York, said: "Scary as it seems, because of the nature of the internet, I think they'll be hardpressed to create a coherent system that is capable of the kind of monitoring they hope for ... Eventually, the people participating in the system will find the technological means to evade the watchful eye."Experts say that in the worst-case scenario, countries that refused to accept US control of the main computers could establish their own separate domain name system, with addresses in some places that others would not be able to reach, making the world wide web give way to discrete, regional web domains.Mr Fujimoto said that is also unlikely because of its complexity, but the US decision will raise serious concerns that will not be assuaged easily. The announcement comes just weeks before a UN panel is set to release a report on internet governance. Some nations want international oversight of the issue but historically the US has maintained the role because it was such a key player in the early years of the internet's development.
Entering the "Death Zone" at the top of an 8,000-metre mountain is one of the most arduous tests through which anyone can put themselves, with Everest killing one in five who manage to reach the top. So what do climbers need at altitudes normally populated by airliners and spacecraft on their way to or from orbit? The answer (as well as tents, a warm sleeping bag and a nice cuppa) is, apparently, games.A recent Everest expedition brought their Nintendo DS and Sony PSP with them on a trip to the roof of the world. In the spirit of furthering knowledge, the brave mountaineers reported on their blog that while the PSP quickly died, the DS worked right to the top, surviving Sherpa curry-spills, outlasting even their laptop.
