There was a hit primetime sitcom in the US in the 1980s calledGrowing Pains, a modern tale of the japes that orbited around two middle-class professionals and their coming-of-age brood. It wasn't anything particularly remarkable, but it was the first time I had been introduced to a new kind of work arrangement: liberated by technology while maintaining a professional career, "Dad" worked from home and connected with his office via telephone and a fax machine.Fast forward two decades and I, like "Dad", am also free from a formalised workplace. But my desktop is mobile: anywhere the web is, I can set up shop. Anywhere my smartphone is, I can receive and answer email. Anywhere my colleagues are, I can collaborate with them just as easily as I can with workmates sitting at the next desk.The web has freed people like me because our skills aren't placebound. The Industrial Revolution cemented us into centralised bureaus, but now the traditionally officebound can work from home because networked computers make it appear as if they are actually at their place of employment. What is lost in a distributed work model like this, though, is the crucial  informal workplace time that usually happens around the coffee machine or  the water cooler.  I once worked remotely for a company based in San Francisco from an office in Brighton. My direct collaborator and I had regular Skype conversations and we met the rest of the team once a week in a virtual workspace to catch up. But while I was forging ahead based on plans of action we'd established together, the objectives were naturally evolving because of interstitial conversations happening in hallways, canteens and coffee shops. Although it was possible to connect with me via web tools to let me know that things had changed, face to face was where a lot of the day-to-day work was done.Beyond communication issues, the web has had a huge effect on the scope of expectations when it comes to setting up shop. The potential of a global marketplace has transformed what is perceived as possible even before a name, a brand, a service or a product is dreamed up. Entrepreneurs who dabble in digital technologies naturally think beyond the UK's physical borders because they know that the platforms they're using can reach all the corners of the world.The placelessness of the web allows dreamers to dream by making some creators international sensations. It can also open avenues of opportunity for people who might previously have found them closed; when I asked readers to share their online work experiences I was deluged with stories about web moguls who are also stay-at-home-mums who set up shop on eBay, Amazon or Etsy. The barriers for working for yourself in this space are low: costs for starting up are minimal; products or services can be made to order, competitors and market rates can be easily researched, and work can fit into a busy life.Being part of the global economy – despite its current wobbles – is also an important step for the psychology of developing nations, and the web delivers foreign shop floors to our living rooms. Broadband infrastructures are now an essential part of the development landscape; those countries that lack fast connectivity are effectively invisible to the rest of the world, making them unlikely partners to work with. Such has been the incredible diffusion of this technology over the last two decades.But let's bring this back to Earth. For all the imaginings of e-entrepreneurs, the web has also raised an interesting problem for businesses whose remits are within a 30-mile radius of their offices. I recently had a conversation with a group of car dealers who wanted advice on how to use social media to sell more vehicles. They own bricks-and-mortar dealerships but are struggling with the direct competition they face from online outlets.In the old days, the dealers would pull punters into showrooms with promises of exclusive viewings of sexy new models of the latest vehicles and then sell what they had on their floors. Now, nothing's a surprise, everyone's scouting around online and nobody's going to showrooms to buy cars. One dealer made an interesting comment that illustrates how the relationship between the customer and the business owner has changed: "Thirty years ago, I'd have sat on the local chamber of commerce or held a place on committees, and have really been a visible part of the local culture," he said. The web has reminded the dealers that they need to engage with the local community to keep their services at the forefront of their customers' minds. And while local councils is one way, they also need to do it in the online spaces to which their consumers have migrated.It's ironic that this global network reminds us how important non-technological solutions are to good working practice. The web makes it possible for some to do their jobs without being bound to a physical place, but technology isn't going to replace face-to-face contact. In fact, it makes it more essential. How's that for a growing pain?If you would like to comment on this topic, add your thoughts below, emailaleks.krotoski.freelance@guardian.co.ukor catch me@alekskon Twitter.
It's business as usual forModern Warfare 3– though whether that's a criticism depends on expectations. Should sequels offer some form of innovation? Or are you one of the tens of millions of players champing at the bit for more of the same?The single-player campaign provides ammunition for both camps.&nbsp;Set in several major European cities (with the odd African detour) during the third world war, it is once again a five-hour series of linear,  over-the-top set pieces at the very limit&nbsp;of credibility.Even Hollywood couldn't afford this. Players pitch up to one bombed-out&nbsp;landmark after another, blowing up what isn't already destroyed before moving on in search of the villainous Vladimir Makarov. It's as ridiculous and exhilarating as ever, and pleasingly without the occasional  sudden leap in difficulty that blighted its predecessors.Of course, the campaign is but an appetiser to the hundreds of hours that await in the game's multiplayer.Modern Warfare 2's co-operative  spec-ops mode returns in expanded form, progress here unlocking weapons for use in the new survival mode, where up to four players team up to take on untold enemies.On the competitive side, developer Infinity Ward has learned from itsModern Warfare 2missteps and done much to prevent players holing up in safe havens and just waiting to take shots. There are fewer obvious hiding spots, and the division of the game's signature killstreaks into two categories – one for kills, one to help your team – means both teams have an unmanned aerial vehicle in the air more often than not and are therefore visible on each other's radars. This necessitates constant movement, the more enclosed maps making for a faster pace and a renewed emphasis on gunplay – though there are plenty of new toys to play with too.These tweaks are subtle enough to please hardcore fans looking for improvements but also significant enough to have a profound effect on how the action pans out for casual players. Essentially more of the same, then, but that's precisely what the developer set out to do – and exactly what all those fans wanted.
Battlefield 3, PC, PS3 &amp; XboxDropped into a dusty yet colourful version of realism, you choose between four classes of soldier before joining the war on foot or in one of the game's vehicles. Snagging yourself a fighter or helicopter gunship is initially far from a panacea, requiring careful attention just to stay aloft and a lot of practice to render it a useful asset. As an online game Battlefield 3 is magnificent and will be played for many months to come, which should help you forgive its ignominious single-player campaign.Electronic Arts, £32.99-£49.99The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, PC, PS3 &amp; XboxSkyrimFrom the makers of the open-ended post-apocalyptic role-playing series Fallout, comes Skyrim, bringing a measure of refinement and accessibility to its forebears' libertarian levels of freedom and technical flakiness. Skyrim's landscapes are crafted by designers rather than generated by algorithm and the result is stunning vistas with windblown tundra and dense tropical forests. With freedom to go anywhere and do anything, the sense of carving your own path is palpable, but never overwhelming, thanks to a beautifully designed map and quest system. Skyrim may sound like something that keeps lavatories fresh, but it still has an epic grandeur.Bethesda, £29.99-£54.99Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception, PS3Uncharted 3Nathan Drake, descendant of Sir Francis Drake, 21st-century Indiana Jones stand-in and likable chap, his equally disarming mentor Sully, their antagonists and the girls that pursue Nathan, are a charming and well-drawn set of characters. A beating at the hands of thugs in a London pub is the unlikely prelude to a perfectly paced rollercoaster ride of ancient ruins, secret passages and lost temples. As well as luscious locations there are extravagantly engineered puzzles and fights to be won, mixing exploration with gunplay and punch-ups. It's not difficult and there's little scope for creativity, but Uncharted sustains a wonderful and currently peerless sense of adventure.Sony, £38.89-£49.99Games newsModern Warfare 3As well as the triple-A giants reviewed here, also out this week areCall Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, the massive juggernaut of a shooter back for its annual pre-Christmas lurch to the top of the charts;Get Up And Dance, a party-inclined boogie 'em-up for Wii &amp; PlayStation 3;LA Noire: The Complete Edition, comprising the game and all its downloadable content; and Piggyback'sstrategy guideforUncharted 3, which provides a lavishly detailed companion to the game …Sony has released a refreshed look forPlayStation Home, its interactive social and gaming hub, which is now divided into districts for adventure, action, sports and indie games and comes with a free-to-play first-person shooter,Bootlegger '29…And Rockstar games announced the first tantalising details ofGrand Theft Auto V, which sees a return to San Andreas, the series's tongue-in-cheek stand-in for California.
The postman rings the bell. Just once. Not because there's a parcel, but because he wants to know if the car outside my house with one of its back windows open is mine. Oops.It's nearly midday, I parked up some time yesterday afternoon, so&nbsp;the car has been sitting there for at least 20 hours, on the street in an insalubrious part of north-west London, with the window wide open. Oh Lordy, what am I going to find – squatters, feral children, a&nbsp;family of foxes firmly in residence, with the upholstery ripped up to make a nice nest for the cubs? For sure, the kids who skateboard up and down the street will have got in,&nbsp;tagged it, attempted a hot-wiring, and either succeeded and taken it on a terrifying all-night joyride of crime, or failed and torched it in frustration. The phone call to the General Motors press office&nbsp;is&nbsp;going&nbsp;to be a difficult one...Oh, it's fine. Untouched. No one, not even a pigeon, has been in by the looks of the thing. Which either means that my neighbourhood has proper poshed up overnight, or that no one wanted to get in.I think the latter is more likely. Because the Chevrolet Cruze hatchback is possibly the dullest car in the world. It's an American car trying to be a European car, and it's about as successful asAnne Hathaway's Yorkshire accent in the film, One Day.Style-wise it's just unimaginative. It copies, rather than has any ideas of its own. No wonder the kids weren't interested, they wouldn't have wanted to be seen dead in it. It's a car for middle-aged people. Nothing wrong with that, but these are middle-aged people who aren't having – will never have – a crisis. It's grey. If this car was a former prime minister it would be John Major. Mine is actually grey, but even if it was yellow, it would still be grey.It's grey to drive to – heavy, flabby, underpowered. And responsive like a barge is responsive. Which makes it even more annoying that I got done by a speed camera – 56 in a 50. Yes, I'm ashamed of myself, I know it's wrong. But I could have at least been having some fun. Maybe I'll contest it, tell the court I was bored into it. That should work.So it must have something good about, maybe it's very economical to run, or not too harsh on the planet... CO2emissions are 153g/km! That's rubbish, bordering on a disgrace. There's nothing going for this car.And the squatters, the feral kids, the foxes all knew. To be honest, they probably didn't notice the window was down because they didn't notice the car at all. I could have left it there quite safely all winter, with the key in the ignition. But some one's taken it away now. Thankfully.GM Chevrolet Cruze hatchbackPrice£14,895Top speed118mphAcceleration0-62 in 12 secondsFuel consumption42.8mpgEmissions153g/kmGreen rating3/10Cool rating0/10• This article was amended on 14 November 2011. The car was incorrectly described as the Toyota Chevrolet Cruze hatchback in the original headlines and picture caption.
Acer's founder has given a sharp warning to Google's chairman Eric Schmidt that the benefits from Android's success need to be shared throughout the "value chain" of its suppliers, after complaining that Microsoft and Intel have gathered too much of the profit from the success of Windows.There are also question marks over the future of Google's "Chromebooks" - laptops which run its limited ChromeOS operating system, essentially providing access to Google Apps through the Chrome browser – due to limited sales.But Schmidt, who is on a tour of the Far East, insisted that "resources will be shared" among the members of the Android ecosystem – though he declined to say whether Google would launch own-branded handsets using its acquisition of Motorola, which is due to complete early in the year.The remarks fromShihandSchmidtappeared in Digitimes, the Taiwanese online business paper which follows the workings of the Far Eastern system builders.Shih's remarks indicate that companies making Android systems are wary of being cornered in the way that businesses making Windows hardware have been, where operating margins on commodity PC hardware can be less than 5% while Microsoft and Intel enjoy monopoly profits on the software and processor.Digitimes says thatShih noted that an enterprise's operating strategy should focus on allowing all its partners to enjoy profits and reach a balance, but some US enterprises value too much their own interests, ignoring the profitability of their upstream suppliers, channel retail partners and consumers, causing their operations to be unable to last long.The warning to Schmidt - that Acer might opt out of the Google's ecosystems if it feels that the rewards are not sufficient or if Google favours one company over another - may seem trivial, given that Acer is not a major player in the Android smartphone market, and has made little impact in the Android tablet market.But Shih is almost certainly reflecting the sentiments of a number of Android systems builders who have so far failed to benefit from Google's efforts outside the smartphone business, where Google faces an uphill struggle to persuade system builders to back it.Digitimesreportsthat Schmidt's attempts to persuade them to build "Chromebooks' using Google's Chrome OS have fallen flat:due to demand for Chrome OS-based devices (Chromebooks) being lower than expected, PC players are taking a passive attitude toward opening projects. In June 2011, Acer and Samsung launched their Chromebooks ahead of other PC brand vendors, but by the end of July, Acer had reportedly only sold 5,000 units and Samsung was said to have had even lower sales than Acer, according to sources from the PC industry. However, Acer has declined to comment.Google has not provided any figures for sales of "Chromebooks"; Larry Page, the chief executive,made only a passing mentionto them in his rundown of Google's third quarter results discussion:Finally, Chromebooks have been available for purchase since mid-June, and we're beginning to see lots of interest and good uptake, both from the businesses and educational institutions.It is not clear whether theslow sales of computers generally in the US and western Europehave put large organisations off acquiring Chromebooks, or whether the fact that the machines require connection to the internet to function effectively - because they use a minimal OS and do everything else through the browser - has put organisations off deploying them in favour of full-function laptops as well as tablets such as Apple's iPad, which has sold tens of millions of devices.But the tensions between Google, Motorola and the Far Eastern system builders on whom Google relies have been made clear by Shih's words.
Twitterrolled out a new feature this past week which allows users to see the minutiae of activity that revolves around you and the people you follow. On top of the existing feature that keeps track of every time you've been mentioned by others, it now will keep you up to date on what tweets your friends are favoriting and who they're following. Sounds a lot like Facebook, where these bits of information are broadcasted on your Facebook Wall. Difference here is, Facebook will let you mute the people who are a little "too active" but in the case of Twitter, no such filter is available yet.In my case, I don't really care about this kind of information. Sure it might be slightly interesting from a voyeuristic standpoint, and for some journalists, it can be a double edged sword. This week for example, on your profile page you might have seen which former News of the World journalist a media editor had begun following the day before James Murdoch's testimony to the UK parliament and simultaneously note which member of your erudite timeline had favourited a tweet linking to an article about the causes of overeating and how to stop them.In one sense it's more digital footprint available for vetting and gathering information about sources, yet in the same way, it can make it easier for you to broadcast who your sources are based on your own activity. What I would have much rather seen Twitter do is harness the vast amount of information they have about what's going on anywhere right now through Twitter Lists. If you don't know what a Twitter List is, you're not alone.A Read Write Web articlepointed out recently that the feature is sorely underutilized, not only by most mainstream consumers of Twitter, but by Twitter itself. You might be shocked to hear that Twitter's own employees are not necessarily their biggest power users. Power users being outliers, and not representative of most users of Twitter, are possibly not worth building a product around. However, there is one great value in these type of users: they're the main producers of the most valuable content on Twitter.Power users create and maintain high value Twitter Lists, then manicure them and take great care in ensuring they're up to date. A Twitter List is simply a list of users on Twitter that mainly stick to one topic and are often either subject matter experts or in the case of say, the uprising in Egypt or Libya, sources directly on the ground providing updates about what's happening at any given time. Companies such asStoryfulhave built an entire business on the proper maintenance of these Lists. Instead of providing us with yet another self-referential stream of information, why not provide a window into any subject available through these well curated Lists?Imagine having a direct news wire plugged into any given country or a stream of breaking tech or political news? Track a fast moving story with finely focused first hand reports. Twitter would finally have a way to show the power of Lists to a wider audience and the bigger audience would allow us to see which Lists are trending, possibly making it easier to tap into a stream as it begins to gain greater relevance. It also serves as an educational tool, for those who don't "get" Twitter to see what kind of actionable, high value information actually exists on the network.Now that's the kind of activity I could get excited about.
A while ago, Gamesblog reader and Chatterbox regular Goody emailed to ask if he could write up a guide to PES 2012 for us. It seems that, in an era of Fifa dominance, PES is still the football sim of choice for many of our readers and it seemed like a good idea to let Goodson pass on his wisdom. So here it is."Master League Online mode can be one of the most daunting yet rewarding online experiences you will have," he claims. "There is nothing quite like building a world-beating squad from scratch. But to the uninitiated or to late-adopters, starting up and playing against a team full of Rooneys and Ronaldos can be extremely intimidating."So whether your're inspired by the free-flowing football of the 1974 Holland team, or the multi-million pound galacticos of Man City, this little guide will help virtually anyone enjoy one of the most satisfying modes available – even if your chosen side currently has about as much quality in depth as the 2010 Stockport County squad..."Be patient.The first thing that jumps out of you when you start is how unimpressive your squad is. You will find that virtually no one has the ability to pass straight or run for more than 10 yards without getting out of breath. It may be like watching Wrexham on a Saturday afternoon, but even these teams have the potential for moments of glory. Ask Mickey Thomas. As tempting as it is to wield your chairman's axe, you will need your squad. A great team takes time.Understand fatigue.In MLO, players will accumulate fatigue. This is the little bar underneath your form arrow and energy gauge. Fatigue will build up after each game, and subsequently, your energy bar will fall. Once that energy bar is gone in a game, your players will not be able to sprint. And, yes, they may not be able to sprint very fast at the best of times, but that is better than nothing, especially when you are fighting for every ball in your first games. So rotate your squad, and keep those bars down. There is no benefit to an expensive yet tired squad over a larger average one.Keep your side's Ettori.You may want to sell off a couple of pieces of dead wood and trim the fat (you don'thaveto mix your metaphors in football management, but it helps), however Ettori is the one player who can actually compete in your team. He can pass, score and is good under pressure. Other players also have their qualities and get to know them. Cotsload is a relatively pacey centreback, Jaric is also solid and can take free-kicks, whilst Maqualao can hit the target from distance. Ruskin and El Moubarki are bog standard full backs, but good enough not to sell.Renew Contracts only if necessary.When you first start, all your players will have different length contracts (in games) remaining. You may want to sell them off, but you need to maintain good squad depth. However, renewing a default players contract is so expensive you'd think he's got Kia Joorabchian negotiating. It is often cheaper to wait till contracts run out and then sell, buying a new, better player as a replacement. Often their contract will be a third less. It's a relative no-brainer.Understand form and watch the markets.When you buy a player, their form will vary (the coloured arrow). A player on form will run faster for longer, and demand a larger price. This is because people want players in form so will pay more. However, form goes up as well as down, so make sure you buy low, and sell high. Depending on how often you play, you can buy a Heskey, then wait a few days to a week to see him turn in to Drogba (diving and theatrics optional). In theory, it is possible to accrue a great team by just buying at the right time. The regular players may buy on a green arrow knowing that he'll come good in a few days. The less regular may buy the players on grey form, and come back a week to see him ready and waiting.Be frugal and listen to the community.The masses decide who is worth buying. In the community you are able to search who is increasing in value or who is owned by the most players. You will come up against these players time and time again because they have something to offer. Aim to develop your team, start with the 70 rated players, progressing up to 75 and higher. If you see a player you like but their form is decreasing, add them to your favourites and come back in a few days. Take time to scale the market. The biggest name isn't necessarily the best.Low divisions are your friend.Your first week is the hardest. You won't be put in any division, so you'll come up against teams better than you. Even the best players will lose. Regularly. It may pay just to play a few games, wait for the leagues to be announced each Tuesday, be stuck in division and change your settings so you 'play people of the same ability'. It's the most effective way of avoiding the 'worst' type of player.Competitions pay but be careful.The great thing about competitions is that they are all based on ability. So you will always be playing people similar to yourself. They can also make you more money at a faster rate. You do have to dedicate an hour of your time to plough through five minute matches (about five or six usually), but your progress is the best sequence of three games, so you've got time to overcome a loss. The most important thing to remember though, is that your contracts can run out during the event, and renewing them means wasting time coming out of the competition. You don't want to get to that must-win game only to realise your star striker won't come on because his contract hasn't been renewed.Practice makes perfect.The bread and butter. Complete the training challenges to help you learn how to defend. You will need it – it will be the one thing you will be doing in your first dozen games more than you think. Until you are able to buy a few players to compete, it's the one thing that can nulify a better player and be extremely satisfying. Keep your formation tight, change your team style to 'technique' to improve those touches, reduce your slider settings to stop players swapping positions (reducing fatigue) and be as ambitious as Sam Allardyce at the Emirates. Park that Bus.Be patient.We've already mentioned it, but it's more important than you think. Unless you're a wealthy businessman willing to invest £600m to buy Konami, forcing through your own team of world beaters, whilst dismissing the long, hard yet rewarding slog of slowly establishing success, history and respect, then PES MLO can be a frustrating place. You will come across people willing to exploit the need for pace (Shaun Wright-Philips at Defensive Midfield anyone?), and spam the same attack again and again. But slowly, it can start to click.After a dozen games or so, it will all come together. You'll begin to anticipate and predict each player's form, punching above your weight as players peak at the same time. Soon, you'll come in to a match seeing you're up against a new inexperienced player, confident your frontline of Heskey and Bendtner will rip him apart.
Over Christmas, I have a 13-year-old grandson visiting from New Zealand. I would like to get him a laptop that he could use for schoolwork, but his great love is computer games. Any suggestions around the £500 mark?John AbbottWhen it comes to laptops, "cheap" and "gaming" don't go together well. People who are serious about PC gaming usually go for desktop computers that have fast (and hot) processors plus even faster (and even hotter) graphics cards.There are a few laptops designed for gaming but they tend to be big, heavy and expensive. A decent budget would be £1,000 to £1,500, and you can easily spend £2,000. You probably have to compromise at £700 to £750, with Dell'sAlienware MX11x r3being the obvious choice, and that's with an 11.6in screen. It can be a real struggle to get something good for £500 or less.Still, any PC that can handle games such as Crytek's Crysis – which is very demanding because of its real-time lighting and shadows – or Battlefield 3 will easily handle the sort of programs commonly used for schoolwork.Fortunately, there's another way to look at the problem. Almost any mainstream, multimedia laptop can play games at some level. It won't play demanding games with the greatest level of detail and a high (and therefore very smooth) frame rate such as 60 frames per second. Choosing medium or low settings for some functions (object detail, lighting etc) should provide an enjoyable gaming experience with a frame rate of 25-30fps.The basic specification for an affordable games PC is straightforward. Look for something with a second-generation Intel Core i5 (Sandy Bridge) processor, 4GB of memory, dedicated graphics, and 64-bit Windows 7 Home Premium. Multimedia laptops usually include a DVD drive. The size of the hard drive doesn't matter, but fast (7,200rpm) is better than slow (5,400rpm).The Intel Core i3 processor is cheaper that the Core i5 but it's slower and lacks the TurboBoost feature. However, it's an acceptable compromise. It's not worth spending more on a Core i7.Intel's Sandy Bridge chips include integrated HD Graphics: a dramatic improvement on Intel's earlier Graphics Media Accelerator (GMA) system, but aimed more at decoding movies than running 3D games. A gaming laptop really needs a dedicated graphics system, preferably one compatible with Microsoft's DirectX 11.Try to get something affordably mid-range such as an Nvidia GeForce GT 540M or 525M, AMD Radeon HD 6630M or ATI Mobility Radeon HD 5650. There are slower options such as the GeForce GT 520MX and GT 520M, which are presumably better than nothing. There are faster options, such as the ATI Mobility Radeon HD 5870 and Nvidia GeForce GTX 460M, but I'd expect those to be out of your price range.The Notebookcheck website has a convenient list ofLaptop Video Graphics Cardsranked by performance. When you come across a laptop graphics card, search this page to see how good it is.Find out which particular PC games your grandson plays, because Notebookcheck has a very useful page:Computer Games on Laptop Graphic Cards. This tells you which graphics cards can run which popular games at various levels of definition. The list includes World of Warcraft,Fifa 12,The Sims 3, StarCraft 2,Call of Duty: Black Ops, Shogun 2,Battlefield 3and so on – most of the "modern classics".It's hard to recommend specific laptops because, lacking the opportunity to try them with different games, I don't know the best trade-offs. Also, a laptop I've ignored could become the best choice if it's offered at a good discount. However, I'll point to a few examples and trust readers with more gaming experience to suggest alternatives.The Lenovo G560, which has a 15.6-in screen, looks a good entry-level choice because it has AMD Radeon HD 6630M graphics, good screen resolution (1600 x 900 pixels) and a better-than-average keyboard. The compromise is that it only has a 2.53GHz Intel Core i3-380M processor, but it looks good value atAmazon.co.uk's price, £429.99.The G560 is probably a better bet than the Dell Inspiron 15R (aka N5110 FCG61), which has a 2.20GHz Core i3-2330 and Nvidia GeForce GT 525M graphics for £488.98 (including delivery) on Dell UK's website. The 1366 x 768 pixel screen resolution is lower than the Lenovo's, but gaming at the lower resolution requires less processing power. The Inspiron design is not very inspiring, and while Dell's XPS range is much more attractive, it's also more expensive.The Medion Akoya P6627 has the advantage of including a 2.67GHz Core i5-480M processor and Nvidia GeForce GT 420M graphics, but again, the screen resolution is 1366 x 768 pixels. The Medion comes in under budget atAmazon.co.uk's price, £485.95, but only because it has been reduced from £705.95. (I've not seen one of these machines.)You will obviously have more choices if you increase your budget. For example, you could get your grandson anAsus N53SV-SX858Vwith a 2.40GHz Core i5-2430M processor, Nvidia GeForce GT 540M graphics with 2GB of video memory, and a Full HD screen resolution of 1920 x 1080 pixels for £615 plus delivery.Bear in mind that, if you're buying a high-spec laptop at this sort of price, you're paying for the chips. You can't really expect light weight, long battery life or designer-styled metallic construction as well. This is not the kind of machine to pack in a school bag and chuck around.However, before you actually buy your grandson a laptop, youmustfind out from what kinds of games he plays, and whether he wants to play them on a laptop rather than on a Microsoft Xbox 360 or Sony PlayStation 3. If he's a "casual gamer" or plays online games, there's no point in spending money on a laptop fast enough to run the PC titles listed at Notebookcheck.There are plenty of good laptops for less than £500, and for schoolwork, he might well prefer a smaller, more portable laptop with a 13.3in or 14in screen to the usual 15.6in models. Finally, an Apple iPad is great for casual gaming, makes a very attractive gift, and is also within your budget.Help wanted!Coming up to Christmas, I've received a few queries about computers for younger children, aged 2.5 to 7. I'd usually suggest a Sony PSP or Nintendo DS Lite for pre-teen users, though I gave my own son a Psion Series 3a. A touchscreen tablet is now the obvious answer, if you can afford one. AreV-Tech'smore affordable "electronic learning toys" good starter systems, and how old do you have to be to benefit from a netbook or laptop? If you have children in this sort of age range, please let me know what you think by emailingAsk.Jack@guardian.co.uk.
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 has set a new record for the biggest ever entertainment launch. The game's publisher, Activision Blizzard, has claimed that in the US and UK alone, the military shooter sold over 6.5m units within 24 hours of its launch on Tuesday, raising $400m in sales revenues.The figures are based on data from Charttrack as well as customer sell-through information.It is a third consecutive sales record for the Call of Duty series. 2009's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 sold 4.7m copies in 24 hours earning $310m in revenue, while last year's Call of Duty: Black Op hit 5.6m copies in its first day."We believe the launch of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 is the biggest entertainment launch of all time in any medium, and we achieved this record with sales from only two territories," said Activision Blizzard chief executive Bobby Kotick."Other than Call of Duty, there has never been another entertainment franchise that has set opening day records three years in a row. Life-to-date sales for the Call of Duty franchise exceed worldwide theatrical box office for Star Wars and Lord of the Rings, two of the most successful entertainment franchises of all time."By contrast, the highest grossing movie of the year so far, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, made $80m in one day on the global box office – a record figure for the film industry.Activision claims that 13,000 stores worldwide opened at midnight on Monday to allow queues of gamers to buy the title. Reportedly, Modern Warfare 3 has also set a record for the largest numbers of concurrent players on Xbox Live, the console's multiplayer gaming service."Call of Duty is more than a game. It's become a major part of the pop cultural landscape," claimed Activision Publishing chief executive Eric Hirshberg. "It is a game that core enthusiasts love, but that also consistently draws new people into the medium."
From inauspicious beginnings, We Sing has developed into a series of predictably dependable, sensibly priced karaoke-based games. Having pushed the envelope considerably between versions one and two, the series has stuck to its formula since.While a little innovation can be welcome, too many games have made the mistake of tweaking for tweaking's sake. That's not a criticism you can make of We Sing Rock. Nordic Games has stuck rigidly to the "if it ain't broke" principle for this release and the result is, yes, dependable and sensibly priced.There are a couple of gripes, however. One of these – the apparent lack of volume on replay mode – could be a system showing mercy and trying to save me from my late night efforts on Eye Of The Tiger, my inability to find the right mic volume setting or a symptom of the slightly buggy unfinished review copy.It's not a major complaint though. Even if you're straining to hear the vocals, the various effects you can add (Cathedral, Weird, Robot) are a nice touch and the neighbours no doubt appreciated only hearing Eye Of The Tiger "properly" the once.The other gripe is: a) slightly bigger; and b) somewhat inevitable. What's with this track listing? While we appreciate the need to crowd-please on such packages, We Sing Rock suggests a Tulisa-like grasp of the genre.Eye Of The Tiger is certainly allowed, ditto a little Alice Cooper (Poison), Def Leppard (Pour Some Sugar On Me), Whitesnake (Here I Go Again) and – oh yes - Motorhead's Ace of Spades. The latter is virtually impossible to sing as karaoke but its rock chops are undeniable.We'll happily agree to Limp Bizkit, The Darkness (now there's a song in the key of impossible) and even Wheatus and Teenage Dirtbag, if only as an opportunity to recycle helium balloons this Christmas.We'll even concede on the choice of More Than Words for Extreme's inclusion here, likewise The Scorpions Wind of Change. But, er, KT Tunstall? Elvis Presley's Suspicious Minds? Sheryl Crow? Coldplay?However tenuous the "rock" connection may be in places, the overall package here is still solid. The original videos feature where possible and all the expected features – multiple game modes, random facts, singing lessons, awards, statistics, etc – are present and correct.  There are a lot worse ways of spending £30 on the Wii.• Game reviewed on Wii
Raving Rabbids Alive &amp; Kicking ...Xbox360 Kinect; £39.99; cert 7+; UbisoftIn a very tired story, the Rabbids – who have been living underground for some time – have managed through a series of experiments to reproduce using a cow and are now spilling out and invading the human world. (Note: cows haven't been funny in computer games since Earthworm Jim). But the story's not really that important as it only serves to set a backdrop for a simple sack of mini-games that kindly hasn't been tarted up in any other way. Taking advantage of the Kinect's unique ability to turn players into flailing weirdos, you and up to three other people assume the roles of various citizens trying to defend their homes against the annoying horde. There are three types of mini-games to choose from: mildly entertaining, tiresome and laborious. Unfortunately, the quick-play menu fails to categorise them at all and the "random" option only seems to select games that are a complete chore to play. Games can be as short as 10 seconds and it can be an incredibly slow process before you will be playing again as scores are tallied, ridiculous photos displayed and rewards handed out. There are a few nice touches: having a virtual Rabbid wander about your living room is fun for a few minutes as you physically abuse it and the photographs taken in game are occasionally amusing, but with no voice control and no option to cherry pick your favourite games, Alive &amp; Kicking shouldn't draw too much attention from this week's big releases.Sam O'NeillNBA 2K12 ...PS3/PC/Wii/Xbox 360; £39.99; cert 3+; 2K SportsWith a stand-off between players and team owners threatening to wipe away the entire 2011 season, games such as NBA 2K12 might be as close as fans get to seeing any action in the league this year. Thankfully, the presentation of this title is so slick that if you were squinting you might not be able to tell the difference between the two. From a pre-game montage set to music through to – when you are playing out a full season – half-time adverts for upcoming fixtures, great efforts have gone into replicating the real thing. Dip in to the "NBA's Greatest" section of the game – which allows you to recreate classic games from the past – and you will find that the colour palate has been faded, or even switched to black-and-white, to reflect how the game would have looked on TV at the time. That section has been greatly expanded from the previous edition of this series, and along with improvements to the career mode will provide longevity – but most crucially for any sports game the action itself is also a delight. Players move and react in convincing fashion and proper tactics are required against an AI opposition which will quickly wise up to repeated use of the same strategy. The shooting mechanism can be unforgiving and it will take new players some time to master the nuances of the controls, but that, in the end, is what will make the victories satisfying.Paolo BandiniGod of War Collection: Volume 2 ...PS3; £34.99; cert 18+; SonyGod of War Collection: Volume 2 is a stylish PS3 port of two PSP games – Chains of Olympus and Ghost of Sparta. Both games are relatively short compared to most PS3 titles, and at times the combat can feel a little repetitive thanks to the limited sets of moves available. But the games play with the panache you expect from a God of War title: the frame rate is solid, Kratos is as bloodthirsty and responsive as ever, and the art direction remains beautiful despite the limitations of the original form. A must for die-hard fans, a fun diversion for most players, and a nice introduction to the series for those looking to get started.Mary HamiltonRise of Nightmares ...Xbox 360 Kinect; £29.99; cert 18+; SegaRise of Nightmares ranks as something of a departure for the Kinect, the Xbox 360's full body motion control answer to the Nintendo Wii. Up until now most of the games have been cheery, if slight, family and party friendly affairs – the kind that you could imagine being played by impossibly attractive families in television adverts. This, an 18-certificate gorefest, is the kind of "mature" release for the device is going to need to prevent it from gathering dust at the back of the cupboard of forgotten dreams. You play Josh, a feckless American youth with a drink problem, who is on what feels like a last-ditch holiday with his wife in an attempt to salvage their relationship. Their choice of trip – a creepy train ride across Transylvania – is an unfortunate one, and things take a turn for the worse when Kate is kidnapped by a murderous maniac and your train crashes into a fast-flowing river. What follows is a House Of The Dead style first-person kill-them-up, which displays a good understanding of horror movie atmospherics and a wilfully bonkers plot, which only gets less explicable as things unfold. It does, of course, have one USP – that, due to the Kinect, you get to administer the blows and wave the assorted weaponry into the skulls of ghouls and zombies with your own bare hands. Sadly, what should be the game's main attraction becomes its major downfall. For the most part, the motion controls feel like a hindrance. To move forward, you place one foot in front of the other – to turn, you twist your shoulders left or right. Navigation feels clunky and never natural, but you can skip forward automatically to the next plot or action point by holding up your arm. Unfortunately you still need, sometimes, to move about (or, ahem, run away) while battling foes, and in these crucial moments the control system can sometimes lack the articulacy required. And in these kind of games, it's vital to feel that death is your own fault. Sega has to be applauded for its attempt to move the Kinect away from casual gaming. However, this effort falls down in its execution – in both senses of the word.James WalshPhineas and Ferb Across the Second Dimension ...PS3/DS/Wii; £29.99; cert 7+; Disney InteractiveAn unexpectedly charming platformer, Across the Second Dimension manages to be fun and enjoyable despite being based on a made-for-TV movie based on the cartoon show Phineas and Ferb. Whimsical without being irritating, the game takes the precocious inventor brothers across a series of bizarre worlds, where you'll swim through gelatin, dodge balloon-popping hedgehogs, slide down rainbows and fly jetpacks into combat with robots. Bitesize levels mean no elements get boring, the gameplay is slick and very enjoyable, and the six weapons are all unique, interesting and fun to play with. My only complaint is that the game is not quite challenging enough, even for younger players.Mary Hamilton
No pressure, then. This year is the 25th anniversary of the Zelda games; the Wii, we now know, is about to be superseded by the Wii U, so it needs a massive, must-buy game for it last big Christmas in the shops; and it has been five years since the last Zelda game on a console, Twilight Princess.Factor in the general opinion that several of the Zelda games are many people's choice for best game ever, and it becomes even clearer that The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword had to be near-perfect.And that, of course, is exactly what it is. This time around, we catch up with a teenage Link, living in Skyloft, a town on an island floating in the sky above an unnamed land which may or may not be Hyrule. He's at the academy training to be a knight, and begins with a rite-of-passage flying race, on the giant birds that all of Skyloft's inhabitants have for transport.For once, he gets some quality time with Zelda herself, but before long, she has become the victim of a malevolent force and spirited to the surface of the planet. Link, naturally, turns out to be the chosen one as far as releasing the shackles from the land below (known only as the Surface) and, after acquiring an Excalibur-like sword and opening a hole in the clouds below Skyloft, he sets off for some classic adventuring, accompanied by a spirit called Fi.And classic is the operative word. Skyward Sword is the first Zelda game designed from the start for the Wii's unique abilities and, as Link's sword has always been his mainstay, he's now able to wield it with precision: its movements mimic any motion you apply to the Wiimote.So, the early bosses require you to show an appreciation of swordsmanship and a delicacy of movement, which is refreshing. But before you get to those, you acquire some other handy weaponry, most notably a slingshot and a flying beetle that is reminiscent of Batman's remote-controlled Batarang, only much easier to control. The latter is great, fulfilling many functions including hitting switches and snipping wires to send giant spiders or crates crashing to the ground.As you would expect from a Zelda game, there's plenty of platform-style action, and a glorious set of puzzles which are all wildly inventive. You might have to shake objects out of trees using Link's run-and-roll attack, or swing from rope to rope by waving the Wiimote. Link can also use his sword to dowse, giving him an indication of where he needs to go to catch up with Zelda.Despite the typically enchanting nature of the game, its difficulty level can be quite high at times. There are plenty of sub-quests to perform, and periodically, Link has to return to Skyloft, to help people out and restock potions, ammo and shields (which disintegrate annoyingly quickly).Graphically, Skyward Sword adopts a more cartoony style than Twilight Princess – somewhere roughly equidistant between that game and the Wind Waker. Which seems pretty judicious, although it will spark debate among the Zelda-heads.The game does rather highlight the Wii's graphical limitations. But what it lacks in visual crispness, it more than makes up for in terms of immersiveness (when wielding the Wiimote as a sword, you really feel like you are Link), its storyline and its astonishing meatiness – how Nintendo managed to fit it on one CD isn't far short of miraculous.As with all the best Zelda games, the world in which it is set is endlessly enchanting – indeed, a far nicer place to be than the one in which we live, even though darker edges often manifest themselves.Countless Zelda tropes are in evidence – you can, for example, harvest pumpkins in a quest for rupees, or hunt bugs with a net. But perhaps the most striking thing about Skyward Sword is the perfect way in which it ebbs and flows, following intense periods with restful ones, leaving you feeling as though you've been on a journey. You can really feel the quarter-century of game-design experience that underpins it.If you own a Wii, do we even need to advise you to buy it? Whether or not it's the best ever Zelda game is open to debate, but it's certainly up there. However, nobody could argue that it's anything less than a masterclass in the art of crafting video games.• Game reviewed on Wii
Last week, London based indie developerCurve Studiosdid something a lot of games companies have been toying with recently – it gave its new game away for free. The brilliantly titledStealth Bastardis a downloadable 2D platformer for the PC, filled with traps and enemies but also a light/dark mechanic that requires the player to creep through shadows to avoid being detected. The team has referred to its project as Super Meat Boy meets Metal Gear Solid and the sub-title of 'Tactical espionage arsehole' really drums that analogy home. It's funny, it's immensely challenging and, yes, it's free.But unlike a whole host of other social and casual gaming experiences these days, it really actually IS free. It's not freemium, it's not 'free-to-play'; you won't be asked to buy bigger, better shadows to hide behind or new outfits for the hero. It's just… free. Unsurprisingly, considering this sales model, together with the game's title and engaging concept, Stealth Bastard has done rather well, attracting almost 25,000 users within its first week on sale. So far, those early adopters have racked up over eight years of continuous play. ("They've also died 757,864 times, which makes us cackle," says producer, Ed Fear)So why would a professional studio put out such a gem for nothing? Curve already has two well-regarded titles out there, Wiiware puzzler Fluidity and action platformer Explodemon; what's the deal with giving stuff away? "Well, it's done wonders in getting our name out there," says managing director, Jason Perkins. "We'd already ramped up our 'presence' in the industry with Hydroventure/Fluidity – which Nintendo published last year, and did amazingly well critically – and with Explodemon, but Stealth Bastard has got our name out within the indie PC gamer audience, which is a group of people that traditionally haven't known about us. This helps us promote whatever we do in future, but also, our current projects aren't going to be released until late next year so this is a great way of keeping us in the spotlight."The way that the game came about may also have helped with the decision. Designer Jonathan Biddle built it in his spare time over the course of 18 months, using the highly intuitive development package, Game Maker. "I've been using it for nearly seven years and really enjoy it," he says. "It's very quick and flexible, and it's surprising what it's actually capable of. I think in some circles there's the perception of it only being used by kids to make silly platform games, but there are some brilliant game makers out there, such as Cactus and Derek Yu, who have proven that it is able to do much more than that."I made a fully-featured prototype for our self-published title, Explodemon! in Game Maker, but that was never released. This is really the same situation, but we decided that this prototype was polished enough to be in players' hands, and would benefit from it too."Of course, now that the prototype of Stealth Bastard is out there doing extremely well, there must be a way to make some money from it? Apparently, members of the PC gaming community have been emailing Curve, offering to donate cash to its continued development. The model, then, is closest to the indie way of doing things – prototype, iterate and release."We definitely know there is a lot more we would like to do with the game in the future," says Perkins. "We're interested in talking to publishing partners about where we could go with this, and indeed some discussions have already taken place. After Explodemon, we've come to realise that our strength doesn't lie in publishing games ourselves and everything that comes with that – we want to create original games, create IP, and then work with others to help make those a success. That's how we do business."It's an encouraging idea; build a good product and they will come. Increasingly, digital game development is about courting a fanbase rather than spending cash on marketing and PR, or looking to make a quick buck on new projects. As Perkins says, "Fostering a community, getting people engaged and excited – that has far more value to us right now than making $5 on each download – especially as the numbers would have been much smaller with that barrier in place. We need to prove that this is as brilliant as we think it is, and the 24,000 people who have already registered to play are doing a brilliant job of proving us right…"Game designer Jonathan Biddle on the birth of Stealth Bastard"I'd been playing around with some shadow technology inGame Maker, and I wanted to make a full-sized 'Metroidvania' featuring a Flashback-like spy character. He'd be able to duck behind cover, nip out and shoot, but also use stealth to infiltrate his objective; hiding in shadows and taking people out unseen like Solid Snake. When I decided that was a fine long-term goal, I knew it would take a very long time to make, so took a step back and tried to do it a step at a time, just so I could actually get something finished. My new goal was to make a very simple game where the object was just not the be seen. The high concept was 'extreme stealth'."I was interested in removing a lot of the peripheral mechanics of stealth and focusing it down to 'don't be seen or you will get killed'. Having made a stealth game before – Stolen on PS2 – I was fully aware of how complicated the systems have to be in order to support multiple options for the player after they are discovered. The goal for the player at that point is always to get back to the hidden, stealthy state, and AI behaviours and supporting systems require lots of design and iteration to get right. I think that part of a stealth game is basically a lot less enjoyable. In Metal Gear Solid, for example, it's great fun sneaking around and feeling constantly in control, but once you're spotted, everything goes to hell, and it's very difficult to regain that feeling of control."In Stealth Bastard, my goal was to not have that 'post-spotted' state by instantly killing the player whenever they were seen. I was also influenced by Super Meat Boy, in that its controls demanded precision in the same way that my binary take on stealth did, but the levels were short enough not to frustrate the player when they died. Literally merging the structure of Meat Boy with a simplified pre-discovery stealth game such as Metal Gear resulted in Stealth Bastard you see today."
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMilitary use gives Dell's tablets new life as PC market share slips &gt;&gt; Seeking AlphaDell's hoping to get the US military market with its 5in tablet. Interesting graphs which you can edit yourself. (Knock yourself out.) Apologies - we forgot who provided the link.How does Sony make money? &gt;&gt; SplatF"Sony's consumer electronics business -- led by TVs, videogames, and computers -- still generates about half of the company's sales. "But Sony's profits these days come from what may seem like an unexpected source: Its financial services business, which includes life insurance, non-life insurance, and banking. (At least before the rest of Sony wipes those profits out -- overall, the company expects to lose more than $1 billion this fiscal year.)" Lots of companies make their money from the financial divisions which lease expensive professional equipment. (Think: IBM mainframes.) Of course, their costs are comparatively low, especially with interest rates so low just now.Over-the-air Updating of iOS 5 &gt;&gt; Fraser Speirs"Tonight the iOS 5.0.1 update arrived, which means a chance to test the new over-the-air update system introduced in iOS 5. Over-the-air updates are one of the most important sanity-saving features of iOS 5 for people managing large installs of iOS devices. Instead of having to connect to iTunes, download a 700MB+ restore image and connect your iPads one by one, you can install the update directly on the device. "Here are some observations on the process." Which is mostly good. There you go, some feature parity with Android.Apple reveals new gestures in the works for iOS devices &gt;&gt; Patently Apple"On November 10, 2011, the US Patent &amp; Trademark Office published a patent application from Apple that reveals a series of new gestures that will provide users with a number of advantages. It will allow users to view clusters of photos as well as greater detail of photos, maps and/or documents with greater ease and speed. Two of the new gestures are currently dubbed 'Hold then Swipe' and 'Swipe then Hold.'" Intriguing. What will they be used for?Google pushing Chrome OS for PCs; vendors give it the cold shoulder &gt;&gt; Digitimes"Google executive chairman Eric Schmidt, at speech in Taiwan on November 9, promoted Chrome OS in high-profile for the PC market, but PC players are rather pessimistic about the idea and believe if Google wants to cut into the PC market, the company will need to provide more resources and support. "During his speech, Schmidt mentioned several times about Chrome OS' advantages such as fast boot up, no virus issues and free of charge, and prompted PC players to give Chrome OS a try. "However, due to demand for Chrome OS-based devices (Chromebooks) being lower than expected, PC players are taking a passive attitude toward opening projects. In June 2011, Acer and Samsung launched their Chromebooks ahead of other PC brand vendors, but by the end of July, Acer had reportedly only sold 5,000 units and Samsung was said to have had even lower sales than Acer, according to sources from the PC industry. However, Acer has declined to comment."Here's what Android developers really think about Amazon's Appstore &gt;&gt; Business Insider"How easy is it to get into the top-ranking applications on Amazon's Android Appstore? "Pretty friggin' easy. "'We made it into their top 20 paid apps with 17 downloads, something that takes many thousands of downloads on the Google Market, and iOS stores,' ShiftyJelly co-founder Russell Ivanovic told Business Insider."Nokia Lumia 800: in-depth 8-minute video documentary &gt;&gt; YouTubeStirring Sigur Røs-style music? Check. Phrases like "aligned our cultures and design DNA"? Check. Anything that actually tells you how they went about designing it and what the real problems and frustrations and insights were? Mostly, no. Though we learn it is made of "premium plastic". That's not a phrase we recommend using often.Activate iOS 5's hidden autocorrection lists without a jailbreak &gt;&gt; Jailbreak StoryDoesn't require a jailbreak, but does require some finagling around in the preference files. This will give you a list of word suggestions above your keyboard. No clues on whether it gives you the horrendous "jump arround" effect that you get on Samsung's TouchWiz interface (suggestion appears, pushes keyboard down, goes away as you end a word, keyboard jumps up again). If you've been aching for this Android feature on your iPhone, here you go.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Irish developerIdeal Binaryhas raised €750k (around £642k) to fuel its ambitions in the increasingly competitive book-apps market. The funding includes €500k from the AIB Seed Capital Fund, managed by Enterprise Equity Venture Capital, and €250k from Enterprise Ireland.The Dublin-based company has released a series of iOS book-apps based on Brothers Grimm fairy tales: Rumpelstiltskin and Red Riding Hood, along with three apps in its 3D Classic Literature series. The company uses its own PopIris 3D engine, which was built using the previous games industry experience of founders Aidan and Kevin Doolan.As part of the funding round, Barry O'Neill, who has previously held mobile games executive roles at Namco Bandai and Upstart Games, has joined Ideal Binary as chief executive. "We are a profitable business, so this new capital is to expand the company's production," he says. "This is not a flaky startup situation."O'Neill explains that the Doolan brothers founded Ideal Binary in 2008 with the intention of making iPhone games, before realising that their 3D engine might be put to good use for book-apps instead.The first three Grimm's apps are a good showcase for the first version of the company's platform: digitising the traditional pop-up books with characters and scenery that can be tapped on to trigger light interactions: thought bubbles for characters, spinning water-wheels, draggable clouds and so on."Rapunzel has sold more than 75,000 units, and continues to occupy top five and top ten positions in a lot of territories around the world," says O'Neill. The app was sold for £1.49 for its first week after launching in December 2010, before rising to £2.49 and maintaining that price ever since. That means somewhere between £78k and £130k of net revenues for Ideal Binary after Apple's 30% cut.O'Neill says that Ideal Binary is betting on the PopIris engine enabling it to make high-quality book-apps without spending silly money, and so delivering a decent return on their investment."We've heard stories about people spending upwards of £250,000 developing very sophisticated book-apps as one-off showcases, which got great reviews but ultimately did very mediocre sales numbers," he says."PopIris allows us to achieve a very high degree of interactivity at a fairly reasonable production cost, which is one of the keys to success in this market. Even the bigger publishers are not realising sustainable profitability levels. A lot of money is being spent developing book-apps which are not delivering results."Will the company be sticking with out-of-copyright fairy tales for its book-apps? Probably not. O'Neill says Ideal Binary has had "a number of discussions" with potential licensors, but adds that the company is keen not to end up over-paying to make book-apps based on popular brands, and thus face a new challenge to its chances of making back its development costs."We are looking at original IP too," he says. "We have a pretty strong audience across all of our existing apps, so we think we can make a go of investing in our own IP. We are also looking at different demographics across the children's sector. At the moment, we appeal mainly to parents reading with their 3-8 year-old children. We'd like to go a little bit lower and a little bit higher, so there will be different product lines coming out."Ideal Binary is also planning to go beyond iOS with its book-apps, with O'Neill saying Android is firmly on its agenda, partly due to the sheer number of Android devices being sold, and also due to demand from the people writing emails to the company asking for Android support.O'Neill is particularly excited about new Android-based tablets on the way from Amazon and Barnes &amp; Noble: the Kindle Fire and Nook Tablet respectively."It's fantastically exciting. I don't buy this line that the Fire will benefit Apple due to adding further fragmentation in the Android market," he says. "I see it as creating an entirely new market in its own right, among people who might not be iPad aspirant, or even if they are, may not have the resources to purchase one. Or they could be existing Kindle users looking for an interesting media tablet to complement their e-reader."In the meantime, Ideal Binary is hoping to continue developing its engine and apps, with a version of Hansel &amp; Gretel due for release before Christmas with noticeably more game-like interaction than the earlier Grimm titles.O'Neill is enthusiastic about the crossover between games and books in the apps world: Ideal Binary's founders are one example, but so are the former game developers working at publisher Nosy Crow; the social games history of several founders of kid-apps publisher Mindshapes; and the recent appointment of former Electronic Arts executive Rex Ishibashi as chief executive of US book-apps startup Callaway Digital Arts."I think game-based metrics will influence everything from marketing to design to portfolio-planning for successful interactive book publishers," says O'Neill. "Those metrics are something the traditional publisuing industry has less experience with, which is why you're seeing people coming in from the games market. They will have a distinct edge when it comes to designing and marketing new content."In the meantime, Ideal Binary is hoping to build on its existing success to help future titles like Hansel &amp; Gretel find an audience. As with many mobile games developers, the company sees the value of its network as hugely important."You can't just launch a book-app and hope for the best," says O'Neill. "The challenge for all developers is how to monetise your existing customers better, and how to encourage your existing customers to find new audiences for you."
Facebook is finalising a settlement with US federal regulators over"deceptive" changes it made to its privacy policies in 2009, the Wall Street Journalreported on Thursday night.The proposed settlement, with the US Federal Trade Commission, would resolve the accusations by privacy advocates that Facebook engaged in deceptive behaviour with a number of changes it made in 2009 to privacy settings.TheNew York Times reportedthat the terms would mean that Facebook would have to agree to privacy audits for the next 20 years, but that it would not be required to ask users if they wanted to take part in any future in sharing features.The 2009 changes required that certain personal profile information, such as a person's gender and the city they reside in, be viewable to everyone. Previously, Facebook users could limit the people to which that information was visible.The changes caused an outcry from groups including the American Civil Liberties Union which called the changes flawed and worrisome.Kevin Bankston, a senior lawyer at the Electronic Frontier Foundation at the time, said: "These new 'privacy' changes are clearly intended to push Facebook users to publicly share even more information than before."Speaking to the New York Times, Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, expressed doubts that the settlement would appease critics of Facebook's data-collection practices.''The real test of the FTC's Facebook deal will be whether a user actually has control over their own information, or will this be a tiny digital bump on the road that does nothing to derail Mark Zuckerberg's voracious appetite to swallow up our data," he said.The settlement, which is awaiting final approval by commissioners, would require Facebook to obtain consent from its users for "material retroactive changes", according to the WSJ report, which cited anonymous sources.Completing the settlement would ease Facebook's path to a stock market flotation next year by reducing the amount of uncertainty over unresolved legal issues.Facebook and the FTC declined to comment.The settlement would follow a similar agreement between theFTC and search leader Google  in Marchover the latter's Google Buzz network. In 2010 the FTC settled charges with Twitter, which alleged that the social networking service had failed to safeguard its users' personal information.Facebook, the world's biggest social network with more than 800 million users, has often been criticised for its privacy practices.The FTC complaints against Facebook were brought by a group of privacy advocacy organisations after the social network introduced new privacy settings in 2009.
A selection of nine apps for you today:The FA Cup with Budweiser – Man of the MatchAs this season's FA Cup gets into swing, there's an official app from sponsor Budweiser which will let fans vote for the man of the match during games, while also browsing upcoming fixtures and getting live stats. It's been developed by Marvellous.iPhoneAny.DOAndroid app Any.DO is a social To-Do list that keeps track of tasks, shares details with friends, and uses the Android voice recognition technology for faster entry.AndroidOfficial Queens Park RangersThey're back in the Premier League, and now QPR have their own iPhone app from Perform Group. It includes news, plater profiles and live match-day text commentary and stats for free, but if fans pay £2.49 a month via in-app subscription, they get video match highlights and TV news too.iPhoneNeed for Speed Hot PursuitThe latest game in EA's street-racing franchise has crossed over from iOS to Android, touting 20 cars, 24 tracks and the chance to play as a cop.AndroidAppRankWe've written about our difficulties finding the best new Android apps already this week, but AppRank could help. New from mSonar, it tracks the top movers in Android Markets around the world – a useful tool for handset owners, but also developers wanting to track their app's performance.AndroidArrivedSocial app Arrived wants to automate your location check-ins, but only for the places and friends/colleagues that you have specified.iPhoneAmenBreak GeneratorThe famous Amen Break drum loop has been sampled and re-sampled many times by jungle, drum'n'bass and hip-hop artists. This new iPhone app wants everyone to get in on the fun, with various effects and three randomisation algorithms for lazy remixers.iPhoneColour MonsterSwedish firm Wombi Apps' latest iOS app for kids is all about identifying colours with the help of a hungry monster. Children have to feed it specific fruit, with the monster telling them what to do, ensuring they can use the app by themselves.iPhone / iPadHotspot Shield VPNAnchorFree's Hotspot Shield app is based on the existing desktop version, but the selling point here is its ability to compress data to save on your usage. In parts of the world where services like Facebook, Skype and YouTube are blocked, its VPN feature promises to restore access too.iPhone
Friday at last! Is it going to be a Skyrim weekend or a MW3 weekend? Or BF3? Or Batman? Or Uncharted 3?!
RIM lost 1.8m subscribers in the US in the three months to September despite its new BlackBerry 7 phones going on sale in the final month, according to new data from comScore's MobiLens survey of smartphone users.The loss represents 10% of its subscriber numbers among consumers in June. The picture emerges from thesurvey for September, which covered the first month in which RIM's handsets were on sale, the company's share of smartphone handsets sold over the three months in the US fell from 7.9% in June to 7.1%.In absolute terms, the total number of people over 13 owning a smartphone in the US grew by 12% to 87.4m, up from 78.0m at the end of June. That suggests that 9.4m smartphones were sold in the period.But comScore's survey also suggests that RIM's share of the installed smartphone base fell from 23.5% to 18.9%, which means it lost 1.8m subscribers there.The fall comes after aloss of 1m subscribers in the three months to June, and suggests that the company faces a serious challenge stemming its losses in its home markets.The key beneficiary during the period was Google's Android, which strengthened its lead, growing from 40.2% of the installed base to 44.8%, reflecting broader worldwide trends. That suggests that it gained an extra 7.8m users - of whom a significant number may have come at the expense of RIM. In total there are now 39m Android handsets in use in the US, according to the data.comScore data: smartphone shares in US, June-Sept 2011change as % of June subscriberschange (millionsof subscribers)Sept absolute(millions ofsubscribers)Sept %June absolute(millions ofsubscribers)June % shareGoogle40.231.3744.839.27.7824.8Apple26.620.7627.423.93.1915.4RIM23.518.3418.916.5-1.82-9.9Microsoft5.84.535.64.90.378.1Symbian21.561.81.60.010.878.0487.49.3612.2source: comScoreApple also gained, adding an extra 3.2m users to end the period with just under 24m users.Only Android and Apple grew their subscriber base faster than the 12.2% growth in the overall market, with Android gaining 24.8% on its June figure, and Apple growing by 15.4%. RIM dropped by 10%, while Microsoft grew its share by 8.1% to reach an installed base of 4.9m subscribers. (The figures do not distinguish between Windows Mobile and Windows Phone devices.) Nokia's Symbian gained 10,000 users.The comScore figures are for consumers collected by an online survey which it says is a nationally representative sample of mobile subscribers aged 13 or over.Apple's numbers grew despite the broader slowdown in its worldwide iPhone sales that the company later complained of, which preceded itsOctober launch of the iPhone 4S handset.Samsung dominated the overall mobile sector, with a consistent 25.3% share in both June and September for combined sales of feature phones and smartphones,The figures will be seriously disappointing for RIM, which has built up ahuge inventoryof the BlackBerry 7 phones and also of its PlayBook tablet, which runs on a different operating system, QNX.The company has seen disappointing sales of the PlayBook tablet and now faces a struggle with a newly revived Nokia which has begun offering devices using Microsoft's Windows Phone software.
Location-based mobile games aren't a new idea, but all too often down the years, their technical innovation hasn't been matched by popularity or profits.Finnish company Grey Area'sShadow Citiesis currently the 13th Top Grossing iPhone app in its homeland, for example. In the US, meanwhile, the 12th Top Grossing app – and that's out of all apps, not just games – is Booyah'sMy Town 2.The game looks a lot like Zynga's CityVille, using tried and trusted social game mechanics as players build a town, and earn coins and stars to help grow it further. They can spend real money via in-app purchases to speed that process along, too.The key difference to CityVille, though, is the use of location. The businesses players place in their town are based on those around them in the real world, and they can get bonuses by checking in to those places while playing.If this provokes scepticism about My Town 2 being yet another location-based app folly, think about that Top Grossing chart position again. As a comparison, in the US,CityVille Hometownis currently the 39th Top Grossing app, although its Poker by Zynga game is in second place."The performance has really exceeded all of our expectations," says Jason Willig, who joined Booyah earlier this year as chief operating officer, before stepping up to replace co-founder Keith Lee as chief executive in early October. He previously worked at games publishers including EA, LucasArts and Vivendi."Our vision is really a big promise to consumers that where they play matters, but bringing that promise to life is actually very difficult. We're starting to see glimmers of it in My Town 2 and other titles we have coming out. But we already see that place is really meaningful for our players. All of the numbers look much better than we thought when we wrote our business plan."Booyah has been here before. In December 2009 it released the original MyTown [sic] game for iPhone. It also used location, but check-ins were the key gameplay mechanic, rather than the complement that they are in My Town 2. The business model was different too, more based on advertising and sponsorship than in-app payments. It got a lot of press at the time."What resonates with consumers is place, not location," says Willig. "Versus MyTown, we really want to play off the significance in My Town 2 that place has in the context of a game that people really enjoy. So we made a very self-conscious decision to deliver it in that 2.5D isometric perspective with mechanics that are not dissimilar to other city-building games. But where we differentiate is making it more personal because of place, and clearly that's working."One thing that My Town 2 is lacking for now is social features, which is interesting given their importance to games like CityVille that have made the city-building genre so popular in the social gaming world. Players can tweet their achievements, but there is no option to log in via Facebook, visit friends' towns or interact in other ways.That's coming. "People have told us they want to do more, so the next series of features we'll add are all about social interaction," says Willig. "Visiting other players' towns, and also building businesses in your town that are not physically close to you: the pub you went to during college, for example."Willig says that the ads and sponsorships in the original MyTown game "overperformed" for the brands that took part – players could earn virtual items from brands like Pantene and H&amp;M.He says that for now, IAP will be the revenue source for My Town 2, although advertising may be a factor in the future. Booyah's strategy now is more about launching a series of new games - another is coming in December that, judging by Willig's Twitter feed, will be called PetTown."Our Q1 slate is very aggressive as well, and as we increase our daily active users and engagement, and can collateralise that against a suite of games, you will see from Booyah the kind of marquee brand and retail partnerships that we had in the past," he says.Booyah isn't just making games with location aspects. In August, it releasedEarly Bird, an iPhone game focused on casual gameplay and simple controls. It launched as a 69p paid game, but has spent much of its life on the App Store as a free title, and a very popular one at that.Willig says it was a happy accident. "Our chief creative officer had the idea, and we did the game in around eight weeks," he says. "We've had over five million installs, and the engagement has been terrific: hundreds of thousands of people are still playing that game. We're so glad that we did it."Early Bird is an interesting case study for other developers, because it's providing a platform for Booyah's newer games like My Town 2. Those hundreds of thousands of players are now seeing a branded MyTown Park zone, which promotes the new title.This idea of internal cross-promotion is a big deal in 2011: it's as high in the priorities of smart developers as getting a featured App Store promotion from Apple. The question of how to build your own network of players who – most importantly – trust you to make great games is being mulled across the industry."We have a great partnership with Apple, who have been incredible supporters of Booyah, but the competitive environment requires that we can't just rely on Apple for our promotion," agrees Willig."It's important, but it's not the only aspect. And yes, we can use paid advertising, but the highest quality installs we can get are from our existing customers, who have already demonstrated that they like our games, and will give us a few bucks. The cross-promotional network within our portfolio brings down our overall acquisition costs and enables us to focus our resources."Until now, those resources have been focused mainly on iOS, although Early Bird was ported to Android, and has been very popular there too. Willig says Booyah will be porting My Town 2 to Android as soon as it's practical."Is there a viable business on Android? Absolutely, and we're going to get there. We think My Town 2 is going to be a great fit, but as a company with 20 employees, inevitably there's a scarcity of resources. While the Android freemium market is developing, it will be huge, and we can't let it pass us by. We are actively evaluating how and when we get My Town to Android, not whether or not we should do it."Willig is enthusiastic about Booyah's prospects in 2012, saying that the company's financial position – it has so far raised $29.5 million across three funding rounds from investors including Kleiner Perkins, Accel Partners and DAG Ventures – will ensure it can go "toe to toe" with the category leaders.Foremost among those is Zynga, which isramping up its mobile business. But can a startup like Booyah really take on the reigning giant of the social gaming world?Willig is complimentary about Zynga and its "many smart people", but suggests that mobile can only be a sideline for now while the company is "making a billion dollars a year publishing games on Facebook". He also hopes that specialist knowledge will enable Booyah and its compatriots to punch above their weight."These smaller companies like Pocket Gems, Tiny Co, Funzio and hopefully Booyah are developing a very native and organic expertise, because there are a myriad of vectors that have to intersect to deliver successful mobile games," he says."The distribution ecosystem is totally different, for example: what works on Facebook doesn't necessarily work on mobile. You also have to interpret these experiences in a native way for mobile players, who have different needs to Facebook players. That's why you haven't seen these major companies really take over here. They will figure it out, but they are not the only players in this space."
A Remembrance Day service will be held on Twitter on Friday and Sunday, using 140 characters for readings, hymns, the last post, the names of those who gave their lives and contributions from veterans.The project, run by a group of Methodists, is aimed at bringing together traditional elements of prayer and worship with a digital approach for people who cannot attend a service or would not normally do so. It is thought to be the first time a remembrance service has been held on the micro-blogging site.James Thomas, who thought ofTweet Remembrance, said: "I came up with the idea on Wednesday night. I wondered if there was going to be a two-minute silence on Twitter and then thought, why not have an entire service on there?"It's a chance to engage with people who would otherwise not be, for whatever reason. Not everyone is able to go to a church and it's an alternative to watching it on television. It's also just to see if it works."The two services, which start at 10.15 and observe the silence at 11.11, are ecumenical and organisers say everyone is welcome to take part. Tweet Remembrance appears on Twitter as@Poppy_Tweet.Rev Joanne Coxis the Methodist minister providing the sermon.
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 has attractednear-universal critical acclaim. It is a slick, well-constructed and generously proportioned instalment in one of the most revered military shooter franchises in history. There is just one problem. Everyone on the internet hates it.Soon after the game's release on Tuesday, savage user reviews began to appear on score aggregation site, Metacritic. A flood of 0/10s outnumbered ecstatic 10s and considered 7s and 8s by a dramatic margin. Currently, for the Xbox 360 version of the title, the average user score for one of the biggest entertainment releases of the year stands at a wretched 3.0. On PC it's 1.7.So what is happening?The first point, of course, is that it's dangerous to think of these outbursts as being in anyway representative of the majority opinion. "On day one or two, you are going to get a vocal minority who take to the forums on Metacritic and use them as a soap box to vent their rage about the series," says Daniel Krupa, a writer at games site, IGN."Most of the millions of people who bought the game are actually playing it and enjoying it. A similar thing happened with Portal 2 back in April. It's one of the most critically appreciated games of the year, but on the day of release, people were on Metacritic criticising it for lots of reasons. Since then, the rating has risen and there's now parity between the critical and the user scores. I imagine something similar will happen with MW3 over time."But for a moment, let's consider the objections being raised. Reading through the usually short, often apoplectic review comments on Metacritic, one argument is repeatedly put forward: Modern Warfare 3 is basically Modern Warfare 2 again; it is a map pack, adding nothing new or innovative to the series. One reasonably representative review states:Don't believe the marketing hype, this is the same product rebundled let it die and show investors we're not interested in being sold the same product year after year, the cash cow needs to starve.This represents an interesting reversal of the usual critic/public relationship. Often, it is the professional reviewer who despairs at the lack of originality in mainstream entertainment, while paying customers accept the formulaic in their droves. Let's face it, Hangover 2 is basically a map pack for the first movie, yet it grossed almost $140m in its opening weekend and at 5.7 its Metacritic user review average is higher than the critical metascore.As human beings we enjoy systems and repetition – our brains actively seek them out; it is a survival instinct that has morphed into an unconscious entertainment preference. Hence, the vital role of the catchphrase in comedy; hence, the predictable conventions of our favourite horror flicks. The notion of the sequel is based on the usually accurate construct that we like to relive enjoyable experiences. Modern Warfare 3 gives us more of what we liked, because we generally like more of what we like.But is this game just too similar to previous iterations? Certainly, there are a lot of familiar weapons, and a lot of perks and killstreak rewards that we've all seen before – yet similar criticisms could be levelled at the inventories of, say, Mass Effect 2 or Gears of War 2, and elements like the new strike packages do add a significant tactical thrust to the action.Elsewhere, there are complaints that the campaign is based around the same old linear action and explosive set-pieces as its predecessors. But then, what did everyonethinkwas going to happen?"Nobody should go in there expecting My Little Pony or Animal Crossing," says PC Gamer editor Tim Edwards. "If you turn up for a big James Bond-style action sequence that lasts for five hours and a multiplayer game with perks in it, that's what you're going to get. That's fine – nobody can be disappointed that they bought the game and that's what's in it."Jon Hicks, editor of the Official Xbox Magazine, makes the interesting point that we may be thinking about Call of Duty in the wrong way by comparing it to other action games such as Batman or Uncharted. As a vast annual franchise designed to appease millions of mainstream consumers, there are more relevant points of reference:"I think ultimately Modern Warfare 3 should be ranked alongside Fifa and other sports games in as much as, it's better than last years, but it will deliver a very similar experience. People say they want innovation and change and difference, but in the same way that Fifa can't break out of the fact that it's a game of football, CoD is so successful now, it can't really break out of its model, it is constrained by its very form. If you consider it as a sports game it becomes more logical."You and I both know that if they did an Alien 3 with Modern Warfare – if it became entirely different and passive, and suddenly you're fighting with sticks, the outcry would make the current one pale into insignificance. If you look through the annals of gaming history the titles that do change significantly year on year are the ones that get quite heavily punished. People like to demand change, but increasingly they then don't buy it."Rivalry has also played a part in the tribalism of the user reviews. EA has pitched its Battlefield 3 title very much against Modern Warfare, both in its advertising and in some barbed pre-release interviews – and this has fostered a factional atmosphere: gamers love a platform battle."EA deliberately picked a fight this year," agrees Edwards. "They've really gone after Call of Duty in their community. Battlefield 3 is a phenomenal game but I'm a little bit sad that the PR for it has been at the expense of another brilliant title. It's not great that we're back to the old Sega v Nintendo situation."And here we unearth a more insidious undercurrent: Activision is being actively punished. Last year, the co-founders of Infinity Ward, Jason West and Vince Zampella, were sacked for breaches of contract and "insubordination". The duo immediately sued the publisher, claiming that millions in royalties were being withheld from Infinity Ward staff.Activision later counter-sued suggesting that West and Zampella were using the company's IP to broker a development deal with a rival company. Later, the dismissed twosome set up Respawn Entertainment and announced a publishing contract with EA, Activision's main rival.Now, I've read through the papers submitted by both parties. They make complex claims and counter claims and it looks as though it is going to take many months for a US court to get to the bottom of what is an intricate corporate law case. The point is, as it stands, no one outside of the Infinity Ward or Activision knows what happened. No one, that is, except for the internet, which has sided with West and Zampella against the 'evil corporation'."[Modern Warfare 3 is] being published by Bobby Kotick, AKA 'the devil from Activision Blizzard who eats game developers for breakfast', so I subtracted points for that," wrote one Metacritic reviewer, who gave the game 0/10.The idea of a couple of creative "Davids" taking on the Goliath of Activision is an attractive one, but it is also deeply flawed. "The fall out from the Infinity Ward debacle was horrendous," notes Edwards, "but the thing about that is, West and Zampella are multi-millionaires: this is two sets of incredibly rich people shouting at each other.""Activision hasn't helped itself through the statements that its made," he continues. "Bobby Kotick famously said he wanted the industry to work more like supermarkets. Well, talking about an entertainment form with millions of passionate fans as a packaged goods industry isn't great – and irony doesn't work well on the internet."Even if something dark and unjust did happen at Infinity Ward, we enter troubling critical territory when the wrongs of the author, the studio or the distributor are visited upon the appraisal of their work. Movie history is littered with despicable characters who have made astonishing films; is Melancholia any less of a work because Lars von Trier claimed to be a Nazi during his Cannes press conference? And let's not get started on Roman Polanski, Elia Kazan or Walt Disney.Tying in with the contempt for Activision is a distrust for the reviewers themselves. Several comments beneath my own review for Modern Warfare 3 had to be removed because they were essentially libellous."I think it's representative of a wider distrust of corporations," says Hicks. "There's a cultural suspicion of large companies and manipulation. And this has happened hand-in-hand with the rise of the internet and the democratisation of opinion."Whereas once people would have kept their opinions to themselves now you're actively encouraged to jump on the internet and shout about them. The louder you shout the more kudos you get and no matter what your opinion, someone else on the internet will agree with you – and you get a boost from that. It encourages people to think, 'I am correct, it's self-evident that I'm right, therefore the reviewer must be subject to bribery.' I don't think gaming is unique in this."It's something of a farcical accusation. As one reviewer tweeted last night, games publishers barely trust us to take our own screenshots any more let alone keep quiet a widescale attempt to fraudulently secure favourable review scores. Furthermore, Call of Duty is perhaps the one entertainment brand in the world that doesn't need critical acclaim to ensure success.Clearly, though, the 0/10s are a protest againstsomethingbecause these comments do not function as criticism. "This game is average at best," writes one Metacritic user before awarding MW3 1/10. That's a quite staggering mathematical failure.But like other reviewers, I suspect, I wrestled with how to score Modern Warfare 3. It isn't innovative, it isn't original, but it is ruthlessly compelling and packed with content. I am thoroughly enjoying it.Perhaps, however, we need to think about the critical criteria we use. "I do wonder whether we should be scoring games more on innovation than we do," says IGN reviews editor Keza MacDonald. "Usually when you get something particularly innovative you're tempted to give it an extra point, to reward it for what it's trying to do – that hardly ever works in reverse."Her colleague Daniel Krupa agrees. "This is a problem that the movie industry is facing. Once upon a time, blockbuster movies had critical merit too – the likes of Jaws and Star Wars, for example. But now you get these behemoths like Pirates of the Caribbean and Transformers and they are just explosion and spectacle. Most people will defend them by saying it doesn't matter, they're just about fun. Maybe we're falling into that trap with Call of Duty. Perhaps we should expect more from our games."I am curiously heartened by this. I've contributed toward the problem, of course, by awarding Modern Warfare five stars – a decision I stand by. But I am also a huge fan of indie and art games; I was transfixed by Robin Hunickie's explanation of thatgamecompany's beautifully strange Journey at GameCity just a week before I reviewed MW3.I want new, innovative games too, and judging by the current flourishing of the indie games sector, there is a growing audience for offbeat, unorthodox experiences. It could be that gamers are undergoing a process of genre fatigue; it might be something to do with this console life cycle coming to an end. A sort of fin de siècle ennui."People are looking for someone to revitalise the FPS genre," says MacDonald. "There was a hope that, because this was another Infinity Ward title, MW3 might go further, like the first game – but it didn't. And although it's a pleasing game and critically it's great, it's solid, there's a feeling of disappointment that it's notmorethan we expected. Someone will be looking to step into this space – it should have been Battlefield really, but someone is surely looking to please these people who are so fed up with Modern Warfare."At the very least,The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrimis out on Friday. A vast, ambitious RPG that seeks to create an infinite number of quests, which will embrace every individual gamer. Is it sufficiently different from Elder Scrolls IV? Does that matter when ambition and scale are such a major part of the package? How do we approach that paradigm as reviewers?One thing there mustn't be is an irreparable disconnect between game journalists and game buyers. We should be in this together – if we're not communicating about games in the same way, something quietly terrible has happened.
Every game has a single over-riding requirement for its players. Some demand lightning-fast reflexes and the commitment it takes to master the depth of their controls. Others ask for a willingness to think outside the box or some degree of intelligence for puzzle solving.These are all attributes players will need if they hope to succeed in The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim. But the one asset players will need above all else is time.The reason for this is that Skyrim is one of the most gargantuan undertakings gamers will experience all year. The sheer size of the adventure, both in terms of its environment and in the amount of activities available to the player, is mind-blowing.This shouldn't come as too much of a surprise. The game's developer, Bethesda, has banked a rather lucrative existence on creating open-world RPGs that are filled to bursting with content. As with Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion and Fallout 3 before it, Skyrim is a game that's easy to completely lose yourself in.The reason for this is two-fold. First, the game's production values work hard to immerse the player in Bethesda's sword and sorcery world. For a game of this size the quality of the graphics and the attention to detail is awe-inspiring.As the player travels through Skyrim, they'll encounter dense woodlands, snow-capped mountains, majestic cities and crystal clear rivers that run throughout the map. They'll run into an assortment of interesting characters and battle myriad monsters.They'll have to plough through blizzards, find shelter from thunderstorms and, on a clear night, they can gaze up at the sky and see auroras bleeding through the darkened heavens above them. The visual and sonic features of the game completely obliterate any traces of the outside world.The second part of this enchantment is wrapped up in the number of ways Bethesda allows the players to interact with the world it has created.Players can while away hours upon hours creating weapons at a forge, mixing potions at an alchemy table, enchanting weapons, chopping wood, practicing archery, investigating subterranean caverns or simply pointing their character at the horizon and heading over the nearest hill.They can buy a house, join a guild, marry an NPC or read every book contained in the library at a college for mages. Around every corner and at every new town they wander into, there's a monster to fight, a character to talk to and some new discovery to be made.The amount of things to do in Skyrim makes the player feel like they're a living, breathing part of its world. In short, you need time by the bucketload to get to grips with Skyrim, because once you enter its world, it becomes your world.There's a story, which guides the player's progress to an extent. It begins with an escape from the headsman's chopping block and then the player is cut loose in the massive world of Skyrim with the barest essentials in information about themselves and the land they now inhabit.Skyrim is plagued on two fronts – by a bloody civil war and by the return of a race of dragons that, until recently, were extinct. The player is also aware that they are the last of a race called the Dragonborn, and they are also all that stands between Skyrim and its ultimate destruction.Still, that's enough to be getting on with, eh? The plot then proceeds to reveal its pleasures by inches, one mission and side-quest at a time.As the player completes one heroic (and not so heroic) deed after another, they get to grips with the game's deep and intuitive control system. The right and left triggers wield whatever weapon, shield or magic spell the player assigns to them. The inventory soon starts filling up with useful items that the player can assign to the D-pad for a quick weapon change act in the middle of combat.Every time the player uses a weapon or a spell or skill in Skyrim, their profiency with that item or in that talent goes up. Once their overall XP hits the next level, they're able to assign a talent point to the skill of their choosing.In this way, the game rewards the participant for playing in exactly the way they want to. If you want cut your way through the land using just a sword and shield, the game will ensure you become more proficient in doing so. If magic or sneaking about in the dark are more your things, you'll get better at both the more you do them.On top of weapons and spells, the player has an edge over most opponents in the form of their Dragonborn "shouts". These are magical powers that are acquired by reading runes carved into the walls of dungeons and caves the player will encounter, and which are unlocked with the souls of the dragons they've killed.Shouts vary in power and recharge rate; one enables the player to breathe fire on opponents, another provides them with a quick-sprint, and yet another allows them to bring a dragon crashing down from the sky.There's a price for all this power. Players will have to look past occasional bugs in the gameplay, for one.These range from characters attaching themselves to pieces of the environment, the odd animation glitch and the rare instance where a previous save needs to be loaded after the game crashes completely.There are also a couple of niggles that were present in Fallout 3, too, such as the unnerving stare plastered over the faces of NPCs or the way in which accidentally picking up an item that doesn't belong to you can cause a friendly character to turn hostile.But the largest cost that Skyrim wishes to exact from players is that which is measured in human hours: time. And given the volume of content Bethesda's game holds, preparations ahead of playing may be necessary.So, with that in mind, may your boss believe you when you phone in claiming you have the plague, may your significant other be tolerant and understanding, and may your friends know you well enough not to make enquiries with the police if they don't hear from you in over a month.Skyrim awaits, adventurers. All it asks in return is your life …… well, a large chunk of it anyway.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
A selection of 18 new apps for you today:Tech CityThe UK government's Tech City initiative now has its own iPhone and Android app, courtesy of Mobile Roadie. It promises news from the East London cluster of startups and technology companies, as well as augmented reality features courtesy of Aurasma. The app also includes The Guardian's series of Tech City podcasts.iPhone / AndroidThe Show Must Go OnHide and Seek Productions has made this characterful iPhone mini-games collection for the Royal Opera House in London, getting players to catch music, find props, dress stars, build sets and then light it all up. There's a suitably orchestral soundtrack from EMI to accompany it.iPhoneTangoSkype may now be a Microsoft subsidiary, but it has some competition on Windows Phone for VoIP calls and video calls from Tango. The app lets WP users communicate with users on iOS, Android and PCs, automatically pulling in friends' details who already have the app on those platforms.Windows PhoneMafia Wars Shakedown by ZyngaZynga's latest social game for iPhone is a spin-off from its Mafia Wars franchise. Mafia Wars Shakedown's slogan is "Battle friends. Defeat bosses. Rule the world". The aim is still to build up a gangster mob, complete with weapons, armour and vehicles, but the battling features are emphasized.iPhoneLoveFilm By PostUK service LoveFilm has launched its first Android app, although it's focused on the company's rentals-by-post service rather than streaming films. The app helps customers manage their list, watch trailers and browse upcoming movies.AndroidBeebdroidThe latest emulator app to hit Android Market is Beebdroid, an emulator of the BBC Micro computer. The app is free and open source, and points people in the direction of websites hosting ROMs for games and applications.AndroidGangstar Rio: City of SaintsGrand Theft Auto III may be on its way to iOS, but Gameloft has got in before it with the latest installment in its GTA-influenced Gangstar series. This time the action takes place in Rio de Janeiro, with 60 missions, five neighborhoods to explore, and in-game radio stations playing tunes by the likes of M.I.A. and Bonde do Role.iPhone / iPadAsteroids GunnerAtari has revived its Asteroids franchise with a new version for iOS. Shooting the bejaysus out of space rocks is still core to the action, but there are also enemy ships, power-ups and more than 200 achievements to unlock. Veteran iOS gamers will note the resemblance to Space Miner, which was itself inspired by the original Asteroids.iPhone / iPadMy Note GamesMy Note Games is an iOS app designed to be used together with a physical instrument, including piano, guitar, trumpet and recorder. Aimed at children, it uses note recognition technology to identify the notes they're playing, and give feedback on whether they're the right ones. Three mini-games make it an entertaining experience.iPhone / iPadOcado On The GoHome shopping service Ocado has ported its Ocado On The Go app to BlackBerry and Windows Phone, following previous iOS and Android releases. It claims to be the first "transactional supermarket app" for BlackBerry in the UK, helping people fill their digital baskets on the go.BlackBerry / Windows PhoneRSS AlarmClock widgets are ten-a-penny on Android, but RSS Alarm has a neat twist: it wakes you up by reading your RSS feeds, including podcasts. It works with Google Reader, Google Listen and other podcatcher services, and uses Android's text-to-speech engine.AndroidApps For ExecsThere are a number of app-recommendation apps for iPhone, but Apps For Execs has a specific focus: apps for business folk. It covers financial, travel and social networking apps aimed at the business community, among other categories.iPhoneHD Widgets 2.0Android app HD Widgets was released for Honeycomb tablets a while back, but it's now available for seven-inch Android slates, as well as smartphones. It promises a selection of useful and fun widgets for the devices, which can be easily swapped and customised.AndroidCorpse GrannyBulkypix's latest puzzle game for iPhone is a mix of platforms, fireballs, zombies and, yes, grannies. It includes a mode to make your own levels and send them to friends to play.iPhoneLinkOutSocial networking app LinkOut taps into people's LinkedIn profiles, and aims to hook them up with relevant contacts in their area, tying in with the calendar and location to suggest the best time and place to meet.iPhoneSnuggle TruckiOS hit Snuggle Truck has been ported to BlackBerry PlayBook, keeping its physics-based driving gameplay intact. As with Corpse Granny, there's a level editor to create your own challenges and share them with other players.BlackBerry PlayBookChocoheroChocohero is a colourful platformer from Korean publisher Com2uS which comes on like a reverse Doodle Jump: tilt the device as the chocolatey hero rolls down, while picking up power-ups and upgrading items with coins.iPhone / iPadSimon's Cat in Cat ChatRemember the hit series of YouTube animations Simon's Cat? There's now a (second) app for that: a game involving attempts to "skillfully place items on a hedgehog's back without him noticing".iPhone
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple launches old-model MagSafe adapter replacement program &gt;&gt; The Unofficial Apple Weblog"...most of the MacBooks and MacBook Pros with those old-style adapters are now out of warranty; Apple redesigned the MagSafe connector last year, presumably to address some of the physical strain that may have been causing the cable to fray. Those of you who still have the old-style MagSafe adapters are in luck, because whether or not your Mac is under warranty, your MagSafe adapter is eligible for replacement under Apple's Adapter Replacement Program." More atApple Support.What the end of mobile Flash means for Adobe &gt;&gt; SplatFDan Frommer makes a number of really good (factual) points about where Adobe really is - and especially what its user base thinks about its HTML5 authoring tools. That's key.Adobe's Rehabilitation &gt;&gt; Apple OutsiderMatt Drance, ex-Apple: "Sometime after 2005 -- just as HTML5 technologies were emerging, and ironically right around the time of the Macromedia acquisition -- Flash became a burden. Between the money it paid and the money it had since spent, Adobe's management seemed unable to just let go. MBAs often call this "escalation of commitment". It's now 2011, and only the delusional can pretend that things haven't changed. After today, everyone at Adobe can exhale and right the ship. "Adobe's announcement clearly states that only Flash Player for mobile is going away. The tools -- the things that Adobe's customers really turn to Adobe for -- can now grow freely to please creatives in new, forward-looking ways. "I truly believe that a long-term Quixotic commitment to Flash Player would have destroyed Adobe from within. It was an expired product that distracted the company from its core competency of making tools for creative professionals."RIM says investigating delays, but insists no widespread outage &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"There is no system-wide outage," RIM said in a statement to AllThingsD. "However we are investigating reports that some users in (Europe, the Middle East, India and Africa) have experienced delays." Pesky Europeans.Public datasets on Amazon Web Services (AWS) &gt;&gt; Amazon"Previously, large data sets such as the mapping of the Human Genome and the US Census data required hours or days to locate, download, customize, and analyze. Now, anyone can access these data sets from their Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances and start computing on the data within minutes." Wow.Survey: 26% of likely Fire buyers delaying iPad purchase - Apple 2.0 - Fortune Tech"In a note to clients issued Thursday, RBC's Mike Abramsky shares the results of a ChangeWave survey of 2,600 early adopter types. Two key findings: 5% of those surveyed said they had pre-ordered or were very likely to buy Amazon's (AMZN) new Kindle Fire, exceeding the 4% who said they were very likely to buy the original iPad in 2010; 26% of those 5% said they would delay or put on hold the purchase of a new iPad." From the graphic (you need to click the link), 47% were looking at buying other gadgets. Overall, 27% weren't looking to buy any other sort of gadget (eg laptop, netbook, other tablet, etc). Some 'early adopters' they are, then. Even so, bears out the idea that the game is between Amazon and Apple.Adobe Communication, rewritten &gt;&gt; Matt Legend GemmellYou usually expect this stuff to be snarky, don't you. But this simply says it better. And it isn't snarky. It's just better and briefer and more direct.Mobile Flash ISN'T Dead. &gt;&gt; ZDNet UKSimon Bisson and Mary Branscombe: "This isn't the death of Flash, just a new way of delivering it... Even Adobe's own next generation tablet applications (like Photoshop Touch) have been written in AIR, with new features meaning there's no need to have a separate runtime from application code. While AIR may not be as obvious as Flash, it's the same ActionScript code running - it just looks like a native app rather a browser plug-in. "Developers working with AIR get access to the familiar ActionScript development and design environments, plus a whole raft of additional APIs that come from no longer being limited by the browser's sandbox and limitations. Take touch for example: Android is capable of multi-touch, but Google's given the browser only one touch point. Running outside in AIR the same code gets access to all the hardware capabilities, with full ten point touch on a Honeycomb tablet like the Galaxy Tab 10.1." So how many touch points does Apple have in the browser?Adobe's mobile Flash pullback puts Android tablet makers in tough spot &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"RIM, for its part, says it has licensed Adobe's source code and plans to continue supporting Flash on the PlayBook. "'As an Adobe source code licensee, we will continue to work on and release our own implementations. RIM remains committed to delivering an uncompromised Web browsing experience to our customers, including native support for Adobe Flash Player on our BlackBerry PlayBook tablet (similar to a desktop PC browser), as well as HTML5 support on both our BlackBerry smartphone and PlayBook browsers,' RIM said in a statement to AllThingsD." You can rely on RIM.AisleBuyer introduces first mobile self-checkout application for Android &gt;&gt; PRNewswire, November 2010From November 2010: "AisleBuyer LLC, the pioneer of mobile checkout solutions, announced today that its mobile self-checkout application is now available in the Android Marketplace. With this addition, AisleBuyer's app is available to both Android and iPhone users. "Working alongside its Massachusetts-based launch partner, specialty children's retailer Magic Beans, AisleBuyer's app is revolutionizing the way consumers check out. While many mobile retail apps facilitate barcode scanning, none on the market today allow shoppers to check out directly from their mobile device - until now. AisleBuyer's offering is unique, in that consumers can scan barcodes, as well as read reviews, see product information and check out securely directly from a mobile device, without ever having to stand in line." So that's iPhone and Android users. Seen anyone using this? (Thanks @ruckfangers for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The US FBI and the Estonian police have disabled a botnet of more than 4m infected PCs as part of "Operation Ghost Click", in which six Estonians and one Russian have been charged with a number of cybercrime offences relating to fake adverts and misdirected web links.People trying to get to the US Internal Revenue Service and to Apple's iTunes store would instead be redirected to fake sites, and normal web pages would be served ads via the botnet instead of the proper advertisers.The scam, begun in 2007, earned about $14m (£8.7m) and infected computers in more than 100 countries with malware called "DNSChanger" which would alter the DNS settings on the machine so that requests to visit particular sites would instead be redirected to others serving ads from the criminals' partners. Both Windows PCs and Apple Macintosh machines could be affected.Users of infected machines who searched for Apple's iTunes store and clicked on the link at the top of a search page to "iTunes.apple.com" would instead be directed to "www.idownload-store-music.com", which purported to be selling Apple software. People trying to reach the US IRS page were redirected to a page for H&amp;R Block, a US tax preparation company. The suspects allegedly received a fee for each visitor to the H&amp;R Block site.The scammers set up a fake internet advertising agency which contacted online advertisers and extracted a commission for every click on their ads or visit to their website.Six Estonians were arrested on Tuesday, Manhattan US attorney Preet Bharara said, while the seventh person, a Russian citizen, remains at large. Each of the accused faces five criminal charges including conspiracy to commit wire fraud and computer intrusion, which in the US carries a maximum 30-year prison sentence.One defendant faces an additional 22 money laundering counts. (Wired has a link to the62-page indictment in PDF form.)The US space agency Nasa was the first to discover the malware: about 130 of the 500,000-odd infected machines in the US belonged to Nasa, said Paul Martin, the US space agency's inspector general, speaking to reporters.In ablog post about the indictment and takedown, Feike Hacquebord of the security company Trend Micro says:The cybercrime group that was controlling every step from infection with Trojans to monetizing the infected bots was an Estonian company known as Rove Digital. Rove Digital is the mother company of many other companies like Esthost, Estdomains, Cernel, UkrTelegroup and many less well known shell companies. Rove Digital is a seemingly legitimate IT company based in Tartu with an office where people work every morning. In reality, the Tartu office is steering millions of compromised hosts all over the world and making millions in ill-gained profits from the bots every year."Esthost, a reseller of webhosting services, was in the news in the fall of 2008 when it went offline at the time its provider Atrivo in San Francisco was forced to go offline by actions of private parties. Around the same time a domain registrar company of Rove Digital, called Estdomains, lost its accreditation from ICANN because the owner, Vladimir Tsastsin, was convicted of credit card fraud in his home country, Estonia.These actions were the result of public pressure that arose from the suspicion that Esthost was mainly serving criminal customers. Rove Digital was forced to stop the hosting services offered by Esthost, but it continued with its criminal activities. In fact those behind Rove Digital learned their lesson, and they spread the C&amp;C infrastructure all over the world and moved a great deal of the servers previously hosted at Atrivo to the Pilosoft datacenter in New York City where they already had some servers running.As part of the investigation, Trend Micro says it discovered the public SSH keys of a number of Rove Digital employees on copies of hard drives used for command and control (C&amp;C) of the botnet that it obtained in 2009."All of our findings indicate that Rove Digital is committing cybercrimes on a large scale indeed and is directly responsible for the large DNS Changer botnet," noted Hacquebord."With that, we are very happy to report that a close collaboration between the FBI, Estonian police, Trend Micro and other industry partners resulted in a successful takedown of a dangerous botnet. Such a collaboration also led to the arrest of the bad actors responsible for the botnet, despite the fact that the takedown of Rove Digital was complicated and took a lot of effort."Trend Micro successfully identified the C&amp;C infrastructure of Rove Digital and backend infrastructure at an early stage and continued to monitor the C&amp;C until November 8 2011. Other industry partners did a tremendous job by making sure that the takedown of the botnet happened in a controlled way, with minimal inconvenience for the infected customers."• Rik Ferguson of Trend Micro has aguide to help people find out if their PC was part of the Ghost Click botnet. Both Windows PCs and Apple Macintosh machines can be affected. Trend Micro offers a free scan, while the US's FBI provides an online tool for checks.
Thursday! Is everyone excited by Skyrim and Zelda coming soon? Make sure you check our ourhands-on preview of Elder Scrolls V, and ourZelda interview!
It's Zelda's 25th birthday this year. What do you think has allowed the series to survive for so long?I think – and I think Mr Miyamoto would agree with this – that since Ocarina of Time, our aim has always been to produce something different, something you've never seen before in a video game. To that end, a lot of our past innovations have become something that can only be seen in a Zelda game.Zelda's not really a genre in itself, but it should never limit itself to one genre. With Zelda we're always trying to do something unique. I think this, and the fact that we continue to push ourselves to come up with new ideas for each title has kept the series fresh over the years.So you'd say that malleability is the franchise's key feature?I think if players look at it like that I'd be very happy (laughs).What do you think have been the most important titles in the series and why?Well, the original, obviously! (laughs). There'd be no 25th anniversary without the first Legend Of Zelda! The big turning point in the series, though, was Ocarina Of Time because that's when we went 3D.The third most important title is Skyward Sword, which is the best realisation of what we think Zelda should be on the current gen of console and for the current audience of players. It's what we've been striving for all these years.How do you begin a new Zelda title? Does it start with a story or a gameplay mechanic? And is the development cycle a democratic process?Well, in all it took five years to make Skyward Sword and at the beginning of the development cycle there was a very long process of sorting out the basics of the game. When we started, we began with the game's core features – the items and how they'd be used, the sword and how that would be used with Wii Motion Plus. Everything needed to be fun and needed to be easy to play with the Wii Motion Plus, from the combat to the menus and how you select items.Once we had those core elements, we then started to build the story around them. So because the combat revolved around the sword, we thought it would be a good opportunity to present the Master Sword and explain the history of it, which is why Skyward Sword is a prequel to Ocarina Of Time.As far as the development cycle went, there were five or six people in the beginning, including the director, and once again, this is where the core features are decided. Then, all of a sudden a lot of people joined the development team, and these people obviously have a ton of ideas too. But the five or six project heads are the "gatekeepers", if you will, of the entire game.Has the Wii Motion Plus shifted the focus of the game? Is the emphasis now more on combat than previous games in the series?The combat is definitely a key part of the game. In the past you could fight almost any enemy by just button-bashing, but in this game, because of the Wii Motion Plus, the fights are almost puzzles in and of themselves. You won't be able to beat the game simply by doing the same movements over and over again for each fight. You need to take each enemy separately. You need to find each enemy's weak spot.How did you settle on the visual aesthetic of the game? It's been said Miyamoto-san is a fan of impressionist painters. Did that influence it? What other factors are important?(Laughs) Actually, that comment from Miyamoto-san is a retrospective quote. He was looking back on the game and saying it looks like an impressionist painting.Our basic starting point was about the fact that Skyward Sword is a fantasy story – after all, how else would you have an island in the sky as the starting point?There are some interesting new items in Skyward Sword, such as the Digging Mitts and the Beetle. How do you deal with the challenges of adding these new items with their new capabilities? And are there any ideas for equipment didn't make it into the game?Every time we introduce new items and capabilities into the game, they're very important. They allow you, as a player, to grow within the game and have new abilities. We had many ideas for new abilities in Skyward Sword. Some of them didn't work and so we abandoned them. Some of them, though, we're keeping. Even though we couldn't make them work in this game, we felt they're still good ideas. Maybe we can make them work on the Wii-U. It's possible you might see them in another game we make in this series.Speaking of the Wii-U, can you tell us about any of the plans you have for that platform? We were all blown away by the Zelda demo you showed on the Wii-U at E3. What can you tell us about that project?We're definitely excited about the Wii-U and its capabilities as a platform (laughs). Of course I can't really tell you any details about that at this point. However, I should say the demo you saw at E3 is more of a starting point at this time, especially from a graphical standpoint. You should expect many changes, because as I mentioned earlier, our starting point is the gameplay and how we can make it work. It's possible the game will look very different by the time it comes out.Can you tell us anything about your future plans for Zelda on the 3DS? We all loved Ocarina Of Time, but do you have any plans for any new titles for the Nintendo handheld?(Laughs) I really can't talk about that! We are working on something, though. There was the Ocarina of time, which was an adaptation of that title to the new platform. The new 3DS game will be a continuation of our efforts on that platform. (Laughs) I'm sorry, I can't say any more.
And … exhale. Relaxation is possible once again now that Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 is in the shops, but it continues to hog the media spotlight.At least, following the razzmatazz of the launch, we concentrate on weightier matters, such as whether it will break the entertainment industry's five-day opening sales revenue record, held by last year's iteration of the game, Black Ops, which stands at a staggering $650m worldwide.Early indications suggest Modern Warfare 3 has a good chance of doing so. Amazon has announced that it generated 32 per cent more pre-orders than Black Ops, and retailers GAME and gamestation stated that Modern Warfare 3 is the most pre-ordered game in their history.Liz Hosmer, video game manager at Amazon.co.uk, said: "The Call of Duty series has performed consistently well, with both Black Ops and Modern Warfare 2 previously holding the all-time pre-order record. This year has seen the release of a raft of great titles with Battlefield 3 anticipated as a strong contender to Modern Warfare 3, but the latest offering in the Call of Duty series is the most popular title of the year to date by some distance."GAME spokeswoman Anna-Marie Mason said: "Beating records set by last year's number one game, Call of Duty: Black Ops, Modern Warfare 3 is now GAME Group's largest pre-order title in the company's history."Launching with a splashThe Modern Warfare 3 launch party at London's Old Billingsgate Market was a huge and celebrity-studded affair. Compered by broadcaster and writer Danny Wallace, the night also saw Example playing live and Chase &amp; Status on the decks. Notable game fans in attendance included footballers Ashley Cole and Anton Ferdinand, musicians Tinie Tempah and Labrinth and cricketer Graeme Swann.Various X-Factor types and what seemed like the entire cast of The Only Way is Essex were much in evidence. Julia Hardy from Ginx TV collared the cream of the night's celebs on the green carpet – you can watch her efforts below.Also unmissable was the Twittersphere'sfavourite attention-seeker, footballer Joey Barton, who represented the UK (badly) in a live multiplayer MW3 game against other celebs attending launches of the game around Europe. And then got stuck into a Twitter-war with the TOWIE cast, while still at the party, providing today's tabloids with pages of material.Among his choice efforts was: "I actually despise the whole of that firm, mentally deficient, turn up at the opening of an envelope, fame hungry, prized ball bags." He also described the night's assortment of celebrities as a "whose [sic] who of bellends", the show's cast as "like a Circus freak show … u've got midgets, hippos, about 6 with red rums teeth in and a corpse holding a sign," and James "Arg" Argent's teeth as: "Like a burnt down fence." The TOWIE cast retaliated by assembling for a group picture mocking the size of Barton's manhood.Queuing at midnightWe opted to shun the celebrity bearpit with the party in full swing in order to seek real, dedicated Call of Duty gamers at the Oxford Street branch of GAME's midnight opening.We spoke to Jamie and Jack, members of theLead Over Love gaming clanwho had been queuing outside GAME for two and a half days. Jamie said: "We are passionate about the game – we're not here for no reason. We co-run a professional gaming team."He was also full of praise for Activision's Call of Duty: Elite social gaming service. "Elite is going to bring together all the CoD-lovers out there. This finally lets them face each other, create a proper clan and have a place where they can come together."The crowd was entertained by actors dressed as soldiers abseiling down the side of the building, and the midnight sales crush felt like a definitive affirmation of the consumer-centricity of 21st century society.Now that the most dedicated Call of Duty players have bought their yearly fix, all that remains is for them to make a dignified withdrawal from society, and retailer gamestation has decided to chip in with some assistance on that front.Its Facebook page has a list of text messagesthat can be sent in as excuses for non-attendance at work ("A mine has just exploded in my back yard, will text you back once sorted"), and it constructeda special website dispensing advice on how best to pull a sickie(the most believable illnesses apparently – bosses take note – being food-poisoning, migraines and throat infections).The country has truly gone Call of Duty mad, as it always does at this time of year.
The smartphone market is a fascinating place right now. Apple is doing well, Android is on a real tear, and Windows Phone is gearing up for a big push into 2012. Even the much-maligned BlackBerry has its new BBX platform on the way to (possibly) help reverse its sliding market share.The smartphone space is more competitive than ever, then. Yet The Guardian's dailyApps Rush columncontinues to be dominated by iOS apps, with a relative dearth of Android apps, as several commenters have pointed out in recent weeks. What gives?Are we biased? Lazy?Bribed?Or is there something else going on here that explains why so many apps that we cover are only available on Apple's devices? You may have guessed that this is a piece to propose the latter theory.The short answer: a lot of good apps are still iOS-only, meaning that Apps Rush is an accurate reflection of the calibre of apps being released for the various platforms, rather than an accurate reflection of an institutional bias towards Cupertino.The long answer? That follows, and hopefully explains why this is the case, and what might be done to redress the balance.How Apps Rush is compiledApps Rush is published every morning, with the aim of spotlighting a bunch of brand-new apps that are innovative, interesting and/or entertaining, across all platforms. Perhaps foolishly, it takes far more work than simply browsing a few press releases.As a rough guide, around 20% of apps covered in the post come from press releases, based on filtering 12-20 releases sent to me every day. Around 10% of Apps Rush entries come from direct contact from developers via email or (increasingly) via Twitter.The other 70%? It's all about RSS feeds. Maybe 20% of Apps Rush entries come from stories on other sites, from tech blogs like TechCrunch and VentureBeat through to the sites of developers and platform owners.But around 50% of Apps Rush entries come from me scanning every new app, every day, on the four main app stores: iOS' App Store, Android Market, BlackBerry App World and Windows Phone Marketplace. Only BlackBerry's store has an official RSS feed, so for the others I use Appshopper, AndroLib and WP7Applist respectively.A lot of effort for a relatively low-profile post? Maybe, but it means scoops: Apps Rush regularly includes apps that won't be officially announced for hours, days or even weeks. As a side-effect, there's no better way to keep an accurate pulse of the rhythms and trends on the various stores, for better or worse.Why so few Android apps?The first lesson from this daily process is this: there is a lot of rubbish on all the stores. The vast majority of new BlackBerry apps are themes, for example, while a big chunk of new Windows Phone apps are ports of e-books. Android Market? A feast of wallpapers, crap clone games, apps that do nothing but have a celebrity's name in the title to spur downloads, and yes, many many bouncing boobs.The App Store has a lot of rubbish too, of course, albeit with less boobs, wallpapers and themes due to Apple's policies and platform. The difference is this: for every 500 apps I scan on each of the main platforms, I'll come up with around 10-15 interesting ones for iOS, up to three for Windows Phone and BlackBerry, and 4-5 on a good day for Android. On a bad day for those three latter platforms, I'll draw a blank.So, applying the same criteria to all the stores – innovative, interesting and/or entertaining apps – the fact is that there are many more coming out for iOS than for its rivals. To illustrate the point, here's a quick list of some apps that came out in October and were only available on iOS:Shuffler.fm, Umami, Barcelona: DK Eyewitness, Junk Jack, Good Food One-Pot Recipes, Bloom, MapMatcher London, Cupple, Fantasy Safari, D&amp;AD 2011, Artfinder, Oink, Crime City HD, Poker Pals, Livestand, Flow Powered by Amazon, Doctor Who Encyclopedia, Rumble in the Jungle, Walmart for iPad, 7 Billion, Shoebox by 1000memories, Batch, Modern Combat 3, Codify, My Town 2, Don't Let The Pigeon Run This App, Adobe Carousel, Booksy, Timmy Time HD, Fanatix, Absolute 80s Remixer, DK Pregnancy Day By Day App, Whale Trail, Time Populist, DK My First Word Play App, Audiofuel Running Music, Fruit Ninja: Puss In Boots…These are all interesting apps that came out on iOS and not on Android. Without wishing to sound defensive, is the question here "Why is The Guardian ignoring Android?", or is it "Why did the developers and publishers of all these apps launch exclusively on iOS?"When will this change?There are some obvious answers. A lot of developers and publishers continue to see iOS as their lead platform, if not their only one. There are three factors at play here: how many devices are in the market for each of the platforms, how costly it is to release an app for them, and how much money the developer or publisher thinks they can make.iOS scores highly on all three counts. Android certainly has no problem with scale, but a lot of developers still see its device and OS fragmentation as a barrier. Meanwhile, many of those making paid apps also see Android falling down on the third criteria: they perceive Android users to be less willing to buy apps, and also more willing to pirate them.I expect this to change in 2012. The sheer size of the Android audience, allied to Google's ongoing improvements to its Android Market store, is already shifting developer attitudes on bringing their apps to Android from "if" to "when".Apps funded by advertising and/or in-app purchases have been first to make the leap, but in 2012 there should even be more paid apps launching on iOS and Android simultaneously. There is also a definable uptick in developers porting apps to Windows Phone, with an eye on its potential for growth in the next 12-18 months.Google may begin to do more PR for third-party apps on its platform rather than just its own apps, which might help too – Nokia, RIM and Microsoft's PR agencies all send out weekly emails to journalists with details of new apps, for example.Market forces will bump up the number of good and great Android apps, as well as those on other platforms, and that will be reflected in Apps Rush. But is there more that can be done at this end?What can we do?One challenge with the RSS-led way of researching Apps Rush is that it's not so good for identifying apps that could be classed as "useful". Unbranded productivity tools are very popular on Android, but it's hard to sort the wheat from the chaff based on a title and two-line app description in an RSS reader.One idea would be regular posts on the Apps Blog where Guardian readers recommend their favourite apps for their devices - iOS, Android, BlackBerry, Windows Phone and so on. Another might be more group tests: "The best apps in genre x for platform y".What do you think? The aim of this post is to explain why so many iOS apps are covered here in comparison to rival devices, but all suggestions are welcome to improve our coverage, as is a healthy debate on the quality and quantity of new apps being released for the various platforms.
Amazon's Kindle Fire tablet will have a catalogue of thousands of Android apps and games when it goes on sale in the US on 15 November, with the company having announced its first batch of partners.Launch apps will include streaming media services Netflix, Rhapsody and Pandora; social apps Twitter,  Facebook and LinkedIn; news apps Bloomberg and Pulse, and a swathe of games including Doodle Jump, Fruit Ninja and titles from EA, Zynga, Gameloft, PopCap and Rovio Mobile.Yes, the latter means Angry Birds. Zynga has also confirmed that its Words With Friends will be a "featured game" on the Kindle Fire, while PopCap says its popular Plants Vs. Zombies will be one of its first titles on the device.The apps and games will be sold through Amazon's store on the device itself, with the company promising to continue its daily free app promotions from its Android Appstore for owners of the new tablet."We started talking to app developers everywhere the day we introduced Kindle Fire, and the response has been overwhelming," says Amazon Kindle vice president Dave Limp in a statement."In addition to over 18 million movies, TV shows, songs, books, and magazines from Amazon, we are excited to offer customers thousands of apps and games to choose from on Kindle Fire – from Pandora and Rhapsody to Facebook and Twitter to Netflix, as well as popular games from EA, Zynga and many other top game developers."Amazon is clearly making a big effort to launch the Kindle Fire with a strong catalogue of apps, to avoid one of the key criticisms of previous tablets running Google's Android software: a lack of native tablet-optimised apps.The number of apps available for tablets running Android 3.0 Honeycomb is small compared to the 140,000 native iPad apps, although the devices can also run apps designed for Android and iPohone smartphones respectively.In the case of games specifically, it is unclear at this point how much the Kindle Fire launch titles have been optimised for the device, rather than simply tested on it to ensure they work. Kindle Fire does not run the Honeycomb software, but instead a heavily customised version of an earlier Android build.Besides distributing other companies' apps, Amazon will also be bundling its own services into the Kindle Fire: streaming films and TV shows, Kindle e-books to buy and borrow, and its music offering that consists of an MP3 download store and a cloud locker service.
You may have thought that the scene early on in 2001: A Space Odyssey which apes caper around a giant black obelisk was about how homo became sapiens. I can now reveal that in fact, that was early user testing of prototypes of the HTC Titan.Seriously: this is a gigantic phone. It's been shrunk a little since the Pleistocene epoch, but not much. In fact, I'd say unequivocally about the HTC Titan that it finally shows us that yes, youcanmake a phone with a screen that's too big.And the Titan comes with Windows Phone 7.5 (aka Mango). So this review will take in both. You might like to read myreview of Windows Phone 7(also on any HTC phone) from last year: the short version is that while it's better than it was (notably by adding multitasking and getting a bigger, though not giant, app store) my original criticisms still remain. Equally, I can see that there will be some people – perhaps quite a lot of people – for whom Windows Phone will be ideal. I'm not one of them. But we'll come to that.HardwareSoftwareGlance-and-go? SometimesMultitasking: a startInformation density: lowPeople, slowlyConnecting, lazilyPeople hub?Groups: a good idea…Keyboard: goodNotificationsEmail: well doneVoice recognition?Copy/paste: impossible to selectMaps, calendars and phone numbersCamera: goodPeople-centric tagging: if you say soMarket: where apps liveOffice, Games, Music and VideoWeb browsingConclusionsSo let's get going.As a phone: hardwareThe HTC Titan has a 4.7in screen, with 800x480 pixels (that's 200 pixels/in or so). It takes a standard-sized sim card, so I swapped my personal one with its data use from the Android Nexus S that I've been using since last December and put it in.Call reception wasn't great; callers often couldn't seem to hear me at the start of a call, and reception wasn't as good as the Nexus S. (The first phone I tried couldn't activate the data network, so it was swapped for another.)The phone seemed glitchy: it required rebooting from time to time because it would unpredictably lose the ability to connect to data networks. I couldn't say if that's down to Windows Phone, HTC's firmware, or some interaction between the two.The Titan is big and it's bright. But immediately, it's a phone whose desire for size has overruled sensible usability. The power button – the only one that can activate the screen from sleep – is on the right-hand side of the top edge of the phone. It's so recessed that you can barely feel it.The combination of the sheer size of the screen plus the small size of the button means that I (with hands you'd never call small) found myself spanning desperately when I picked it up, trying to reach and press the button. My wife, with smaller hands, found it impossible.It's not ideal, and it isn't comfortable; I felt that I was already fighting the phone and I hadn't even gotten it awake. Compare that to Android phones (power button usually on the right-hand edge) or the iPhone (very obvious button on the right of the top edge, on a smaller device) and you realise that this has sacrificed usability to its big screen. Either the button should be more obvious, or in a different place, or the screen should be smaller.I also found that when I was holding the phone, the camera button (a third of the way up on the right-hand side) was surprisingly easy to activate accidentally. That's not helpful during a phone call.As a phone: softwareWith the screen activated, you're into the OS. Windows Phone builds itself around the idea of "tiles", which will become much more familiar in a year's time once Windows 8 and its Metro interface become common.(A side note: Windows Phone orients its tiles vertically; Metro, horizontally. Metro has continual sets of tiled screens; Windows Phone has one tiled screen, and then a giant single-width list of icons. I wonder how easily people used to one interface will adapt to the other.)Glance and go? SometimesThat's not to say that Windows Phone fails in its desire to be a "glance-and-go" interface. The home screen's information will show you if you have voicemails, text messages and people updates. If you use a lock screen (I do), it will also tell you about your next calendar event – which I thought was a good touch.MultitaskingMango brings multitasking to Windows Phone. Hurray! It's gotten back to the state that Windows Mobile (remember Windows Mobile? Oh, anyway) was at two years ago. Let us be clear about what sort of multitasking this is, though. (As with all the mobile OSs, you have to find it via a Secret Key Press.)• InAndroid, you find multitasking by press-and-hold (aka long press) on the Home button, which in Gingerbread will bring up a modal sheet of the most recent eight apps you've been using, including your current one. (It's not clear yet how many you'll get on Ice Cream Sandwich, where the modal sheet has become a tiled set with a screengrab.)• OniOS 4 and up, it's via a double-click on the home button, which gives you an icon tray on the bottom of the screen of recent apps. On iOS 5 on an iPhone 4S, I got up to 43 (that's forty-three) most recent apps. Posslbiy it could be more, but I hadn't opened enough. (To kill an iOS app, you press-and-hold its icon: that makes it start doing the "jelly dance", where the icons wobble with a minus sign; touch any to kill it, which will free up memory).• InMango: press-and-hold the Back button (I wouldneverhave come across this by accident). You'll be presented with the five most recent applications.This is progress for Windows Phone, but honestly, it's just coming off the starting blocks on the relay race as the rivals are rounding towards the home straight. Five apps, versus somewhere between eight and 40? That's not even the worst of it.With iOS and Android, if you choose one of those icons, you'll be taken straight into the app, which will come straight back into action. On Mango, I would get a blank screen for a moment, and sometimes the message "Resuming…", which while faster than startup, still felt like a swizz compared to rivals. Just as with the wireless connections, suspend-and-reanimate may be good for battery life, but it makes for a bad user experience.Information density: lowMy general point is that the criticisms I've made previously about Windows Phone 7 – that it is not sufficiently informative about its environment, andlacks "information density"– remain in Windows Phone 7.5 (which hereafter I'll just call Mango).So for instance: if you're in an app or doing something on the phone, you aren't shown what sort of connectivity you have. If, like me, you often travel by train and veer in and out of data coverage, this is not helpful. Android and iOS, by contrast, show you the strength of the signal and data connection all the time, which helps you figure out whether to embark on that big download or not.Icriticised the lack of this information(which does exist, and can usually be coerced into appearing by prodding the top of the screen) with WP7. On a phone, information about your connection quality is not spurious or inessential data; it's part of the connectivity picture.In the same way, there is no way to show the percentage of your battery capacity remaining in the display. This is an option on iOS, though not on Android. For Android and Windows Phone, you have to travel to the Settings menus to find how much battery you have left. Other times, you'll have to hope for the appearance of the battery icon; while it's persistent in the Android toolbar, it isn't on Windows Phone, which usually hides it from you.People, slowlyThe lack of information density is also there in broader experiences, most notably with the various social hubs you can use – the "People hub" where you can combine your Windows Live feed (people have those?) and Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn feeds.In the default position, the tile with your "people" sits on the top right of the screen, and has a constellation of icon pictures of people you are connected to (on Facebook or Twitter or LinkedIn), on which the little icons change as – one presumes – people say things on the social networks you're plugged into.Here's where things start to go downhill. "Ooh!" you think, seeing the icon twinkle. "Ben has said something new!" So you press the tile, which takes you to the People hub.Two bad usability things now happen.First, even though the icons on the front tile have changed, the contents of the People hub turn outnotto have been updated. On opening, the system jerks into action like a dozing security guard you've just prodded awake. "Looking for news…" it announces hurriedly at the top of the page, and tries to distract you with an array of passing dots.Having been brought there essentially on false pretences, your patience may not be high. And since you won't know how good your connectivity is (because Windows Phone hides that detail) you might, like me, go there and find that the last update is 11 hours old (despite its having been sitting charging at home in range of not one but two open Wi-Fi networks), and that because you're now on a train in a connectivity hole, it can't update.Yet that's not the worst of it. If youdohave a connection, and the feed updates, you won't be presented with the icons that brought you there, but instead with names, written in text. Why on earth does the People hub throw away the enormously useful data of the icon? The icon-based layout of Twitter or Facebook lets you scan the icon and read the tweet, so you process both at once. That's quicker. Icons are valuable as shortcuts for thinking – that's why Windows and Mac OSs use them. The Windows Phone interface forces you have to read the text of the name and read the tweet. That's slower. Windows Phone's abandonment of icons is bad.Contrast this with iOS 5 and Android. Do they update those social networks in the background so that when you go to them, they're filled with detail? Their notifications certainly do: in iOS 5, Notifications hold most of the content of a tweet, or the subject line and two lines of an email. In Android (before Ice Cream Sandwich) you'll only get the fact that there is a notification on Twitter or Facebook or email; post-ICS, you'll have more. If you go to the apps, they willthenupdate with the new data. But you'll know that it's there, because it came via the Notifications bars.So why am I complaining about Windows Phone, when iOS and Android do the exact same thing, in virtually the same way? Because the front tile of the People hub gives the direct impression that if you follow its twinkling icons, you will find what has happened right away – that it is, in fact, a window onto that hub. Rival OSs' Notifications promise that but, crucially, theydon't pretend to be the app.And in my experience (as I was testing Mango concurrently with an iPhone 4S), iOS updates the relevant app far more quickly than Windows Phone. So Windows Phone (whose boosters talk much about its "people-based" approach) lures you in, and then actually takes longer to update than others.Connecting lazilyThe most frustrating thing, again and again, about Mango is its laziness in connecting. With Android and iOS, once you've introduced them to known Wi-Fi networks (at your home and at work, for most people) they will latch onto them as soon as they sense them, and start pulling in data.Windows Phone? It's the snoozing security guard. Time and time again I'd unlock the screen and go to an app (including the People hub or Mail) to find that once again, it was only just waking up to the Wi-Fi network around it. The iPhone I was testing would be up to date; the Mango phone would be catching up.This might be a good way to extend battery life (in fact I suspect it's a key reason why the HTC Titan has better battery life than iOS, and about the same as the Nexus S) but if what you want is rapidly updated information, you're out of luck. I'm very surprised that Microsoft, with longer experience in the mobile OS business than either Apple or Google, hasn't cracked this.People come togetherAnother point about the People hub: it's a chisel trying to do a screwdriver's job, or vice-versa. Mango suggests that you don't use the separate Twitter or LinkedIn app but instead sign in using your Windows Live or Hotmail account – lots and lots andlotsof people have one – and then authorise that to use your Twitter or LinkedIn account.(I was initially chary of doing this – what if someone stole your phone or Hotmail account? They could tweet as you! – but you can deactivate such apps on those sites' interface, so the risk is short-lived.)So I allowed it. Which means you can view your Facebook and Twitter and LinkedIn streams in the People hub.Now we have another twofold problem. First, Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn move at entirely different speeds. If you're following any number of people on Twitter, they'll soon overwhelm your Facebook feed. If you have any number of connections on LinkedIn, and any number on Twitter, the deluge could be overwhelming (assuming the snoozy connection wakes up in time).Secondly, the implementation of Twitter interactivity in the People hub is woeful. You can't "favourite" tweets to savour later or use for other purposes (personally, I do this for plenty of Boot Up fodder). You can't use Lists. You can't add someone to a List (though you can view their profile details, connected to any other details you have about them). You can't reply-all to a tweet. (You can retweet a tweet – small mercies.) You can't retweet a tweet while adding a comment. You can't see the conversation (the back-and-forth of tweets). Ditto for LinkedIn. All you can do is post or reply, where on the iOS app (for example) you can share, message privately, see who's gotten connected… it's a whole universe.Sure, on iOS or Android it's a separate app. But remember multitasking? On iOS that separate app with all that functionality is just a double-tap and a couple of tray swipes away; on Android, a long-press (or possibly a launch) away. And you'll be amid the rich potential of those platforms, nor in a poor version of it. For Facebook posts, you can't see what other people have written on someone's wall. It's the least common denominator of each network – thoughts pitched into the semi-void.Can't, can't, can't. That's not how you want your smartphone to be. The starting philosophy of Windows Phone –challenge the orthodoxies of apps! Break down boundaries!– is fine, but when you can't find your friends' Facebook updates because they've overwhelmed with tweets, and you can't do what you want to do with tweets because the People hub won't let you, then you might as well split them off again.(The official Twitter app does exist, and does work, though it hasn't been updated for a year, and like the People hub doesn't use icons either. There isn't a separate LinkedIn app for Windows Phone).But if you do that, you're back where you were on other OSs – using separate apps.Having said all that: I recognise that there aresomepeople for whom the People hub will be absolutely perfect. If your Facebook friends outnumber the number you follow on Twitter, if you're careful about segmenting your interactions into groups (we'll come to groups), then I can completely see it could be great.People Hub in Windows Phone Mango (phone: HTC Titan). Now, from here how would you write a tweet, Facebook status or LinkedIn update?Even so, there's still a few usability gotchas. Look at that picture of the People hub feed. Now, you want to contribute something? OK – what do you press? (Hint: it's not a hidden menu at the bottom of the screen – that just brings up "Refresh" and "Settings".)Give up yet? It's obvious, isn't it?Swipe left from the previous screen, and you get 'All'. Now, how are you going to post to Twitter, Facebook or LinkedIn? (Hint: it's not by pressing the '+' button at the bottom)You don't use that screen. You swipe left to the "All" page, where you'll findyourprofile pic (from Facebook, in my case, rather than Twitter; I've no idea why) and the latest thing you said on whichever network.OK,nowwhat do you press to contribute your thoughts to the world? No, it isn't the+button at the bottom – that gives you the options to create a New Contact or New Group. (We'll come on to the anguished story of why it says "Family" twice later.)Puzzling, isn't it? How can you contribute to all these social networks that are pouring past? Where's the icon that implies "BEGIN WRITING"?Give up? Oh, come on, it's obvious – you press your last message, andthatbrings up a screen where you can post a message, check in or set your chat status.Press your status message in the previous screen and you get to this one: now you can begin writing. It's only taken three screens, including one swipe and two tapsSeriously, Microsoft UI designers? This is how in our people-oriented system we're meant to contribute to the flow of thinking–- by swipingawayfrom the updates, then prodding what we've already created and then choosing one of three options?Once more: it's great to start from the precept of "challenge preconceptions", but at some point you have to accept when you're making things more rather than less complex, worse rather than better.On iOS or Android, you can post a message on Twitter (using the big friendly "Pen and Pad" icon), press-and-hold to jump to the Facebook app, read and/or post there, and your life is no worse than it was when you were on Windows Phone. You'll probably be more in tune with the vibe among your friends on both social networks, too. Add in LinkedIn and the People hub turns – if you have any number of accounts or friends – into a sprawl.GroupsThis is where you'll want to use Groups – where you can segment your entire contact book, or whichever bits of it you want, into groups that you want, and can watch over for updates. Nice idea. Definitely useful. (You can create a List of your family/friends on Twitter, and a Group in Facebook. Just saying.)Implementation? The usual (and by now I was gettingreallybored with it) wait for the phone to connect to Wi-Fi or mobile data and find some news. And then – well, it's like Twitter Lists, but spread across all your contacts, sliced whichever way you want.It suffers of course from the multiple-speed problem of different networks (though you'll also see things like texts in here, which can be useful.Except …when I created a group with my wife in it, the "what's new" feed didn't show the text she had sent. It did show her four-hour-old tweet, though (in part of a conversation I could only see one side of because … oh, what's the use).You probably won't find this on another OS for a while. I mistakenly created one called "Family" before I realised there was already one called "Family". Not a murmur from the OS; no complaint at the duplication. It's a feature that's almost in reach of being really useful. Mango's connectivity problems, however, scupper that.Keyboard: goodSince the keyboard is a big element of interaction with most smartphones, and since I've previouslycriticised Android keyboards, let me note that the Mango keyboard is good: I found it easy to type on, and that it generally corrected my spelling mistakes accurately.Certainly I had far fewer mistyped words than I do on the Google Nexus S or Samsung Galaxy S II keyboards. I'd put it about on a par with the iOS keyboard. The Titan may have benefited by having a large screen, but the Galaxy S has a big screen too, and that just drove me mad.NotificationsYes, everyone's gotta have them (since Android did it so neatly). And if you go to the "Me" tile (by default at the bottom of the front screen), you can see your profile (though you may know who you are already), and there get the choice of "post a message", "check in", "set chat status". Yes, it's the screen that you reached from the front People hub tile after press-swipe-press. And off to the right is the "notifications" page, where you'll get notified.And what do the notifications consist of? Bear in mind that we're competing here with iOS 5, which gives you pretty much all of a tweet, or two lines and the subject of an email. They say things like "Leon mentioned you in a tweet". Next line: "Twitter 4 hours ago." (There's that snoozing security guard again.) Then a blank line. Then: "Richard Ashton mentioned you in a tweet." Next line: "Twitter 4 hours ago." Each is a hyperlink. Each is a staggering waste of space.Windows Phone Mango's notifications are a colossal missed opportunity: rather than providing any actual content, they tell you there might be some content somewhere elseSeriously, Mango? All that screen real estate andyou can't even tell me what they said? Possibly this is how Microsoft thinks we want to separate our interaction – a People hub in one place and then only a swipe-tap-swipe away we can see our notifications – though of course to see what's actually been said, we need to click on the link, whichthenshows us what they said (and gives us the chance to respond). Why not just show us what they said, even cut off, to save us the trouble? What's glance-and-go about that interaction?Mail: linked inboxes and moreAs you'd expect, you can create Exchange accounts on your phone (which means that you can use Google Mail on the phone, since it has an option to set it up as an Exchange account connecting via m.google.com; if you have corporate Google, this will work well).What's not so obvious is that if you have multiple email accounts, you can "link" any number of them together as you like. Again, the concept of a "linked inbox" wasn't obvious to me, though on reflection it makes a lot of sense: if you're dealing with, say, email addresses for a club and for a business and your family, you could link the family and club ones in one "linked inbox", and have the work in a separate one.This is more flexible than iOS, and miles better than what Android presently offers in Gingerbread, where Gmail accounts are separate, and that's it.The email experience is probably the best part of Mango for the power user, but even here there are weaknesses. Threading of conversations works well, and highlighting of unread messages works well. But the giant font size (which you can't change) for senders' names means that you get less information even on the Titan than you do on a (smaller) iOS screen: five emails with senders and subject lines, but the iOS screen has room too for a couple of lines of the email as well.That'sglance-and-go.Windows Phone Mango and Apple iPhone showing the same inbox. Despite being larger, the Windows Phone screen contains less information: the iPhone includes lines from the emailsVoice recognitionMango has it. (Windows Phone 7 had it too, but these days the arrival of Siri has made this a topic of, um, conversation.) You can ask it to do things like "call John" or "text Fiona" or "open the calendar".All well and good, and the recognition works OK, but the failure mode is harsh – "CAN'T FIND THAT NAME IN YOUR CONTACTS LIST", it klaxons at you. I don't want my machines to berate me. Siri lets you down more gently and is far better once you figure out his/her (varies by geography) quirks for things like "convert 83 square kilometres to acres", or "Microsoft's market cap".Mango really can't do that sort of general knowledge stuff. And since you ask, that is the sort of thing I ask my phone.Here's the sort of difference: you can ask Siri "what's the weather in London?" and it will tell you. Ask Mango, and it will do a web search on the weather. OK, good enough, but to dismiss Siri as "just" voice recognition shows that you haven't understood how big the gulf is. It's big.Copy/cut/pasteAnother "hurrah! It's here!" addition. In my experience, not well-implemented. I found I could select a single word easily: the text is highlighted with two slider-like elements at either end. Fine, but I could hardly ever get the sliders to move. It was totally hit and miss.Android's (Gingerbread) selection is slightly easier, though I find that pretty painful too and inconsistently applied (you can't copy the content of some things, such as tweets). By far iOS's copy/cut/paste implementation is the best of the three.Maps, calendars and phone numbersIf you've used iOS, you'll have noticed how "dates" (eg, "2.30pm tomorrow"), phone numbers and addresses become highlighted: click on an address, say, and iOS will take you to view that address in Google Maps. Click a phone number and it will call; click the date and it'll make an appointment. Very neat. On Mango and Android, only phone numbers work as hyperlinks. Given the copy/paste shenanigans on both, this can make getting an address from an email to the maps program challenging.CameraThe Titan's camera is good. (I'll add links to some Flickr pics comparing it to the iPhone 4S presently.) You can activate the camera from the lock screen (Windows Phone had this a year before iOS, which has just introduced it, and Android, which is bringing it in with Android 4.0 over the next few months): in my tests it took less time to go from locked screen to taking a picture than the iPhone 4S. Good stuff.People-centric pictures and taggingThe Reviewer's Guide makes much of this. "When you share photos online, Mango automatically detects the faces so you can automatically tag and share them." Well, Mango itself doesn't – there's no facial recognition going on if you tap on photos in your camera roll. It's Microsoft's servers doing the work. Sharing is via Microsoft's SkyDrive, which offers 25GB of free storage.Personally, I'm not greatly into tagging photos, but if this is a big part of your life it could be useful. To be honest, though, it's make-work: giving yourself tasks that should eventually be done by a machine.AppsThe Market is growing fast but it's nowhere close to the breadth and depth of iOS or Android's. Microsoft is trying to follow Android's "intentions" system, whereby apps can hook into system functions as you desire: the example given is "imagine searching for a restaurant nearby, and then instantly booking it with the OpenTable app". On reflection, though, why not just search for a restaurant nearby andthen call it? You're holding a phone in your hand, and phone numbers work as hyperlinks.But notwithstanding the poor example offered, the idea is good enough. It's the implementation that needs to be proven.I have a standard test to judge the breadth and depth of an app market: a search forGo, the oriental board game. (It makes chess look like draughts.) Abstruse, certainly, but also illustrative.On iOS, there are more than a dozen apps from different companies. On Android, there's one tolerably good one (if you can bear the adverts). On Windows Phone?One.(I originally thought zero – my searches via the phone proved fruitless, even though I thought I'd gone through every single game with the word "go" in its name – but had the abovepointed out to me by M. Ahmad Jones, to whom thanks. The power of Twitter.)My point being not that Go players should avoid Windows Phone, but that app use enhances the smartphone experience; everyone has divergent tastes, and if you can't find something for your particular field, the experience will be less enticing.Nor does good design shine through elsewhere. I tried the (free, splash-screen ad-funded) Tube Companion app, which includes a route planner. There are two text boxes for you to type into … except if you try to type, you're immediately presented with an A-Z listing of stations which you have to scroll through to find your starting point.No search, no predictive typing. Tough luck if you're starting at Woodside Park. OK, now your departure? Same thing again. Not recommended if you want to go to Woodford. That's just one app, but clearly developers aren't using, or aren't able to use, inbuilt searching or type-ahead. Again, a bad experience.Office, Games, Music and VideoWindows Phone started with Office, and it still has it; now it's added Office 365, the "Office in the cloud" experience. A definite bonus if you need to work on Office documents on the move.I dealt with this in my original review of Windows Phone. It's still better than others if true Office compatibility is what you need. However, I don't recommend trying to view spreadsheets of any size or complexity, even on a screen this size; you'll spend your life pinching and zooming. Given a video-out and/or a keyboard it might make sense. But then you'd call it a keyboard of a PC.Games – you can now get your 3D avatar in the Games hub. I'm sure this will matter greatly to some people, but I'm not one of them.Video and Music – "Smart DJ" will create playlists from an artist, album or song. Apple's been offering it via "Genius" for a few years. Bing Music Search has a Shazam-like "name that song!" function. Nice, but additive. Podcasts can be downloaded directly rather than needing the intervention of a computer.Web browserInternet Explorer 9 is built in, but Flash isn't. No complaints: it's a good and quick browser with a faithful layout. Probably the best thing in the whole OS.ConclusionI haven't reviewed every single minuscule feature of Mango here, but the 5,000-word mark is beckoning. (Actually, we passed it a couple of hundred words back.)"Threading" of texts/Facebook posts/Twitter? Didn't happen for me. Live Tiles? Local Scout? Frankly, they didn't impinge on my experience in the way that the People hub and everything else did.If Microsoft were selling this OS on the basis of the Office performance, or local search, then sure, I'd focus on that. But it doesn't – it pushes the "glance and go", the integration of the People hub.My experience was that I found myself repeatedly frustrated by the People hub's pretence at updating, the lack of functionality inside the corral of that hub (especially compared to native apps on other platforms for Twitter or LinkedIn), and the bizarre number of unintuitive hoops one has to jump through just to post a message on a social network.Yes, these things can all be fixed – they're only software. But Windows Phone has now been in development since 2008, and on the market for more than a year, and this update has been in the works for at least a long.Am I honestly the only one who has noticed these usability failings? In my2010 review conclusions, I said that:I think there is a bigger overall problem here. While it is superficially an enticing interface, whose appearance certainly distinguishes it from every other platform out there, the key problem is the lack of information density. No matter what the screen size, you don't get many tweets, or emails, or just words on there. At first it's relaxing – and as I said in my first encounter, calm – but I suspect that over time the lack of packing will make scrolling through long lists of apps tedious, and reading chunked information (such as Facebook and Twitter) exhausting. Those can't be sorted without an overhaul of the interface.Since then? Though multitasking and copy/paste have arrived, the key problem – the text chunking and rejection of useful visual shortcuts such as icons – goes on. To that I add the lack of push updating which Android and iOS use all the time, while giving you more information, and a deeper yet more quickly absorbed experience.Time's nearly up, Microsoft. I'm perfectly prepared to believe that lots of people will buy phones running Mango, especially if they are being pushed through Nokia's world-class channels. But that does not mean they are getting the optimal user experience.With Android phones getting cheaper and more widely available, and iOS also broadening its price base (with the iPhone 3GS, which runs iOS 5, now free on cheap contracts), Windows Phone is going to get squeezed unless it can show people that it has something special.Based on my experience with it over more than a week using it as my everyday phone, it doesn't have what you'd need to draw someone away from Android – or iOS. Still three stars. Still in need of serious improvement.
Growing Pains is a 2D platformer, heading to the Xbox Live Indie Games service tomorrow. The set-up is simple: you have to guide your vessel through a series of trap-filled chambers as quickly as possible – the catch is, your craft is constantly growing so certain areas of the screen are only accessible for a short period – and if you're caught in an area that's too small, the vessel pops.With its simple 2D visuals and emphasis on old school platforming conventions, Growing Pains reminds me of the puzzlers I used to play on the C64 and Amiga, but with the interesting 'growing avatar' mechanic adding a new twist.Brilliantly, developer Dave Johnston, who operates under the studio name,Smudged Cat, got the idea for Growing Pains, not from trawling through a collection of retro home computer games, but by observing his pregnant wife."As I watched her growing bigger and bigger I noticed she was starting to have trouble judging her own size," he explains. "She would regularly fail to fit through gaps that previously weren't a problem and hit things on tables with 'the bump'. It made me wonder what a game would be like if the character were to continually grow. I realised there would be some interesting consequences which prompted me to put together a little prototype and I soon realised there was a lot of potential in the idea. It's nice to think of the inspiration my son gave me even before he was born!"This reminds me of Mike Bithell'sThomas Was Alone, which uses geometric shapes to explore the notion of freindship and co-operation. Emotion doesn't have to be about intricatedly modelles, fully performance captured characters in a detailed 3D world. It can just be some shapes and a meaningful theme or influence.Growing Pains will be available on the Xbox Indie menu from Thursday 10 November for 240 MS points.
Video game maker Activision Blizzard has smashed third-quarter revenue forecasts by almost 20%, excluding sales of the newly-released Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 for the final three months of 2011, putting it on track to deliver the highest earnings per share in the company's history.Activision chief executive Robert Kotick said the record results – which saw the company report net revenue of $627m (£390m), up by more than 18% on its guidance of $530m – proved that games are becoming as important as film and television.Profits, recorded as net income, almost tripled year on year in the third quarter from $51m to $148m.Activision Blizzard, which is 64% owned by French entertainment and telecoms company Vivendi, raised its full-year forecast for net revenue from $4.05bn to $4.25bn, and earnings per share raised from 77c to 85c.The company said Modern Warfare 3, which went on sale on Tuesday, has received an unprecedented level of pre-orders, thought to be worth about $650m.Analysts at Liberum said Activision's performance will almost certainly lead to Vivendi upgrading its earnings guidance when the company reports its third quarter results next week.Liberum said Activision accounts for 15% of Vivendi's operating profit."We continue to strengthen our position as the worldwide leader in interactive entertainment and the broadening of our audiences is confirmation that games are becoming as important as film and television as a mass-market form of entertainment," Kotick said.
Mobile Flash is being killed off. The plugin that launched a thousand online forum arguments and a technology standoff between Apple and the format's creator, Adobe, will no longer be developed for mobile browsers, the company said in a note that will accompany a financial briefing to analysts.Instead the company will focus on development around HTML5 technologies, which enable modern browsers to do essentially the same functions as Flash did but without relying on Adobe's proprietary technologies, and which can be implemented across platforms.The existing plugins for the Android and BlackBerry platforms will be given bug fixes and security updates, the company said in astatement first revealed by ZDNet. But further development will end.The decision also raises a question mark over the future of Flash on desktop PCs. Security vulnerabilities in Flash on the desktop have been repeatedly exploited to infect PCs in the past 18 months, while Microsoft has also said that the default browser in its forthcoming Windows 8 system, expected at the end of 2012, will not include the Flash plugin by default. Apple, which in the third quarter captured 5% of the world market, does not include Flash in its computers by default.John Nack, a principal product manager at Adobe,commented on his personal blog(which does not necessarily reflect Adobe views) that: "Adobe saying that Flash on mobile isn't the best path forward [isn't the same as] Adobe conceding that Flash on mobile (or elsewhere) is bad technology. Its quality is irrelevant if it's not allowed to run, and if it's not allowed to run, then Adobe will have to find different ways to meet customers' needs."Around 250m iOS (iPhone, iPod Touches and iPad) devices have been sold since 2007. There are no clear figures for how many are now in use. More recently Larry Page, chief executive of Google, said that a total of 190m Android devices have been activated. It is not clear how many of those include a Flash plugin in the browser.At the start of 2011,around 20m devices had Flash in the browser, Adobe said, and it expected that by the end of this year the total would be 200m."Our future work with Flash on mobile devices will be focused on enabling Flash developers to package native apps with Adobe Air for all the major app stores," Adobe said in the statement. "We will no longer adapt Flash Player for mobile devices to new browser, OS version or device configurations."Some of our source code licensees may opt to continue working on and releasing their own implementations. We will continue to support the current Android and PlayBook configurations with critical bug fixes and security updates."The decision comes as Adobe plans to cut 750 staff, principally in North America and Europe. An Adobe spokesperson declined to give any figures for the extent of layoffs in the UK. The company reiterated its expectation that it will meet revenue targets for the fourth quarter.The reversal by Adobe – and its decision to focus on the open HTML5 platform for mobile – brings to an end a long and tumultuous row between Apple and Adobe over the usefulness of Flash on the mobile platform. The iPhone launched in 2007 without Flash capability, as did the iPad in 2010.Steve Jobs, then Apple's chief executive, and Apple's engineers insisted that Flash was a "battery hog" and introduced security and stability flaws; Adobe countered that it was broadly implemented in desktop PCs and used widely on the web.Jobs's antagonism was partly driven, his biography reveals, by Adobe's reluctance after he rejoined Apple in 1996 to port its movie-editing programs to the Mac and to keep its Photoshop suite comparable on the Mac platform with the Windows one.But Jobs also insisted that mobile Flash failed in the role of providing a good user experience, and also would restrict Apple's ability to push forward on the iOS platform. Studies of browser crash reports by Apple's teams showed that Flash was responsible for a signficant proportion of user problems; Apple was also not satisfied that a Flash plugin would be available for the first iPhone in 2007 which would not consume more battery power than would be acceptable.Jobs managed to persuade Eric Schmidt, then Google's chief executive and a member of the Apple board, to get YouTube to make videos available in the H.264 format without a Flash "wrapper", as was then used for the desktop implementation.But the disagreements between Apple and Adobe intensified, especially when Android devices began appearing which did use the Flash plugin. Apple refused to use it, and banned apps from its App Store which tried to use or include Flash.In "Thoughts on Flash", an open letter published by Jobs in April 2010, he asserted that "Flash was created during the PC era – for PCs and mice. Flash is a successful business for Adobe, and we can understand why they want to push it beyond PCs. But the mobile era is about low power devices, touch interfaces and open web standards – all areas where Flash falls short."New open standards created in the mobile era, such as HTML5, will win on mobile devices (and PCs too). Perhaps Adobe should focus more on creating great HTML5 tools for the future, and less on criticizing Apple for leaving the past behind."Adobe's chief executive Shantanu Narayen hit back at Jobs, saying that "Thoughts on Flash" contained statements about the plugin that were false (relating to battery drain).
A selection of 16 apps for you today:Shuffler.fmShuffler.fm is one of the sites aggregating posts from music blogs and making it easier to listen to the music they're writing about. Its native iPad app does an excellent job of taking the idea to a tablet. It collects tracks into genre-based streaming radio stations, showing the blog posts they relate to as each plays. A stylish take on music discovery.iPadWildTangent Games AppOnline games firm WildTangent has released its WildTangent Games App for Android devices, which offers a selection of games for free, rental or purchase including Doodle Jump, Fruit Ninja and Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2. The company has also scored a deal with Sony to appear on its Sony Tablet S and Sony Tablet P Android slates.Android8tracksInternet radio service 8tracks has ported its iOS app to Android, offering more than 300,000 playlist mixes created by its users to stream. They're sorted by genre and tags – the latter include sleep, study, chill, sex and party – with DJs and music blogs among the curators providing their own mixes.AndroidUmami for iPadUmami is US-only for now, but it's the latest interesting social TV app, so worth writing about. It synchronises with shows on networks including ABC, NBC, CBS, Fox, USA, TNT, MTV, Comedy Central, National Geographic and Discovery, providing extra information, photos and social feeds on whatever show the user is currently watching.iPadBarcelona: DK EyewitnessDorling Kindersley's latest iPad book-app is a travel guide to Barcelona, with cutaways of its famous buildings, city and park walks with tappable hotspots, a My City feature to construct a personal tourism schedule, and more than 400 images.iPadJunk JackIt's safe to say there are plenty of iOS developers with a Minecraft habit, which is filtering into some of their ideas. Junk Jack is no mere clone, though: it's a clever 2D pixel-art world full of treasures, crafts and materials to build with. Quests, cooking and farming are apparently on the way in future updates.iPhoneGood Food One-Pot RecipesBBC Worldwide's Good Food magazine has a free iPhone app with 150 one-pot recipes, from chicken pilaf to Spanish fish stew. It's free thanks to a sponsorship deal with cider brand Magners.iPhonePocket Jamz Guitar TabsAndroid guitarists have a new app to get their guitar tabs from, complete with its own in-app store for licensed tabs. It also provides access to free tabs from the internet.AndroidPES 2012 Pro Evolution SoccerIt's already out for iOS, but now the latest version of football franchise Pro Evolution Soccer has been released for Android, ditching the iOS edition's freemium model, but keeping the Facebook-fuelled Super Challenge mode. It's been optimised for the gamepad controller of Sony Ericsson's Xperia Play, too.AndroidBoxfictionAppNew iOS app Boxfiction promises "TV series you read", turning popular TV shows into e-books. One of the first to get the treatment is Silent Witness, with new stories featuring the familiar characters. Boxfiction is also promising new series from TV and fiction writers. "If the novel is like a feature film, what's the written equivalent of the TV series? We looked around and couldn't find it, and so we created it ourselves..."iPhone / iPadBloomStartup Mindbloom's new iPhone app Bloom wants to remind people to "make healthy choices, stay connected with others, manage stress, strengthen your spirit, save money, advance your career, and enhance your creativity". Ambitious, then. How? By combining photo and music as "Blooms" as reminders and inspiration.iPhoneHappy Feet Two: Erik's AdventureWarner Bros has a new iOS game for its Happy Feet film franchise. Aimed at children, it blends mini-games, storybook features and three songs from Ozomatli.iPhone / iPadEarth And LegendBlackBerry PlayBook owners looking for hardcore gaming thrills may wish to check out Earth And Legend, which claims to be "the most advanced full-scaled multiplayer 3D RPG" for RIM's tablet. The multiplayer being a two-person co-operative mode played over Wi-Fi.BlackBerry PlayBookRock 'n ElephantRock 'n Elephant is a beautiful book-app from TabTale that follows a rock on a journey to find his best friend. Yes, an elephant. The developer says it wants to help children "tune into their emotional intelligence".iPhone / iPadHKPO Swire Symphony Under The StarsThis app is only really useful if you're one of the 15,000 people attending the Swire Symphony Under The Stars classical music concert in Hong Kong this Friday. But one feature makes it worth writing about in the West: a section of the concert where people get to join in. "You can easily transform your iPhone into a handy musical instrument to join the Orchestra in a large music-making session".iPhoneAT&amp;T Call InternationalAnother US-only app, but included here because it shows how mobile operators are looking to use apps. AT&amp;T's new release promises cheaper international long-distance calls for its customers using Voice-over-IP. Although whether it will be a good competitor for apps like Skype remains to be seen.iPhone
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNvidia's quad-core Tegra 3 ready, Asus's Transformer Prime almost ready &gt;&gt; AllThingsDThe first quad-core ARM chip, and also includes intriguing roadmap for the Tegra chip.Labeling the Back button &gt;&gt; Neven Mrgan's tumblVery good, and surprisingly subtle, usability adviceMy Nightmare Interviews With Google &gt;&gt; Business InsiderSee how you would do. Honestly.LG signs deal with patent giant Intellectual Ventures &gt;&gt; BBC News"LG Electronics has become the latest smartphone maker to sign a deal with the patent house Intellectual Ventures. "IV licenses out its huge library of innovation rights rather than using them to build products of its own. "LG will be able to access IV's patents to threaten counter-attacks against any firm planning an intellectual property lawsuit." Such as who, we wonder? The story mentions Kodak, but that company is in a lot of financial pain. Others which have signed with IV include HTC, RIM and Samsung.Yahoo!, Microsoft and AOL Announce Display Advertising Agreements &gt;&gt; Yahoo! Finance"...today announced agreements that should dramatically improve the process of buying and selling premium online display inventory. The agreements will allow ad networks operated by Yahoo!, Microsoft and AOL to offer each other's premium nonreserved online display inventory to their respective advertising customers." Basically, trying to haul Microsoft's Bing somewhere towards the light of profitability.Adobe reaffirms fourth quarter FY2011 revenue target, restructures to align business around digital media, digital marketing &gt;&gt; Business WireWhat's not mentioned in the headline but is in the body: "In order to better align resources around Digital Media and Digital Marketing, Adobe is restructuring its business. This will result in the elimination of approximately 750 full-time positions primarily in North America and Europe. We expect to record in the aggregate approximately $87 million to $94 million in pre-tax restructuring charges." Brutal. That's about 7% of staff.Apples retail self-checkout is no iPhone 4S, this really is an upgrade &gt;&gt; Forrester BlogsPeter Sheldon: "For the next 2 minutes as you read this blog post, please try to forget about Apple the product company and instead focus on Apple the retailer. Two years ago, Apple undertook a worldwide roll out of iPod touches to their store associates. These devices came wrapped in a sled adding a 2D barcode scanner and credit card swipe capabilities to the hardware lineup and enabled store associates to perform mobile POS transactions anywhere in the store. Ever since, the retail industry has been playing catch-up with retailers like Lowes, Gap and Home Depot recently following suite with respective rollouts of mobile POS functionality to their store associates. "Today Apple raised the bar. Customers in the US can now use their own iPhone 4 or 4S in conjunction with the Apple Store app (one of my favorite mobile shopping experiences and complete with a fresh update) to scan the barcode of most in-store products and perform a self-checkout."Google+ had a chance to compete with Facebook. Not anymore. - Slate Magazine"Google might not know it yet, but from the outside, it's clear that G+ has started to die--it will hang on for a year, maybe two, but at some point Google will have to put it out of its misery. "Why am I so sure that Google+ can't be saved? Because there's no way to correct Google's central failure. Back when companies were clamoring to create brand pages on the network--or users were looking to create profiles with pseudonyms, another phenomenon that Google shut down--the company ought to have acceded to its users' wishes and accommodated them. If Google wasn't ready for brand pages in the summer, it shouldn't have launched Google+ until it was. And this advice goes more generally--by failing to offer people a reason to keep coming back to the site every day, Google+ made a bad first impression. And in the social-networking business, a bad first impression spells death."Tech City &gt;&gt; Google MapsA list of leading tech companies which are based in and around Tech City and an outline of how long they have been residents for. Tech City is a technology hub located in the East London area between Old Street (Silicon Roundabout) and the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in Stratford. Hat-tip @markprigg.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Wednesday. How is your week going so far?
Microsoft-watching superstarMary Jo Foleyalerted us on Tuesday to the release by Microsoft and Joyent ofthe first stable build of Node.jsfor Windows servers.Node.jsis the latest technology Microsoft has adopted, in a continuing trend to bring programming technologies developed outside of Redmond to those coding against the Microsoft stack. The good thing about Node.js though is that it'sreallycool and promises to fit in beautifully with the way the we should be building web applications with .NET.Too cool for schoolOne problem that I've always had as a professional software developer is the pressure I feel from peers to get into new technologies. This is particularly acute because I work primarily on the Microsoft platform, which is usually regarded as the one that's not hip and trendy.Although my feelings on "sticking with what I know" are partially down to an innate curmudgeonliness, there are good reasons to focus on platforms that have broad adoption in industry. On the "dark" side, if you're running a project that goes wrong and your employer brings in a troubleshooter to find out the root causes of the failure, it's easier to defend a position of "we used .NET", or "we used Java", compared to the position of "we used Scala", or "we used Erlang". On the more practical side,recruiting developers is difficult enougheven when using "boring" technologies like .NET or Java. When you get esoteric it becomes an unworkable nightmare.On the other hand, technologies that are "too cool for school" are invaluable breeding grounds for establishing new approaches and new ways of working. The Javascript libraryjQueryused to be one of these cool toys - now it's established as an absolute requirement for client development across both desktop and mobile platforms. Thus we have to balance "what the cool kids use" with "what the boring kids use" so that we're both learning and developing while controlling risk.Back on the Microsoft side, particularly .NET, one problem that we have is that we're established and defendable, but we're dated. Web Forms applications now generally look so ugly compared to modern web applications that these days you can typically identify an ASP.NET application just from the way it looks without having to refer to the URL.Microsoft's backing for Node.js sits at a neat intersection of us of "cool and trendy street" and "understood and reliable avenue". Let's look a first a little deeper as to how it works, and then at how we can use it.ThreadingMicrosoft only adopts technologies from outside Redmond when they are established, and Node.js is no exception to this rule. It's only there because it's proven.Node.js is a server-side JavaScript execution engine. The actual language isn't important - certainly if I had a time machine and Tony Stark's cash I'd go back and change it so that it wasn't based on JavaScript. What's important ishowit works.Windows, and the *nix OSs, are based onoperating system architecturesdeveloped for mainframes in the 60s. Spend some time with some of those old systems and you'll find process isolation and threading shaped roughly in that same, old school way. Specifically, web servers are based on a client/server execution model that's bound up with operating system threading models and have inherent limits in terms of scale.On startup, a web server's process has (notionally) one thread. This thread establishes a TCP/IP socket on a known thread and waits for an inbound connection. Upon receipt, the primary thread finds or creates a worker thread and hands over the connection to that worker. Once handed over, the primary thread returns to a waiting (more properly, a "blocked" state) and waits for another connection. Because spinning up a thread is expensive, the server typically maintains a pool of threads that can be used as workers. When the worker's work is done, the thread returns to that pool where it can be used again.A process can only maintain a relatively small number of threads. Spin up too many threads and the OS will spent more timeswitching threads aroundthan actually working. Thus, there is a natural limit to the number of simultaneous requests that a server can handle. Old-school thinking dictates that in order to get more requests through in a given time period, you have to run the work faster. If you have ten worker threads that take one second each to handle a request, you can do ten requests per second. If you optimise such that each request now only takes half-a-second, you can handle 20 requests per second.The win in Node.js comes from the fact that for a good chunk of the request's total execution time, your thread is waiting for disk requests. Unless you can load all of your application's data into local memory, you are ultimately dependent on dragging data up from disk, either from a local database or from a remote one on the network. (We discussed this ideapreviously.) For simplicity, let's say in our one second request, half-a-second is spent waiting for a database call to complete (and for simplicity, we'll say the data has to be loaded from disk rather than the database server's in-memory cache). Rather than having our thread sitting there blocking for the response to come back, we can use that thread to service another request. That's the general idea of Node.js. It breaks the dependency of "program counter" to thread by allowing the program counters to "dot around" the work that can be done rather than having threads sitting idle in a wait state.(Note: in the above, I have used a more liberal meaning of "program counter" as an allegory to "current line of code that's executing".)In Node.js, nothing can block the executing thread. It is known as "event-driven programming". When operating in this model, whenever your thread needs to block, that thread's runtime is used to service another request that can run. The genius of event-driven programming is that you don't have to do anything to get a significant performance win. We can, in this simplified example, double the capacity of our server without having to do any optimisation at all - we just allow Node.js to free-up all of the time that was being wasted by blocking.Structurally this is done by asynchronous programming. Whenever an operation could block, the developer provides an anonymous method to execute upon completion by way of a "callback" handler. Under the hood, Node.js has a number of real OS threads and a bunch of code that handles the sequencing of anonymous method calls accordingly.So, we know that Node.js is fast, and we know how it works. How can we use it as part of our ASP.NET development and stay mostly inside our comfort zone while taking advantage of this cool, established, and Microsoft-backed technology?Node.js, and IISYou can try Node.js right now bydownloading the Windows installerand downloading theiisnodeIIS module (hereandhere).Scott Hanselmanhas adecent write-up on how to get it all working.In terms of using Node.js for production work, we are notquitethere. There's enough to play with and work towards proper use. So let's discuss what's missing.Ideally, the way that you would structure this would be to have an ASP.NET application doing the UI composition with jQuery driving the user experience on the client. Ideally we'd be looking at using theMVCapproach with ASP.NET rather thanWeb Forms, but either will work. Either way, we're looking to load the dynamic UI bits to the browser and use jQuery and Ajax extensively. Where Node.js comes in is that we'd rig the Ajax calls to call into a business tier running on Node.js.The first headache is that because we're on Microsoft, our backend database is likely to be SQL Server. Of thedatabases supported by Node.js, we have no problem with MySQL (that's even got it'sown project), but a native SQL Server driver is not there yet. An interim measure would be to write a REST interface for SQL Server that you could drive from your Node.js code. This would negate some of the advantages of using Node.js, but arguably you could swap out this layer easily enough when SQL Server support was improved by the community, as it surely will be. The shape of such a layer might be to allow the code in Node.js to form a parameterised query, pass that query through the REST interface, execute it and return the results as JSON. Because Node.js is based on theV8 JavaScript enginedeveloped by Google for use in Chrome, you'd get pretty decent performance with this method.The second headache is probably just me being curmudgeonly. When I wrote aboutGoogle Dart, I pointed out that JavaScript is a poor language for building an application's business tier. I still stand by that - the lack of proper OOP constructs significantly limits its utility. But it is eminently possible to build a reusable and powerful business tier using JavaScript (and people do). There is also a strong argument that hosting such a business tier abstracted away in a deployment-agnostic fashion, as provided by Node.js, is a good thing. It creates a sort of "application service as a service" that you can run within your organisation that, by definition, exposes a nicely constructed API out first to the application it was built around and then, perhaps, to other applications within the business.ConclusionIn summary, although there are some rough edges with Node.js on the Microsoft stack - most notably the lack of first class SQL Server support - it delivers a number of important wins. The fact it's Microsoft-backed makes it a relatively commercially-appropriate technology to use on production, core-business applications, plus it's a modern approach which helps you and your team to learn and explore new ways of working. The ability to squeeze more performance out of existing servers is also a big win. In all this new development of Node.js on Windows is strongly recommended.
Nvidia launches Tegra 3: three times the power, much less consumptionChipmaker Nvidia Corp, rushing to stake out more territory in tablets and smartphones, said its new Tegra 3 processor delivers up to three times the graphics performance of its predecessor and uses 61% less power than its predecessor.Previously code-named "Project Kal-El", the new quad-core chip is in production and is Nvidia's latest bet to expand into the fast-growing mobile market as tablets like Apple Inc's iPad eat into sales of personal computers.Santa Clara, California-based Nvidia, which started out making graphics chips for PCs and still makes most of its revenue that way, expects devices using the new processors to be on sale by the end of the year, Chief Executive Jen-Hsun Huang told analysts on a conference call in September.Early in 2011, Nvidia's Tegra 2 mobile chip, which is based on architecture licensed from Britain's ARM Holdings, was included in several new gadgets from Samsung Electronics, Asustek Computer Inc and LG Electronics, raising Nvidia's profile with investors as well as its stock price.The first tablet to use the Tegra 3 chip will be Asustek's Eee Pad Transformer Prime, Nvidia said in a statement.ARM's low-power chip architecture is widely favoured for mobile devices dependent on batteries, and is also used by companies such as Qualcomm Inc and Texas Instruments.Intel Corp so far has failed to find a foothold in the mobile market, and is hurrying to adapt its chip architecture, originally designed to make powerful PCs, to work efficiently in smartphones and tablets.Hitachi-LG optical disk joint venture admits price-fixingHitachi-LG Data Storage, a joint venture of Hitachi Ltd and LG Electronics pleaded guilty to 15 criminal counts in connection with a long-running probe of price fixing in the sale of optical disk drives to companies including Dell, Hewlett-Packard and Microsoft.Hitachi-LG Data Storage Inc is the first company charged by US prosecutors in the investigation.District Judge Richard Seeborg accepted the plea from the company on Tuesday at a hearing in San Francisco. Seeborg sentenced the company to a $21.1m fine.Cristina Arguedas, an attorney for the company, declined to comment after the hearing.Major companies including Sony, Hitachi and Toshiba disclosed in 2009 that they had received subpoenas from the Justice Department related to the investigation of sales of disk drives, such as CD, DVD and Blu-ray players.Hitachi-LG Data Storage Inc also agreed to assist with the ongoing investigation. In a court filing, the US Justice Department said the company deserved its low fine because of the "substantial assistance" it is providing to the government.The joint venture admitted conspiring with others to eliminate competition or fix prices for drives sold to computer giants Dell, Microsoft and Hewlett Packard dating back to 2004.The venture was also charged with participating in a scheme to defraud HP during one procurement event in 2009.The case is USA v. Hitachi-LG Data Storage Inc, No. 11-cr-724 in US District Court for the Northern District of California.Africa: the fastest-growingMobile phone system operators say Africa is their fastest growing market. In a report released Wednesday, the industry group GSMA, or Groupe Speciale Mobile Association, said for each of the past five years, the number of subscribers across Africa has grown by almost 20% and will reach 738m by the end of next year.In2008, there were 280m mobile phone users, according to the International Telecoms Union.GSMA says that mobile penetration in Africa has reached 649m connections, second only to Asia.In releasing its report, GSMA is calling on African governments to allocate more mobile broadband spectrum and cut taxes on mobile operators to further spur expansion. Citing studies by the World Bank and others, GSMA says that in developing countries, for every 10 percent increase in mobile penetration there is a 0.81% increase in GDP.
As 100 new YouTube channels are announced, Ben McOwen Wilson, YouTube's content partnerships director for UK and Ireland, explains how they are working with broadcasters and Mark Mitchinson of Huawei on how the Chinese mobile manufacturer plans to break into the UK market.Plus this week's news headlines. Charles Arthur presents this episode –- Aleks Krotoski has lost her voice – and will hopefully return next week.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
London-based startupInensuhas signed up a big name for its new music-focusedSuperFanFacebook application. British boy-band One Direction, who bagged a record deal with Sony Music after their run in 2010's UK X Factor series, have become the first artist to use the app to connect with their fans.We've written about Inensu before: chief executive Paulina Bozektalked about the company's plansto make social and mobile applications at the Develop conference in July 2011. She is no stranger to the music industry, having previously spent six years as executive producer of Sony's SingStar PlayStation singing games."SuperFan is a platform for fans to hang out together, socialise  and play games, while competing to be the number one super-fan," says Bozek."The target audience is teens, because music is their identity, whether that's One Direction, Rihanna, Justin Bieber, Lady Gaga or whoever. What we're trying to do is gamify what it means to be a fan."At launch, there are four artists for SuperFan users to sign up to: Rihanna, Katy Perry, Taylor Swift and One Direction, although only the latter is the result of a specific deal with the artist's label.For now, SuperFan isn't using streaming music, but is instead pulling in other data such as tour dates (from fellow startup Songkick) and encouraging fans to virtually check-in to wherever the artist is that day. People collect points for their influence and knowledge, with the application's core features inspired by popular Facebook games."We're applying the social gaming concept of a daily active user, a DAU," says Bozek. "In social gaming, your farm needs to be harvested, your pets run away, your restaurant is dirty, so you come back. We've mapped that onto the world of music. 'Do you know where One Direction is right now? They're in Marble Arch!' And all these kids hanging out on Twitter and Facebook will know that."People can connect their Twitter accounts to SuperFan and then chat to one another when checked in to the same place. The chat happens via tweets, for Bozek says Inensu doesn't want to try to move its users away from the micro-blogging service.The game elements of SuperFan are currently fairly light, but Bozek says Inensu has a long list of mini-games and new features to add in the coming months."We're using a lot of analytics and metrics to figure out what the fans want," she says. "We're using Kontagent, which is the best-in-class social analytics platform that's used by all the big social game developers. We want to apply the social game mentality to being a fan."So what do One Direction get out of SuperFan from being an official partner? They get acustomised versionof the app that sits on their own Facebook page, and the marketing around their releases and tours will be tightly tied in. That includes encouraging fans to check in to content, like videos, as well as places. There will also be specific badges to earn as rewards for being early to access some of this content.One Direction have a branded version of the SuperFan application"The 1D version is very integrated into their overall campaign," says Bozek. "Plus the label will have certain news that they want to promote through SuperFan." Sony Music will also get access to some of the stats: for example, pinpointing hotspots around the world where a lot of fans are logging in.At the start of this week, four weeks after launching quietly in beta, SuperFan had attracted more than 25,000 monthly active users, who had checked in nearly 40,000 times, spending an average of 12 minutes in the application per session.Most of that activity came from One Direction's branded version of the app. The band currently have more than one million Likes on their Facebook page, so there's clearly some work to do to get more of those fans signed up to the SuperFan app."Overall, our main goal for the first four weeks has been building retention over acquisition, so we'll be focusing on this next, and adding more features and mechanics in general," says Bozek. "We have a list of 20 ideas as to what we could do next, but we want to find out what the fans are enjoying first."
Forget Strictly v The X Factor: the real entertainment battle this winter is between two behemoths of the gaming world. Call of Duty is the giganotosaurus that sits astride the games business, making a billion a year for its publisher Activision and selling more than 20m copies a time. Battlefield is the seasoned pretender, a huge success on its native PC platform since the early noughties, but this year coming in to claim the console top spot.And now the reviews are in for both titles, how have they fared?Since its release at the end of October, Battlefield 3 has attracted a pretty consistent critical line: the multiplayer is awesome, but the single-player campaign is too short and too dull. In his 8/10review of the title for Eurogamer, Dan Whitehead makes the defining point:Those who buy the game for multiplayer likely won't care that these elements aren't up to par, but what stings most is the thought of what DICE could have done to evolve and expand its multiplayer design skills if the mantra of "BEAT COD" hadn't been drummed so relentlessly into the development process. Battlefield didn't need to be more like Call of Duty to succeed, it just had to double down on what it was already good at. Hopefully that's a lesson that will be learned by the time Battlefield 4 roars into view.It seems most of the objections are about EA's determination to compete with CoD at its own game, rather than simply conceding the single-player battle in favour of dedicating development time to a purely multiplayer experience – a la the original Battlefield titles. When reviewers haven't grappled so painfully with this whole issue of marketing and intent, the scores have often swung out in favour of EA. In theCVG review, the author states:One thing that definitely feels genre-leading is the multiplayer. If you're confident venturing online (and to clarify, it feels much more polished and traditionally Battlefield than the recent open beta) this game is essential. We've said it before of Battlefield games, but the team at DICE know how to create compelling, perfectly paced online experiences.And the score of 9.2/10 clearly comes with the understanding that you're buying a multiplayer game with a campaign and a co-op tacked on for extra value.Most reviews have also had something to say about the disparity between the PC and console versions of the game. The developer, EA Dice, is a veteran PC studio, its heritage steeped in pushing high-end computer set-ups to their limits, both in terms of visuals and multiplayer performance. Several reviews have pointed out that the wonders of the Frostbite 2 engine are severely reduced on console, and that a PC will provide you with an unparalled graphical experience. And that's not just a cutting-edge monster PC – as Ryan Winterhalter at 1up points out inhis review:I was impressed when I played the BF3 beta on my aging but still powerful Nvidia GTX 460 with no issues. I was able to max out the settings -- though my monitor at the time only went to a paltry 1366x768 resolution. I went into the retail version armed with a new 1680x1050 monitor and a top-of-the-line GTX 580, and found no problems maxing out the game. I wasn't able to play BF3 on a variety of PC setups, but the early word among those with access indicates that the game looks better than the console on all but the lowest settings.However, I was also interested in the point made byJim Sterling at Destructoid:Running at full spec, Battlefield 3 is a jaw-droppingly beautiful PC game and there's no denying that it's the new leader in terms of raw, unadulterated power. This has its drawbacks -- as stated, the graphics make spotting enemies incredibly difficult thanks to how much visual information is crammed into every environment. With the swirling dust, blinding lights and chunks of freshly-destroyed scenery filling one's immediate surroundings, actually getting a bead on something important can prove challenging.Graphical fidelity as a barrier to playability? Did anyone ever see that coming? As for Metacritic scores, the PC version stands at 89, Xbox at 84 and PS3 at 86, with few rogue reviewers dropping below the 80 level.As for Modern Warfare 3, there are less reviews in right now, but the Xbox version stands at a Metacritic of 90, with PS3 on 88 – the PC average hasn't been calculated by the site yet.Here, the critical consensus seems to gather around the sheer size and scale of the product, with the Official Xbox Magazinecalling it, "startlingly huge". The alterations to the multiplayer set-up (especially the new strike packages) have also been generally well-received, with Edge intoning thus in itsunexpectedly generous 9/10 verdict:These are interesting changes, not only because they've clearly been made with a huge audience of highly differentiated skill levels in mind, but because they show that massmarket game design doesn't mean dumbing down. Multiplayer has become more accommodating for everyone, and it makes COD better: how many players regularly clock up 15+ kills without dying? Controlling an attack chopper was a distant dream for most in MW2's multiplayer; in MW3 it's not easy, but it is attainable.In terms of the campaign, I feltGameSpot's 8.5/10 reviewgot to the heart of a difficult conundrum:This is an exciting and rewarding game, but the series' signature thrills have lost some of their luster. Modern Warfare 3 iterates rather than innovates, so the fun you have is familiar.Modern Warfare 3's story, its structure and its atmosphere are all extremely familiar – we're fighting the same wars we've fought through Modern Warfare 1 and 2 and we're fighting them in the same way, with the same set-pieces. But is that necessarily a bad thing? Most crime fiction is highly formulaic, with respected writers like Ian Rankin and PD James falling back on similar archtypes and structures over and over again. James Bond is the same film re-imagined 20 times, and in the video game universe, what does every Final Fantasy really do differently, apart from juggling the combat mechanics and a few character names? (Okay, that's going to be controversial...)Hollywood's mercilously successful three-act structure shows that, as human beings, we're as attracted to patterns and repetition as much as we are to innovation. And look at our TV battle at the moment – both X-Factor and Strictly trot out the same character types year after year for our familiar amusement.Battlefield 3 vs Modern Warfare 3 – which is better? Oh, it's an impossible question. They're both modern day military shooters, but they work very differently, and they have different aims. Now that Battlefield 3 is working properly (almost) its vast, strategic warzones are utterly gripping and visually splendid; it is astonishing to close in on a distant firefight only to see an RPG round take out the front of an entire building. But Modern Warfare 3 offers the instant thrills and dumbass logic of the great arcade shooters. And it packs in masses of value, whatever you think of the controversial multiplayer system.If you can, try both, or at least trust your instincts as a gamer – that's the message that comes through loud and clear from all the reviews I've seen.Alternatively, hold off and wait for Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim vs Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword. We are sospoiled...
A selection of 13 apps for you:Spotify for Windows PhoneStreaming music service Spotify has a new app tailor-made for Microsoft's Windows Phone OS. It includes the elements from other platforms, including Facebook social features. Specific to this version is the ability to pin individual playlists to the Windows Phone Start screen.Windows PhoneMapMatcher LondonLove maps? You may well love MapMatcher London, which lets you explore the capital on up to four maps at once on the iPad's screen. Maps include London in 1807 and 1901, tube maps, bus routes, a hand-drawn aerial view, and the Royal Wedding route. There's a separate version for New York.iPadCuppleA social network for only two people? That's the idea behind Cupple, a private sharing app designed for couples to share photos, messages and location data. "The new and fun way for people to stay in touch when they're apart," according to its App Store listing.iPhoneRide London TubeThis is the latest transport app for the London tube system, including a map, status updates and closures, directions to addresses, landmarks and postcodes, and the ability to plan trips offline.iPhoneNokia City SceneYes, that's right, a new MeeGo app for Nokia's N9 smartphone. Of course, it's made by Nokia… City Scene combines street imagery from Navteq, building models and terrain data to offer 3D exploration of cities – starting with London and a dozen US cities, with more on the way.MeeGoTracey Browne Everyone is OrdinaryUK singer-songwriter Tracey Browne is the latest musician to release an album as an app. It includes her full album within the app itself, as well as live lyrics and lyric sheets, a photo album and Facebook sharing.iPhone / iPadCoach's EyeTechSmith's new app is a video analysis tool designed to be used for a range of sports, including golf, football and even yoga. The idea being that coaches of teams and/or players can record footage, then play it back in slow-motion to offer feedback, even scribbling circles and lines in TV analyst fashion.iPhoneRubik's RaceThe latest app based on the Rubik's Cube is a "sliding tile race game", turning the classic cube into a 2D puzzle game where perks and pitfalls spice up the action.iPhoneAsh – The Official AppBritpop stars Ash are still going strong, and they now have an official iPhone app with news, tour dates, streaming music and social features.iPhoneFINDaPADThis is the latest property search app for UK homebuyers (or simply nosy people who fancy a squizz inside houses near them). The Windows Phone app searches local estate agent listings, while also pulling in local amenity details, house price trends and crime statistics.Windows PhoneNokia NFC GamesAnother Nokia-developed app, but this time for its range of Symbian smartphones – or at least those with NFC technology built in. Nokia NFC Games is a collection of three simple games to show off the potential NFC has for gaming.SymbianRock Trivia Network SamplerThis quiz game for iPhone includes 240 questions from the 60s, 70s, 80s and 90s, promising to "remind you of how aweseome you were when you rocked the rec room with your sunburst double-neck Fender Gibson Hagstrom Rickenbacker humbucker tennis racket air guitar". Well, yes.iPhoneHusbandMotivator by Shelle Rose CharvetGenuine quotes from the App Store description of this new Entertainment app: "Have you tried food and sex to persuade your husband? And he still won't do what you want?… In-depth understanding of how your husband's motivation changes in different situations… Easy Script Builder – create and email a script to yourself, with the exact words to persuade your man." Quite.iPhone
At the end of last week, Apple noted that it wasmoving towards requiring sandboxing for all apps distributed on the Mac App Store. (Sandboxing? We'll explain.) With Windows 8, Metro apps alsorequiring sandboxing, it looks like industry players seem to think this will in some way control the malware menace.They're wrong. Here's why.Normal software applications, once installed, usually have free rein over the entire computer and its peripherals. Sandboxing looks to control the rights of installed applications so that they don't automatically have carte blanche over the whole machine. A common example is that sandboxed applications typically cannot write to any folder on disk that they fancy. In the mobile world we've typically always had sandboxing. Apple's move with regards to requiring developers to implement sandboxing with the Mac App Store (MAS) and OS X route implies that its engineers feel it's proven such a good idea on the iPhone and iPad that Mac users might as well "benefit" as well.The issue that we developers have is that app store owners can arbitrarily define hoops that we have to jump through in order to get our code up there,but that's not the problem. As we'll see, the real menace to computing, both mobile and desktop, has been that it's all but impossible for vendors to remove "holes" in system software, or commonly installed apps, that can be exploited.Here's just one - particularly terrifying - example viaDaring Fireballthat shows how an app-store-acceptable app can be crafted to download and execute an arbitrary payload that gives total control over the device. If you only watch one YouTube video today,watch this one:Sandboxing and the other measures imposed by the app store owners lulls users into a dangerously false sense of security by implying that apps which run in a sandbox are automatically not malicious - which simply is not true. It also dramatically stifles the industry's ability to innovate on the platform.CriminalityIt's easy to give a type of software a cutesy name, like "malware", but what we're actually talking about here is perpetration of premeditated, criminal acts. Malware authors, like all criminals, are in every case looking to exploit a weakness in a system for gain, usually to some innocent party's loss. In the vast majority of cases, people who have the skills to write things such as viruses, worms, rootkits, keyloggers, or botnets choose not to because they operate morally within the rules of reasonable society.When we examine malware, either on a personal computer at your mum's house or on a server in a FTSE 100 business, the criminal's overarching intent is to co-opt the machine for his (occasionally her) own purposes. Those purposes are either to directly steal from you (e.g. a keylogger that steals your online banking password), or to facilitate some other criminal act (e.g. enlisting your computer in a botnet that sends spam, or finds victims and defrauds them). Thus the ultimate objective of the malware criminal is to find a vector that cedes some or all of the control of your computer to them.You can either cede this control by installing software which has hidden functionality, or you can suffer a "drive-by download" (more in a moment). Sandboxing, and other measures favoured by app store owners, looks to "harden" vectors related to direct installation. But this sort of vector, where the user explicitly commands the machine to install the malware, is a tiny minority of all attacks. Most malware is installed by a drive-by download. In this scenario the software is installed automatically without their cooperation. Even Mac OS X systems have been vulnerable todrive-by downloads.Drive-by downloads are almost always done through exploit vectors in commonly installed client software. Nowadays, most of these are really off-the-wall, such as getting aseemingly harmless PDF file to run some of the malicious code on the user's machine. Vendors of commonly used software – particularly Microsoft, but also Apple, Adobe and others – battle daily to remove the holes that can be exploited by malware authors.Unless a malware author is looking to specifically victimise known individuals throughspear phishing, he or she will look to build the biggest network possible, and the drive-by download technique is absolutely the way to do it. Tricking the user into explicitly downloading malware through an app store simply doesn't scale for this sort of broad attack.Let's now look at three particular methods that the app store owners are looking to impose on developers that, in theory, make it harder for the owner to end up distributing malware: permissions/entitlements, code signing and sandboxing.Permissions and entitlementsAndroid has had "permissions" from the start. The counterpart in OS X and iOS development is called "entitlements". On Android and OS X/iOS these work in roughly the same way - you mark the application with "I want to use the camera", or "I need Internet access", and so on. (We'll ignore Windows Phone, Windows 8 and .NET for now as what they have in this area is too off-beat.) The user has to confirm that the application they wish to run will have these rights over the device, its peripherals and the network.The problem with this permissions model is that it assumes benign intent on the part of the developer. A photo sharing app could ask to use the camera and the internet - basic functionality that it needs in order to operate legitimately. However, you can take those same permissions and, in theory, take photos without permission and upload them to a server of your choice without the user's cooperation.Android gives us an important view into the efficacy of this permissions-based approach. The Android Market is not curated and applications are not vetted before being made publicly available (they are on the Mac App Store or iTunes App Store). What malware-writing criminals can do on the Android Market is build apps that do whatever they fancy and simply request the permissions they need. Luckily for them, the end user either doesn't care or doesn't understand what these permissions mean, and duly opens up the device by blasting straight through the confirmation screens.And you see that in the amount of malware on the Android Market: it'snow the worst platform for malware.But the Android Market is a strange casebecauseit's not curated or vetted (although apps can be removed after the fact both from the Market and from handsets at Google's orders.) Notionally there's no difference between putting up a web page and publishing an app on the Android Market. This is why malware is up there in the first place - it's a soft target. Curated app stores, like the Mac App Store, the iTunes App Store, and the proposed Windows 8 app store won't be attractive to malware criminals. There's too much traceability, plus the store owners will be looking at your software, which is something that you really don't want. A common-sense test tells us why - if you were planning a financial scam, the last thing you'd do is write to the FSA documenting your intended methods.My opinion on this is that permissions/entitlements give the store owners a warm fuzzy feeling that they're doingsomething, but what they're actually doing is essentially nothing. It's the vetting, or lack of it, that makes the difference there.Code signingThe point of code signing is laudable: it guarantees that the software code of an application, when we load it, exactly matches what left the factory. It essentially means that nobody can change the application code when it's in the wild. The certificates used for signing also provide some comfort as to where the software came from.For operating system files, this is an absolute requirement. You need a base to work from that you can guarantee has not been exploited or busted open. Signing operating system files -as proposed by the UEFI secure boot mode in Windows 8- makes rootkits impossible. But that's where it ends. Code signing has been around since the days of ActiveX, and there are plenty of examples of malware targeting ActiveX installation vectors that are "appropriately" signed and proudly displays a company name in the IE security popup. (Here'san example.) This, like permissions/entitlements are damaging because itimpliessecurity where there is none. There's nothing special or magical about having a signed app. It doesn't affect the malware problem either way.SandboxingWe've already discussed that sandboxing allows for an application's rights to be limited and why asking the user to confirm those rights via permissions is a largely pointless affair.In the MAS requirements we find things like "an application can only write to its own private folder" (and not wherever it fancies writing on the disk). OK, laudable - this means that an application distributed via the Mac App Store cannot find my private documents and transmit them back to Malware HQ.Ignoring the fact that malware authors are not going to use curated app stores, sandboxing doesn't prevent you from building a botnet. From first principles, we know that a botnet just needs to be able to receive commands from a "command and control" server and then do some work. If we're sending spam, we need to receive a list of email addresses, build each message in turn and then send them to an SMTP server of our choice. Sandboxing doesn't catch any of that. In fact, neither do fine-grained permissions - all we need there is permission to talk to the internet and we're done.So we're back to a false sense of security. "It must be OK because it will run in a sandbox." No, it just means it could be a class of malware that operates adequately within a sandbox.For reference, the video from Charlie Miller referenced at the top of this article exploits a hole in code signing and runs properly with a sandbox. That's the perfect illustration of the problem: malware is aboutexploits, not about constraining developers.The sinister problem with sandboxing is that it stifles innovation without offering any real malware protection at all. For me, Apple significantly fails with regards to what a user's data actuallymeans. My data is my data, and I shouldn't have to be reduced to tears by the complexity of getting a Word document onto my iPad. If I have data on one device it should flow effortlessly to all of the other devices that I operate. We have the bandwidth and understanding to do this now - it's a trivial problem. My fear with sandboxing is that it pushes this argument in the wrong direction by further restricting data rather than freeing it up. The strength of the personal computer is that you can take data that you own, then massage and manipulate it using any software that you wish to install. That becomes increasingly difficult when the sandbox is in play.We're not winning this battleApple's move with imposing sandboxing, and Microsoft's moves with its Windows 8 marketplace to do the same, considers the problem of malware from fundamentally the wrong angle.The only reason why malware is distributed through the Android Market is because it is not policed. To distribute malware you either leverage existing exploits, or you trick people to explicitly install applicationswithout usingthe app stores. (A now classic example, sadly, isoperating a call centre and try and trick people into installing or running your code.) Microsoft, the most experienced company at knowing how to defend against malware exploit vectors, does a good job but is nowhere near a "zero vector" point. If Microsoft can't do it, there is absolutely no way that Apple or Google can - they simply do not have the experience, no matter how vocal their fan base.On reflection, the policy of the app store owners seems more about covering their own backs than actually offering a solution. You can legislate all you want for code signing, flagging privileges, or sandboxing - it won't make a blind bit of difference. Malware is a criminal problem and a technical solution won't cut it. This is logical if you consider putting better locks on your house - it doesn't stop society creating people who want to burgle you, it just pushes the problem down to the next guy with less good locks.
Groupon's bid to expand into the Chinese market has hit a hitch after it discovering it had linked up with a company selling counterfeit luxury watches.The daily deals giant has pledged to refund all customers who bought the Tissot watches after discovering they were fake.Hundreds of people had bought the watches through the Groupon deal, which offered buyers a watch for just 690 yuan (£67), a quarter of their normal retail price.Groupon's joint-venture Chinese operation, Gaopeng.com, said that after an investigation it discovered the merchant "had given us fake agent qualification documents",according to Reuters."We are outraged and we have begun legal proceedings. We hope to protect the interests of consumers and Gaopeng through legal methods," the company said.The incident highlights the legal challenges Groupon faces in China, which is notorious for counterfeit goods.Groupon, which last week made a successful initial public offering valuing the company at more than $11.4bn (£7bn), is struggling to crack China where local daily deals operators dominate.Lashou, the country's leading daily deals website, filed in October for an initial public offering on Nasdaq and is planning to raise up to $100m to expand its marketing and delivery systems.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
The beginning of Charles Dunstone's partnership with the American electricals giant Best Buy was low key. It came in 2007, in the form of a regiment of Vespa-riding computer nerds with white short sleeved shirts and clip-on ties.The Geek Squad is Best Buy's after-sales support team, helping customers from within stores, over the phone and on 24-hour home call-out. There are similar offerings both in the US and in the UK, but the Geeks are regarded as best in breed, the US retailer's point of difference from other sellers of consumer electronics.Dunstone brought them to the UK in the aftermath of Carphone Warehouse's chaotic "free" broadband offer, when the group's ill prepared call centres were overwhelmed as millions rushed to install their connections. The doomed joint venture to create a chain of out-of-town Best Buy UK electricals stores, selling everything from kettles to computers, followed two years later but met its end this week after failing to turn a profit.Geek Squad, on the other hand, is still going in the UK. It is safe to assume fixing IT problems for householders is not a big cash cow – Geek Squad's numbers are not published separately. But its importance can be judged by the fact that its founder, Robert Stephens, who sold to Best Buy nearly a decade ago, has moved on to become chief technology officer at the retail parent.What the service does is monetise a need that is most often been met by friends and relatives. With the aim of spending less time staring at screens, I gave my mother and mother in law Geek Squad annual membership a number of years ago, and to my surprise and relief they have renewed ever since.An American analyst once described it as the "IT staff for the individual". It joins the dots between the network – be it broadband or 3G – and the device, meaning consumers faced with a problem don't have to put up with being batted back and forth between the call centre at their telecoms operator and their laptop maker's helpline.Now Carphone is on a mission to join the dots between network and device in its stores. Having gone lukewarm on selling fridges, and prompted by the consumer appetite for smartphones, it will instead focus on stocking a greater range of devices – tablets, laptops and e-readers – in up to 400 Wireless World stores around Europe by March next year.It took just 18 months, from the opening of the first Best Buy UK big-box shop at the Lakeside shopping centre in Thurrock in April 2010, for Dixons and Comet to send the new entrant packing. With the likes of John Lewis serving higher-spending customers, there was not really a gap in the market for another white goods retailer.But no one is yet offering what Carphone's Wireless World format can: a collection of devices from a range of brands and the broadband, Wi-Fi or mobile phone contracts needed to make them work.Apple comes closest, although its shops only stock the one brand. And while there are "geniuses" in store for those prepared to sit on a bench and wait to be seen, Apple won't send help to customers' homes.Everything Everywhere, the uncomfortably named union of Orange and T-Mobile, would probably have removed its umbrella brand from the high street by now were it not for the fact that consumers rather like the shops that use it. They offer a wider range of devices and higher quality sales advice. But there are only plans for 30 so far, and they can only sell connections to two networks.My fantasy consumer electronics retailer would be a one-stop device and network shop combining John Lewis-like informed sales staff, a wide range of products, supermarket-beating prices and top-notch after-sales care. It's probably too big an ask, but Carphone and its Geeks are well placed to scooter in and make the market.• This article was amended on 18 November 2011 because the original said you can't buy a 3G connection in Apple stores, when in fact you can.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team'Hacked server' claims another certificate authority casualty &gt;&gt; ZDNet"Dutch certificate authority KPN has issued a statement, confirming that it will cease issuing operations after a security breach was discovered. KPN, formerly known as Getronics, which issues SSL-certificates to validate the authenticity of secure websites, will cease issuing certificates after one of its servers had been hacked, thought to be as far back as four years ago. "It's another major blow to the integrity of the web, only a month since Dutch certificate authority Diginotar was hacked, potentially compromising the security of websites belonging to the Dutch government, Google, Facebook and even state intelligence services." Digital certificate authorities have been making Greece look like a stable member of the euro this year.David Gelernter discusses patent claim against Apple &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"David Gelernter is known for many things. As a pioneering computer scientist, he first earned renown by connecting computers together into collaborative networks. Then in 1993, he gained the kind of fame no one wants, as a victim of Theodore Kaczynski, the Unabomber, who mailed a pipe bomb to his office at Yale University that left him gravely injured. "Professor Gelernter had to fight for his life then. Now he is fighting to prove his contention that his innovations were pirated by Apple for its computers, iPhones and iPads. He did it once, and a company whose original incarnation he co-founded won a stunning jury verdict, but then an extraordinary judicial ruling took it all away." Final decision yet to come: Gelernter could yet prevail.How your bullshit Anonymous hacking threats get made &gt;&gt; Gawker"Apparently all it takes these days to spark a media hacking frenzy is a copy of iMovie, a voice synthesizer and a painfully overblown prose style. Slap up the Anonymous logo (or better yet, one of the pre-made videos of a masked Anonymous figure speaking) select a dramatic soundtrack--that creepy song from Requiem from a Dream is a favorite--and spout off something about how a hot issue of the day has "angered" Anonymous so prepare to meet your doom, We are Legion, Tunisia, Egypt blah, blah, blah."German lawyers say Apple urgently needs (and will probably get) a temporary suspension of Motorola's injunction &gt;&gt; FOSS Patents"So this is neither a guaranteed, immediate doomsday scenario for Apple nor a ruling that's unable to affect Apple's business in the very near term just because it doesn't name the German subsidiary. While Apple is fairly likely to get the injunction suspended, this is in the court's discretion and can go either way, so Cupertino can take a deep breath only after the grant of a temporary suspension. "We'll just have to keep an eye on the continuation of the proceedings in Mannheim, where Apple will have to file its objections to the default judgment within two weeks (and may file a motion for a temporary suspension even ahead of that deadline), and, subsequently, in Karlsruhe, the city in which both the competent higher regional court and the Federal Court of Justice are based."Squeeze Tightens on Kodak &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Eastman Kodak Co. said Thursday that it will have trouble staying in business over the next year if it can't squeeze more money out of its patent portfolio or raise new funds by selling debt. "The warning came in a dense filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission as the imaging company reported that its cash supply dwindled again in the third quarter, even as it drew $160 million from its credit line. "Kodak is struggling to rebuild its operations around commercial and consumer printing as sales of its traditional film and photography gear tail off. It has depended heavily on proceeds from intellectual-property lawsuits to fund its turnaround plan, but that strategy has faltered this year as settlements dried up."On/Off Switches &gt;&gt; Matt Legend Gemmell"Since iOS gave us a new type of checkbox control - the On/Off switch - I've noticed them appearing in more and more desktop applications too. Just today, I saw an example that displays terrible usability, and wanted to talk about it a little." Subtle but important, like most usability gotchas. (And say congratulations to Matt, who got married last weekend.)Don't give your users shit work &gt;&gt; Zach HolmanSo true: "Twitter is filled with users who have carefully made a few lists, and then promptly forgot about them after they realized their clients don't make it as easy to read List tweets as it is to read tweets from people you follow. "This is why I was never fascinated by Google+ and its concept of Circles. You have to go through entire sub-communities of your friends and drop them into arbitrary groupings. That sounds like shit work to me. What happens if I get really hammered with a Business Acquaintance and he becomes a Close Drinking Partner? Do I move his circles around? What happens if we hire him? Is he a Coworker and a Close Drinking Partner? The last thing I want to have to worry about is continually micromanaging another facet of life. "On Google Reader &gt;&gt; Chris Wetherell"o If Reader continues being understaffed, absorbed, or is eliminated then the internal culture at Google will adjust to a newly perceived lack of opportunity for building things that are treasured. No one knows what effect this will actually have, though. The response could be tiny. "o Technology will route around the diminishment or disappearance of Reader. Even if this means something other than feeds are being used. "o It's a tough call. Google's leaders may be right to weaken or abandon Reader. I feel more people should acknowledge this. "o However, saying "no" to projects doesn't make you Steve Jobs if you say no to inspiring things. It's the discernment that's meaningful, not the refusal. Anyone can point their thumb to the ground.Steve Jobs's Real Genius &gt;&gt; The New YorkerMalcolm Gladwell reviews Walter Isaacson's biography of Steve Jobs. It's shorter than the book, just about.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Modern Warfare 3 is a science fiction RPG. No wait, bear with me. The monstrous and bizarre story of Russian ultranationalists invading the US and then turning their feverish gaze toward Western Europe is essentially a re-reading of the "reds under the beds" sci-fi of the 50s – except here, the aliens actuallyareReds, though they operate like nightmarish terrorists and they have the limitless technological armadas that HG Wells imagined for his Martian warlords. Meanwhile, through the game's obsession with weapons, inventories and special powers – sorry, "perks" – it is sometimes looking more toward Final Fantasy than at rival first-person shooters like Halo or Battlefield.Whatever the case, the campaign kicks off immediately after the insanity of MW2. The US is fighting back and winning ground, while the Russian president seeks to re-assert his influence and depose the maverick leader, Makarov. While Delta Force and SAS squads take their part in the major land offensives, Soap MacTavish and Captain John Price of Task Force 141 are back behind enemy lines, tracking down Makarov in a personal quest for revenge. Joining them is Russian spec-ops newcomer Yuri, whose uncertain affiliations lead to some of the best plotting in the series, neatly flashing back to a couple of very key moments in the first Modern Warfare title.All this sound and fury signifies nothing really, but at least the story makes some kind of sense – and even emotional impact – this time round. Although the action darts across the globe from the US to the Middle East, via Africa and Europe, the bridging sections explain almost all of it well, and we have a cogent mission plan. John Price, meanwhile, is confirmed as Call of Duty's finest human creation and the coda to his juddering character arc is perfectly judged and surprisingly cathartic.In structural terms, there is a definite lull toward the middle of the campaign when the shoot-outs become achingly familiar, and the linearity frustrates. There's also a badly judged story sequence in which a family is caught amid a terrorist atrocity on the streets of London. It seems a desperate attempt to re-ignite the sort of controversy that Modern Warfare 2's No Russian level attracted, with its interactive airport shooting spree. Here, though, it's an uncomfortable and unnecessary failure.Inevitable tabloid storm aside, none of the details matter too much. Really, MW3 is a game about epic mise en scene, and without a doubt, the Infinity Ward/Sledgehammer hive mind has set the benchmark for action set-pieces in this generation of games machines. There's the agenda-setting opener off the tip of Manhattan, with dozens of warships clustered in front of that iconic skyline, bombers buzzing above, the water crashing against monstrous hulls. Later, in Paris, there are hundreds of paratroopers dropping down around the Eiffel tower as a swarm of choppers blacken the skies. And in one astonishing sequence set aboard a plummeting jumbo jet, the player must indulge in a frenetic shoot-out as the craft's freefall creates a gravity-free battle zone.The Infinity Ward engine is far from cutting edge – the overall look of the game has not moved on enormously since MW2. But the vision, the choreography, the sense of scale and detail – they are awe-inspiring at times. And this isn't just about the grandstanding effects – the collapsing buildings, the tanks falling through crumbling multi-storey car parks – it's about the intricate moments too. The little bars in Prague with their wood-panelled walls and elaborate furnishings, the movie adverts lining the London Underground, the TVs showing football highlights in an enemy guard house – these intricate place-setters act as ballast to the preposterous plot and scenes of unimaginable mega-destruction.The multiplayer component is the bloody heart of the Modern Warfare experience, and it has been pumped through with carefully administered adrenaline. The new weapons upgrade concept – which allows you to add proficiencies to your most-used guns, boosting range or stability, or reducing recoil – brings an extra layer of depth and control to the customisation process, and is more satisfying than the Black Ops currency system.It is also symbolic of where the series is heading: while the original Modern Warfare toyed with RPG concepts such as levelling up and collecting multiple weapons and items, MW3 embraces the inventory tree ethic with abandon. There are more than 40 weapons (all tweaked and re-balanced for MW3), but with proficiencies and attachments there must be thousands of combinations.However, the masterstroke is the Strike Package system, which replaces killstreaks as a reward structure. In the past, players had to string together multiple kills without dying in order to gain cool one-off attacks such as the predator missile strike or devastating AC-130 fly over. That set-up is still available via the "Infantry" strike pack, but now, the new Support category rewards altruistic denizens, not just for shooting enemies, but for carrying out team objectives like capturing flags and bases.Cleverly, these streaks are not cancelled when the player is killed, meaning those of us who aren't twitchy shooting machines can make an ongoing contribution to team-based modes, and will actually get the chance to see higher level streak rewards such as the devilish airdrop trap (which deposits a fake, booby-trapped care package into the map) and the remote sentry, a machine gun that can be placed anywhere and operated via remote control.So through upgrades, packages and perks, players are able to pinpoint individual styles of play, focusing on elements such as speed, endurance or sheer firepower and crafting every element of their persona to those ends. And yes, what you end up with is the military equivalent of mages, warriors and assassins – with customised guns and branched abilities instead of swords and magic. What I'd love to see is Infinity Ward taking this even further, crafting a range of narrative-heavy multiplayer modes, a la Uncharted 3. There is a whole new genre out there to grasp hold of.Of course, these subtleties are unlikely to immediately surface in public multiplayer areas, where the quick scope freaks are likely to dominate. Modern Warfare 3 is still a frenzied and unforgiving environment, and its 16 maps are dense, cluttered and shot-through with choke-points and disguised sight lines. Arkaden, set in a German shopping arcade, is a warren of enclosed units and blind corners, primed for the run-and-gun brigade, while Fallen features a downbeat European town where a group of brick buildings are surrounded by rat runs creating a dangerous parameter area.Meanwhile, Downtown features a wrecked chunk of Manhattan, with a gaping chasm leading into the subway system providing plenty of ambush possibilities; and Dome, based around a satellite station, is all angled enclosures and empty cargo containers riddled with campers. It's a selection of maps that seems to have been designed to highlight and exaggerate the differences between the Battlefield and Modern Warfare experiences; the former is tactical, measured and expansive, the latter fast, brutal and instinctive.But the game also has an intrinsic sense of balance. While assault streaks line up devastating Reaper, Pave Low and precision airstrike attacks, the SAM turrets are more easily accessible, while counter- and advanced UAV options let you swiftly seek out ground troops. There's even a recon drone that hovers above the battlefield marking individual enemies if they stray into its view zone (this will also distort their visuals for a few seconds, as though they've wandered into a flash bang explosion). Add in the assault drone – a remote control robot complete with machine gun – and you have a constantly fluctuating theatre in which team work and adaptable strategywillprevail.If all that sounds a little hectic, Call of Duty: Elite – the game's social networking add-on – should allow less confident players to find pals of the same skill level to fight with, as will the Facebook integration that lets you locate and invite any friends who are currently playing the game. And then there's the expansive Private Match system that provides its own set of game modes, designed specifically for friend groups, including the amusing Infection, which is essentially CoD's answer to the playground game British Bulldog. Throughout the year most players will return again and again to become fodder on these multiplayer battlefields. As a value proposition alone, MW3 is an incredible product.And then you have the spec-ops modes. Survival is MW's hugely compelling version of Horde, with pairs of players taking on waves of enemy soldiers. Cash is earned for kills and it is then spent between rounds on guns and equipment. It is impressively tactical, demanding a keen sense of territorial control and co-operation from the players.Then there are 16 co-op missions, which often provide new angles on familiar sequences from the single-player campaign. Firewall is a raid on a London warehouse, with one player fighting it out on the ground while the other provides protection via a series of remote control gun turrets. Little Bros, meanwhile, has one player battling through a wrecked Berlin, while the other is providing cover from a Little Bird chopper; midway through they swap roles to close the assault. These tasks are short, but much more challenging and varied than the Battlefield 3 equivalents.For many of us, Modern Warfare will be a guilty pleasure. It is difficult to reconcile ourselves as functioning, feeling adults with the ceaseless cacophony of fantasised violence this series represents. But yet stripped of the lurid graphical lustre, MW3 is a peerlessly slick interactive system; an engrossing study of cause and effect, of input and immediate, explosive consequence. It is part of a ceaseless timeline that has hauled us from Space Invaders to Commando to Doom and beyond. The feedback loop that swirls around two simple components – the button press and the "death" – is still unnervingly compulsive.Beyond that primal function is the grandiose story that borrows so many themes and archetypes from the RPG universe, and the complex mechanics of progression and customisation. I'm not kidding anyone, though. Modern Warfare is, in its third incarnation, what it has always been – a rampaging shooter with a moral compass so bent out of shape, your head spins at the madness of it all. Yet really, if you want to ask questions about the morality of war as entertainment, you should perhaps begin your quest with Homer or even chess. This game isn't for you. It never was, and it never will be.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
The Chinese telecoms giant Huawei has confirmed that Microsoft is demanding royalty payments from it over products using Android software.Victor Xu, chief marketing officer for Huawei Devices, confirmed to the Guardian on Monday evening that "negotiations are in progress" over licensing certain Microsoft patents which the American software giant claims are infringed by hardware implementations of Android."Yes, Microsoft has come to us," Xu said on Monday as the company launched a new smartphone and 7in tablet for the UK market. "We always respect the intellectual property of companies. But we have 65,000 patents worldwide too. We have enough to protect our interests. We are a very important stakeholder in Android."Microsoft has already extracted per-device royalty agreements for Android products from at least 10 companies, including Samsung, the world's largest smartphone maker, HTC, Compal Electronics (whose customers include Dell, HP and Toshiba), Quanta Computer, Wistron, General Dynamics Itronix, Velocity Micro, Onkyo, Acer, and Viewsonic. In ablogpost in OctoberMicrosoft's Brad Smith said that the licence agreement with Compal meant that "companies accounting for more than half of all Android devices have now entered into patent licence agreements with Microsoft".Xu suggested that Google's acquisition of Motorola Mobility, which is still underway, might lead to more protection from Google for Android licences.The Shenzhen-based company is the world's second-biggest maker of networking infrastructure such for mobile phone networks, behind Sweden's Ericsson and ahead of Alcatel-Lucent and Nokia Siemens Networks.Huawei – pronounced "Hoo-wah-way" – has big ambitions in the smartphone market: "Over the next three years we are aiming to be in the top five smartphone makers, and in the top three in the next five years," said Xu. "We have established very aggressive targets in the market."Presentlythe fifth-largest smartphone maker is RIM with its BlackBerry range, which in the third quarter of the year shipped 11.8m phones worldwide. The third largest was Nokia, with 16.8m.Huawei intends to open a design centre in London which will employ "dozens" of people who will work on the design of products for the company. Mark Mitchinson, Huawei's UK vice-president, said that it should be open by the beginning of 2012.
