A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team25 top examples of HTML5 &gt;&gt; CreativeBloQGreat examples of HTML5 can be hard to come by and even harder to master. It's core aims have been to improve the language with support for the latest multimedia whilst staying readable and being consistently understood by computers. Rich Clark and Bruce Lawson take a tour around the internet to specially hand-pick the best examples of HTML5 for your inspiration.And they are great.Why Apple Won by Betting Against the Web &gt;&gt; Mashable"The thing that made Apple successful was betting against the web," [venture capital investor Roger McNamee] said on stage at Mashable Connect Friday.While Google adopted the cultural norms of open source software by making its mobile operating system free and commoditizing content, Apple changed the game by keeping a closed system, focusing on brands and enabling paid apps.Apple differentiated web content for a price. By doing so, McNamee believes, it created a fundamentally different model than succeeded on the wired web."Most of all what Apple did was they charged $400 to $1,000 for the hardware that was necessary to get a differentiated user experience on data that 100% of their customers could get for free off a desktop device," he said. "Every Apple customer has consciously voted with $400 to $1,000 against the world wide web."McNamee argues that people will start using apps rather than the mobile web as such on mobile, because they can get to niche users more easily.Smoking iPhone on Australian plane caused by misplaced screw &gt;&gt; The VergeLast November, not long after an airplane landed at Sydney Airport, crew members discovered a passenger with an iPhone that was literally smoking -- and it turns out the problem was a bad repair job. The Australian Transport Safety Bureau has finally released the results of its investigation -- which included initial testing in Australia before the phone was shipped to specialists in the US -- and concluded that a stray screw was the cause of the problem. The screw managed to puncture the battery casing, causing the phone to overheat and start smoking.Not quite what some had been expecting.Two months later, Apple acknowledges use of OpenStreetMap in iPhotoApple has finally given a public nod to OpenStreetMap, almost two months after it began using OSM's mapping data within iPhoto for iOS. The OpenStreetMap team tweeted about the change on Thursday evening, noting that the app, which was updated earlier this week with relatively minor fixes, quietly gained an OSM mention in the credits.Finally.The lessons I learnt from my iPhone mugging &gt;&gt; Benjamin CohenChannel 4's technology correspondent is mugged for his iPhone at knifepoint. Really unpleasant, but with some useful lessons - the most important of which is: phones can be replaced.2007's pre-M3 version of Android; the Google Sooner &gt;&gt; Stephen Troughton-SmithHe got his hands on one of the reference versions from May 2007 - so post-iPhone announcement, but pre-redesign (for there was a crash program inside Google developing a touchscreen device):It's quite clear that Android was being designed to a completely different target before the iPhone was released. What we see here would have fitted in perfectly with the world of Symbian and BlackBerry. This early build of Android is in fact even less capable and mature than the 2004 release of Symbian Series 90 (Hildon), the OS that runs on the Nokia 7700 and 7710 - Nokia's first, and only, pre-iPhone touchscreen smartphones.Historically.Samsung Galaxy S III performance preview: it's fast &gt;&gt; AnandtechAmazingly fast - it's the quickest in nearly every category; only the HTC One X is quicker anywhere, and that only in one or two categories.The Samsung Galaxy S III: the first smartphone designed entirely by lawyers &gt;&gt; Android PoliceThe Galaxy S III is... well... it's ugly. There's really no other way to put it. But why? Why is it ugly? I don't mean aesthetically, why is it ugly, I mean, "How did something like this ever make it out of Samsung's design studio?" I'll tell you how, it was never in the design studio. This phone design was born down the hall, in a room where the door sign reads "Samsung Legal."It was designed by lawyers.Puzzling amount of hatin' going on for the Galaxy S 3, it seems.iOS Dropbox app kerfuffle ends, but highlights confusion about guidelines &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaIs Apple blanket-rejecting iOS apps that make use of Dropbox because of an evil plan to push developers toward iCloud? If you asked this question five days ago, the answer from the Internet at large might have been a resounding "yes!" But days later, as is often the case, details have come out that reveal the answer is probably "no."As it turns out, Dropbox inadvertently put other developers using its SDK in violation of one of Apple's app guidelines, resulting in a string of rejections that looked as if apps using Dropbox were being banned. The Web flew into a fury over what is essentially an annoying but long-standing clause in Apple's guidelines. The problem has now been remedied and the fury has died down.The problem was that Dropbox wasn't letting apps where people could click through to buy Dropbox storage externally the option of buying the same storage inside the app. Guidelines, eh.How Samsung broke my heart &gt;&gt; The VergeVlad Savov:So what did we get? TheSiri-imitating S Voice, a quad-core SoC that's already been announced for theMeizu MX, a suite of camera enhancements that rips off HTC'sImageSensewholesale, and a signature animated lock screen that emulates interaction with water, something that's been a live wallpaper option on Android phones since 2010. Oh, and industrial design and build quality that you'll find on any anonymous South Korean MP3 player &mdash; Samsung seems to have tried trickling its design languageup, never a good idea.We're told not to be sheep, yet Samsung itself is just falling in line with the herd. The company seems oblivious to the sense of betrayal this has engendered in the informed consumer. For the first time in its history, Samsung had enough sway with phone buyers to convince them to hold off on the premier option on the market, HTC'sOne series, in wait for Samsung's riposte. The Galaxy S pedigree was on the line, and if Samsung could live up to it, a bond of trust was going to be its reward. People were ready to start treating Samsung like Apple, giving it the benefit of the doubt both in terms of product timing and the adoption of unfamiliar new features.Then the talk about wind, water, pebbles, and feng shui home screen organization started.TL:DR: he's underwhelmed.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Kim Dotcom's penchant for online films is well documented. His recent YouTube releases include an expensively produced rap song in which the internet tycoon screams around a German race track with Formula One champion Kimi Raikkonen, and the famous Mega Song in which Dotcom is joined by the like of Alicia Keys and Kanye West to promote his Megaupload online file hosting service.The Megaupload website, now disabled pending court action, was itself largely comprised of cinematic content, much of it in breach of copyright according the US prosecutors.But as Dotcom prepares his case against US efforts to extradite him from his New Zealand home to face charges of copyright and racketeering, the German-born entrepreneur has found time to assemble a new online song, this time taking aim at  embattled local MP John Banks and the prime minister.The track was produced in collaboration with the Black Eyed Peas' producer Printz Board, with whom Dotcom, currently wearing an electronic tag ahead of an extradition trial later this year, is reportedly working on an album of dance music.Recorded at a studio owned by Crowded House frontman Neil Finn, the track features an assortment of Banks's stumbling responses to questions over political donations, together with a rap that questions the motivations of the New Zealand prime minister, John Key, who has said he accepts Banks's assurances that he has not broken any laws.Banks, a minister outside cabinet, provides an important prop to the government led by Key's National party, which maintains a slim parliamentary majority.Playful but barbed, the song, called Amnesia, lampoons Banks's numerous claims not to recall incidents, including being flown by helicopter to Dotcom's $30m mansion. It includes a reference to Banks's puzzling repeated insistence in media interviews that he "did not come up the river in a cabbage boat".The lyrics run: "Nothing to fear / Nothing to hide / He's the majority / So he's all right. / He is John Banks / He got the vote / And that's why Key keeps him afloat / On his cabbage boat."Banks has been embroiled in a scandal over donations to his campaign for the Auckland mayoralty in 2010 since Dotcom's revelations just over a week ago.The mayoralty bid was unsuccessful but he was subsequently elected to parliament as an MP, in large part thanks to an endorsement from the governing National party.Dotcom alleges that Banks asked him to make anonymous donations into his mayoralty campaign and subsequently called him to thank him for the deposit of NZ$50,000 (£25,000). Failure to specify significant donors is a breach of New Zealand electoral laws.Banks denies making such a call and insists he has complied with the relevant laws.The donations are the subject of a police inquiry and detectives are expected to visit Kim Dotcom this week at his mansion north of Auckland to interview him on the matter.
Here's a question: what's bigger and far more important than Facebook? Hint: it's very low-tech and doesn't need a smartphone or even an internet connection. And this year marks its 20th birthday, which means that in internet time it's 140 years old. Oh, and it doesn't involve LOLcats either.Got it yet? It's SMS – text messaging to you and me. Or txt msng, if you prefer. Two-thirds of the world's population – that's over 4 billion people – have access to it because that's thenumber of people who have mobile phones, and even the cheapest, clunkiest handset can send SMS messages. It's had a much bigger impact on people's lives than anything dreamed up in Silicon Valley.Interestingly, Silicon Valley played almost no role in it. SMS emerged on our side of the Atlantic and was the brainchild of the kind of European intergovernmental initiative that drives Ukip nuts. The first mobile phones were analogue devices, and the market was bedevilled by incompatible technologies and protocols – rather like the early market in fixed-line telephony in the United States before the AT&amp;T monopoly was established. But in 1982 a European telephony conference decided to tackle the problem. It set up the Groupe Spécial Mobile (GSM) committee and established a group of communications engineers in Paris.Five years later, 13 European countries signed an agreement to develop and deploy a common mobile telephone system across Europe. The result wasGSM– a unified, open, standard-based mobile network larger than that in the United States. The first GSM call was made by the Finnish prime minister in 1991, and the first GSM handsets were approved for sale in May 1992.The idea for SMS emerged during the GSM project. It was based around a really neat trick – to transport messages on the signalling paths needed to organise telephony during periods when those control channels were quiet. This was a fantastic idea because it meant that there was no extra cost involved in transporting the messages. The only restriction was that they had to be short – no more than 160 seven-bit characters. SoSMSwas built into the GSM system from the beginning.The strange thing was that almost nobody paid any attention at first. As an early mobile phone adopter (I could never understand why telephones had to be tethered to the wall like goats), I noticed SMS but thought it feeble; it looked like a truncated email. And it appeared that most other mobile users thought the same: what could one possibly do with 160 characters? As a result, SMS use remained low for years.The reason for this became obvious only with hindsight. In the early days of mobile phones only adults could have them – because they were only available on contract and you had to be over 18 to qualify. And adults didn't seem to know what text messages were for.Then, in 1996, something changed: pay-as-you-go sim cards were introduced. Suddenly teenagers could acquire mobile phones. And when they got them, boy didtheyknow what SMS was for. It was a tipping point. The graph turned skywards, and it's been going in that direction ever since. SMS is now the world's most intensively used data communication technology.One sourceclaims that over 6 trillion texts were sent in 2010, for example, and that was more than triple the number sent in 2007.The story of GSM and SMS has interesting lessons for technology policy. GSM came about largely because of Europe-wide governmental action: the establishment of a continent-wide technical standard effectively created an enormous industry and gave Europe a significant lead in mobile telephony. So the right-wing mantra that governments should keep their noses out of technology policy and leave it to the market is sometimes wrong.Second, the story of SMS shows that the people who effectively invent a technology – in the sense of determining its use and making it viable – are not so much the engineers who design it as the consumers who discover what it's really for. The telephone was originally conceived as a broadcast medium, whereas radio was conceived as a point-to-point medium. Exactly the opposite turned out to be true in both cases. And it was teenagers who "invented" SMS.Finally, we need to stop being dazzled by the techsensation du jour(Facebook, Twitter, Angry Birds,OMGPOPetc) and focus instead on something mundane that really works, reaches everyone, providesvaluable services for poor people, exploits nobody and is based on a sustainable business model.So here's the most important msg 4 2day: txt is gr8.
While the recently releasedDoctor Who: Worlds in Timeonline multiplayer game proved that the diminutive browser window can play host to ambitious, glossy and sprawling adventures, it is on the fringes of the games development&nbsp;scene that the most exciting - and sometimes challenging&nbsp;-&nbsp;pieces of browser entertainment lurk.Dys4ia, for example, is a brief autobiographical account of its creator's experience of undergoing hormone replacement therapy. It offers a touching and witty insight into an experience many may never even consider in detail. Something of an abstract parody of video game conventions,Dys4iadoes much to prove the power of games to communicate complex concepts through playful interactions.If, however, pondering such personal perspectives isn't quite what you're looking for, new releaseRoar Rampagemight be just the ticket. This slick title gives you control of a giant dinosaur, tasked with smashing down cities with its claws, and is immense fun. Despite a low-brow theme, it's a remarkably elegant distraction with a strong flavour of video gaming's past.And if that's not quite refined enough,Dude, Where's My Planet?may offer a happy middle ground. A straightforward&nbsp;and beautifully illustrated game based on toying with the gravitational pull of clusters of globes, it proves that with quality execution even the most rudimentary concepts can be compelling.
Originally released last year as a series of staggered download-only episodes, this point-and-click game based onBack to the Futurelooked to prove that not all film adaptations had to be crass and pointless – risky business for a franchise that has high fan expectations. Here, the complete series is re-released at a competitive price of £14.99, on multiple platforms as a single retail package, but it still works best on PC, where graphics are sharpest and mouse controls most responsive.A classic point-and-click adventure, it picks up shortly after the film trilogy ends, as you play Marty McFly going back in time to 1930s prohibition-era America to save Doc from his latest pickle. The game rests on a fun plot and sharp dialogue in a beautifully recreated Hill Valley, with terrific voice acting featuring many from the original cast (Michael J Fox excluded), yet ultimately, it's sadly let down by lightweight in-game puzzles that lack invention and complexity.There's a fun blast through 80s Americana to be had here and it beats the average film tie-in, but it's unlikely to win any new fans.
It's been five or six years since several significant games franchises abandoned their biannual restaging of the second world war in favour of depicting more modern warfare. It would be nice to suppose that it's largely because of this thatSniper Elite V2feels like a throwback, rather than the distractingly weary visuals and level design. Yet it's a strange but undeniable pleasure to be battling jackbooted fascism in a big mainstream game again and one that makes overlooking these flaws a simpler task than expected. Also, if the latest series entry feels like it hasn't moved on in ways it should have since the original was released in 2005, it is worth noting that the strengths of that first title have been retained – and perhaps even improved upon.The considered pace holds an intensity rarely found in a marketplace obsessed with the frenetic. Creeping through the blasted streets of 1945 Berlin, locating the ideal sniper's nest and booby-trapping its perimeter before settling in to await the perfect shot is a captivating trial-and-error experience. The smarter-than-usual plot about capturing V2 scientists as part of the real-life US Operation Paperclip also helps the game to rise above the sum of its parts.Equally, little touches, such as waiting for loudspeaker announcements to echo across an enemy camp and hide the sound of your devastating rifle, add an enjoyably dark wit to most missions.Sadly, it still feels a little more like revisiting a great old game rather than being thrilled by a brand new one.
Price  £20,095MPG  67.3Top speed  136mphCan you name any of your great-grandparents? Out of a possible eight I'll bet you're struggling to name even half of them. And that's only going back three generations. It's different for cars, though. This is the ninth generation Civic and the bestselling family car can name all its relatives. Honda has a working name for each iteration. Starting with the original Civic, there was the Super, Wonder, Grand, Sports, Miracle, Conscious and finally Revolution. Wonder (number 3) is my favourite: its tagline was "Man maximum, machine minimum!" Today's super-competent cars are so alive with technology it sometimes feels as if we, their drivers, have been left out of the equation.Up until Conscious (number 7), the Civics were a byword for nice, conservative, anonymous motoring. The Civic was the Captain Sensible of the road, but then along came Revolution (number 8). A riot of bulging eyes and acute angles. It was so futuristic it looked like part of the Mir space station had fallen to earth – it even had triangular exhaust pipes. The reliable dullness that had served Honda so well for 34 years was abruptly parked in a&nbsp;bay marked "heritage motoring": the new Civic Revolution was ready for a bright new beginning.Problem was… there were a few problems. Owners told Honda that the design was too polarising, that they couldn't see anything out the back, that the ride was too hard, that the interior felt a bit cheap. Oh dear.In a masterclass of diplomacy, Honda has both listened to those carping owners and stuck to its guns. Number 9, the new model – as&nbsp;yet unnamed, but I'd have thought the Civic Pride could be a goer – is still a visually challenging vehicle. In a&nbsp;market where anodyne rules the middle lane, the Pride stands out like Boris Johnson at a Kojak convention. But some of its more futuristic corners have been rubbed off, literally. The square-cut rear end is now curved, the triangular exhaust pipes circular. And the front looks more sporty, less aggressive.You can now see out the back, and they've even thrown in a&nbsp;window wiper, though nobody had complained about that. The new suspension means it feels supple without any loss of that racy road feel. The softer ride comes from fluid-filled compliance bushings. You know they are fluid-filled, as you hear the liquid sloshing about as if you are in an idling speed boat or have drunk too much tea.They've upped the use of more forgiving materials inside and improved sound insulation, though, mercifully, the space-age dashboard is unchanged. It sweeps around you in two hi-tech levels, its curve continuing from the central console right round to the door. The car also has what's billed as a "magic seat" – don't get too excited, it's just a rear bench which folds up in numerous ingenious ways to increase the space of the already surprisingly deep boot.Enginewise, the Pride has the cleanest and most powerful units of the entire family – choose between two high-revving petrol units or a&nbsp;silky smooth 2.2-litre diesel. A&nbsp;new 1.6-litre i-DTEC is also planned for later this year which will deliver CO2emissions of just 95g/km.As for great-grandparents, I could manage only two: Hugh and Lilias.Fuel figures: the whole storyOne of the first disappointments that the owner of a new car faces is that real-world fuel consumption figures rarely matches – and never exceeds – the figure published by the manufacturer. To tackle this problem,What Car?has launched True MPG, a website that gives real-world miles per gallon information for the first time.Until now, the only information that's been available is the car makers' own figures, which are determined under EU law and are conducted in laboratory conditions on rolling roads. Not any more. Car buyers can simply log on towhatcar.com/truempgand work out the fuel economy they can expect to get from their next new car using our exclusive True MPG tools.What Car? tests the vehicles using a portable emissions-measurement system when the engines have reached normal operating temperature. The vehicles are then driven by two experienced engineers over a variety of roads including motorways, A and B roads, and through towns and villages. The data from the testing considers driving style, changes in altitude, ambient temperature and humidity and engine temperature which is then used to produce the more realistic data. Here's a video showing how the testing was carried out:http://www.whatcar.com/truempg/how-we-did-it
The internet is like a talking bear: undoubtedly miraculous but best approached with caution. This has never been truer than in the case of the time-thief Twitter. In the six years since its inception, the site that lets us socialise in teaspoons has delighted, inspired, disgusted and distracted (to distraction) its 140 million users, often in the space of half an hour; and changed the world forever.One thing everyone agrees on is that nobody agrees on the point of Twitter. It is derided as trivial (the name "Twitter" was chosen because it meant "a short burst of inconsequential information") as frequently as it is hailed as the engine that drove the Arab Spring. It's both a voyeuristic window into the gilded idiocy of celebrity and a spotlight on suffering that would otherwise go unrecorded. Twitter's fuel is extreme emotion – jealousy, rage, mawkish sentimentality and LOLZ. As such, it's a digital Molotov cocktail, constantly waiting for a&nbsp;spark. Just ask Samantha Brick, Ricky  Gervais and Cat Bin Lady.Thanks to Twitter, television – George Orwell's "cyclopean eye" – has become a&nbsp;compound one, a multi-screen myriad of information streams. Like many others, I&nbsp;traced the path of last summer's riots sitting in front of the rolling news with my laptop on my knee, following Guardian journalist Paul Lewis's tweets from the ground, DMing friends trapped in their houses and thinking "#PrayForRain". But whereas Orwell's viewers were pinned like a butterfly under television's unblinking glare, Twitter has restored a beneficial distance between us and it. If Twitter is a virtual living room, the TV has been put back into it. Viewing is a group activity again, which certainly brightens up Question Time.Graham Linehan once posted: "Celebrities who don't follow anyone! You have in your possession a magic mirror, and you're just using it as a mirror!" which made me laugh, then made me think: maybe Twitter's status as an enchanted looking glass isn't limited to famouses. The mirror told the wicked queen the truth, even when it was unpalatable. Our online personalities may be an exaggeration of ourselves, but perhaps "In Ternet Veritas"? Regardless, Twitter demonstrates the ugly reality of problems like racism, as illustrated by the recent case of "Muamba tweeter" Liam Stacey. Hopefully the outrage that followed his remarks shows attitudes are moving in the right direction.For me, Twitter is proof that human beings are endlessly adaptable and perpetually compelled to create societies wherever we go. Or wherever we don't – the absence of physical space seems no bar to our need to live together. As such, I can't help loving it.Here are our favourite 50 tweeters, and their top three follows…Gary Barlow@GBarlowOfficialSinger1,363511,497,396Richard Branson@richardbransonWhen does this guy sleep or stop travelling? A perfect peek into his beliefs, social calendar and up and coming events. And every so often lifts the lid on RB the human being!Phillip Schofield@schofeHe was my first "follow", as everyone who has Twitter told me to follow him. And they were right Â– he's great value. He's as much a staple of Twitter life as he is a presenter on our TVs.Jonathan Ross@wossyWossy is always worth a read. He's like a&nbsp;humanTime Out. For TV, film releases and general awareness he keeps you up to speed and always with a touch of candid humour. Have always been a big fan.Ruby Wax@rubywaxComedian1,0227937,004Stephen Fry@stephenfryUsually I'd be very envious of this type of person and want them dead, but in his case I forgive him. When I'm near him I panic in case he finds out how little knowledge I hold.Kathy Lette@kathyletteKathy has a gold card given to her by the Savoy Hotel which means free dining and drinking. She is loved by many and loves many, but I hope I'm her favourite Â– and that's not just because of her Savoy card.Jennifer Saunders@ferrifrumpA comedy genius, and I&nbsp;don't want her dead because she has given me the gift of editing her lines forAbsolutely Fabulous. I have implanted my teeth in her ankles so she can never get rid of me.Derren Brown@derrenbrownMagician6,099331,123,675Gareth spanitini@garethspanitiniI like tweeters who really embrace the medium and who don't commit the sins of arrogance and relentless self-promotion or simply tweet too much. Gareth is a great example. We became good friends over Twitter and he's been over from Australia to stay. His tweets really make me laugh, which is enough for me first thing in the morning.Stephen Long@longsongsStephen Long is a co-writer of mine and a singer/songwriter. He was born for Twitter. His tweets are highly whimsical and very funny. Like him.James Rhodes@jrhodespianistThe iconoclastic and hilarious concert pianist. Plus some links to great music.Rio Ferdinand@rioferdy5Footballer9,0422752,647,514Jude Elliott-Jones@judeinlondonI set Twitter-competitions for my followers and automatically follow the winners! She was the first.Kevin J@kevinjcomedianComments on everything with that comedian head on.Henry Winter@henrywinterGood for all things football, good for team sheets and gets into debates.Henry Holland@henryhollandDesigner7,397401203,059Derek Blasberg@derekblasbergAny party you would want to be at anywhere in the world, he is there.Elizabeth Windsor@queen_ukThe pseudo-insight is genius. I've adopted her catchphrase: "It's Gin O'Clock!"Katie Hillier@hillierlondonEverything from squirrels to luxury goods.Tinie Tempah@tinietempahMusician14,1983171,483,052What The F*** Facts@whattheffactsI like weird, funny, unimportant facts about people, the world and history.Great Minds Quotes@greatestquotesA quick and easy way to hear wise words from some of the sharpest minds of all time.Zooey Deschanel@zooetdeschanelOne of the cutest and most adorable Hollywood actors around Â– very cool.Alain de Botton@alaindebottonPhilosopher6984,062201,462Jemima Kahn@jemima_khanGreat insights into Pakistani politics, human rights - and her family.Richard Baconem@richardpbaconGreat guests on 5live and brings their wisdom and stories to life on his feed. Also loves to tell us news of his baby.Derren Brown@derrenbrownOne of the cleverest people of our time, he tweets about religion, ethics and science.Tracey Thorn@tracey_thornSinger15,91924125,583Dotwinter@dotwinterProperly idiosyncratic. Sample tweet: "I&nbsp;wish everything was a metre to the left."Ian Martin@ianmartinHe's hilarious, rude, angry, warm-hearted. A mighty tweeter.Jenny Colgan@jennycolganAlways wry and astute. Lives in France, so adds a nice continental flavour.Sasha Wilkins@libertylndngirlBlogger20,64199553,523Anne Fousse@theworldclass1Ex-CondÃ© Nast Travelleremployee, map obsessive and geographer, she tweets all sorts of map links and esoterica. Her feed feeds the geek within.Alexander Fury@alexanderfuryThe editor ofLOVEmagazine doesn't pull his punches. Head here for Celine Dion love, 90s Galliano adoration and, erm, trenchant show commentary.Trish Deseine@trishdeseineParis thoughts, plus recipes and food links from this Irish cook and writer in France. Delightful.John Cleese@johncleeseComedian6832331,885,449Camilla Cleese@camillacleeseMy daughter Â– she writes my jokes.Eddie Izzard@eddieizzardEddie Â– he's the 6Â½th Python and he likes fish.Michael Winner@mrmichaelwinnerBecause he's Michael Winner.Susie Lau@susiebubbleBlogger9,0981,312157,064Alexander Fury@alexanderfuryHis Twitter is locked, but once you get in there you'll be privy to the bitchiest and funniest fashion-related tweets around.My Name Is Not Mort@mistermortThe world of menswear is a mystery to me, and Mister Mort guides me through the muddle.Kang of Bellyshire@londoneaterThis food blogger is a diligent picture taker and often makes me change my restaurant plans.Jane Bruton@janegraziaEditor6,62534118,375Nigel Molesworth@reelmolesworthTwitter representation of the brilliant fictional boarding-school boy who gives hilarious commentary on world events.George Michael@georgemichaelWhose earliest tweet read: "OMG! Crufts!" Thus confirming my long-term suspicion that he is amazing.Tony Parsons@tonyparsonsukSometimes poignant, sometimes funny, always thought-provoking. The wise man of Twitter.Louise Mensch@louisemenschMP18,2563,61649,465Piers Morgan@piersmorganBecause he defines chutzpah.Steve Hilton@stevehiltonguruGuru for blue sky parody.Matthew Hancock@matthancockmpMP for economics and modernising Conservatism.Tim Key@timkeypersonComedian6205919,249Joey Barton@joey7bartonAlthough taking a break, he has been the crown prince of Twitter. Honest. Insightful. Fractious relationship with his followers. If you weren't following you may as well pack up and go home.Brian Gittins@briangittins1A pitiful presence. Tells jokes, tries to get conversations going. Searches for gigs.Tim Vine@realtimvineBest one-liner merchant in the universe. Accept no imitations. Made for Twitter. Mostly jokes; some observations inside restaurants and trains.Paloma Faith@palomafaithSinger5,542401203,436Josh Weller@joshwellerHe's a bit of an undiscovered comic genius. He says he's a musician, but I&nbsp;think he's a comedian.Geoff Lloyd@geofflloydA good friend and a DJ at Absolute Radio. He's good for a bit of light banter and controversy!Dolly Parton@dolly_partonShe's amazing! She's full of inspiration and humour. She should write a&nbsp;self-help book! All hail to the power of Dolly!Caitlin Moran@caitlinmoranAuthor45,2261,058213,531David Arnold@davidgarnoldAsThe Apprenticestarted, he went: "For those who are wondering what piece of classical music this is, it's Prokofiev'sTheme from the Apprentice."Grace Dent@gracedentShe wroteHow to Leave Twitter, and it has truly every rule the internet ever needs. She is my nemesis, and every day I look forward to bringing about her downfall.Dumper@dmuperBadly spelled windows into the world of a depressed robot who doesn't recognise his own repressed homosexuality (but we do Â– his eyes "flash red" when he's near a boyband).Russell Kane@russell_kaneComedian18,694603218,147Dalai Lama@dalailamaCan't beat waking up chock-full of self-centred egoism and stress, only to have it vanish in seconds with the levelling tweets of the Dalai.Stephen Fry@stephenfryHis crisp, aphoristic nuggets clink cleanly through the Twittersphere tinkling with educated silliness.Twop Twips@twoptwipsBased onViz's Top Tips, these crack me up. An example: "Alwayscarry a jellyfish with you to neutralise any splashback at the urinals."Goldie@mrgoldieMuscian15,23855042,183Stephen Fry@stephenfryHe's smart, clever, and opens thoughts on things I&nbsp;wouldn't imagine. Has an intelligent outlook on life.Joe Rogan@joeroganHe's funny as hell and cracks me up. Always brings a smile to my face.Wiley@wiley__Outrageously funny!Rob Da Bank, DJ@robdabankDJ9,45456443,136John Niven@nivenj1Author and music-biz aficionado Mr Niven is so much braver and truthful than I could ever be about the music industry.Diplo@diploThe Ã¼berproducer/globe trotting DJ talks so much nonsense I'm not sure whether he's actually DJing on the moon or he's just at home having tea.Southampton FC@officialsaintsAs a fairweather Southampton fan with Saints on the verge of promotion to the Prem, these guys keep me in the loop.David Shrigley@davidshrigleyArtist5542222,329Mick Hodgkin@mickhodgkinAn Al Jazeera journalist with a&nbsp;humorous yet serious take on current affairs. He invents limericks on politics, which I think is quite admirable.Cry Parrot@cryparrotAn independent music events organisation. They put on the most interesting gigs in Glasgow, where I live. I find out about esoteric music through them.A Sound Awareness@sound_awarenessThe place to go for obscure music and art. He has a very interesting blog if you're into weird arcania, so his Twitter account works as a conduit to that.Boy George@boygeorgeMusician24,60310,968203,004Morrissey@morrisseysworldMost likely a parody account, but whoever is behind it manages to deliver many caustic and witty gems Â– rather like the real Morrissey, who is never lost for a unforgettable one-liner.Kate Magic@katemagicA raw-food guru who keeps me up to date with delicious recipes and the latest super foods.Sober is Sexy@soberissexyA site dedicated to promoting sobriety Â– and as a recovering addict, four years sober, I applaud this concept!Anthony Horowitz@anthonyhorowitzAuthor1,240268,956Guido Fawkes@guidofawkesIf something interesting or disturbing is happening in politics, you'll probably read it here first. I look forward to his tweets with a&nbsp;certain glee.Jack Whitehall@jackwhitehallI knew him when he was 13 Â– his tweets are effortlessly witty and sweet, and I like the way he tries out new jokes.Derren Brown@derrenbrownA master of the form. He's always engaging and humane. Did he hypnotise me to write this?Amir Khan@amirkhanBoxer9,3882381,001,728Will.i.am@iamwillHe's always got something interesting to say and I'm hoping to get him to one of my fights in the future!Piers Morgan@piersmorganI like winding him up, but he gives as good as he gets. I've offered to get him in the ring, but he's gone a bit quiet on that front.Rio Ferdinand@rioferdy5Rio's a good mate. Like me, he gives his fans direct access to content and shares his opinion on all sorts of things.Stephen Mangan@stephenmanganACTOR6,55233496,614Philip Larkin@larkinquotesSnippets from the Hull librarian work beautifully in bite-size pieces. Though the account seems to have been killed off.Shaun Usher@lettersofnoteLinks to letters of the famous and the extraordinary. Can be hilarious, heart-breaking or just plain weird.Tony Pitts@thetonypittsEccentric, funny, poetic, disturbing and wonderful ramblings from "beautiful violent actor and writer" Tony Pitts.Ian Rankin@beathhighAuthor14,36965229,437The Skinny@theskinnymagCulture and listings mag based in Scotland. Reviews, upcoming events, album releases, interviews. Well-written.John Self@john_selfLikes books, links to info about new and forthcoming books and events, has GSOH. Seems well-connected.Lothian &amp; Borders police@lbp_policeI'm sure this Edinburgh-based account wasn't set up purely to help me with my own writing. Also posts traffic reports etc.Danny Alexander@dannyalexanderMP781899,524Paul Waugh@paulwaughQuickest to the UK political news.Pete Apps@pete_appsTop-notch analysis from Reuters political risk correspondent.Gaby Hinsliff@gabyhinsliffFormer lobby hack now living firmly in the real world.Salman Rushdie@salmanrushdieAuthor1,585295270,644Gary Shteyngart@shteyngartBecause he's funny, has a dachshund and&nbsp;travels a lot.Tottenham Hotspur@spursofficialTo embrace the sad fate of being a&nbsp;lifetime Spurs supporter.Deepa Mehta@iamdeepamehtaBecause she's the director of my movieMidnight's Children.Patrcia Cornwell@lpcornwellAuthor5,23461240,603Jennifer Saunders@ferrifrumpShe delights me with her brilliantFar Sidehumour and I admire her courage.Billie Jean King@billiejkingMy childhood hero and a tremendous motivator. A gracious titan Â– they only made one.Alec Baldwin@alecbaldwinHe's incredibly smart and witty and doesn't care what anybody thinks.Edna Fry@mrsstephenfryComedian10,8993,880142,292Gwyn Grey@greyskythinkingNo matter how badly your day is going, one glance at his tweets and you're guaranteed to feel worse.Ivy Manilow@ivymanilowOwner of the Cuppa Cabana CafÃ©. She makes a lovely cup of tea. Well, she makes a cup of tea. Actually, it might be coffeeÂ…Stephen Fry@stephenfryMy dear husband. I find him essential following on Twitter. It's so much cheaper than an ankle tag.Sarah Silverman@sarahksilvermanComedian2,1163162,864,647Megan Amram@meganamramA weird, sexual, anti-comedy comedy.Julieanne Smolinski@boobsradleySample tweet: "I wish it was cool for women to wear neckties, as I'd really like to define my head's sexy natural waist."Bez@bezSample tweet: "I live every day like it's my last! So yeah, lots of calling exes and arrests for daytime skinnydipping."Melanie Rickey@fashedatlargeEditor7,46477924,652Neal Mann@fieldproducerA formerSky Newseditor who uses Twitter to break the global news.Your Life Coaches@lifecoachersAs if the Dalai Lama or Deepak Chopra has gone rogue.Cathy Horyn@cathyhorynnytI follow everyone in fashion, but if anyone is going to break fashion news online it will be Cathy.Jay Rayner@jayrayner1Food critic7,7324946,839Brixton Blog@brixtonblogA brilliant example of how local journalism can be reborn.Harry Wallop@hwallopHarry is the retail editor of theDaily Telegraphand the kind of obsessive reporter and finder of trinkets we all need. He tells me stuff I don't know.Marina O'Loughlin@marinaoloughlinThe bloody marvellous restaurant critic forMetro.She's endlessly bitter, cross and enthusiastic in equal measure.Diane Abbott@hackneyabbottMP2,89326537,954Laurie Penny@pennyredEverything that a young feminist should be: clever, funny, passionateandan excellent writer. Always ready to strap on her boots and leap into the latest controversy.Akilah Jeffers@akilah_jeffersUndergraduate activist. If there was any justice she would now be president of the Cambridge Student Union. Will certainly go far.Shappi Khorsandi@shappikhorsandiCharming writer and comedian who makes her domestic trivia totally gripping. With a&nbsp;deceptive lightness of touch, manages to be both funny and thoughtful. And sometimes in the same tweet!Val McDermid@valncdermidAuthor5,1962947,104Stella Duffy@stellduffyWriter, actor, producer, feminist. Clever, funny, passionate, warm, generous, and far too talented! And she pricks my conscience.Orkney Library@orkneylibraryEntertaining, smart; a source of fascinating gobbets of irrelevance. Also illustrates all that's wonderful about libraries.Fleet Street Fox@fleetstreetfoxScabrous, sarcastic, splenetic about all the right things. Drinks more than I do, still a hack Â– makes me feel virtuous!Robert Llewellyn@bobbyllewActor35,78165483,127The DM Reporter@dmreporterBrilliantly sharpDaily Mail-style story strap lines. Very funny.Twop Twips@twoptipsA Twitter version of Top Tips fromVizmagazine.Dara O Briain@daraobriainDescribes himself as the "Infamous Brit-Licker" and says he's also been known to hand out free puppies. A&nbsp;combination of brilliantly funny and rather informative.Stella Duffy@stellduffyAuthor13,1441,2195,750Brixton Blog@brixtonblogI like it for local news, generous retweeting of other blogs/Brixton tweeters, and because the blog itself is full of good stuff.Russell Brown@publicaddressI grew up in NZ and this links to NZ, US and non-Euro stories our press tends not to cover. Also good on music (which I'm not).Deborah Orr@deborahjaneorrI read her for the feminism, (not) cancer, playing, politics and to eavesdrop on conversations she has with shiny fancy people.Emma Freud@emmafreudProducer15,29757560,736Danny Baker@prodnoseCan't believe he doesn't charge for his tweets - they're extraordinary. He's a&nbsp;brilliant, inspired, wise commentator on our strange world and his stranger imaginings of it.Richard Coles@revrichardcolesDaily tweets about the memorable activities of saints, martyrs, gay vicars, his parish, his dog, his breakfast and&nbsp;his life at Radio Four. The walking embodiment of random, and the cleverest man I know.Sophia Rossi@sofifiiThe best American there is. Like a mash-up between Woody Allen, Archimedes and a small furry animal. Every tweet makes me wish I was her.Grace Dent@gracedentJournalist45,401885115,479Rachel Roberts@scouserachelA long-standing Twitter cohort who is now a valued IRL [in real life] chum. I talk about scouserachel in my bookHow to Leave Twitteras an example of internet "cosmic brain twins".Ed Simons@eddychemicalEd and I both love telly. Many nights are spent together, on opposite sides of London, quacking at each other aboutNewsnightandMade in Chelsea. Our latest love is BBC2's brilliantGrandma's House.Caitlin Moran@caitlinmoranMy Twitter sun, moon and stars. Caitlin is an iconoclast and I love her dearly. By iconoclast I mean "noisy berk with no off switch".Estelle@estelledarlingsMusician54,5451,029405,792Kid Fury@kidfuryPurely because his jokes are ridiculous and funny as hell! Look at his timeline - it's guaranteed to crack you up.BBC Radio 1Xtra@1xtraKeeps me up to date on my music, especially on what's hot in the UK.i-D magazine@id_magazineI love its covers - always incredible! I've been a collector for years.Jeffrey Archer@jeffrey_archerAuthor and ex-convict7931138,815Ian Botham@beefybothamSome sportsmen die when they retire while others stride on into immortality.London 2012@london2012Failed hopelessly to get tickets, which makes me feel it's destined to be a&nbsp;massive success.Donmar Warehouse@donmarwarehouseWho would have thought a funny little theatre could pick up more awards last year than the NT. Bravo.Gaby Hinsliff@gabyhinsliffJournalist19,0931,17317,308Faisal Islam@faisalislamHack with the rare gift of making economics come alive for non-economists.Louise Mensch@louisemenschLove her or hate her, a lesson in how to build a political profile via Twitter.Jonathan Main@booksellercrowSarcastic indy bookshop owner, one-man war against Amazon, shrewd observer of people.Susie Orbach@psychoanalysisAuthor268172,768Adios Barbie@adiosbarbieExcellent material on body matters.Giles Fraser@giles_fraserFrom the profound to the ridiculous. Sample tweet: "Been at inspiring Coventry Refugee centre. But what a&nbsp;reflection on our society that we still have to hand out food parcels to people."Naomi Colvin@auerfeldBecause Occupy is so important.Peter Serafinowicz@serafinowiczWriter14,3631,786622,251Megan Amram@meganamramShe's a young LA-based comedy writer/performer whose finely crafted jokes make me scream. Google "Shakespearean spam". Sample tweet: "I'm the only one who knows this is a&nbsp;murder mystery dinnerÂ…"Graham Linehan@glinnerThe stratospherically talented writer ofThe IT Crowdand a hundred other things. I am beginning to suspect he has an entire brain-lobe devoted to Twitter.Rob Delaney@robdelaneyA beautiful, filthy man who makes me laugh every day. Sample tweet: "A huge power move in a meeting is to eat the other guy's telephone. Everyone will laugh and you'll get a huge raise."Gizzi Erskine@gizzierskineTV Presenter19,35159625,509Fergus Henderson@mr_st_johnI share his approach to food and cooking. His Twitter feed is a true representation of him Â– honest, witty, interesting and entertaining. Hardly tweets at all, but great when he does. Sample: "There's so much gin and so little time!"Eva Wiseman@evawisemanWe bonded over our love for Jewish food. Her tweets are bloody funny and I love reading the banter between Eva, India Knight and Caitlin Moran.India Knight@indiaknightAuthor and serial tweeter. I've loved her work since I was a&nbsp;teenager. She's also a&nbsp;big foodie and has an amazing, creative eye. She's an all-round good egg.Mariella Frostrup@mariellaf1Broadcaster1,3969920,576Voula@voulagrandBecause she bid for me to follow her on Twitrelief and now she's a Tweetbuddy.Emma Freud@emmafreudFor everything from latest telly to funniest jokes, breaking gossip to best kids' toys. I swear she maintains an intravenous Twitter feed.Vital Voices@vitalvoicesBrilliant organisation that sends links to news stories about women's issues from every corner of the globe. You'll never say we live in an equal world if you follow it for a day.Mark Kermode@kermodemovieFilm Critic1,39911566,503Neil Brand@neilkbrandRefreshing evidence that silent film is alive and well in the 21st century from the splendidly inspiring cinema accompanist/composer.British Board of Film Classification@bbfcDaily missives from our once-draconian censors as part of their ongoing mission to become admirably accountable.Kim Newman@annodraculaFor the stream of Movie Dungeon quotes which remind you how much fun terrible movies can be if you don't actually have to watch them yourself.Joan Collins@joancollinsobeActor2,3329165,570Tara Newley@taranewleyTopical, funny, and tweets about everything from making jam to coping with teenagersÂ… And she's my daughter!Michael Moore@mmflintOutrageously left-wing comments which are often on the nose. Plus I love his documentaries.The Daily Beast@thedailybeastFor all the news and gossip that's fit to tweet. Plus hot off-the-press items.Professor Green@professorgreenMusician34,6771,104838,739Lewis Richards@biggestlewOne of my oldest, and definitely my tallest, friends. Quite often raves to DnB looking like a Scouse dealer circa 1990.Dream McLean@dreammcleanA great rapper, a good friend and a bad Travie McCoy look-alike.Charlotte De Carle@charldecarleBasically me with tits, albeit not very big ones. I can say that because she spends most of her time on Twitter insulting me.Lucy Siegle@lucysiegleEthical Writer1,9691,1764,459Stuart Heritage@stuheritageFunny, self-deprecating, and doesn't just link to his own writing.Big Jim McDonald@bigjim_mcdonaldAn entirely irritating presence, talking in Norn' Irish clichÃ©s and ridiculously prone to saying: "So it is, so it is." On Twitter he is magnificent.Benjamin Ranyard@higgledygardenI love the practical information this gives. I'm a novice gardener-grower and this is my Twitter support.Mark Ronson@iammarkronsonProducer1,794102353,711Humblebrag@humblebragThe internet has birthed a&nbsp;conversational style where people want to tell you how amazing they are yet seem as if it's a reluctant accident.Owen Pallet@owenpalletSuper-dry, genius composer/ arranger/artist.Jordan Rubin@jordamrubinA great stand-up and writer. Twitter's 140-character rule really plays to his strengths Â– and he absolutely kills it 97% of the time.On digital: David Rowan@irowanEditor of Wired1,65934910,687Maria Popova@brainpickerAn eclectic and compelling stream of curated links to Â"interestingnessÂ".Ed Yong@edyong209Witty tweets on all things scientific.Indy Johar@indy_joharSocial entrepreneur whose retweets give you a rich insight into changemakers who matter.Nick Bilton@nickbiltonSavvy, thoughtful tweets on emerging tech and media trends.Shervin Pishevar@shervinInvestor, activist and Silicon Valley connector whose tweets give an insight into Valley thinking.John Brockman@edgeLiterary superagent who represents pretty much all of todayÂ's big brains.On finance: Robert Peston@pestonBBC Business editor4,528332140,391Linda Yueh@lindayuehSuper fast, super reliable, and insightful for important data.Tim Harford@timharfordSideways glance.John Gapper@johngapperUS, banks, governance, media. Old and grumpy like me.Faisal Islam@faisalislamCreative and funny.Zero Hedge@zerohedgeUnpleasant and patronising, but essential reading.Rory Cellan-Jones@ruskin147Technology for oldies such as myself.On law: Matthew Ryder@rydermcQC413245567UK Supreme Court@uksupremecourtItÂ's worth following the big organisations. Also try:@JudiciaryUKis a great resource for actual transcripts of breaking judgments;@libertyhq;@cpsuk;@JUSTICEhqand@IntlCrimCourt.Guardian Law@gdnlawAlways up to date on the latest legal developments, not just from the courts, but from politics and news, too.UKSCblog.com@ukscblogcomThe leading blog on the UK Supreme Court gives tweets and links to great blogposts from top practitioners.Adam Wagner@adamwagner1Barrister and prolific tweeter and blogger on all issues connected with human rights.Simon McKay@simonmckayLeading solicitor from Leeds with speciality in police and surveillance law. Usually first to tweet on that area.David Allen Green@jackofkentLawyer and journalist David Allen Green, who pulls no punches when tweeting on legal issues.On science: Ed Sykes@edmsykesScience Media Centre4980209Edzard Ernst@edzardernstProfessor of complementary medicine and the scourge of homeopathy.Simon Singh@slsinghMakes maths appealing to the masses.David Spiegelhalter@unduncStats genius who turns scare stories to ones of mild peril.Dorothy Bishop@deevybeeStands up for rational thinking.Mark Henderson@markgfhIf itÂ's happening in science, he knows about it.Ed Yong@edyong209Twitter giant who covers everything.On ideas: Martha Lane Fox@marthalanefoxUK digital champion8,0731,15430,802Sarah Brown@sarahbrownukI showed Sarah how to use Twitter, but she has now made it her own.Brent Hoberman@brenthobermanOne of smartest people I have ever met about tech, always on the cutting edge of the start-up world.Livity@livityukSocial enterprise co-creating products and services with young people. Follow them to feel young again.Alice Taylor@wonderlandblogA smart woman building an exciting Â"future smashing toy companyÂ" Â– follow her to understand games.Guy Kawasaki@guykawasakiEx Apple-tech evangelist and all-round digital guru Â– the guy always has interesting, unusual things to say.Bob Kerslake@sirbobkerslakeHead of the civil service. Indication of the opening up of the UK government.• This article was amended on 8 May 2012 to correct the spelling of Jane Bruton's name. The original also listed Sofia Castillo in the item on Emma Freud. This has been corrected.
It was started by a handful of isolated enthusiasts, gradually became a cult craze, and is now threatening to become a commercial enterprise.Spoof reviews posted on Amazon have sent demand for the most unlikely merchandise soaring and are playing havoc with the online giant's famed algorithms, the complex formulas that recommend what else buyers of a particular product may be interested in purchasing.The current must-have item heavily lauded by the spoof reviewers is a £50 canvas print of the TV presenter Paul Ross. Mugs with the same image costing a more modest £8.99 are selling well, with Amazon suggesting that customers also buy a particular bottle of methylated spirit attracting the sort of reviews normally associated with Château Latour.So far 471 people have enthusiastically reviewed the Paul Ross print, with one explaining: "I've ordered four of these now: one of them is above the fireplace and is naturally the pride of our entire home. On the second canvas I've cut out the section where Paul's face is, and when I drive to pick up the kids I wear the canvas and pretend that I'm a famous celebrity dad, the kids simply love it."Many of the reviews are unprintable, displaying a scatological humour of the sort long championed by cult comicViz. But others clearly harbour aspirations to make an appearance inPrivate Eye's "Pseuds' Corner".One reviewer of the Ross print purrs: "On first encountering this seminal artwork, one is reminded of the great depictions of the Christ in Renaissance paintings. The subject's gaze – warm, but penetrating; wise, but honest – harks back to such works as Caravaggio'sSupper at Emmaus."Also popular is a print jigsaw of Manchester United's former finance director Nick Humby, currently selling on Amazon for £15.99."It simply doesn't matter how bad a day you may be having – knowing you have the Humby jigsaw to come home to just makes everything better," explains one reviewer.The Ross and Humby prints and mugs are sold by Media Storehouse, which turns more than 2m images, culled from several major photo libraries, into merchandise."Some of the reviews could have been written by professionals; they're really very funny," said Matt Hamer, the company's director, who became aware of how the spoof review trend was creating a market for unlikely products about three years ago. In the beginning there were a few hundred reviews driving demand, but Hamer says there are now thousands."People are trying to outdo each other," he said. "Quite a lot is bought by students. It came completely out of the blue; there was no reason why the images should have been picked up. There was a picture of Su Pollard with a Kiss Me Quick hat which was popular for a while, but Paul Ross has been by far and away the biggest success."Demand for the bizarre merchandise is the culmination of a trend that started almost a decade ago when a handful of spoofers targeted some unlikely products. A 75-metre roll of tinfoil has garnered 223 enthusiastic reviews and has become something of a cult forum. A typical reviewer extols the product as "sensational", explaining: "When you roll it out of the box it creates a smooth, silky feeling across my skin."Many participants are inspired by one of the original spoof reviewers, Henry Raddick, who achieved near-celebrity status for his antics.ReviewingThe English Cocker Spaniel Handbook, Raddick, who had a spaniel, Barry, enthused: "I enjoyed the book immensely and, though I have a sneaking suspicion that Barry is using the book as porn, I wholeheartedly recommend it."One of Raddick's most enthusiastic devotees isWayne Redhart, a piano teacher and musician whose often absurd reviews reveal an anarchic wit. Redhart (not his real name) told theObserverthat he started posting because he didn't "have the cast-iron balls to attempt standup"."I can't think of any other medium that might have led me to make any serious effort with amateur comedy, even as a writer," Redhart said. "On Amazon, you're basically guaranteed some sort of ready (if frequently unwilling) audience upon which to foist your material."Redhart's reviews on Amazon, which declined to comment, earned him a following via a Facebook group that rapidly grew in popularity. "A smallish crowd of people gave me rather a lot of helpful votes which propelled me up the rankings pretty fast," he said. "Trying to work up more and more places was a huge part of spurring me on."While conceding it would be "a shame if Amazon were flooded with too many attempts to be funny", Redhart said he hoped his actions offered a warning to potential buyers. "Amazon is flooded with low-key books that have three -star reviews. I hope it actually reminds them to be wary of putting too much trust in reviews."
Prototype 2, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Poor old New York's back in the frame for the apocalypse treatment, this time following a viral outbreak caused by the first game's antihero, Alex Mercer.Playing as another genetically altered misfit, sergeant James Heller, your job is to take on the sinister corporate Blackwatch while finding a way to go after Mercer himself. Naturally the virus turns all and sundry into zombies, the game designer's favourite mindless fist fodder, who along with mutants and an army of black-clad paramilitaries give you plenty to swing your various blades and tendrils at. Unlike the all-out action of the first game, Prototype 2 also depends on assuming others' identities to enter buildings and get close to targets. It's mostly about the action, though; the ability to fly short distances is available right from the start and it's followed by an amusing catalogue of skills that soon let you rip missile pods and mini-guns from passing tanks and helicopters, fly over entire city blocks, and generally wreak merry chaos.Activision, £39.99-£44.99Sniper Elite V2, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Sniper Elite V2Sniper Elite V2 has you picking your way through the smoking ruins of Berlin in the final weeks of the second world war. You're in pursuit of rocket scientists, against an onslaught of hyper-vigilant German and Russian troops. The best bits of the game involve using your binoculars to conduct cautious surveys of your surroundings, taking aim, waiting for a loud noise to mask your gunfire and squeezing the trigger. If successful, you're treated to a bullet's-eye view of the shot, ending in a slow-motion, rotating "X-ray kill cam" as it smashes through your target's skeleton. While gruesomely effective, its relentless overuse makes it lose all impact. The game also features numerous ill-advised action sequences for which the game's controls, cover system and absence of quick-save mechanism are wholly unsuited. As in many games, playing sniper is a guilty pleasure you wish it would let you indulge a bit more.505 Games, £34.99-£39.99Games newsBack To The FutureShinji Mikami, the creator of Resident Evil, has announced a new survival horror project codenamedZwei. Although details are some way off, he promises a scary rather than simply action-packed experience …Despite things not having been quite as bad as initially forecast,Nintendohas declared its first financial loss in 30 years andZynga, maker of mega-hit Farmville and little else of any note, has posted losses of $85m …Also out this week areBack To The Future(PC, PS3, Wii), a charming, puzzly adventure based on the classic film series …Cats &amp; Dogs 3D: Pets At Play(3DS) bringing more three-dimensional domesticated animal hi-jinks to Nintendo's handheld …Mortal Kombat(Vita) has arrived in portable format, although complaints are already emerging about its graphical compromises …Finally,Phil Taylor's Power Play Darts 3D(3DS) lets you enjoy the classic pub game wherever you happen to be. Magic.
The timing of this one's&nbsp;arrival couldn't be much worse. First,&nbsp;the weather has just changed, from&nbsp;that lovely early spring we had to a more genuine British April, complete with showers. But showers come and go, so the roof comes and goes in seconds. It's still brilliant, that retractable hard roof, 16 years on&nbsp;from when it appeared on the first-generation SLK.A more serious problem is that it arrives soon after the number of&nbsp;members in my family increases from two to three, one more than the number of seats. I toy with various permutations, none satisfactory. Leave my girlfriend at home, she gets upset, the baby goes hungry. Leave the baby at home, social services get upset. Leave me at home, I get upset, plus my girlfriend isn't a famous motoring journalist. Put her in the boot? No room (she's a big girl), and even if there were, she'd probably get beheaded when we put the roof&nbsp;down. Put the baby in the boot, he'd probably be catapulted out when we put up the roof. (Don't you hate that, when you pull over at the start of an April shower, press a&nbsp;button to keep it out, and your son lands on the bonnet?)In short, I don't know what to do. So I do what I always do when I&nbsp;don't know what to do – I go running to my mum. Well, I drive, obviously. Alone. "Oh golly," she say. "That's rather snazzy." She knows all the new words, my mum.We pootle around Oxfordshire a&nbsp;while. It takes a bit of getting used to, a diesel sports car. It just doesn't quite feel – or sound – like a proper Mr Toad roadster. But the SLK was never really that kind of car. And it's actually PDQ – 200bhp and, more importantly, 500Nm of torque (sorry, girls, that just means oodles of the good stuff, the stuff that actually makes you feel good). But then you also get 56 miles to the gallon. The figures make perfect sense; there are no losers – well, unless there are more than two of you.I like the look of the new incarnation, too – the nose and vertical grille give it more presence and poise; it has more attitude, but&nbsp;without losing what my mum calls its snazziness.The sun comes out, I pull over. "Press that button there," I say. She&nbsp;does, the miracle happens: move over, steel; hello, sky. She laughs. It's a bit chilly, to be honest, but this one has all the extras, including heated seats and an "air scarf" to keep her neck warm. We pootle on. Perhaps a little more than pootle now. I can dabble in a few more of those Nms (woohoo, quite nice) while my mum is distracted, admiring the red kites from below.Mercedes Benz SLK 250 CDI Sport Edition 125From£36,250Top speed151mphAcceleration0-62mph in 6.7 secondsAverage consumption56.5mpgCO2 emissions132 g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating7/10
There are few better ways to end a Saturday evening than with your partner singing Kelis's Milkshake at full volume while his performance is rated onscreen. Particularly when those comments are of the unflinching "bad," "awful" and "terrible" variety.And it's this unlikely refusal to shy from the truth that gives We Sing Pop! – the latest incarnation of the Nordic Games Wii Karaoke franchise – the edge over your usual karaoke experience.There is also a whole host of playing options for participants to choose from, whether you're partial to a bit of solo crooning, or prefer to sing with others in Party Mode. (Really, is there anything more cringe-making than that term? Surely no one's definition of a party involves people huddled round the Wii singing appallingly.)There are, however, only two (wired) microphones included with the game, so be prepared for a bit of mic-hogging.We attempted some of the lessons on offer, meant to help you with pitch, but I remain rather sceptical of their usefulness – although that's arguably more a reflection on my singing than on We Sing Pop! In any case, while I can perhaps imagine star-struck teenagers solemnly holding long notes for apparent eternities, for most people the game's appeal is likely to be as a social activity.Hence We Sing Pop!'s playlist, which is an initially puzzling assortment, but probably perfect for mixed-generation games when parents, kids and grandparents need a couple of tunes they are familiar with. Hence we have Florence + The Machine's Dog Days Are Over alongside Nobody's Perfect by Jessie J, Ice Ice Baby by Vanilla Ice and I'm Your Man by Wham.A word of warning: nobody in their right mind should try the first of these unless they are actually Florence or everyone else present will chop their own ears off in anguish.Sonny &amp; Cher make an appearance, as do Tinie Tempah, Adele and, erm Peter Andre. The Killers, Lady Gaga and Rihanna are also on the list, while the Scissor Sisters are presumably included for those with voices so high that only dogs can really hear them.It's all jolly enough stuff. There are various options and levels on offer for the more (or less) experienced singer. You can include the backing track, keep the original vocals if you need help with the tune, and there's the option of singing only half a song, which might make a quite terrifying evening suddenly appear more bearable.The onscreen guide takes a little bit of getting used to, and I sometimes wondered whether it would actually have been easier just to show the musical score rather than the We Sing version of it, although it presumably makes things easier if you don't read music. Equally, however, this might have been a good way of teaching kids that skill in a fun way.But I think my major reservation was about the overall size of the game. On the basis that you might know two thirds of the songs on offer and like maybe one third, with only 30 songs it does feel like you could easily become bored. Even though your efforts are scored, there's probably only so many times that the chance to croon a Nicole Scherzinger number would be a persuasive reason to turn on your Wii and plug the microphones in.• Game reviewed on Nintendo Wii
You know how sometimes you cancut the head off a chicken and it keeps running around the farmyard seemingly oblivious to the fact for years before it dies? The BB10 announcement at BlackBerry World this week reminds me of that situation. That chicken just won't die.ToolsetsMost developers are familiar with Steve Ballmer's fantabulous"Developers, developers, developers!"outburst from an internal Microsoft event in 2000. It seems that RIM's management missed that memo, because if they want any hope at all ofavoiding having to fund themselves using Kickstarterthen developers, developers, and more developers are what they need. People who don't make money from developing software laughed at Ballmer. Windows developers, and Microsoft (which focussed with such intensity on getting developers on the platform), laughed all the way to the bank.Say you want to write software for iOS. You buy yourself a Mac, pop over to the Mac App Store,download the Xcode IDEfor free, install, and off you go. You'll need a developer account to do anything proper with it so you'll need to find £60 down the back of the sofa.Or Windows Phone? Simple –download the SDK. Comes with a free copy of Visual Studio 2010 Express, the free version of the best developer IDE in the world. You'll need £60 and anApp Hub account.Android?Download the SDK, downloadEclipse, apply quite a lot of faff and off you go. Likewise, get yourself aGoogle Play developer account, but you'll only need £16.The common thread running through all of those is that they all come with IDEs. For RIM engineers that are reading this: let me tell you what an IDE is, because your toolset doesn't come with one. "IDE" means "integrated development environment". The category was invented in the late 1980s. IDEs come with things like source control integration, advanced editors, breakpoints, watch windows, and logging. Some even come with exciting application lifecycle management (ALM) features. What they're designed to do is help developers – who you like, remember? – to write software in a way that doesn't feel like having their skin sanded off.If you want to write software for BlackBerry, you take your own text editor, some "ant" scripts they give you, and add in an infinite supply of patience.Developing for BlackBerryThe reason why I introduced the idea of RIM behaving like a terminallyover-treppanedchicken at the top of this article is that it highlights its utter lack of defined and consistent strategy for developers. The takeaway is that it has actually managed to make the storyworseover the past couple of years.Two years ago I wrote a book on developing software for BlackBerry. At the time the recommended way of doing it was to write applications in native Java (albeit a horribly limited version of Java calledJ2ME, aka Java 2 Platform, Micro Edition). Funny thing about that was that you did it by running your apps in Eclipse and using an Eclipse plug-in to drive the device or the emulator. Those of you who've seen Android development will recognise that as exactly what you do with Android development – you run Eclipse and drive and Android device and simulator through a plug-in.But that's OK, because as soon as RIM worked out they need to dump their crappy home-grown browser and replace it with a WebKit-based one, they decided that they weren't going to do any native apps any more and that developers needed to useBlackBerry WebWorks. This works by letting developers build an HTML5 website and run it in a self-contained application on the device. Those of you who remember the heady days of webOS may recognise this model. Those of you still actively developing inPhoneGap/Apache Cordovamay more keenly recognise it.But that wasn't finished, which is why there are no tools, and why it's worse than it was in 2010. RIM expect developers to create these web apps from scratch, basically using a text editor, and offering no debugging or logging supportwhatsoever.The emulator won't work on a Mac, only on a PC. (Apple and Microsoft are equally guilty of this, to be strictly fair, on Xcode andVisual Studio.) But what kills is that deploying the app to a device takes at least five minutes, and then when the app doesn't work there are absolutely no debugging tools whatsoever. I know this from bitter experience. Plus – and this is just ridiculous – when you sign an app to put it on your locally attached device, you have to fire off a request to RIM's servers: one request per file. A small PhoneGap can easily run into 50-100 files. You get send one email per file. On a good afternoon you can easily get a thousand emails back. But that's not annoying – what's annoying is that those servers often go down. (About 3pm in the UK for some reason.)When that happens, you can't develop. You just have to wait..A while back, RIM bought an emulator called Ripple from a company called Tiny Hippos. (You can download ithere.) Ripple was a good proof of concept. However having RIM take it and present it to the world as in any way finished, or useful, or working, or practical, or good, or helpful is insulting to my intelligence.The long and short of it is that there is absolutely no way that building software for BlackBerry is appreciably easier today than developing bank software was in the 1960s on punched cards.BB10So let's look at BB10, which was announced this week at BlackBerry World.At some point in the summer of 2010, RIM's headless chicken-led management managed to end up at the door of QNX, which they promptly bought. QNX is a real-time operating system that RIM decided would be a good replacement for its ageing BB7 type operating systems. Its first use was in the PlayBook OS – specifically the PlayBook OS is QNX-based. This is why the PlayBook was such a disaster in terms ofactually having an email client, or playing nicely with BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BES). (Why any software company that builds an operating system would scrap its own in-house OS and import a new, untried, and untested one is beyond me, but anyway.)QNX is also the OS that underpins BB10. That means that existing BB7 apps won't run on BB10.They have said that HTML5 is their future. I would presume then that they are expecting developers to cross-compile the WebWorks app over to BB10. You can also target QNX with C++ if you want high-performance/game software.What we're not hearing from RIM at this point is that it's going to come up with the type of world-class toolset that its competitors have. RIM's toolset needs to be so amazingly, awesomely good, that – well, at this point to catch-up it would have to come out with something as good as Visual Studio.I'm sure that just as RIM's shareholders were watching the BB10 announcement with bated breath, ready to cheer if only something wonderful would happen, that developers like myself were keen to hear some good news from the company. Personally, what I got was no good news. What I inferred form the announcements was more of the same – a rushed, lacklustre implementation with bits missing, and a lack of understanding and support of what developers need. I saw no guarantees that RIM's developer story would improve from where it is today, and I saw no indicators that suggest that's even on their radar.Other bitsOther bits while I'm here…There was talk at BlackBerry World about BB10 being an operating system that could be used in retail automotive solutions. That's stupid. Just focus on one thing. Every manufacturer has tried to do something in the automotive market; they usually fail because the risk of having to recall the cars at the cost of a bazillion dollars per mistake is too high. Stuff that runs in cars is simple for that reason.Heins announced a revenue guarantee on App World, which at first blush seems interesting. If you can sell at least $1k worth of apps, RIM will guarantee that the cheque you receive will be at least $10k. (So sell $9,999, you'll get a dollar extra. Sell $10,001, you'll get nothing extra. Perverse incentive?) It's a cute idea, but with a faint tang of desperation. To be clear, $10k will buy you between three and four weeks of developer time – and that's the way to look at it. However much time you put in to a project, they'll pay for one man-month if the revenues turn out not to be very good. It looks good on paper, but is clearly aimed at the cottage industry developer. Is it enough to divert one of them off of a less risky platform? I doubt it.ConclusionRIM's developer story over the past two years has darted around like a headless chicken. "You use J2ME!", "Now use HTML5!", "Now you can use Android!", "Now you can't use Android as we said you could before!", "Now use Flash!", "Now we've got a new OS, so cross-compile everything!", "Now we haven't finished that OS but here's a device that's basically it but not quite because we haven't decided!"Being in a state and running around like a chicken with your head cut of isn't a problem in itself. Microsoft, Apple, and Google are hard to track in this market, but at least you know where they are. Being a developer and dealing with RIM is like having a duel with someone in the middle of a raging battle.BB10 might be interesting – but it, and RIM, don't have a chance unless they start treating their developers better.Note: the headline and standfirst beneath it have been changed from the original version. The headline said "If RI wants developers on BB10 it needs better tools" but further details have since come to light.•Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
The government is to consider introducing new filters for online pornography, in a move likely to be fiercely resisted by internet service providers.Prime minister David Cameron is expected to consult in the next few weeks on whether ISPs, such as BT and Virgin media, should block adult material as a default for customers.The tough measures will mean that millions of internet users will be forced to opt in if they wish to view pornography online.The prime minister has intervened following pressure from a parliamentary inquiry into online child protection, which warned that explicit material was having a harmful effect on children.It is understood that the consultation will take the form of an independent review of a series of options for filtering pornography online, but will not result in a government green paper.ISPs and advocacy groups are likely to try to face down the measures over fears of online censorship.A spokesman for the Internet Service Providers Association (ISPA), the industry body representing companies including Google and Yahoo, said on Friday that it would oppose default filtering because it was not the most effective measure and was easy to get around.The campaign for greater curbs against online porn has been led by the Tory MP Claire Perry, whochaired the independent inquiry into online child protection last month.Perry said she was delighted that No 10 had decided to intervene on the issue and accused ISPs of being laggards in the debate."The fact we have got No 10 acknowledging the issue is really encouraging," Perry said. "Internet service providers with the exception of TalkTalk have been laggardly in this area."We need to get them to acknowledge, stop equivocating and stop talking a load of flannel. We know the [current] model is failing [and] we need them to acknowledge there is a problem, and we need to do that quickly."Perry said that she has been accused of censorship over the campaign, but argued that the internet was no different to TV and radio and should be regulated accordingly. She urged the internet industry to come up with its own solution to the issue."I think opt-in is simple and a measure that everyone can understand. I have an open mind, but I believe this offers the best level of protection and preserves choice," Perry said.It is understood that most major internet companies are yet to see of any No 10 proposals.BT, Virgin Media and Sky said they were fully committed to child protection online and they looked forward to the government consultation.Although internet regulation has consistently proved a sensitive topic for UK governments, the wide availability of pornography has concerned MPs from all corners of parliament.Labour's shadow culture secretary Harriet Harman appeared to back the No 10 consultation, saying in a statement that protecting children online was a real problem and a concern for millions of parents.Harman, the deputy Labour leader, added: "We need to work closely with the industry to develop blocking technology which is easy to use and effective so that parents have the control they need to protect their children."But the issue has proved controversial with the advocacy organisation Open Rights Group, which warned against filters for internet content. "We welcome a consultation, but default filters are awful," said ORG executive director Jim Killock."They block a wide range of innocent material, and nobody should be advocating broader and simpler censorship. All the independent evidence has pointed to giving parents simple tools and choices. There is no need to create network level censorship in the name of a porn opt-in."Nicholas Lansman, secretary general of ISPA, said in a statement: "We welcome the opportunity to discuss the detail of any proposals. It will provide some much needed clarity to the debate and provide an opportunity to re-focus the argument on protecting children from inappropriate content rather than concentrating solely on default filtering."
A selection of 14 new and notable apps for you today:Leonardo da Vinci: AnatomyTouch Press' latest iPad book-app ties into the Royal Collection's new exhibition of Leonardo da Vinci's human anatomy drawings. Expect 268 pages of notebooks to browse, with English translations of his notes, spinning 3D anatomical models, interviews with experts and story chapters from Windsor Castle's senior curator of prints and drawings.iPadRenault TVCarmaker Renault has its own mobile TV app, faithfully promising to "show proper television, not glorified ads: documentaries and motorsport, travelogues and game shows – all hosted by top presenters". More than 100 hours of on-demand shows are available. The link above is for iPhone, buthere's the iPad version.iPhone / iPadTomTom Speed CamerasSatnav firm TomTom has a brand new app for iPhone focused on speed cameras – an existing premium feature for the company's main navigation app. It's free to download, but will cost £3.99 a month or £26.99 for a year (although that's £1.49 and £16.99 for early adopters).iPhoneThe Daily for iPhoneNews Corporation's tablet newspaper has now been squeezed down for iPhone, promising the same content for a $1.99 monthly subscription. It's free for existing subscribers to the iPad version though.iPhoneStardoll AccessFashion-focused virtual world Stardoll has a new iOS app that lets its users access their MeDoll avatars and check their status, while also showing new virtual fashion items, messaging and friend requests.iPhone / iPadPython Bytes - Monty Python Series 2Heuristic Media has launched the second in its series of Monty Python clips apps for iPhone, offering 21 sketches from the second series of Monty Python's Flying Circus. For more on the Python's app plans, read Apps Blog'sinterview with Terry Gilliam.iPhoneTrack 8Listening to music on your iPad and wishing it was... Well, a little more like Windows Phone or Windows 8? Track 8 is your friend. It's a new iPad app that "brings the Metro experience to the iPad" – apeing Microsoft's user interface with aplomb.iPadWelsh Rugby UnionPublisher Trinity Mirror's latest iPad app is the official matchday programme for the Welsh Rugby Union – a digital version of the magazine sold at home matches in Cardiff. The app itself is free, but comes with an annual £23.99 subscription to actually get the programmes – at least seven are promised.iPadNBC PoliticsThis one's for the US only, as the presidential election campaign ramps up. It includes news, videos and a daily tip sheet from NBC News, as well as candidate profiles and – when the time comes – live election results.iPhone / iPadEcclesiaElectronica music artist Forss (day job: CTO of music startup SoundCloud) has followed in Bjork's footsteps with an immersive, innovative iPad app to accompany his latest album. Expect 40 minutes of music and animation, inspired by churches and choirs.iPadHallmark Go CardsGreetings cards firm Hallmark has a new app to turn iPhone photos into physical cards, sent through the mail at $3.49 a pop (it's US-only at the time of writing). So, a direct competitor for Apple's own Cards, as well as Touchnote and other services.iPhoneZombie GrannyHaving made a splash on iOS, puzzle game Zombie Granny has made its way to Android, with 45 levels to solve, bags of weapons and a level-editor to create your own challenges.AndroidOceana AR FanPhotoHeard of Oceana? The singer is doing the official UEFA Euro 2012 song, apparently. Now she's the star of an augmented reality app that delivers "your own private concert" as a virtual Oceana sings her Endless Summer song, then poses for photos.iPhone / iPadCurious George's Are You CuriousThere is a growing number of apps for children on RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook tablet, with monkey Curious George the latest to appear on the device. This book-app is the work of Scrollmotion.BlackBerry PlayBook
Renowned throughout the world as a celebration of games culture, Nottingham'sGameCity festivalwill be returning this year. Launched on Wednesday night by industry veteran Ian Livingstone, the event will take place over a full week, rather than the usual four days, and is set to feature its own school dedicated to game design.At the top of the bill, perhaps, is festival newbie Peter Molyneux who will be curating a whole day of events, celebrating his past and future games, as well as analysing his influences."We've been doing a videogame culture event for seven years now, and it's impossible not to notice the big, Peter Molyneux shaped hole in it," says GameCity director, Iain Simons. "There's a list of people that we really want to come to the festival, and Peter was at the top of it for this year. The shocking thing for me to be honest, was that the ask and the confirmationwere all done within about 15 minutes worth of emailing."It seems the perfect time for Molyneux to be involved. The creator of Populous, Black&amp;White and Dungeon Keeper has recently left the Microsoft-owned Lionhead Studios to set up his own company,22Cans."The Peter Molyneux [festival goers will] see is one who is completely independent, infectiously enthusiastic and in his creative prime," says Simons. "I've promised him that I won't reveal any of the ideas we kicked around, but I can assure you that they will be untroubled by creative or practical restraint. I don't think I'm giving too much away though, to say that you might need to bring Wellington boots along and some waterproof clothing."The GameCity STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, Mathematics) school will run throughout the festival in the main market square tent, offering members of the public various lessons in game design. Teachers will include Martin Hollis, the co-creator of classic N64 shooter GoldenEye, and Jonathan Smith of Lego games creator, TT Games.Elsewhere, there will be  celebrations for the 30th anniversary of the Commodore 64 computer. "They are going to be AMAZING," enthuses Simons. "We're hoping to bring together all of the C64 veterans we can find, to stage the best reunion event ever – most likely forming the basis for a triumphant return to the Mogal-E-Azam restaurant where the Jeff Minter retrospective 'Goat in the Machine' was staged back in 2004."Obviously theNational Videogame Archiveare going to be heavily involved, so the creation of a whole raft of new Director Commentary events seems like a given."Other plans for the C64 event include a special one-off edition of classic magazineZZap 64, written by members of the original editorial team. Simons is also hoping to encourage8bit music legend Martin Galway, composer of some of the finest game soundtracks of all time, to create a new SID chip tune for the festival. Gamesblog is backing this admirable campaign.Gamecity 7 will take place between 20-27 October at various venues around Nottingham town centre. Clear some space in your diary. You are coming to this.
The award-winning Elder Scrolls series of fantasy role-playing adventures is going massively mutiplayer. Bethesda has just announced Elder Scrolls Online, a vast MMORPG, set in the familiar land of Tamriel. Development is being undertaken at ZeniMax Online Studios, under the guidance of Matt Firor, who previously worked on the Mythic MMORPG, Dark Age of Camelot."We have been working hard to create an online world in which players will be able to experience the epic Elder Scrolls universe with their friends, something fans have long said they wanted," said Firor. "It will be extremely rewarding finally to unveil what we have been developing the last several years. The entire team is committed to creating the best MMO ever made – and one that is worthy of The Elder Scrolls franchise."The publisher is releasing few other details at present, except that the title is being developed for PC and Mac. There is no release date, no beta announcement and no word on the payment model. The press release hints that the game will take in towns and environments from the whole series, but again, nothing is confirmed. The US magazine Game Informer will be featuring an in-depth preview this month.Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim was one of last year's most critically acclaimed titles, shipping over 10 million copies in its first month on sale – the titles have become so vast, an online version of the world was always likely. The tricky part will be deciding on a subscription model, pitting the adventure against World of Warcraft, or a free-to-play model, pitching it in with a wealth of titles like Runescape, Dungeons &amp; Dragons Online and Lord of the Rings Online.
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTV and radio as primary and secondary activities in daily life, 1974/2002 &gt;&gt; BBCSlide from a presentation about how much TV has become a "secondary activity" - ie not the main thing people do when the TV is on - compared to 1974.Battery blues: why your mobile device doesn't run ... &gt;&gt; HP Input OutputGood primer from HP.Apple shines, but slumping Android shipments lead to disappointing first quarter for media tablets &gt;&gt; IDC&lt;blockquote&gt;Apple shipped 11.8m iPads during the quarter, down from 15.4m units in the fourth quarter of 2011, and grew its worldwide share from 54.7% in 4Q11 to 68% in 1Q12. Amazon, which stormed into the market in 4Q11 to grab second place with 16.8% of the market on shipment of 4.8m units, saw its share decline significantly in the first quarter to just over 4%, falling to third place as a result. Samsung took advantage of Amazon's weakness to regain the number two position while Lenovo vaulted into the number four spot, followed by Barnes &amp; Noble at number five.&lt;/blockquote&gt;Samsung's share is therefore between 27% and 4%. Helpful. The Kindle Fire shipment translates to just under 700,000 (out of the total 17.4m tablets shipped worldwide). In other news, Christmas cracker sales are down too.No Apple TV set until 2014, says analyst: What's next for Apple? &gt;&gt; ZDNet&lt;blockquote&gt;Citing economic conditions, [JP Morgan's] research "does not indicated any looming TV-related product launch". [Mark] Moskowitz noted that the television market is on shaky ground, it would be a risky move for the Cupertino-based giant to throw itself in the ring unless there was a major pull factor.&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt;Apple needs "a radical change of the user interface, integration of the TV programming and data content, and use of gesture or voice control," Moskowitz noted. Besides a plethora of reasons, the J.P. Morgan analyst doesn't think Apple would generate a decent profit from the product. "We are not sure that the Apple premium could prevail in the TV market."&lt;/blockquote&gt;Isn't that some people have been saying all along? TV isn't mobile and it's mature.Flipboard for Android is a Galaxy S III exclusive &gt;&gt; SlashGear&lt;blockquote&gt;Samsung has fully unveiled the Galaxy S III here at the London event today, and one of the inclusions to its modified version of Ice Cream Sandwich is an exclusive version of Flipboard. It marks the first time that Flipboard will be making the jump to Android, previously having seen a home on iOS. Samsung say that they have an exclusive window on the app, so it won't be hitting the Play Store or other handsets until a later date.&lt;/blockquote&gt;How a Wi-Fi camera should work &gt;&gt; Scripting NewsDave Winer: &lt;blockquote&gt;Sometime in the last few months Canon released a couple of cameras that support Wi-Fi. If you've been following Scripting News for a few years, you know this is an event I've been waiting for. And since I had a birthday coming up, I decided to spring for it. I'm going to give my old Canon point-and-click to my Mom. She needs a new camera. And I need a new toy!Which has turned out to be a real puzzle. How do you get the Wi-Fi to work?&lt;/blockquote&gt;You have to admire his optimism in buying a camera and expecting that the Wi-Fi would make sense.Google is making a huge and annoying mistake &gt;&gt; Wil WheatonWheaton is a big star in the US. He starts by saying he likes Google+. But by forcing people to "upgrade" in order to like a video on YouTube, he says it's putting people off. &lt;blockquote&gt;By crippling functionality on sites Google owns (like YouTube) and forcing users to "upgrade" to a service that they may not want or need to get that functionality back, Google is making a huge and annoying mistake.&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt; You get people to enthusiastically use services by making them compelling and awesome and easy to use. You don't get people to enthusiastically use your services by forcing them to. In fact, that's probably a great way to ensure that a huge number of people who may have been interested in trying out your service never even look at it.&lt;/blockquote&gt;When the producers don't like it, that's a problem.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest links, tag articles on Pinboard.in with "guardiantech"
Samsung has released a new flagship smartphone, the Galaxy S3, including voice control, wireless beaming of content and exclusive apps, as it aims to consolidate its position at the top of the mobile sector.The S3 has a super AMOLED 4.8in screen, larger than its predecessor the S2, with an 8 megapixel rear camera and 1.9MP front camera which offers "intelligent camera features" that the company says will adapt to what it sees you doing.The phone runs on Google's Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich) software, but has a number of Samsung additions – including voice recognition and eye tracking.The phone will go on sale on 30 May in the UK, with Orange and Phones4U already lined up to sell it. No price has yet been given. It will go on sale in the US this summer. Samsung said it will go on sale with 296 carriers in 145 countries. It can connect at "4G" speeds in compatible countries."S Voice" can respond to spoken orders such as "wake up" when its screen is off,  "snooze" for an alarm, or to play a particular song, change volume settings, and take pictures. It also responds to gestures, so that lifting the phone to the face while sending a text message will dial the recipient's number instead.Samsung has also souped up Google's Android Beam (which can pass data such as business card details) so it is capable of sending a 1GB file between two S3 phones in three minutes, or a 10MB file in two seconds by touching them together.It comes in a 15GB or 32GB version, though the company said a 64GB model would come soon. Buyers can get an optional wireless charging pad, similar to that offered with the now-defunct HP TouchPad last year.At 4.8in, the screen size is only just below the minimum 5in that most analysts class as a tablet – indicating Samsung's confidence that top-end users will want larger screens. The first-generation Galaxy S in 2010 had a 4in screen; the S2, a 4.3in screen.The company sold an estimated 44m smartphones across its entire portfolio in the first quarter of 2012, more than any other company. It dominates the Android sector too, selling around 50% of phones on a platform which itself makes up 50% of smartphone sales.Jason Jenkins, editor of CNET UK, said: "The Samsung Galaxy S3 is a cracker of a smartphone that makes the iPhone look a little like yesterday's model. It cements Samsung's place as one of the leading phone manufacturers and really puts the pressure on Apple to come up with something different for its next iPhone later in the year."It's also starting to look like this will be a two-horse race – Samsung and Apple fighting it out for the number one spot with everyone else left to pick up the crumbs. HTC, Sony, BlackBerry and Nokia are the ones with the real work to do."Ian Fogg, an analyst at IHS Suppli, said: "What's striking is that Samsung is focusing on software and the experiences, more than the hardware (although that is excellent too). Features like Pop over, social tag, and S Voice all aspire to differentiate from the opposition through the user experience that Samsung's software customisation delivers."Samsung have been leading up to this for a while, but this is the first time they've led their product positioning on user experience and software."Francisco Jeronimo, IDC's smartphones analyst, was downbeat, saying: "It is not an eye-catching device that will overwhelm consumers."He noted that analysts had not been given the chance to try out the voice control in pre-release demonstrations of the phone. Of a brief test, he said: "Overall, [it] seems very similar to Siri, but my first impression was that is not as well integrated with the phone as Siri is with the iPhone."Carolina Milanesi, smartphones analyst at the research group Gartner, said that Samsung was looking for ways to remain ahead of rivals in the Android space, as well as Apple."They need to push the boundaries in order to remain ahead," she said. "It will be interesting to see how many of these new features [in the S3] will be open to developers so that they can take advantage of them in their apps."However, if developers start to target Samsung APIs for apps, that could potentially split the Android platform still further beyond the individual versions produced by Google – and would also tend to increase Samsung's control of Android.Such an "embrace and extend" manoeuvre would build its control of the platform, where it already presently has half of worldwide sales and is the biggest profit-maker.Jeronimo observed: "Samsung definitely embraced Android, and is extending it. We shouldn't also forget that Samsung has a quite opportunistic approach to  market trends."If Android is now the new kid on the block that can best contribute to its success, they will invest and nurture it to maximise the opportunity. But if the trend changes (and they are very good at anticipating that), they will also change the platform they embrace in the future."But, he added: "It is clear that Samsung has no other strong options at the moment."No price was announced, though Milanesi suggested that it would be priced similarly to the Google-branded (but Samsung-made) Galaxy Nexus, released last October, and that prices of the year-old Galaxy S2 would be cut to boost Samsung's already dominant share.Milanesi was generally impressed with the device, though with some reservations. "The design is much improved, and despite the fact that it is still plastic it feels much less cheap than the Galaxy S2 and the Nexus," she said.But she thought the S Voice control was less convincing: "It came across as a little gimmicky when I played with it. But to me the main issue is that these features are quite buried in the device, so might not be that obvious to consumers. S Voice is not as complex as Siri – more like voice activation for simple commands."Overall, she suggested: "I think Samsung has similar challenges to Apple but with a less convincing overall package and a weaker brand."But Fogg suggested that the real problem would be for other companies. "For Nokia, this must be deeply concerning," he said. "One of Nokia's stated reasons they opted for Windows Phone was because they believed that it would be impossible to differentiate using Android."Samsung is showing with the the Galaxy S3 that it's perfectly possible to innovate with Android software. In fact, Android is enabling faster innovation than any handset maker has managed with Windows Phone."But the new Galaxy S3 could also pose problems for the smaller players in the Android space, Fogg suggested. "Samsung's marketing spend and brand awareness are second to none. This combination of marketing spend and channels will cause serious problems for smaller handset makers such as HTC, LG and Motorola."Jeronimo warned that Samsung needs to consolidate its position: "Samsung needs to come up with unique features and not to catch-up once again with other vendors. What is there that's completely unique on the S3 that we haven't seen on other devices? Maybe slight differences on the features, but nothing disruptive."They entered a new era. The only way to succeed is to set the pace of innovation. I believe that's exactly what they want to do, but they still suffering from the 'follower-syndrome': to improve what others created. That's why consumers will compare the S Voice to Siri and not the other way around."
It's Friday! Any gaming plans for the weekend? I'll be reviewing Minecraft XBLA and Max Payne 3!
The American artist Keith Haring, who died of Aids-related illnesses in 1990 at the age of 31, is being celebrated in a Google Doodle.Haring would have been 54 on Friday and no doubt would have approved of the tribute to his brand of pop art, which drew on the New York street styles and dance music scene of the 1980s. An unabashed populist, he delighted in the idea that his work should be available to everybody – not just a clique of gallerists and rich collectors.He first came to public attention with his chalk drawings on the New York subway in the late 1970s. This cartoonish quality continued in his later work, characterised by vivid colours and bold lines, which influenced the club scene and advertising.Mentored by Andy Warhol, Haring opened a small shop in SoHo in 1986 called Pop Shop, selling merchandise bearing his iconic images including T-shirts, toys, posters, badges and key rings as well as reproductions of his art. He said the idea behind the venture, reconstructed in a Tate Modern exhibition in 2009, was "to continue this same sort of communication as with the subway drawings. I wanted to attract the same wide range of people, and I wanted it to be a place where, yes, not only collectors could come but also kids from the Bronx."His friendship with Warhol connected Haring to rising celebrities such as Madonna, who was a regular customer at Pop Shop in the 80s. The singer regarded Haring's mixing of art, street and consumer culture as a major influence on her success. She has said: "Keith ... managed to take something from what I call street art, which was an underground counterculture, and raise it to a pop culture for mass consumption. And I did that too."Haring did not live to see the huge impact his consumerist approach to art would have on subsequent generations, not least the YBAs. In 1988 he was diagnosed with Aids and died two years later. During that time he became an activist and campaigner, using his work to raise awareness of the disease and to promote messages of safe sex.He established the Keith Haring Foundation in 1989 to provide funding and promotional imagery to Aids organisations and children's charities, as well as to expand the audience for his work through exhibitions, publications and merchandise.His last works included a painting on the rear wall of an Italian church and six animations for Sesame Street, reflecting both his versatility and the wide audience for his art.
Facebook has indicated it will price itself at between $28 and $35 a share, paving the way for the world's largest social networking site to reach a giddying valuation of almost $100bn when launches its stock market sale in two weeks.The price range for Facebook's initial public offering of stock (IPO), which was released in a regulatory filing, would value the company at up to $96bn,according to the Wall Street Journal. It would also provide up to $12bn in cash for existing investors and the site's core team.Mark Zuckerberg, who invented Facebook while studying at Harvard as immortalised in the Hollywood film The Social Network, stands to make up to $19bn personally.The price range is slightly lower than  anticipated, though there is still time for it to slide upwards ahead of a likely start to trading on the Nasdaq whichthe New York Times sayswill take place on 17 or 18 May. A ballpark valuation of $100bn had been widely speculated.Whatever the final figure, the IPO is likely to be the largest for an internet company, dwarfing even the $23bn debut of Google in 2004.Such staggering sums are a reflection of how ubiquitous the social networking site has become. Itcrossed the watershed of 500 million usersin July 2010 but is fast approaching the day when it will double that number.The company now has 901 million monthly active users and on current trends is on track to hit the billion mark by the end of the year.With such reach, comes desirability. The site is gearing up to be a major force in this year's presidential election, with boththe Obama re-election campaignand theMitt Romney campaignputting Facebook at the centre of their strategic plans.However, there are still bumps and hurdles to be negotiated along the way to Facebook IPO heaven. Last month the company announced that its earnings and revenues had fallen in the first quarter of the year,with profits dropping by 12%from $233m to $205m.The decline was blamed on rising costs and marketing expenses.Facebook executives will now spend more than a week travelling the US in what is being billed as a road show, selling the idea of the IPO to potential investors.
I tend to helplessly over-engage with the daily grind of trivial illogic and piddling absurdities of modern life. "I hope you're not proud of yourself," my not-quite ex-spouse would often say about these sort of run-ins (at restaurants, hotels, on telephone helplines, or with the gym teachers in my children's schools), which could often escalate into unseemly showdowns and vivid name-calling.Thejuice, checked by the NYPD for any dangerous antioxidants. Photograph: Michael WolffLast Sunday afternoon, on the way to the movies, I sensed such an incident coming on when, inJuice Press on East 1st Street, New York, I was given a clear plastic bag in which to carry my juice, instead of an opaque one. (A clear bag? Why?). Still, it seemed more of an assault on dignity to try to hide my juice under my coat as my companion urged before we entered theSunshine Cinema on Houston Street, than to flaunt it. Besides, this was an art house in the East Village.The East Village – land of nut jobs and bad behavior! And we were seeingWhit Stillman's Damsels in Distress, a film about nuance and sensibility and modern ironies. This wasn't a corporate blockbuster in a soulless multiplex in an authoritarian mall.So, I paid my $26 bucks for two tickets and, with reasonable confidence and nonchalance, entered the theater carrying my expensive juice in a transparent bag.But the eagle-eyed ticket-taker immediately sent up flares as we passed him by. "What is that?""Privately purchased juice, which I plan to shortly enjoy," said I.As so often happens, I was suddenly much more interested in the possibilities of conflict, of all the variable forms of dominance and submission that might unfold, than I was in seeing the movie – a personal quirk to which almost nobody I know is sympathetic. The issue is proportion, I have been told. And something about picking your battles."Sir. Sir, you can't do that," said the manager, a young woman running into the frame – aTracy Flicktype if there ever was one."I'm afraid I can, and that I'm going to," I said, rather too jauntily."I told you! You're an idiot for not hiding it," said my companion."I'm 58 years old. I don't think I have to hide my juice. Besides," I said, "What are they going to do?"As it happens, the Sunshine Cinema may be in the East Village showing a quirky film, but it is part of the Landmark chain, which is owned by Mark Cuban, owner of the Dallas Mavericks and a dotcom billionaire – as keen on having people acknowledge his position and authority, as I would be inclined to defy it.Tracy Flick called the police, who were curiously prompt – a three-minute response time for a bottle of juice – making me wonder if they aren't getting free tickets to art films.Now, as to the issue, which I briefly tried to outline for my companion as much to stiffen her resolve as to justify myself: theaters clearly permit eating in the auditorium. They might, fairly, be able to stop you from eating if eating was not permitted at all (say, for sanitary and janitorial reasons; in fact, they encourage you to eat messy and smelly foods).Unlike a restaurant, which can reasonably stop you from sitting and eating your independently purchased food, because otherwise you would be stealing the use of their facilities, the primary usage of a theater isnoteating; there is no requirement that you eat. And most people don't; they just watch the movie. Thus, the theater is trying to curtail legal and reasonable behavior in an attempt to coerce you to do something that is an optional part of the deal.True, the issue is petty, but it is, too, curiously character-defining, in one of the following ways:1. There's the great mass who shrug off the obvious contradictions and accept the regulation, and so create the de facto movie theater business model, wherein the movies themselves become something of a loss leader, and profits are made by price-gouging on cheap food to a captive audience. Why would anyone accept this? Because most people shrink from conflict and friction – and, too, are helpless in the face of junk food. Call them the hungry submissives.2. Then, there are those who see the absurdity of the rule and set out, with cunning and ritual, to subvert it, hiding their juices and snacks in bags and coat sleeves, and consuming them with surreptitious slurps and nibbles. Call them the happy cheaters.3. And there are those – one a day? Two, maybe? – who are cranks like me: polemical recreationists and authority-phobes, no doubt looking for some kind of personal vindication and acknowledgement. The obnoxious know-it-alls. Few, however, are obnoxious enough to push this as far as having the police come.Of all the participants in the movie theater food-consumption question– faceless corporate management, officious clerks, the hungry submissives, the happy cheaters, and the obnoxious know-it-alls – the latter is probably the least popular. Nobody likes a grandstander. Nobody likes a loudmouth. Nobody likes someone who turns a trifling issue into a big drama."Please come outside," said Officer Gannon, not with an art-house demeanor. For a second, I detected that my companion was wavering between support for me and her interest in seeing the film, but she summoned herself and got up."Is that the juice?" Asked Officer Gannon."As far as I know, there is nothing illegal about this juice. As a matter of fact …""Let's go."I may be obnoxious but I am not out of control. In the realm of the hair-trigger NYPD, as suspicious of an overly verbal urbanite as they are of a nonverbal gangbanger, I can be very docile. Although, of course, notthatdocile; and, at this point,taking badge numbers, I began to tweet, too.Taking badge numbers... 1371, Officer Gannon...&mdash; Michael Wolff (@MichaelWolffNYC)April 28, 2012I was mindful of the opportunity. It was not just that there were, on the street, eight police officers and an ambulance (ready, I assume, to take me toBellevueif I appeared to be frothing at the mouth), to deal with a middle-aged writer and his expensive bottle of juice. But they were there to enforce the Sunshine's concession monopoly – at no cost to Mark Cuban and his billions. The New York taxpayer was defending Cuban's margins on popcorn and Coke.But even in the face of police overkill, to most of this contempt's witnesses, I was still more kook than martyr or hero.But for Twitter.My companion noticed me tweeting and glowered:"Don't mention the police – it's embarrassing." So, of course, I did, which turned out to be the hook that electrified the Twitter world.Indeed, in these circumstance, these minor breakdowns of the social compact, I have always tried hard not to say the thing every journalist can barely keep himself from saying: "Do you know who I am? I will write about this, and you, buster, will rue the day you looked cross-wise at me." I mostly succeed in not being this lame because I realize that, astoundingly, nobody cares about journalists (except journalists); and, also, that as a rule you never really do write about this stuff, anyway. Its timeliness is, to say the least, fleeting.But not for Twitter. Twitter is an ideal medium for not only galvanizing tectonic political crusades, but for chronicling the daft and absurd, no matter how inconsequential. There are no editors to advise maturity and caution; it requires virtually no work; and it lets you publish simultaneously with your outrage and annoyance.What's more, you enlarge your audience of witnesses to include people remote enough from your actual highhanded and obnoxious behavior not to be threatened or repulsed or embarrassed by how you're calling attention to yourself. The world is suddenly – quite a novel experience; at least, for me – on your side.Within a short time, Mark Cuban himself began to get into the act. Twitter, perhaps more than any other means of communication, gets instant attention (which, perhaps, says something about how little most people have to do). And say this for Mark, he was not hiding behind a PR social-media team programmed at the least sign of agitation to suck-up and mollify.@MichaelWolffNYCMIchael, do you bring your own juice into a restaurant ? its not illegal You could also bring your own toast into the diner&mdash; Mark Cuban (@mcuban)April 29, 2012No, Cuban was his usual aggressive and hot-tempered self, offering a robust turf defense of theater ritual and the importance of popcorn and of why he was entitled to keep my $26. (In the heat of the Twitter exchange, there emerged on Cuban's side that other confounding character type: those who like to defend authority. "Private enterprise. You don't follow their rules they can ask you to leave," declared a passing tweeter. Go figure.)But most remarkably, and unusually, in the Twitter context, I was no longer the ridiculous crank I have long resigned myself to being. Rather, in the blow-by-blow parsing of the nonsensical and the absurd, combined with the wisecracks that, in real life, just make people despise you all the more, together with the New York backdrop – the police threatening cuffs and examining my juice bag for weapons – I became almost virtuous. If I was not quite a hero to my children, who were following events as they unfolded on Twitter, I was at least amusing, rather than horrifying.For my companion, who was clearly ready to bolt throughout most of the incident, I suddenly, through the excitement of the Twitter crowd, became a figure of some wit and coolness. Indeed, our experience and near arrest, suddenly seemed at least as entertaining as the movie itself.And this weekend, we're going back. Whit Stillman chimed into the Twitter stream, too. So, we're going with him to the Sunshine to see Damsels In Distress. And we're all carrying our juice.@MichaelWolffNYCSorry about the juice carton.Would like to buy you some rum for it - Jamaican overproof. Thx 4 trying 2 c it&mdash; Whit Stillman (@WhitStillman)May 1, 2012
On one of the lesser visited pages of Facebook, there is a list of109 hackerswho have found ways of getting through the company's security firewalls. Facebook is not naming and shaming them. On the contrary, the company has set up the page to thank them "on behalf of our millions of users for making a responsible disclosure".The hackers have taken part in Facebook's White Hat programme. Anyone who finds a way of breaching the site's networks, and owns up, can earn rewards worth thousands of dollars.As well as money, Facebook promises not to land them in trouble with the police, if they have complied with the programme's golden rules."If you give us reasonable time to respond to your report before making any information public, and make a good faith effort to avoid privacy violations, destruction of data and interruption or degradation of our service during your research, we will not bring any lawsuit against you or ask law enforcement to investigate you."One British hacker has earned more than £1,500 from Facebook, and the most prolific White Hat contributors are now given their own Facebook "bug bounty" credit cards.It seems unlikely the Ministry of Defence, or any other Whitehall department, will ever adopt such a radical approach. But the spirit of the programme chimes with Major General Jonathan Shaw's belief the military must be prepared to embrace "wacky ideas" to tackle computer theft and espionage. The UK needs to find its own ways of turning poachers into gamekeepers, because the threat to the UK's critical infrastructure, and the secrets held by its companies, is now predominantly online and many of the smartest minds are on the wrong side of the legal fence.Facebook's chief security officer, Joe Sullivan, says he would much rather the hackers worked with the company, rather than against it. In time, he hopes the hackers will be able to find legitimate ways of expressing themselves within schools and universities."There is a real lack of practical academic programmes for cyber-security not only in the US but also internationally," he said. "Cyber-security is a skill best learned by doing, and unfortunately many of the current academic programmes place little emphasis on real-world practical experience such as that gained in competition or via bug-bounty programmes."This dearth of the right educational opportunities has a real impact on companies like ours who are searching far and wide for cyber-security experts to protect the networks and sites that people rely on and use every day."The lack of academic study programmes for cyber-security is astonishing. If we are to succeed in defending our societies, businesses and individuals ... we need to encourage the growth of formal cyber-security studies. Cyber-security is unfortunately a constant battle."The UK government has taken its first tentative steps into the twilight world of computer hacking, with the launch last year of theCyber Security Challenge,a nationwide competition which gives experts and amateurs a chance to show off their computer literacy. Winners are offered scholarships and funding for courses and are introduced to GCHQ, the UK's electronic warfare headquarters.The carrot is one way of encouraging hackers to act responsibly, but the stick is being used, too - as supporters of the alleged British hacker, Gary McKinnon, have found.McKinnon has been accused of hackinginto dozens of US army, navy, air force, and Department of Defence computers, as well as 16 Nasa computers. The charges relate to incidents that took place 10 years ago but, as his relatives point out, they have never been put before a court. McKinnon has described himself as "bumbling computer nerd", not a criminal mastermind. The case has generated huge amounts of publicity for a message the US wants heard around the world.
I run a home office using Webfusion for web and mail on a shared server basis. I can only send emails up to 6MB in size, but I need to send and receive large CAD files, typically up to 20MB. I have my own server so I am thinking of using that, or otherwise seeing what else is available on the market. Dedicated servers seem to cost around £39 a month, which is more than I want to spend.BillIt is possible to send large files by email if you split them up into small chunks and send each piece separately. For example, you could split a 20MB file called ABC into four 5MB files usingWinRAR, and the software will name these ABC.001, ABC.002 and so on. It's easy enough to do, but the recipient has to use WinRAR to join the pieces together. This may not go down well, especially if the recipient is a paying customer.In any case, email was not designed for transferring large files, and I think you avoid this approach. There are much better ways to share files.You could upload your files to your own server, but again, very few people now use the FTP (file transfer protocol) software that may be needed to download them. Again, I wouldn't recommend it. It's certainly not worth spending £39 a month to do this.As mentioned in a previous answer(Sharing personal files around the world), there are at least four good ways to share large files. These are to use a cloud storage service such as Dropbox or Microsoft's SkyDrive; to use a so-called "cyberlocker" such as Rapidshare or MediaFire; to send the file using a service such as YouSendIt or WeTransfer; and to host it in your own office using a Pogoplug "personal cloud".A cloud service is a good option, but the scene has changed since my earlier answer. The well established services includeMicrosoft's SkyDriveandDropbox, mentioned previously. However, Google has just entered the market withGoogle Drive, and this week, Amazon launched an app for itsCloud Drive. Both Google and Amazon offer 5GB of free space.Last week, Microsoftimproved its SkyDrive service, and started to offer paid-for storage at very attractive prices. It also reduced the amount of free storage from 25GB to 7GB for new customers, but this is enough to hold 350 of your typical CAD files, which is plenty. You can upload any type of file using a web browser or simply drag it into a SkyDrive folder in Windows Explorer. (SkyDrive will be integrated into Windows 8.) You can then share the file by sending someone a link. SkyDrive also has a built-in option to share files on Facebook and Twitter.Dropbox is a popular option because it supports a wide range of devices, and it provides 2GB of free space. It's mainly designed for backing up files and synchronising them across platforms, but again, you can share files.The long-rumoured Google Drive or Gdrive is more of an extension to Google Docs, and it has someserious limitations. I'd recommend against using it if you want to edit or share Microsoft Office files online, because its compatibility with complex Office files is very poor. However, if you use AutoCAD, Google Drive allows you to install anAutoCAD WS appthat enables you to view DWG or DXF files online.All four services are free, so you can use more than one, or try them all and see which you like best.When files started to get too big for email, lots of companies started to offer services that let you send them over the net.YouSendItis the best known example, but alternatives includeSendGenieandWeTransfer. These are most often used to send a file one-to-one, and they do work, but file-sharing cyberlockers have started to take over.Cyberlocker files are available to anyone who has the link, so if you use them for commercial files, you should archive them using WinRAR, WinZip or a similar program, and add a password to protect them.Some people use cyberlockers to share copyright media files, and the market suffered a setback when the founder of MegaUpload, Kim Dotcom, was arrested in New Zealand. Many popular cyberlockers stopped sharing files, including FileServe and FileSonic. However, several continued to work – including Rapidshare, Hotfile and Depositfiles – and some users switched to other services such as Rapidgator, Bitshare and Freakshare. Since the police action showed, very vividly, that MegaUpload had made tens of millions of dollars, I don't expect there to be a shortage of cyberlockers in the near future.Take a look at YouSendIt, WeTransfer,MediaFire(which I've used a few times) andRapidshareand see which you like best. (If applicable, remember to save the links needed to delete your files afterwards.) As well as looking at the technical aspects, you should also consider whether a service gives your company the right sort of image.The fourth option is thePogoplug. You plug it into the mains, an external hard drive,  and your internet router, then give people permission to fetch the files they need. It's simpler and cheaper than running your own file server, or renting one from a host. It also means you don't have to give someone access to your work PC.If you want fewer options, just try MediaFire and Dropbox.All the services I've mentioned so far are aimed at consumers rather than businesses, but there are further options for paying customers. The main ones areMicrosoft Office 365, launched late last year,Google Apps for BusinessandZoho. Each has its strengths and weaknesses. Office 365 offers the most compatibility if you are already an Office user, and generally costs more. Zoho is cheap, has the widest range of business applications, and can work with Google Apps and Microsoft Office and SharePoint. However, it offers Zoho Mail rather than hosted Exchange.If you are using Webfusion's hosted Exchange Server for email, possibly with the version of Outlook it supplies, it might be worth looking at Office 365. It would enable you to share files with customers and possibly have "whiteboard" sessions at an economical cost. (SharePoint does support AutoCAD files, though I don't know the details.) The drawbacks are that Office 365 can be much harder to configure than it should be, for its target audience, and you won't get any sort of personal service.If you are happy with the service that you are getting at the moment, apart from the mail attachment problem, it's probably best to stick with it. Anything that disrupts the normal flow of business should be avoided unless there are very clear benefits.
Computer hackers have managed to breach some of the top secret systems within the Ministry of Defence, the military's head of cyber-security has revealed.Major General Jonathan Shaw told the Guardian the number of successful attacks was hard to quantify but they had added urgency to efforts to beef up protection around the MoD's networks."The number of serious incidents is quite small, but it is there," he said. "And those are the ones we know about. The likelihood is there are problems in there we don't know about."Government computer systems come under daily attack, but though Shaw would not say how or by whom, this is the first admission that the MoD's own systems have been breached.TheSerious Organised Crime Agency, took its website offline on Wednesday nightafter becoming the target of a cyber-attack. A spokesman said the attack did not pose a security risk to the organisation.Shaw, a veteran of the Falklands and Iraq wars, also said the MoD had to be prepared to embrace unconventional and "wacky" ideas if the military wanted to catch up with, and then stay ahead of, rivals in the cybersphere. Getting "kids on the street" to help the military was vital, he said."My generation &nbsp;… we are far too old for this; it is not what we have grown up with. Our natural recourse is to reach for a pen and paper. And although we can set up structures, we really need to be on listening mode for this one."He added: "If we want to work the response, if we want to know really what is happening, we really have to listen to the young kids out in the street. They are telling us what is happening out there."That will pose a real challenge to us. This thing is moving too fast. The only people who spot what is happening are people at the coal face and that is the young kids. We have to listen to them and they have to talk to us."A former director of UK special forces, Shaw, 54, said he thought the military could learn a trick or two from firms such as Facebook.The company has a"white hat" programmein which hackers are paid rewards for informing them when they have found a security vulnerability.Nine people in the UK have been paid a total of $11,000 (£6,785) for working with Facebook. Shaw said this was the kind of "waacky idea we need to bring in".Shaw has spent the last year reviewing the MoD's approach to cyber-security, and the kind of cyber-capability the military will need in the future.He says next year's MoD budget is expected to include new money for cyber-defence – an acknowledgment that even during a time of redundancies and squeezed budgets, this is now a priority.The general said the MoD wasn't "doing badly&nbsp;… but we could do a hell of a lot better. We will get there, but we will have to do it fast. I think it was a surprise to people this year quite how vulnerable we are, which is why the measures have survived so long in the [budget] because people have become aware of the vulnerabilities and are taking them seriously."China and Russia have been accused of being behind most of the sophisticated cyber-attacks, with state-sponsored hackers targeting military secrets from western governments, or intellectual property from British and American defence firms.Shaw refused to point the finger at any nation, but admitted the UK was "trying to engage the Chinese on rules of the road in cyberspace", pressing the argument that new international treaties are not necessary to stop this kind of theft and espionage.Shaw said the number of attacks was "still on an upward curve&nbsp;… and the pace of change is unrelenting".In his last interview before retiring, Shaw said the UK had to develop an array of its own cyber-weapons because it was impossible to create entirely secure computer systems."It is quite right to say that pure defence, building firewalls, will not keep the enemy out. They might be inside already&nbsp;… there is no such thing as total security. You have to learn to live with certain insecurities."One needs to engage in internal defence and be quite aggressive about it. And if you are going to manoeuvre in cyberspace, that is something that obviously involves action across the spectrum."Shaw said he intended to "mainstream" cyber-capabilities across the MoD by 2015. This included ensuring military commanders had a range of cyber-options to use from a "golf bag" of weapons systems.But he thought cyber-weapons would complement rather than replace more conventional weapons."As new capabilities come on the block, you reassess whether you need the old ones, whether they are complimentary or duplicatory."People have asked me whether cyber-weapons will make conventional weapons redundant. Absolutely not. A hard bomb is actually quite a good cyber-weapon because it can take out a broadcasting station, take out a server."The military top brass, he said, had been the "hardest to convince" about the cyber-threat, because high-ranking officers tend to be set in their ways. "We are the wrong guys to deal with this."Shaw said it still surprised him that the MoD's headquarters in Whitehall "is the only building, main defence security establishment, where you don't leave your mobile phones and Ipad in a box outside your office&nbsp;… people's personal behaviours are not good enough. When we look at cyber-security in the MoD, we are looking at preserving intellectual property and our networks and stopping people spying on us."The real challenge is how we secure our supply chains. We are dependent on industry for our technological edge&nbsp;… and preserving that intellectual property is absolutely vital."He added: "Cyber implies something technical. To the average person in the street, cyber means it is someone else's problem. But it is everyone's problem. We can't just leave it to the techies."An MoD spokesman said: "The MoD takes all possible precautions to defend our system from attack from both unsolicited, for example 'spam' email, and targeted sources. It would be both misleading and naïve to assume that any system is 100% secure against all possible threats which is why we take additional steps to detect suspicious activity within our own systems."We also ensure that our most sensitive networks are not connected to the internet and have additional physical and technical measures in place to defend them."
Ben Berkowitz woke up three years ago to find a huge graffiti tag scrawled across his neighbor's wall, which he couldn't avoid seeing through his back window."I was calling city hall to try to figure out what the policy was on graffiti removal on private property and it was really hard to get an answer. It was even harder to get it removed," he said.The more he poked around, the more he realized his experience was reflective of a broader problem."I was seeing this block in communication at the very local level when I started to look around on blogs. People were talking about potholes and similar municipal issues. The frustration was universal."But Berkowitz, a web designer, saw the problem as something he could potentially hack. A new breed of technologist increasingly interested in getting government to work more efficiently and transparently, Berkowitz co-createdSeeClickFix, a location-based web platform allows residents to document neighborhood concerns and suggest improvements.With SeeClickFix, users can report quality-of-life concerns – garbage collection, graffiti, potholes – through service requests, timestamped with photos and location.Other residents, including the relevant city officials, will then receive an alert. The city can then acknowledge the service request, transfer it to the proper department, and update residents once it's been resolved.The partnership allows residents to not only report community issues, but also view, comment on and vote to prioritize problems submitted by their neighbors.With the SeeClickFix app, users can report quality-of-life concerns like potholes. Photograph: Dave Darnell/Landov/Press Association ImagesSeeClickFix, which is based in New Haven, Connecticut, is open, public, and applies pressure to get the most pressing jobs done. And it's emblematic of a trend:Open311, for example, is a similar partnership between several municipalities and coders that lets people lodge, publicize and track non-emergency complaints."There is a new generation of civically engaged individuals who happen to also be technologists. Instead of just showing up at a city council meeting or voting, they're using their skills to participate in the startup community to tackle longstanding problems in government," Andrew Rasiej, founder of Personal Democracy Media and chairman of NY TechMeetup, told the Guardian."The government is making more and more data available, and the technology we carry in our pockets is getting so powerful that citizens are starting to build technologies useful in their daily lives."'There is no Democratic or Republican way to pick up the garbage'These citizens include people like Berkowitz and his partners at SeeClickFix, but also the folks at New York'sBig Apps, which offers cash and other prizes to software developers for the best new apps that use city-published data.These are people like Anil Dash and Gina Trapani of Expert Labs, whose open sourceThinkUpweb app was designed for agencies to better analyze their mentions across social networking sites.And these are people like Jennifer Pahlka, founder and executive director of Code for America, a San Francisco-based non-profit that aspires to do for technology what Teach for America does for education: help governments work better for everyone by throwing its data open to enterprising programmers.Pahlka stresses that her generation of technologists are increasingly more interested in getting the government to function than they are in getting their guy elected."We grew up with the notion that you're supposed to be politically active. But there's a trend towards people who want to be bureaucratically active: in the layer that's under the politics," she told the Guardian."Young people are seeing the shouting match between the left and the right, and it's a turnoff overall. There is no Democratic or Republican way to pick up the garbage."Working with city managers, Code for America fellows identify projects that can benefit from web-based solutions.For example, when the Boston public school system changed its rules for eligibility last year, parents became frustrated trying to figure out something as simple as which school their kids were supposed to attend. A 28-page document released by the city read like tax code and didn't give parents a straightforward answer.Code for America fellows viewed it as a straightforward mapping problem. With data made available by the city, they built the appdiscoverBPS.org, which asks parents for a set of data and calculates what school their kids are zoned for."If that had gone through normal government channels, it would have taken two years and cost $2m. We did it for basically nothing in two months," said Pahlka."You start to see why there's a lack of trust in government. Look at that simple and beautiful app and contrast it with a typical government website. We expect to be confused and frustrated by those government interfaces because they're generally not well done and do not implement design and usability principles."Where's My School Bus, a Code For America project, allows parents to access real-time bus information for Boston public schools. Photograph: codeforamerica.orgWhat it boils down to is building better listening tools, said Clay Johnson, author of theInformation Diet. Johnson began his career at AskJeeves.com before becoming a lead programmer for the Howard Dean campaign, the movement that first shone a light on the internet's promise in the public sector.He went on to found Blue State Digital, which provided tech services and online strategy to President Barack Obama's 2008 campaign. Then, somewhat disenchanted by party politics, he left to become the director of Sunlight Labs, thesoftware development portionof the Sunlight Foundation, which works to make the government more accountable."This transition happened for a lot of people. They start out in politics and say: 'Hey, wait a second, there's a difference between politics and governance – and governance is the system that's the most messed up, so why don't I focus on that?'" he said."When this country was founded, there was one representative for every 60,000 people. Now there's one representative for every 718,000 people. A lot of people are saying the legislative branch of our government can't really scale well with the current technology. So how can we scale?"Download the codeIf this conversation is to become a two-way street, governments will be required open up their data, and in some cases their own coding, to outside developers. Increasingly, this has become something that elected officials are becoming more comfortable with.The new US Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which aims to make government more transparent, is quickly becoming a model of what government 2.0 might look like.Last month, the CFPB made waves when itannounced publicly: "We use open source software, and we do so because it helps us fulfil our mission."The CFPB went on to say it will publicly host its works online at a GitHub account, making it easier for the public to share.But CFPB chief information officer Chris Willey isn't done breaking ground. "What we're trying to do now is work with a few federal agencies to entice them to download the code and contribute to it," he told the Guardian.For example, Willey's team streamlined the way in which bureau employees enrol for transit subsidies – instead of having to print out a form from the treasury department's website, fill it out with a pen and fax it in, CFPB employees can now do it all online.It seems like a small thing, something the corporate world would have adopted years ago, but that the federal government has been slow to adopt. The new subsidy enrollment plan is so user-friendly that the department of treasury and the United States agency for international development are considering implementing it themselves.Of course, this is also the same federal government that considered passing the Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa) earlier this year and has yet to weigh in on theproposed Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act(Cispa)."The open source marketplace has gotten a lot more mature over past five to 10 years. The government is just realizing what the private sector probably realized a while ago," Willey said."But it's not yet a trend. We want to build code that is solid. We want other agencies to contribute and make a project better. We are putting out things to benefit ourselves and also the broader public."
Samsung's Galaxy S3 is due to be launched in the UK on Thursday evening, the followup to its enormously successful S2 smartphone which helped it reach the top spot in the world smartphone market.The introduction of the phone – expected to be very much like the S2, but with a larger 4.8in screen (compared to the 4.3in of the S2), running Ice Cream Sandwich, the 4.0 version of Google's Android software, and with a faster quad-core processor – will see an event in London's Earls Court, with streaming live video to some phone shops in the capital.The S3 isn't expected to depart radically from the successful offerings of the S2 or Galaxy Nexus, the Google-branded phone made by Samsung which was intended to showcase Ice Cream Sandwich but has not sold strongly.Thetop 10 smartphones/mobile phones list on Amazon UK, which shows the most popular SIM-free devices (sold without a contract) point to the 5in Galaxy Note and S2 as the two most popular on the site; the Nexus is presently ranked 19th.But according to ComScore, Samsung still has some way to go in the UK market. New data released by the company say that despite Samsung leading in the world market, with a 29% share of smartphone sales in the first quarter of 2012, in the UK the "installed base" of Apple's iPhone is larger, with 26% of all current smartphone users in the UK at the end of March 2012.At the end of that month a total of 27.2 million people in the UK have a smartphone, representing 55% of the total mobile audience – up from 39%, or 19.3 million, in March 2011.According to ComScore's figures, Google's Android has the highest penetration, powering more than 40% (10.9 million) of those.Samsung is the fourth largest smartphone provider, it says, with 4.4m handsets in use (16.2%) – though that has risen dramatically from 1.3m (6.8%) at the end of March 2011.That represents more than a tripling in user numbers, almost certainly driven by the S2, which was launched in May 2011 in the UK. Samsung lies behind HTC and RIM for user base in the UK.However, ComScore's numbers suggest that it is the Galaxy Ace S5830 – launched in January 2011, and with 1.05 million users – that is the leader, rather than the S2, which has 919,000 users. The Nexus doesn't figure among the top five Samsung models, according to ComScore.Samsung's most-used smartphones in the UK in March 2012, according to ComScoreAmong Android handset makers, HTC still leads in the UK, with 40% of the Android installed base, but Samsung is close behind with 37%. The two are now duelling for dominance with HTC's recent release of the HTC One X.Samsung could make it on volume alone, suggests ComScore: it has released the most handsets since 2011 (24) with Sony Ericsson (14) and HTC (13) rounding the top three. In comparison, Apple has released four since 2011 (the iPhone 4 and 4S, each in two colours).For the Galaxy Note, the "phablet" which some research companies class as a tablet (because its 5in screen marks their lower bound for that category), ComScore doesn't have figures for the numbers in the UK, saying the sample size is too low – though in the five largest EU countries it surveys (UK, France, Germany, Italy and Spain) it found 509,000 users of the Galaxy Note in March 2012, reaching 0.2% of the total mobile market for those countries.
At the end of April, Tor Books, the world's largest science fiction publisher, and its UK sister company, Tor UK, announced that they would be eliminating digital rights management (DRM) from all of their ebooks by the summer. It was a seismic event in the history of the publishing industry. It's the beginning of the end for DRM, which are used by hardware manufacturers and publishers to limit the use of digital content after sale. That's good news, whether you're a publisher, a writer, a dedicated reader, or someone who picks up a book every year or two.The first thing you need to know about ebook DRM is that it can't work.Like all DRM systems, ebook DRM presumes that you can distribute a program that only opens up ebooks under approved circumstances, and that none of the people you send this program to will figure out how to fix it so that it opens ebooks no matter what the circumstances. Once one user manages that, the game is up, because that clever person can either distribute ebooks that have had their DRM removed, or programs to remove DRM (or both). And since there's no legitimate market for DRM – no readers are actively shopping for books that only open under special approved circumstances – and since the pirated ebooks are more convenient and flexible than the ones that people pay for, the DRM-free pirate editions drive out the DRM-locked commercial editions.What's more, books are eminently re-digitisable. That is, it's very easy to retype a DRM-locked ebook, or scan a physical book, or take screenshots of a DRM-locked ebook, and convert the resulting image files to text. Google has scanned some 16 million books in the last few years.It's a solved problem.Bad for businessIf all DRM did was drive legit customers to pirate downloads, that would be bad enough for publishers. But that's just the most obvious way that DRM is bad for business. Most developed countries have signed up to the WIPO Copyright Treaty of 1996, and have implemented it in laws that make it illegal for anyone except a DRM vendor to remove DRM. If Tor sells you one of my books for the Kindle locked with Amazon's DRM, neither I, nor Tor, can authorise you to remove that DRM. If Amazon demands a deeper discount (something Amazon has been doing with many publishers as their initial ebook distribution deals come up for renegotiation) and Tor wants to shift its preferred ebook retail to a competitor like Waterstone's, it will have to bank on its readers being willing to buy their books all over again.Because only Amazon can authorise you to take the DRM off your Kindle books, and because doing so would mean giving a commercial advantage to Amazon's direct competitors, it's not likely that they would cooperate with Tor on this. It's a rare business that volunteers to cut its own throat.Back when ebook sales began to kick off, most major publishers were still DRM believers — or at least, not overly skeptical of the claims of DRM vendors. They viewed the use of DRM as "better than nothing".When queried on the competitive implications of giving control over their business relationships to DRM vendors, they were sanguine (if not utterly dismissive). They perceived "converting ebooks" as a technical challenge beyond the average book buyer. For the absence of DRM to make any kind of difference in the marketplace, they believed that book buyers would have to download and install a special program to let them convert Kindle books to display on a Nook (or vice-versa), and they perceived this to be very unlikely.But it's only the widespread presence of DRM that makes "converting ebooks" into a technical challenge. Your browser "converts" all sorts of graphic formats — GIF, JPEG, PNG, etc — without ever calling your attention to it. You need to take some rather extraordinary steps to find out which format of the graphics on your screen right now are using. Unless you're a web developer, you probably don't even know what the different formats are, nor what their technical differences are. And you don't need to.A troubled history of formatsPublishers have had some very bad experiences with formats, which may explain their misperception of the difficulty of "converting" ebooks.Many publishers began their conversion to digital typesetting with QuarkXPress, which was an extraordinarily clunky product, especially in its early days. Quark files were difficult to import intoanyprogram, including other versions of Quark. When publishers began to shift their typesetting to Adobe InDesign, they spent millions on the conversion, and technical problems with this changeover haunt them to this day. But that's an exception, not the rule. In most cases, application developers handle the existence of new formats without breaking a sweat. Your word processor, browser, spreadsheet program, video player, music player and photo editor can handle a titanic variety of formats.But when the only DRM-free ebooks are those from independent authors, small and medium publishers, and the occasional stiff-necked author like me, who convinces a major publisher to release his books without DRM, there's not really much point in making programs that read "all the ebooks". Readers will still have to maintain multiple readers, one for each of the DRM formats they consume, and one for everything else. There are a few apps that do a good job of converting between formats, especially the donation-based program Calibre. But there haven't been any big venture capital investments in splashy, jack-of-all-trades ebook readers, because there's no market for them for so long as DRM is the norm.Reading the marketMost people don't really read books. A typical book buyer can be expected to buy a single book every year or so. On the other hand, a small minority are avid readers, the sort who'll buy 100-150 books a year. This market is one that publishers are eager to protect, and it's likely that anyone who spends $100 or more on an ebook reading device is an avid book reader already. That's why publishers spent so much time worrying about whether Amazon was discounting new ebook releases too deeply. Kindle owners overlap with avid readers, and avid readers are the target market for new, full-price hardcovers.Discounting ebooks when the hardcover is just out is likely to cannibalise one of the critical profit-centres for the industry.However, these readers are also the ones most likely to run up against the limits of DRM. They're the customers who amass large libraries from lots of suppliers, and who value their books as long-term assets that they expect to access until they die. They may have the chance to change their ebook reading platform every year or two (the most common platform being a mobile phone, and many people get a new phone with each contract renewal). They want to be sure that their books travel with them. When their books don't, they'll be alienated, frustrated and will likely seek out unauthorised ways to get books in future. No one wants to be punished for their honesty.There's the other population of readers – the very occasional reader, someone who'll grab a book on the way to a beach holiday or a weekend away and then toss it out afterwards. Avid readers start off as occasional readers, and there are a lot of occasional readers in aggregate, so it's not a market that publishers can afford to alienate.These readers are also poorly served by DRM, since they aren't likely to know much about ebooks and ebook readers, and are thus prone to buying books that aren't compatible with their reading devices and vice-versa.Absent DRM, these customers will also have tools that effortlessly read any vendor's ebooks.In mature gadget markets – like DVD players and MP3 players – formats stop mattering altogether. Especially at the low end of the market, these devices support every format their makers can discover. The cheap-and-cheerful manufacturers at the low end don't have a secondary market they're trying to protect, no app store or crucial vendor relationship with a big distributor or publisher. They just want a product that ticks the box for every possible customer. Since multiformat support is just a matter of getting the software right, what tends to happen is that a standard, commodity firmware emerges for these devices that just works for just about everything, and the formats vanish into the background.Now that Tor has dropped DRM – and acquired a valuable halo of virtue among committed ebook readers, who'll celebrate their bravery – it's inevitable that the competition will follow. It seems we have reached the beginning of the end of the ebook format wars, which is good news for readers, writers and publishers.
An hour-long "lost" interview with the late Steve Jobs will be released in cinemas next week,after it was acquired for US distribution. Magnolia Pictures is hoping that Steve Jobs: The Lost Interview will spark the interest of legions of admirers of the former CEO of Apple Inc and Pixar, who died in 2011.Technology writer Robert X Cringely (aka Mark Stephens) spoke to Jobs in 1995 as part of a series, The Triumph of the Nerds, a history of the personal computer originally filmed for Channel 4. At the time, Jobs was running NeXT, the computer company he founded after quitting Apple – and shortly before Apple acquired NeXT, enabling Jobs to return to the company he co-founded.Small portions of the interview have been used in TV broadcasts, but the complete footage was thought lost until the discovery of a VHS in director Paul Sen's garage.Magnolia president Eamonn Bowles said: "It's a valuable piece of history that has thankfully been rescued from obscurity."
Most popular video games are dumb, and gamers shouldn't settle for it. That's the central thesis ofTaylor Clark's Kotaku article, and it's a fine, well-argued point: most mainstream games have poor characterisation, dodgy dialogue and laughable storylines, seemingly inserted as an afterthought to the gameplay itself. And that's fine – a bit of fun is a fantastic thing after all – so long as we don't start to believe that's the only thing games are capable of.Clark writes: "To accept childish dreck without protest – or worse, to defend the dreck's obvious dreckiness just because the other parts of a game are cool – is to allow the form to languish forever." That's a grandiose statement, and one that applies not just to Skyrim and Gears of War, but to films, books and other media too. Change a few words and it's just as applicable to readers who love Dan Brown's fiction in spite of the writing, or viewers who overlook the hour-long goodbye scenes at the end of The Lord of the Rings films because the battles are awesome.Video games are not unique in being collaborative creations in which many elements are brought together to form a whole; nor are they alone in being often poorly integrated, with areas of brilliance marred by areas of dreck (or indeed whole areas of dreck occasionally elevated by moments of brilliance). All media have these problems.But video gaming is a small field at present. Our examples of brilliance and of dreck come from a very limited pool of options, especially when we examine big-budget titles. We're limited historically, because it's a young medium, but we're also limited by the time and budget constraints of game production, which mean only a few big-ticket releases each year – which have to sell in order to recoup costs. Truly standout works in any field are rare. Most media plays to the majority. In video gaming, it is the mindless that has proven to sell well – so mindless most games remain.Sturgeon's Law (90% of everything is crap) applies not just to things being bad, but also to things being dumb, crude and silly. It's not just video games, it's also everything else – television, film, literature, art. There shouldn't be any shame for gamers in saying: yes, a lot of games are dumb. A lot of everything is dumb. A lot of dumb things are fun.But Clark's right that by saying video games can only be dumb, we're doing the medium a great disservice. In the 18th century there was a widely held perception that novels could only be dumb, until classics began to emerge and a canon formed. Video gaming has been around for a much shorter time and has much farther to go before it reaches maturity – technology is still not stable, barriers to entry are still falling rapidly, business models are still fluctuating wildly. All those things impact the kinds of games that are produced and the processes by which they're made. But video games can, and should, aspire to greatness, both mechanically and narratively – and ideally, both at once.Narrative and gameplay should be the same thing.Matthew Burns, who has worked on big-budget games for Bungie among others,says he doubts that such a thing is possible given the current climate. He argues that "it is extremely difficult – maybe impossible – to come up with a story and characters that, when placed within the context of most current video games, don't feel inherently silly."The core of his argument seems to be that most current video games are inherently silly, therefore it's impossible to put anything on top of the silliness to produce something that's less silly. There's an assumption here about the place of writing, story and characterisation in games – that it's not an inherent part of the context of games, but rather something added on top. But if you start from the premise that your game is about hyperviolent destruction of mythical monsters, you've made a lot of decisions about the story and the characterisation already. Even the best writers won't be capable of making a game deep, believable, complex or realistic if the gameplay is fighting against that narrative at every turn. See also: GTA4, in which a touching, sensitively written character in cut-scenes can be transformed into a mass-murdering asshole as soon as the player regains control.Gameplay and narrative shouldn't simply inform each other. They should be inextricable. Games that aspire to being well written can't just plaster story on top of mechanic like wallpaper. It has to be mixed into the mortar, built into the foundations. It doesn't matter whether you're gunning for embedded or emergent story, froth or experiential narrative or whatever – you can't slap it on top of gameplay like an afterthought, because gameplay mediates the entire experience.If you're playing a different story to the one you're being told, the game can't attain Clark's coveted, if ill-defined, goal of comprehensive intelligence. It'll always be fractured; no matter how carefully the cracks are hidden, it won't ring true. It'll be dumb.
This week will see the launch of a revolution in printing that may turn out to be as significant as the invention of the Gutenberg printing press - if entrepreneurs and analysts are to be believed.From May 3 to 16 more than 390,000 visitors are expected to visitdrupa 2012. Known as "the Olympics of printing", it is held every four years in Düsseldorf, Germany, and is the largest printing equipment exhibition in the world.This year, visitors will see a number of rival technologies launched, each of which promises to deliver a "second digital revolution in printing" that will allow the digital printer to kill off the offset press for commercial printing, and may even allow the printed page to compete with the iPad in terms of visual quality and individualisation of content.Digital printing mostly uses inkjet or laser printers to print directly from a digital image whether on your PC, phone or camera, for example, without using inked printing plates. Compared with the high speed, quality and efficiency of traditional offset printing, digital printing has suffered a so-called "productivity gap" since it first arrived on the scene back in the 1990s – the "first digital revolution". Inkjet printers, which make up the vast majority of digital printers, are able to print a large number of copies quickly but of poor quality and requiring specially prepared paper, while others, like electrographic or laser printers, use dry or liquid toner to print a large number of high-quality copies but at a comparatively slow speed, not to mention the "chemical weapons" such toners leave behind in the office.Now, with the inkjet and toner technology due to be unveiled at drupa, "every printer could become a digital printer", according to Ralf Schlozer, director of on-demand printing and publishing services at the market research and strategic consultancy Infotrends: it is expected that the digital printer will finally be able to offer the same high (or even higher) quality, fast speeds and low costs as an offset press, even if these will be demonstrations of technology rather than the finished product. And then, according to the prophets of the second digital printing revolution, this new generation of printers will be able to make the quality of the visuals we see on the printed page equal to what you can see on your tablet, and to print each page with a degree of individualisation of content and "just-in-time printing" that may mean that eventually we won't have to click on an app to read our own tailor-made edition of the Guardian, it will be delivered to our door.Although half a dozen new inkjet technologies and a handful of new toner ones are expected to be revealed at drupa, nothing better illustrates this coming revolution – and the battle over which printing technology is going to take us there – than the race to market between Landa Corporation's Nanography and Xeikon's Trillium Print Technology unveiled today and tomorrow. On one side of this battle is "a truly groundbreaking development" by the Steve Jobs of the printing world (and drupa keynote speaker) Benny Landa, and on the other, "a breakthrough technology" by "printing's best-kept secret", the Belgian company Xeikon.This is a race that – like all the best ones – comes with its own history, since both Israel's charismatic Landa and Xeikon claim to have started the digital printing revolution in 1993 with the world's first digital press. Landa went on to sell his "iconic" Indigo technology to printing giant Hewlettt-Packard and then set up Landa Labs, his reputation made, while Xeikon sank back into Low Countries relative obscurity after finding their products quickly overtaken by the big boys of the printing establishment.The secretive Landa seem to believes that he can do the same again by stealing a march on his competitors with his pre-drupa launch of the Landa Nanographic Printing process with a Jobs-style presentation called "Nano. Bigger Than You Think".Landa declared that his ten years of research into nanotechnology has led to a "true breakthrough that enables our presses to achieve amazing results", meaning that "for the first time commercial printers don't have to choose between the versatility and short-run economics of digital printing and the low cost and high productivity of offset. Now they can have both".It is thanks to a new water-based ink called Landa NanoInk, coupled with innovative ink ejectors, that Landa's new nanographic printers can print with "game-changing performance and costs per page" making print more profitable again. The ink consists of pigment particles smaller than the width of a strand of hair that "will allow unprecedented image qualities" to be printed very thinly, very quickly, in a sustainable way and on untreated "off the shelf" materials. The ink container can even be recycled in the domestic waste.It is also a race that has just got tougher as, rather than technology demonstrators, Landa has launched actual presses with innovative large flat screen controls that are expected to be shipped in the second quarter of next year – even if there is still "tweaking" to be done – as well as strategic partnerships with Komori, Manroland Sheetfeed and Heidelberg – some of the biggest manufacturers of printing presses in the world.This time, though,  Xeikon is determined that the outcome is going to be different. However, a rather embarrassing last-minute change of name from Quantum to Trillium due to patent problems does not augur well."Forget what happened 15 to 20 years ago; Trillium is a breakthrough technology which is going to turn the world of printing upside down," says Michael V. Ring, vice-president of worldwide marketing and president of Xeikon America. "After all, we get the technology as we invented it in the first place."And they are staking their future product line on the assumption they are right. "Trillium is so revolutionary because with today's printing technologies you always have to compromise as you can only ever get two out of cost, quality, and speed. Tomorrow with Trillium you can get all three and that is not possible with today's inkjet or toner machines. And do so in a way that is sustainable as well."This is a technology that they have not developed by themselves, but rather by acquiring the IP of a rival company, the name of which they have somehow kept out of the record books.While Xeikon – like Landa – has kept the actual details of their technology sketchy, bloggers who have searched patent applications believe that they have established that Trillium Technology is a high-speed electrographic printer using a high-viscosity liquid toner developed by Research Laboratories of Australia that is more like a paste than a liquid and is safe enough to wash down the kitchen sink.The technology has then been combined with Xeikon's existing innovative fast printing presses that will close the gap with offset presses and ultimately send them to the scrapyard.For Danny Mertens, Xeikon's business development manager, the implications of Trillium Technology are profound thanks to the "philiosophy it expresses"."Trillium will help turn print into a VIP medium to compete with the iPad, as it can print very high quality product with very short production runs, at very low cost, close to the point of need and individualised, which is what each individual wants as each page can be unique."And Mertens is not too worried by Landa's Nanography."When I put the pieces of the puzzle together [Nanography] is what I call an 'indirect imaging inkjet' that introduces an intermediate system to transfer the image on to the final paper or film in order to get inkjet to print higher quality or on a wider range of material, and that means you are adding extra complexity into the process, which will make it more difficult to control and which will increase the costs."However, after 20 or so years it is good to see that the two pioneers that introduced digital printing to the world are here again with new stuff."Gareth Ward, the editor of Print Business magazine, has been "floundering in patent applications", searching for the truth behind the claims made for these rival technologies."Up till now there has been little activity on the patents front for Nanography so it is a case of smoke and mirrors", and while "it is unlikely to be a red herring", "it might also be some way from commercial release".Landa , he believes, has found the partners he has been looking for "to take on the technology and develop it to the next stage while allowing him to work on his energy-creating technology, which will put him up there with Edison and the truly greats".On the other hand, Trillium is "potentially significant technology" from a "reliable company", as it could break through the "barrier of speed, quality and cost" that has held back digital printing from taking over the mainstream. Though it still comes with a lot of "ifs" –"if it works and if it can be commercialised at a low enough price and in a reliable way".However, Ward adds, "while Trillium is interesting, it is not going to change the world by itself … It is part of a much larger current towards the digitisation of the print industry and just-in-time printing that the book trade is already experiencing. So there are at least half a dozen rival technologies being launched at drupa."Ralf Schlozer of Infotrends strikes a more cautious note as "the 'second digital revolution' are big words"."Digital printing has come of age and is now reaching speeds and levels of quality that could mean that every printer could become a digital printer. And if you have digital printers as your main printer then things like personalisation can be done at little extra cost as something on top."Nonetheless it may take a while for digital printers to replace offset printers, which can last for years."From what we know," says Schlozer, "both Xeikon and Landa Labs are presenting new technology that offers very similar things such as fast speeds, low cost and high quality. But, at this stage, we don't know whether either technology delivers."However, with so many new printing technologies all promising the earth the hope is that one will actually get to the point of delivering it."While Landa Labs especially has had a lot of press, and Xeikon too, there are other developers out there who haven't succeeded in getting their message out or will just wait to the big day to announce their technology."However, his money is on Landa Labs as Landa is "very credible"."While Benny Landa is always secretive, publishing his innovations with a big bang, he has a lot of technological knowledge and does employ a lot of scientists out in Israel. And he is doing the patents for his technology at the moment."Credibility that he has only been reinforced with recently announced partnerships with big-name manufacturers.In the end, revolutions are often easier to anticipate than predict the outcome of, and the second revolution in digital printing is no exception. Until one of these revolutionary technologies is actually turned into a press that we can see in our local printers – at least a year away – it is going to be impossible to know whether the wildest dreams of the digital printing revolutionaries to in some way "turn the clock back" to the era when the printed page was a highly valued commodity can ever or will ever be realised and, ultimately, whether our love affair with the printed page that began with Gutenberg will be renewed or just fade away.
The Serious Organised Crime Agency website has been taken offline after becoming the target of a cyber-attack, the agency said.Soca confirmed that its site, soca.gov.uk, suffered a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack.A spokesman said the site was taken offline at 10.30pm on Wednesday, but the attack did not pose a security risk to the organisation.Soca has recently closed 36 websites believed to be selling stolen credit card information."We took action to limit the impact on other clients hosted by the [same] service provider," the spokesman said.Soca's website has been targeted in the past by members of the LulzSec hacking group.In June last year the agency website went offline for several hours and LulzSec said it was behind the denial of service.A trial at Southwark crown court will take place later this year in connection with the earlier attack.
Labour MP Keith Vaz has tabled an early day motioncalling for more stringent government controls on violent video games.The motion, put forward on 24 April, makes reference toAnders Breivik, who shot and killed 69 people on the island of Utøya, Norway, in July 2011.Breivik claimed to have prepared for the attack by playing the hugely successful first-person shooter, Call of Duty.In the text accompanying the EDM, Vaz states: "[This house] notes that in his submission of evidence to the court Breivik describes how he trained for the attacks using the video game Call of Duty: Modern Warfare."The text then asserts that the house "is disturbed that Breivik used the game to help hone his 'target acquisition' and the suggestion that the simulation prepared him for the attacks".Although all games must carry age ratings to restrict their sale to children, Vaz criticises the current PEGI system for not seeking to restrict what he calls ultra-violent content.The motion says: "In an era of ever-more sophisticated and realistic game-play, more robust precautions must be taken before video games are published."The government is called on to provide for closer scrutiny of aggressive first-person shooter video games.The Labour MP is a regular critic of violent games and has tabled similar motions in the past.In 2010, he put forward a motion to ensure the clear rating of violent games after a shooting in Malmo, Sweden, in which the first-person shooter Counter-Strike was implicated.Last year, he tabled a motion about Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 claiming a resemblance between the game's "harrowing" scenes set in the London Underground and the terrorist bombings of July 2005.The Call of Duty series is now one of the biggest entertainment franchises in the world. The most recent instalment, Modern Warfare 3, broke records last December when it made $1bn in revenue just 17 days after its launch.Each of the past three iterations has sold more than 20m copies and publisher Activision claims that more than 7 million gamers play Call of Duty titles online each day.At the time of publication, seven MPs had signed the motion alongside Vaz.
Little Big Planet Karting is, by all accounts, already pretty special. After an enthusiastic presentation from lead designer William Ho, we're invited to play on one of three maps plucked from the game: a straightforward race track, a multi-level battle arena in the style of Mario Kart, and a vast airborne World's Fair-inspired course called Future Perfect. I overhear a developer chatting to the journalist on the console next to me."Do you like the weapons?" he asks. "Well, if you don't, you can change 'em. You can change everything. You can make your own. Those are just the weapons we've given you to play with."Last week I was playing around in weapon creation, and I took the missile and put a unicorn's head on it, then attached a rainbow trail to it, and then made it spin when it's fired. So you're driving along the track and BANG! A spinning rainbow unicorn crashes into you from behind."It's this sort of design ethos – the "Play Create Share" party line that Sony put forward for the PS3 in its early stages – that runs throughout the game. Back in 2010, developer United Front Games released its debut PS3 title, ModNation Racers – a kart-racing game with the emphasis firmly on customisation of vehicles, drivers and tracks.It was well-received, but general opinion was that it was a Little Big Planet title in all but name; in fact, it's hard to tell screenshots of the two games apart at a distance, what with the ubiquity of bobble-headed racers, colourful courses and chunky vehicles. The decision to make a remarkably similar game two years on with a stronger IP at the core is, perhaps, a wise move.The trademark LBP visuals remain, as do the iconic Poppit design bubble and the lumpy-faced Sackboy avatar – United Front has succeeded in replicating everything that Media Molecule created over its last two tremendously successful platformers, and pulling that tricky task off with respect and aplomb. While the visuals aren't as crisp as they could be, the junkyard scrapbook style of LBP 1 and 2 is strong and it's not unusual to see cars made out of bottle caps, flowerpots, cardboard and discarded birthday cake.It's as charming and easy to use as ever. Within minutes I've managed to throw together a unique car and outfit for my Sackboy – a hovering motorcycle (complete with sidecar) made out of office supplies coupled with a jaunty cape and a hat that looks like the moon, respectively. Although there are a wide variety of other body designs – tanks, dragsters, go-karts, hovercrafts and the like – aesthetic choices are never allowed to get in the way of performance, and all types of vehicle offer exactly the same racing ability."We wanted to make sure that creativity and making what you wanted was an expression of yourself," says Eric Waas, director of product development for publishers Sony San Deigo. "We didn't want the physics to get in the way of that – although you will be able to tweak the physics for your game experience, so you make a vehicle go faster, or slower. There's a lot you'll be able to control."Already, I'm attached to the little chap. LBP 1 and 2 forged a kind of role-playing metagame, where dressing up in a certain way would encourage in-character background chat on two-player games. I, for example, was a Lion, and made all the appropriate noises when playing with my nieces (rawr).Despite that connection to your character, the developers are keeping quiet about whether or not you'll be able to import your character and kit from the previous games – presumably due to either technical issues or, more likely, copyright problems with the various branded promotional kits. Although they've done a good job of replicating a lot of existing equipment themselves – and inventing some new items, too – missing the chance for gamers to bring their Sackboy or Sackgirl into the arena would be a tremendous shame.The game plays much as any other kart-racing game – players knock around tracks strapped into a small vehicle while jumping, boosting and picking up colourful weapons then shooting them at other racers. Two major changes from the standard pattern are the retained ability to slap-fight, just like in the platformer titles, and the grappling hook.Waas is very excited about the grappling hook. "The first time I saw it in the game, I thought, 'wow, this changes everything'. There's so much you can do with it. There's the obvious idea of a sort of Tarzan level, where you're swinging across gaps, but it also changes the way you can offer alternate routes and shortcuts."And the hook can be used for other game experiences beyond just traditional karting – in one of the levels in our release trailer, you have to grab an egg with it and fling it into a target, so there's a lot of mini-game potential."Overall, it's an awful lot of fun, but this limited playthrough isn't really the point of LBPK at all. Soon, the game will go into public beta and United Front will get to see what its game can do as budding level designers all over the world get their hands on the level creation tools built into the game.I'm told it's possible to "drive out" courses as you design them, rather than building them out of individual parts – you're given free reign to pilot a flying kart around an area at whatever height and direction you wish, and then start tightening it from there.AI can be modified and different racers given different personalities or objectives. Weapons, as previously mentioned, can be broken down and redesigned or created from the ground up using simple mechanics.Like everything in the series so far, it speaks to user-friendly tools aimed at getting as many people as possible to share their creations with the world.When I ask Waas what sort of things we could make with it, his eyes light up. "I'd make an amazing three-tier boss. And all sorts of zany tracks, too – do you remember as a kid when you used to have miniature cars? I used to build all sorts of amazing tracks with ramps and things, and just being able to do that in a real 3D game now is a lot of fun."You could build a moon lander game, in two dimensions, where you have to bounce over things and shoot stuff that's in your way. You could make a Pac-Man game. Or a destruction game where you're trying to take out a city. Or a train heist, where you're trying to shoot the different parts of it and steal stuff as the train goes from A to B."The open beta is the really exciting part; not just for the types of play that are on the Blu-ray, but for all those widgets and all those things that can be tweaked. Game modes are going to come out of it that we don't even know about yet."He smiles. Building a game for building games is a challenging prospect, but it feels like this might be the studio to pull it off.
There are plenty of companies trying to help non-coders create mobile apps with do-it-yourself services, but few have the traction of Mobile Roadie.Its initial focus on music has seen the platform used by Madonna, Take That, Taylor Swift, The Beatles and other artists.However, it has also attracted sports teams and stars, conference organisers, universities and the World Economic Forum – more than 3,000 apps in all, reaching more than 20m iOS and Android users.Now, Mobile Roadie has launched version 4.0 of its platform, with new features including the creation of native iPad apps, mobile websites, and a revamp of its content management system for making the apps."We're a little over three years old, and we're at a turning point," chief executive Michael Schneider tells The Guardian."We've done quite well in music, sports and a few other verticals, but we see a much broader opportunity in the way the world's going, which is mobile. Every brand needs to have a strong mobile presence, so we're opening up to cater to pretty much anyone who wants to reach consumers."Making HTML5 mobile websites is a big change for Mobile Roadie, not least because at numerous mobile industry conferences in the last three years, Schneider has played down the importance of mobile websites versus native apps.What's changed? "We wanted to give the market a starting point," he says."This is a starting point to dip your toe into mobile on a budget: a first step to getting more immersed. We still think the world needs native apps, doing things like push notifications and using the camera and calendar, for example."Mobile Roadie's mobile web tier costs $9 a month or $99 a year, with a key selling point being the fact that the resulting sites will play nice with Windows Phone, BlackBerry and Symbian smartphones as well as iOS and Android.iPad is at the higher end of the company's service, costing $499 a month or $4,999 a year. Madonna was the first music artist to take advantage – she got early access so her iPad app came out in March. An iPad app for London's Tech City scheme is also out now."We've totally rebuilt this from the ground up – we haven't just scaled the fonts and photos," says Schneider. "We want to help people make something really immersive that takes advantage of the big screen."Also new is a revamped content management system to create these apps, to replace the existing "cumbersome" system that was showing its age.Mobile Roadie is also bundling its Android and iPhone creation together – previously they were paid for separately – adding more analytics and consolidating its pricing tiers.Schneider says the company is also planning to beef up the commerce aspects of its platform, in order to persuade its music clients in particular that there is more to mobile apps than marketing."Right now, people primarily see it as marketing, btu we have another announcement in May around commerce," he says."We see apps becoming more of a revenue-generating source than just a pretty marketing tool. And it's happening already: Taylor Swift has sold well into the six figures [dollars] of digital merchandise. You can make money!"For now, iOS and Android remain Mobile Roadie's focus in terms of native apps. The company did support BlackBerry for a while, but stopped in June 2011 citing lack of interest from users in the apps.Schneider says Android is performing well, but he'd like to see Google ramp up its music store to help artists sell tracks from within their apps, just as they do on iOS."I'd love to have Google Play's music store go worldwide, as right now it's an unbalanced playing field for our customers between iOS and Android," he says."Our Android customers can only sell music in the US, and while people are using services like 7digital and Amazon, it's not even close to being as seamless an experience as on iOS. I know Google is working on it though."What about streaming music, and integration with services like Spotify and Rdio? "I'm a big fan of Spotify, and we're looking at possibly doing something with them," says Schneider.
A bumper selection of 29 new and notable apps for you today:Pete the Cat: School JamHarperCollins takes its popular Pete the Cat series of books to iOS, with this musical adventure. Children follow Pete as he looks for his guitar through a series of hidden-object scenes, before unlocking a Guitar Hero-style rhythm game. Plus there's an augmented reality feature to pop up a virtual Pete when the camera is pointing at one of his physical books.iPhone / iPadNational Rail EnquiriesUK travel website National Rail Enquiries has launched a free iPhone and Android app, providing timetables, live departures data, journey planner and push notifications for disruptions.Android / iPhonePayPal HerePayPal's latest Android app is pitched as "the simple way to accept credit and debit cards, PayPal and checks" for merchants, teamed with a physical card reader. For now, the service is invitation-only for small businesses in the US only.AndroidLego Harry Potter: Years 5-7Warner Bros has already released one Lego Harry Potter game for iOS, covering years 1-4 of his Hogwarts adventures. This follow-up finishes the job in characterfully blocky style.iPhone / iPadVixelyThis is interesting: an all-new magazine for women making its debut as an iPad app rather than a print publication. It promises a familiar mix of sex, dating, health, fashion and lifestyle, and appears to have a US focus.iPadThe Amazing Spider-Man ARSony Pictures has launched an augmented reality app for Spider-Man, which unlocks Spidey animations when the device is pointed at specific markers. It's using Qualcomm's Vuforia AR platform. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iPhone version.Android / iPhonewe7 Free Music RadioBritish streaming music firm we7 has been turning itself into a Pandora-style personal radio service, and this iPhone app is part of the pivot. Choose artists, genres and themes to create personalised stations, then save them for offline play, or browse some of the themed stations already set up.iPhoneSpotify for iOS 4Spotify's latest iOS app – which includes the new iPad version – requires iOS 5 to work. What if you're happy on iOS 4? The streaming music service is heading off any protests with a dedicated app for the older version of Apple's OS.iPhoneRdioWhile we're on the subject of streaming music services, Rdio has just quietly launched in the UK, meaning Brits get a chance to see how it stacks up against Spotify, Deezer and others. A full range of apps is available too, with a £9.99 monthly subscription.Android / BlackBerry / iPhone / iPad / Windows Phone 7Tate Britain Quiz TrailVisiting the Tate Britain museum soon? This iPhone app wants to gamify your experience with 30-60-minute themed "trails" through the exhibits. Multiple-choice questions make it an engaging modern equivalent of the paper questionnaires on clipboards that children have traditionally been sent round museums with.iPhonePac-Man Kart RallyBecause every much-loved game character gets stuck in a kart at some point for the purposes of brand extension. Pac-Man's new Windows Phone game takes Pac and friends onto the roads, Mario Kart-style.Windows PhoneThe Thames: London's Crown JewelRiver Art Productions and the Thames Diamond Jubilee Foundation have teamed up for this app celebrating London's iconic river, with images and information about the Thames and its surrounding architecture. It ties in with this year's Diamond Jubilee Pageant route too, with 50% of the profits going to charity.iPadElizabeth: A Personal Portrait of Her Majesty The QueenMore royal action: Trinity Mirror Media has launched its latest one-shot app for iPad: a celebration of the Queen, just in time for her diamond jubilee. The digital magazine includes images from the Mirror's archives, as well as articles. It matches a separate print supplement.iPadMyCityWay London24This is the latest location-based travel guide app for London, containing 30 "mini-apps" for news, hotels, kids, movies and showtimes, taxis and other useful information.iPhoneDino LifeJapanese social games giant GREE has big ambitions for the West, and they include new Android-exclusive game Dino Life. The genre is familiar village-building, and the theme is prehistoric. "Make home village good, make all cavemen happy, hatch and make many pretty dinosaur..."AndroidBrainsssHere's a neat twist on the tower defence genre: you play the horde of zombies rather than the human defenders. "Build a massive swarm of zombies and trash the human defenses..."iPhone / iPadThe Blue Room by Bombay Sapphire GinGin! Blue gin! On your iPad! Here's a branded app from Bacardi to promote its Bombay Sapphire sub-brand, offering cocktail recipes, an "Imagination Room" to draw gin-inspired artwork, and a "Music Infusion Room" to make a gin-fuelled racket.iPadMoët &amp; Chandon Ice ImpérialMore branded booze-app action here, from champers brand Moët &amp; Chandon. It's a photo-sharing app: "Glamorise your photos with exclusive sunny filters..." Probably not likely to be bought by Facebook for $1bn.iPhoneMyCityWayMyCityWay is an extremely polished-looking travel guide for BlackBerry PlayBook, offering information on nightspots, shops, utilities and tourist destinations. Currently it supports New York, San Francisco, Austin, Seattle and Chicago, with 68 more cities to come.BlackBerry PlayBookLittle Riding Hood (Woogi World Story Shaper Series)Here's a fun idea: Little Red Riding Hood reinvented as a multiple-choice story for children. "Little Green Riding Hood meets a robot on the way to her grandmother's house in the swamp? Little Yellow Riding Hood calls to the ninja for help? You choose..."iPhone / iPadTrucks – by Duck Duck MooseTalented kid-apps developer Duck Duck Moose is back with its latest iOS effort, focusing on trucks. Children can play with various virtual trucks, accompanied by a number of popular nursery rhymes.iPhone / iPadBuild Cars with Edward and ArthurAnd if that's not enough vehicle-related appy fun for children for you, check out the lovingly-crafted Build Cars with Edward and Arthur app from Swedish developer David Sjölander, which gets kids to build virtual cars then race them.iPhone / iPadMagic Academy: part oneDeveloper Nevosoft has launched a new hidden-object game on Android on a free-to-play basis: players can try it for free, then pay in-game to unlock the whole thing. The theme: Harry Potter-esque magic students.AndroidAdobe Tutorial Player for PhotoshopAdobe has brought its Photoshop software to tablets, but this is more of a companion app for the desktop version. It "keeps track of your progress as you work in Photoshop and helps you when you are stuck".iPadThe King of Fighters-i 2012Notoriously hardcore beat 'em up franchise The King of Fighters returns to iOS armed with 32 playable characters, six game modes and multiplayer Wi-Fi battles. In-app purchases are used to unlock additional characters.iPhoneCNNGoCNN's latest Android app is a travel guide focused on Asia and Australasia, offering photo galleries and local news, as well as the ability to submit your own reports to its CNN iReport service.AndroidDirecting Puss in BootsThis iPhone app is aimed at children who want to create their own home movies, interspersed with clips from Dreamworks' animated movie Puss in Boots. A niche, admittedly, but it looks good fun.iPhonePocket FilmsIndian short-films distributor 1takemedia has launched an iOS app to give its content a wider airing: short films and documentaries made in India, streamed to the phone.iPhone / iPadTweets From My CatAn iPad app to help your cat post tweets. Yes.iPad
Oh, the weather outside is frightful ... which means you don't need to make excuses to sit inside and get your game on. What do you have planned?
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamLiquidmetal inventor Atakan Peker: Apple will use it In a 'breakthrough product' &gt;&gt; Business InsiderLiquidmetal is a new class of metallic alloy with a unique structure that makes it super strong, scratch- and corrosion-resistant and can be precision cast into complex shapes.If you don't have time to read the full interview, here's what you need to know: Liquidmetal looks great, yet is incredibly strong and durable; Apple has exclusive rights to use Liquidmetal in gadgets; It could be a few more years before Apple can make a Liquidmetal MacBook; Apple will likely wait to use Liquidmetal in a "breakthrough product."Interesting interview.The Twitter Glossary &gt;&gt; Twitter help centreWe never knew this existed. Recently updated with HT, MT, MMS, RLRT and TL. You know what they mean, of course?Pirate Bay enjoys 12 million traffic boost, shares unblocking tips &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakLast week the UK High Court ruled that several of the country's leading ISPs must block subscriber access to The Pirate Bay. The decision is designed to limit traffic to the world's leading BitTorrent site but in the short-term it had the opposite effect. Yesterday, The Pirate Bay had 12 million more visitors than it has ever had, providing a golden opportunity to educate users on how to circumvent blocks.Factual correction: the ruling came this week.What it will look like when men ruin Pinterest &gt;&gt; Happy PlaceAced it.Apple-targeting Flashback botnet still kicking, but shrinking by 100,000 Macs per week &gt;&gt; ForbesDr. Web, the Russian security firm that firm discovered the massive Flashback botnet last month, has provided new data on the number of Macs still infected with the software. The results show that while close to 460,000 machines remain infected, the botnet is shrinking at a rate of close to a hundred thousand machines a week as Mac users get around to downloading Apple's tool for disinfecting their machines or installing antivirus."It's going very slowly, and there's still a ways to go, but I think in a month it will be over," says Boris Sharov, Dr. Web's chief executive.They were reckoned to be making about $10,000 per week at the peak. Wonder if that's better than they could do off a Windows botnet. And of course: what's next?Rewind &gt;&gt; ScaladoWhen taking a photo of several people at once, it's almost impossible to get that one 'perfect shot' where everyone is smiling and looking at the camera - and where no one is blinking!Not anymore.It's now actually possible to take the best facial expressions from a sequence of photos, and then combine them into one single photo. The result? It's now quick and easy to create the perfect group shot.This does indeed look like the technology that's going to be in the BlackBerry 10 systems. (Thanks @GCday for the link.)Here's why Google and Facebook might completely disappear in the next 5 years &gt;&gt; ForbesWe think of Google and Facebook as Web gorillas.  They'll be around forever. Yet, with the rate that the tech world is moving these days, there are good reasons to think both might be gone completely in 5 - 8 years.  Not bankrupt gone, but MySpace gone.Because mobile is the future. But many companies - even big ones - didn't grow up with that in their DNA. The "completely" in the headline is an overstatement (d'ya think they might have done it for shock value, perhaps?) but points to the problem.Platform Versions &gt;&gt; Android DevelopersUpdated for the 14 days to May 1 showing the version running on devices accessing Google Play (the Android Market as was). Points of interest: the proportion of devices running 1.5 and 1.6 has remained static at 1% cumulatively for the past two months; Gingerbread (released near the end of 2010) is the majority, at 64.6%; Ice Cream Sandwich has passed Honeycomb (4.9% v 3.3%); devices running 2.1 ("Eclair") outnumber ICS ones (5.5% v 4.9%). ICS was released over six months ago.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
The filesharing website The Pirate Bay has been blocked to millions of UK internet users followinga high court ruling earlier this week.Customers of the country's second-biggest internet service provider (ISP), Virgin Media, were on Wednesday denied access to site. Other internet providers, including BT and Sky, are expected to follow suit within weeks.Britain's ISPs were on Monday ordered to block access to the The Pirate Bay after the court ruled that it flouted copyright laws.Virgin Media provides internet access to about 4.1 million cable customers in the UK, and more users who opt for its high-speed fibre-optic service. It has 21.5% of the market share, behind BT with 27.5%.Customers for Virgin Media's rivals said they could still access the filesharing website on Wednesday afternoon.The provider said in a statement: "Virgin Media has received an order from the courts requiring it to prevent access to The Pirate Bay in order to help protect against copyright infringement."As a responsible ISP, Virgin Media complies with court orders addressed to the company but strongly believes that changing consumer behaviour to tackle copyright infringement also needs compelling legal alternatives, such as our agreement with Spotify, to give consumers access to great content at the right price."
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiwe look at the controversy surrounding Google's Street View mapping service in the wake of a report by the US Federal Communications Commission.Media and technology reporterJosh Hallidayand technology editorCharles Arthurjoin Aleks to discuss the FCC's findings and the possible consequences for Google's reputation.And Aleks and Charles discuss the growing power of Samsung in the mobile market and why Apple is really a mobile company, with mobile business analystHorace Dediu from Asymco.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Apple has been forced by the Advertising Standards Authority to withdraw claims in the UK that its new iPad has "4G capability" to join high-speed mobile broadband services – because there will be no services compatible with the device here.The UK joins Australia in banning the use of the "4G" label to advertise the new iPad, launched in January. The circuitry inside the device can connect to 4G services in the US, which is Apple's largest market, but because those operate on different frequencies from those used in the UK and Europe, the "4G" iPads presently on sale will never be able to connect to 4G networks here.However, on Wednesday the device was stilladvertised on Apple's websiteas "Wi-Fi + 4G", although it notes in small print at the bottom of the page that 4G is only available on particular mobile networks in the US. It says that the device "lets you connect to fast dat networks around the world" – but with a reference to a note pointing out only that "data plans [are] sold separately. See your carrier for details." Thespecifications on the UK store&lt;/a&gt; say that it works with 4G LTE on 700MHz and 2100MHz frequencies – while noting in small print that "4G LTE is supported only on AT&amp;T and Verizon networks in the US, and on Bell, Rogers and Telus networks in Canada".Apple UK declined to comment on the ruling.The ASA said that it had had more than 40 complaints about the "4G" claims, which appeared on Apple's UK website where the tablet was described as offering "Wi-Fi + 4G" capability. In the UK, 4G networks are expected to use the 800MHz and 2600MHz frequencies.One of the people who complained to the ASA, who preferred to remain anonymous, told the Guardian that he works in telecoms supporting mobile data devices: "I raised the complaint because customers were calling in believing it would work on 4G when 4G was launched in the UK. My complaint was specifically that they should call it 4G when it would never work as such in the EU and UK."4G services are expected to start coming on stream in the UK towards the end of this year - though there are concerns that theservices could interfere with TV services on adjacent frequencies.The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC said Apple had "misled" consumers by claiming that it could connect to 4G networks there. It is not compatible because of the frequency difference: the Telstra network there uses the 1800MHz frequency. The 700MHz band is used there for TV frequencies, though it may come free later this year through a government auction.In Australia, the company is to email all customers who bought the new iPad offering them a refund. The ACCC took legal action to ensure that Apple did not mislead potential buyers by suggesting that the device could join 4G networks there.The ASA's decision is one of a growing list in which it has found against Apple. In 2008 itupheld a complaintafter a TV advert said "all the parts of the internet are on the iPhone" – but two viewers complained that it did not support Flash or Java, which were integral to a number of web pages. Another, in November 2008, upheld a complaint that a TV ad which shortened sequences for accessing web pagesexaggerated its speed.In the US, the new iPad can connect to 4G services capable of data speeds of up to 100 megabits per second (Mbps) provided by AT&amp;T and Verizon, the two biggest networks, but because they use different frequencies for their connectivity, buyers must pick the correct one for the carrier they need.Those networks use different frequencies to carry the data than will be used in the UK, meaning that the current generation of iPads with "4G" capability will not be able to connect to UK 4G networks. They will still connect to existing 3G networks at 3G speeds.
Update: EA has nowreleased a statementreversing its decision to close down Rock Band. "Rock Band for iOS will remain live - the in-app message users received yesterday was sent in error. We apologize for the confusion this caused. We're working to clarify the issue that caused the error and will share additional information as soon as possible".The original story follows.The glory days of guitar-based music games may be firmly in the past, yet there are plenty of people still firing up Rock Band or Guitar Hero on their consoles for a nostalgic glow. It seems players of Rock Band on iPhone will be denied that pleasure, though.People who own the game have beenreporting a pop-up messagetitled "Dear Rockers", which continues thus: "On May 31, Rock Band will no longer be playable on your device. Thanks for rocking out with us!"Yes, and thanks for spending money via in-app purchases on songs to play at 69p a time, too.Players may have got their money worth since the game launched in October 2009, but they are unlikely to have expected EA to dictate when they would stop playing, rather than themselves. A quick glance attweets to EA Mobile's official Twitter accountshows a stream of player outrage.Witness the thorny issue that emerges whenever a game involving in-app purchases shuts down. Rock Band is not an isolated example on iOS, either.EA is also shutting down iOS social game Restaurant City: Gourmet Edition on 29 June – a decisionflagged on its Playfish subsidiary's forumsin mid-April. The decision to "retire" that game comes alongside the closure of its bigger Facebook brother.Outside EA, social games firm ngmoco – nowadays owned by Japanese social games company DeNA – is alsoclosing one of its first ever freemium gameson iOS, Eliminate.The first-person shooter launched in 2009, just as ngmoco pivoted from paid to freemium games. The company's notification for players kept faithful to the game's setting: "Eliminate being retired. On Friday, May 25, 2012 the doors of Arsenal Megacorp will close for the final time. A big thanks to all current and former employees. –The Management."These are all games in which players will have spent money on virtual items, which are now useless. In Restaurant City's case, EA is offering players 1,000 of its Simoleons virtual currency in separate game The Sims Social "as a farewell gift". Whether that offsets any unrest at the closure remains to be seen.All this is a reminder that virtual items and currency are just that – virtual – with any long-term value subject to the changing business strategy of the publisher whose game they're in.You can compare any controversy around this to the protests when massively multiplayer online (MMO) games on PC have been closed down, although the difference there is that until recently, the players of those games had been paying foraccessto the game, rather than paying for items within it.On iOS, the closure of games that have used IAP may well be controversial for Apple as well as for their publishers.What can it do? It's hard to see it introducing and policing a policy forcing developers and publishers to continue supporting their games until the last player has dribbled away. Yet it may receive the bulk of complaints.As IAP continues to cement its hold on the mobile gaming world, while downloadable content (DLC) and compulsory online registration becomes more popular on console, these issues will only become more high-profile as time goes on.What's your view on publishers retiring games that have used IAP? Voice your thoughts in the comments, especially if you've been playing one or more of the games listed above.
Until recently, I was a Twitter refusenik. I've been onFacebookfive years and built up a nice array of friends, family, colleagues and acquaintances. I'm also onLinkedInand several online forums. Who needs Twitter? Who has time? There are only so many hours in the day and if you're not careful, attending to your social media presence can become a full-time job – an easy hole to fall into when you're self-employed and working from home. That virtual watercooler becomes a day-long watering hole.But as a freelance journalist, I've become increasingly aware I need to be on Twitter. My articles are being tweeted - which I'm obviously delighted about - but I'm not there to follow up. It feels ... rude, almost. If people are talking about me, shouldn't I join in? Also, editors want you to have a Twitter presence. For some, it's now more important than a blog or website (I have those too).So I signed up andeagerly embraced Twitterover a wet weekend. I followed everyone I thought would be interesting. I clicked "follow" on all the suggestions the site threw at me. As fast as I clicked follow, more names followed back. I thought this was the right thing to do. Follow loads and hope some follow back. After all, from the way the BBC goes on about it, you'd think Twitterwasthe internet.Keen to see how well I was getting on with my tweeting, retweeting, following and, slowly, gathering followers, I clicked a link in a friend's tweet that promised to show me how many people had looked at my profile.Aaaargh. As soon as I did, I realised it was a big mistake. That click took me to another site and the penny dropped - it was spam. I'd been had. I felt annoyed at having allowed my ego to be so easily tempted but, hey, we're all human. (Apart from theTwitterbots, obviously.) Twitter didn't think I was though. My account was suspended and I had to log back in typing letters to prove I was a person rather than a spambot. I did, and my account reappeared. Phew.An hour later, it was suspended again, this time with no chance to prove I was human. Twitter (or some robot inside) had decided I was spamming. I appealed - referee! Theonline appeals formforces you to type your name beneath the signoff "With love" - which I'm sure would make George Orwell smirk in his grave.Nearly a week later I received an email from Twitter support saying they were sure my problem had now been resolved and they were closing my case! Hang on a minute ... no, it hadn't been resolved. Please reopen my ticket, I asked them. It felt like begging. Most undignified. But that's what worries me about Twitter. You kind of have to be there. So if you transgress in some way, that's it. You're off the site. And you can't explain. So your followers may think badly of you which, if you're using it for professional reasons as I am, could have devastating consequences.I read the rules, but it took a Twitter veteran to point out where I'd gone wrong - yes, clicking on "who looked at my profile" was a mistake, but I'd also followed hundreds of people in a very short space of time. This made me look like a spammer. I felt like the kid kept in at school while everyone else goes out for ice cream.While I waited for Twitter to get round to my appeal, I registered with another version of my name, but of course had to start all over again. Twitter have now told me they are unsuspending my former account. Great. So I've gone from being a Twitter refusenik to now having two Twitter accounts. Andyou can't merge them, as others have discovered. Well, you can, but not directly.Still, better two accounts than none, I suppose. And it does show that Twitter is trying to stop the spambots that plague social media sites. It also indicates that the appeals system works (eventually). But if you're new to Twitter, or thinking of giving it a go, beware of where you click. And don't follow too many too quickly.Laura Marcus is on Twitter,slightly older and wiser. And she's much more careful where she clicks.
Save for the volume dials being cranked up an extra number each time, every God of War game up till now has been largely the same. So when Santa Monica Studios announced that its new title will be a multiplayer-focused team brawler, it came as something of a surprise.There is a single-player mode, of course; although developers are keeping exact details of the contents quiet, all the imagery of moody Spartan poster-boy Kratos in promotional materials gives a few clues. Ascension will most likely detail Kratos's rise to power before the events of God of War began his fruitful career in deicide and Titan logistics. But that's not much of a surprise, really.What is a surprise is that, unlike the rest of the series before it, Ascension won't primarily be a solo experience. Games journalists from all over the world cram into an LA studio to see a fight between a lumbering Cyclops and the player-character on the big screen, and aside from the fact that the character isn't Kratos (and is instead a chap in nautical-themed armour carrying a sword so huge and so convoluted in design it wouldn't look out of place in the hands of a Final Fantasy protagonist) it all seems fairly standard fare for a series in which a burly man with huge weapons chops up legendary creatures with little to no provocation.Then a second player turns up – wielding a hammer with a head the size of a student fridge, of course – and the pair of them butcher the Cyclops using a neat-looking team manoeuvre. One player restrains it with chains and the other slices open its belly, sending buckets of gore and lovingly detailed intestines slopping wetly over the floor.Casualties of warAnd then, in true God of War style, the game immediately outdoes itself. A massive stone door creaks open to reveal a large, multi-level battlefield. Two teams of four ancient Greek soldiers – champions of the Gods – are knocking the tar out of each other for the glory of sacrificing a Cyclops 10 stories tall, known to the designers as a "Megalops". Everything looks gorgeous, and it will be a tremendous achievement if the designers can maintain this glossy frame rate on PS3 with eight simultaneous players.Teams fight for control of two points on the battlefield: massive winches that draw the chained and understandably reluctant monster closer to the arena. Once one team has earned enough Favour (generated by controlling the winches, killing other players, or even incidental actions like opening chests) an ethereal Spear of the Gods drops from the heavens like a meteor.The spear functions as both a reusable projectile weapon and a means of killing the towering Megalops. One side beats it up while fending off attacks from the opposing team; once an appropriate amount of damage has been done, it's held in place by three team members and blinded in fairly short order by the fourth holding the spear, followed by a sudden cut to black with accompanying noises sampled from the killing floor of a slaughterhouse. Everyone present is, to put it mildly, excited.Combat seems to be staying true to the God of War franchise. When you reach an enemy and bash them with your chosen weapon, they'll be stunned and a mark will appear above their heads, opening them up to another (presumably more damaging) attack, carried out in a miniature cut-scene lasting a couple of seconds. If they've got enough hit points to survive, this attack will just hurt them a bit more – and if they've not, it turns into a suitably vicious execution. Necks are broken, bodies sliced messily in two, and broken remains are booted 60 feet away. Grim stuff, and entirely fitting.The choice of weapon isn't just an aesthetic concern. Swords are good for taking on single enemies, whereas hammers work best engaging large groups with ground-shaking area-of-effect attacks. The two weapon types we saw are just the tip of the iceberg, given God of War's predilection for massive mythological armouries, and more are yet to be announced.Striving for balance"One of the first things we did was to reduce the range down to be closer to Kratos's melee weapons that he's had in the past," says Jason McDonald, lead combat and weapons designer on Ascension. "No one has chain weapons that would cover a large distance or affect multiple guys. If you all concentrate on one aspect of combat you probably won't be as good as a balanced team that has multiple weapons that do different things."The choice of weapon intersects with the character's chosen patron god, offering something close to a class system. Players can select from Poseidon, Hades, Zeus and Ares at character creation and each offers a different progression tree of skills, weapons, items (including themed armour) and magic, with experience points (XP) earned for taking part in battles and achieving objectives. Santa Monica Studios is working on a system where levelling up can happen mid-fight, leading to one team earning a distinct advantage in real time rather than waiting until the dust has settled.Players are also given a secondary attack that uses a weapon collected in the arena or, if they've not collected one, delivers a kick that pushes back opponents."We've put in a kick button," says Jason. "It makes sense. 'This is Sparta,' right? There will be weapons around the level that you can pick up and use, and if you don't have a weapon, you've got to kick. There'll be a lot of things to pick up and use in addition to your primary weapon."'You're not alone anymore'Is there some concern that the potent solo play that God of War is known for might be watered down with this new direction? Jason assures me not: "In the past we've always showed great focus in single player, so I hope that would calm people's fears; we're definitely going for the same scope in that area as we have done in the past. The main question in development was: 'where can we take this?' In God of War 3 we upped the scale tenfold with giant creatures and things like that, and while there was still more story to tell, we thought we could also change the play style round a bit."In the past, God of War was a very singular experience – Kratos was a lone wolf and took care of business by himself – but it's also lots of fun to do that with a friend, because you're not alone any more. But we're in no way sacrificing the single player, and at the same time we wouldn't have done the multiplayer if we definitely didn't feel like we could do it. We're going balls to the wall on that."Developing God of War games is a challenge made harder with every iteration, as the creators need continually to push the scope of one of the largest and most visually impressive titles on the market. I ask Jason where the series can go from here, and if he reckons the team has hit the limit of how big they can make a Cyclops."Well, this is the biggest Cyclops we're ever had, obviously. But I think we can go bigger."
"We're in this position of having survived, with people interested in any new iteration of Python, and if we can squeeze any money out of our fans, we're quite rapacious..."Tongue firmly in cheek, Terry Gilliam is referring to the two Monty Python apps released in 2012.The Holy Book of Daysis an iPad app collecting video, audio, animations, 360-degree spinnable props and memories from the 28-day shoot for Monty Python and the Holy Grail. Meanwhile, iPhone appPython Bytesgathers 22 sketches from the first series of Monty Python's Flying Circus."iPads are here, apps are here: there's no way of being a Luddite any more! You have to go with the flow," says Gilliam."I'm impressed by both apps: the Holy Grail is very nicely done, with a lot of work put in to make it a nice-looking thing. And the iPhone app is really elegant – it's the way I want to see more of our stuff put out."Gilliam doesn't have an iPhone himself, but he's borrowed one from Python Bytes developer Heuristic Media – co-founded by longtime friend and fellow filmmaker Richard Loncraine – to practise scribbling his signature on the touchscreen using a stylus, for its App Signing feature.Gilliam and fellow Pythons Michael Palin and Terry Jones will be making use of that feature, as well as discussing the app, at an event in Apple's Regent Street store in London on 3 May.One interesting thing about the Python Bytes app is the way it randomises the order in which sketches are played: users shake their iPhones to skip to a new clip."When we made the shows, we spent so much time making sure they went out in the order we planned them, untouched," says Gilliam, referring to the infamous re-editing of the series for transmission in the US."Now we're letting them be used any way. It doesn't bother me any more, although at the time it might have. Certain sketches work better than others, so let's edit out the weak stuff. And I do like the randomness: the serendipity of it."Python Bytes shows sketches from the first series of Monty Python's Flying CircusGilliam gracefully bats back a suggestion that his use of animation in the original shows was as technologically advanced for its time as a slick app is in 2012 – "It was very crude animation!" – but he has interesting views on interactive media.He actually worked on a CD-ROM game in the mid 1990s, which Gilliam says he really enjoyed, even though the project ultimately fell apart before it could be released. More recently, he was involved in the promotional campaign for console game Heavy Rain."I don't like interactivity when it comes to doing films. That's being a storyteller," he says."A movie to me is something I make, and you can watch it. Hopefully I engage you, and you like it and are stimulated by it. But you don't get to share in it. But in video games, you can, and that's interesting. The two worlds should both exist."Gilliam notes that games are having an impact on some filmmaking aesthetics now though – he cites Inception as a prominent example – and talks approvingly of the fact that filmmakers like Heuristic's Loncraine are bringing their storytelling skills to apps."Richard's running with this thing, and we're delighted with his enthusiasm and inventiveness," he says."The problem with Python now is that we're not together enough to make the decisions we used to when we were working together every day. But with Richard, I trust him, and know he's going to do a good job and make interesting choices."In the meantime, Gilliam remains a critical yet engaged observer of the world of apps and tablets, including from the standpoint of his day-to-day work on a computer with Wacom tablet, and on pen and paper."I've got an iPad, but it frustrates me, because it's not really a computer," he says. "Some of the things I want to do, I can't do well on it. I have this Bamboo Stylus now to do drawings on the iPad, but the nib is too big: I find it very cumbersome still."
Samsung and Apple are eating up the smartphone market – which, in turn, is increasingly eating up the mobile phone market, according tonew figures released by the research company IDC.In the first quarter of 2012, the two companies' joint share of the smartphone market edged past 50% for the first time, to 53.3%, as the smartphone market grew to reach a historic high of 37% of the overall mobile phone market.How Samsung and Apple's share of the smartphone market has grown. Data: IDCOverall mobile shipments dipped slightly compared to the previous year, and sequential quarter sales were also down, almost certainly reflecting the difference between Christmas purchases and the new year.Mobile and smartphone market from 2Q 2010 to 1Q 2012. Data source: IDC.But the growing dominance of Samsung and Apple points to challenges for other mobile phone manufacturers, which are struggling to make profitable headway in the smartphone market. HTC and BlackBerry-maker RIM, whose portfolios are both completely smartphone-based, both saw falling sales figures on an annual and sequential basis, even as the smartphone market itself grew by 42% year-on-year (though falling by 8% sequentially to 144.9m).For mid-tier Android handset makers, the problems are mounting. HTC recentlyreported profits down 70%, the second quarter in a row that profits fell; it made £95m on sales of £1.4bn, or a margin of less than 7% of revenue, on 6.9m smartphones (by IDC's estimates; HTC has stopped giving handset shipment figures).Motorola Mobility announcedfirst-quarter figures(PDF) showing that it made another operating loss in mobiles, while shipping 5.1m smartphones (up 1% year-on-year) and an undisclosed number of tablets.How Samsung and Apple's combined sales relate to the rest of the smartphone market. Data: IDCSamsung, however, sits atop the smartphone business, with a 29.1% share in the first quarter (42.2m phones by IDC's estimate; the company does not give figures) compared to Apple's 24.2% share (35.1m phones). Samsung's portfolio is shifting towards smartphones, which presently make 45% of its worldwide 93.8m sales – compared to Nokia, pushed down to second place in the overall rankings, where 11.9m of its total 82.7m phones are smarpthones, a 14.4% share.Nokia's smartphone balance has been declining over the past three quarters following chief executive Stephen Elop's decision to announce that Nokia would adopt Microsoft's Windows Phone software for smartphones. The majority of Nokia's smartphone sales are still Symbian devices.Nokia and RIM both made operating losses in their mobile phone divisions in the most recent quarter, a signal of problems adapting to the rapid changes in the market."The halcyon days of rapid growth in the smartphone market have been good to Samsung," said Kevin Restivo, senior research analyst with IDC's Worldwide Mobile Phone Tracker program. "Samsung has used its established relationships with carriers in a mix of economically diverse markets to gain share organically and at the expense of former high fliers such as Nokia."Nokia and HTC are expected to come under increasing pressure in China as Chinese companies such as ZTE, which sold 19.1m phones in the first quarter (up from 15m a year ago) and Huawei begin ramping up production of low-cost Android devices and expanding their sales base.Samsung and Apple are both expected to be able to maintain their sales in that country. The Korean company has powerful distribution, while Apple can rely on the power of its brand despite the iPhone being comparatively expensive.Total mobile phone growth, smartphone growth and featurephone growth, 1Q 2011-1Q 2012. Data: IDCOverall, the market for featurephones shrank by 16.7% as the smartphone business continued its rapid growth, which has been above 40% for more than six quarters.Since the second quarter of 2010 it has gone from 19.6% of the overall market to 37%, a linear growth of about 2.5% per quarter.That suggests that by mid-2013 smartphones will make up 50% of overall mobile phone sales – although the arrival of those low-cost Android phones could speed up the process markedly.
In the end, Max Payne is all about the movement. Rockstar's take on Remedy's hyper-kinetic third-person shooter may be grittier and more hard-bitten than its forebears, but it keeps the franchise's most famous feature in place: bullet time. This mechanic not only makes the game's high-octane set-pieces ooze with style, it's actually a tactical edge the player has when they're facing down multiple armed opponents.Since bullet time plays such a key part of the proceedings in Max Payne 3's story, naturally there's the expectation that it has to feature in the game's multiplayer. But hang on a second, how is bullet time supposed to work in an online fragfest? It's easy to visualise it in a single-player context where only one participant has the power to slow down the action. But how can it be used as a mechanic by dozens of players simultaneously without making a multiplayer battle feel like everyone's moving through quicksand?Trigger happyThe way Rockstar has resolved this problem is by attaching the bullet-time feature to the players' eyelines. A player can activate the mechanic whenever they choose – provided their meter is full – but other players will only enter bullet time with them if they're caught in the player's line of sight. When this happens, the action slows down for all participants.This means that if a player has the drop on a couple of opponents, the mechanic gives them a clear advantage as they'll be able to quickly pour clips of lead into multiple targets. It also means that if a player suddenly sees the action on their HUD enter bullet time without them triggering it themselves, they're likely to become riddled with bullets unless they execute a dodge-roll or find some cover sharpish.Players fill their bullet-time meter in the multiplayer by scoring kills, and this also earns them experience points (XP). They can then use XP to unlock more content including avatar customisation options (tattoos, clothes and accessories), new weapons and attachments, and Bursts – skills that work along the same lines as the Perks in the Call Of Duty series.The basic setup in Max Payne 3's multiplayer uses the same tropes online combatants have seen before: players choose a load-out of Bursts and weapons, pick a customisable avatar and then head into a map to blast their friends to pieces. However, Rockstar have gone to some lengths to make their online battleground feel distinctly different to your average multiplayer shooter experience.For a start, some of the multiplayer Bursts are informed by the game's drug-addled and bruised titular character. Yes, players are able to reload more quickly and stack ammo, but they also have access to powers like Big Dog, which gives everyone in their team a shot of adrenaline, or Trigger Happy, which briefly arms the player with nastier ordnance. For our money, the most interesting burst is Paranoia, which changes all of the opposing teams avatars into enemy skins and then allows friendly fire. Each Burst has a series of tiers the player can pour their XP into, giving both them and their allies an even greater edge in a firefight.V for VendettasOn top of the steady stream of XP rewards and unlockables players are offered, Rockstar has infused the online mode with an extra reason to keep playing – Vendettas. The player is continually kept in the loop about how often they've been shot and which other players are most responsible for their death. If they're shot by another player more than a couple of times, they get the chance to earn more XPs by starting a Vendetta against them. They can even bet XPs on how they think their teammates and opponents will do in each match.Max Payne's gritty aesthetic doesn't just govern the multiplayer mode's powers and avatars, it also informs a couple of match types. Alongside standard variants such as Team Deathmatch, MP3's online mode contains contests such as Payne Killer and Gang Wars. In the former all the players start off with their selected load-outs. The first and second to score a kill become Max Payne and Max's buddy Passos respectively. Then, all the other players are tasked with taking them down. Players score points for every kill they pull off with either Max or Passos, and once they're gunned down, their killer nicks their avatar.Gang Wars, for its part, is a series of 16-player matches that actually feed back into the game's main campaign mode. In Gang Wars, players take on the roles of some of the favela crews Max encounters in the main story, who are engaged in frenzied turf battles. The structure sees the AI stack a series of four match-types, depending on how each side is doing. For example, in our first play-through, we had to best our opposing team in a King of the Hill match, followed by a Domination match, followed by a version of Capture the Flag that involved collecting briefcases of cash. In the final match, each side is given a tally based on how well they've done, and then a straight head-to-head Team Deathmatch for bragging honours.Max Payne 3's multiplayer is a compelling piece of work and it shows that Rockstar have started to develop some solid muscle in the online realm. Yes, it borrows a little here and there from some of the giants in the shooter genre, but at the same time, it feels like an organic part of the Max Payne series. It's dirty, gritty and downright mean. It's also a lot of fun to play, and thanks to bullet time, it looks awesomely cool. But then that's to be expected, because in the end, Max Payne is all about the movement.• Max Payne 3 is released for Xbox 360, PC and PS3 on 18 May
Spotify finally has an iPad app. The streaming music service has launched a native app for Apple's tablet, following in the footsteps of rivals Rdio, Mog and Deezer.Journalists and subscribers alike have been asking Spotify about its iPad plans for some time, with the topic even overshadowing the company's recent Coca-Cola branding partnership announcement.The iPad app is free to download, but like the company's existing mobile apps, requires a premium subscription to use. The app supports Apple's AirPlay technology to stream audio wirelessly to compatible hi-fis, and its graphics – including album artwork – are optimised for the new iPad's Retina display.Spotify's chief product officer Gustav Söderström showed off the app in a webcast for journalists this morning, before answering questions."We spent a bunch of time building this app," he said. "We think the iPad is a unique device, and we want to build a unique experience for it."Söderström talked about how Spotify expects people to use the app, with sofas looming large in the company's thoughts."One use case is you sit on your couch and discover new music," he said. "We think a big part of this use case is you're at home, maybe with a stereo with AirPlay, and this is to a large extent a remote control."He batted back questions about whether an Android tablet version will follow, and when Spotify's HTML5-based apps platform might make the leap from its desktop client to the iPad app."We are always working on lots and lots of stuff, and we'll let you know as soon as there is something to show," said Söderström.Spotify provided The Guardian with a TestFlight build of the app on Monday, and I've been using it since then. The obvious design inspiration is Twitter's iPad app, with a navigation bar on the left, and a main window pane, with additional panes swiping in from the right.The app can be used in portrait or landscape mode, and focuses on search, playlists, people, inbox and a central What's New page.The latter highlights recommended albums, trending playlists and tracks from friends, new album releases, and trending music near your current location – an unsettling combination of David Guetta, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Keane and Glee playlists in Bishop's Stortford at the time of writing.Search works well, bringing up thumbnails of artists and albums, and lists of tracks in response to a query. Playlists brings up a list of your existing playlists, including the ability to edit them and create new ones. Meanwhile, People presents thumbnails of Facebook friends, revealing their top tracks, artists and published playlists.The app makes good use of the larger touchscreenThe app is certainly slick, and it makes good use of the iPad's larger screen. I'm not sure I buy into Söderström's vision of sofa-surfing music discovery just yet, though – Spotify's revamped Radio feature is missing, as are the apps that have made its desktop application far more than just a search box.This is a starting point, though. One thing I'd like to see is Spotify forging partnerships with music magazines and other discovery apps through its iOS API.For example, The Word Magazine launched an iPad version earlier in the week – buttons alongside its reviews and articles to play albums in the apps of Spotify and its rivals would be a good move.Finally, a streaming music iPad app makes more sense to me as a remote control for a hi-fi than as a standalone experience. But that does require an AirPlay-compatible hi-fi or speakers. A bit of a niche, for now.I suspect a lot more people have hi-fis with iPhone/iPod docks, so for them, Spotify's iPhone app may continue to be the best way to listen in their living room, unless they have a Sonos hi-fi, in which case Sonos' own iPad app already supports Spotify streaming.
A criticism often levelled against gun games is their routine failure to address the consequences of the violence they demand their players perform. Nathan Drake may be an affable, swashbuckling hero in the cutscenes, but in action he is a cold-blooded murderer, never pausing to reflect on the cadavers he leaves in his wake.It is, arguably, a failing of genre rather than a failing of the medium. Most shooting games are analogous to action movies, which rarely show their protagonists reflecting on, say, the death of on Autobot or a Nazi.Sniper V2 Elite is a rarity, then, in choosing to show in explicit detail the chain of cause and effect after a bullet leaves the chamber and enters a target. It's about as far from the nuanced narrative reflection that champions of gaming's capacity for contemplation may be hoping for, instead choosing a somewhat more biological approach. But it's nevertheless effective.Squeeze the trigger and time slows to a crawl, muffling sound waves in anticipation as the camera tracks the bullet nose spinning through the air. Then hit pause before the bullet enters your target's body and an x-ray cutaway showing the shot's trajectory through the human body, slicing virtual organs as it goes.Score a headshot and you'll see the cranium cave and splinter, while a shot to the testes will elicit a wince as each bollock quietly explodes inside the body. It's pornographic, of course, but there are educational undertones too – the occasional note of regret, a whispered reminder that, beneath the uniform and ideology, we are all bones and water, shit and tears.These kill-cam vignettes provide the high points of feedback in a game that eschews corridor firefights in favour of ponderous ducks and crawls through the rubble of a falling Berlin. The sniper genre – if we can call it that – has enjoyed a rise to prominence in recent years, an antidote perhaps to the reaction-heavy Modern Warfare experiences, a chance for the more ponderous player to settle down, take his time and a deep breath and make a plan of attack away from the pressure of whizzing bullets.It's in these moments that Sniper V2 Elite is at its best, offering a great deal of satisfaction from hitting a target hundreds of metres away by correctly accounting for wind and gravity. The physics engine helps with this, allowing you to pick out a grenade on a target's belt and blow him and his nearby comrades to smithereens.This exactitude is an obvious necessity considering the game's chosen theme. The opportunity to set trip wires and landmines in order to secure your sniping position allows for tactical preparation – at least, when the mission structure allows for it and the stealth loops are refined enough to let you plan and execute considered strategies.But up close and personal, Rebellion's game falters, with awkward shoot-outs, AI that sends enemy soldiers running in and out of doorways with Benny Hill quickness, frantic, jerking animations that reveal the rough edges around the experience. The high difficulty and focus on stealth ensure that, when there are inconsistencies or issues with the AI, the punishment is heavy and restarts frustrating, a shortcoming that has the positive effect of increasing the sense of achievement with every completed stage.Sniper V2 Elite is something of an anachronism too, a middle-tier boxed game that lacks the budget or refinement of a blockbuster, but enjoys far more craft and spark than a budget release. There is enjoyment to be had among its cobblestones, and the second world war setting, once a weekly staple in the release schedules, has fallen from fashion for long enough to ensure the Enemy At The Gates ambiance feels fresh, not over-familiar.A flawed action game, then, that misses its intended targets almost as often as it hits them. But also a game that, perhaps unexpectedly, provides a moment's pause for reflection every time a bullet meets its prey. For that feature alone, it's somewhat unique.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
