It's a fitting congruity that the simplest way to gauge Facebook's current woes comes via that other unchallenged behemoth of the internet, Google. Type "How do I ..." into the search engine and one of the first suggestions it comes up with continues: "... delete my Facebook account?" Today it was the ninth top-ranked search term, bringing more than 18m results.Since it was devised a mere half-dozen years ago by Mark Zuckerberg and three Harvard contemporaries, the social networking site has grown at an astonishing speed, seeing off once-powerful competitors such as Bebo and MySpace. It has also attracted controversies, notably over theissue of a "panic button" for child users.But this week Facebook has experienced perhaps the closest thing to a crisis in its brief history, with reports of an emergency staff meeting at its California headquarters about privacy issues.Criticism has been mounting since a revamp of the site in December meant users' profiles became publicly accessible by default. Retreating back into anonymity also became an increasingly tortuous process, with profiles now featuring 50 separate privacy settings and 170 options. This was followed in March by more changes, including plans to automatically share users' information with outside websites.While this has the potential to hugely boost Facebook's revenues through targeted marketing, it has angered campaigners, including the American Civil Liberties Union. This month EU data protection officials wrote to Facebook, calling the privacy changes "unacceptable".But what seems to have worried the company are calls for Facebook users to wipe their accounts. "Facebook is officially 'out', as in uncool," wasthe verdictof another California tech pioneer, Jason Calacanis, chief executive of the question-and-answer website Mahalo, calling for a boycott of the "not trustworthy" site.In a telling echo of Facebook's origin, in April four New York University students started a web appeal for $10,000 (£7,000) to finance a summer holiday creating an open-source alternative to Facebook, called Diaspora. Within a fortnight they had $100,000.While Facebook disputes accounts of a crisis meeting – it was, the company says, a regular staff discussion – it admits the furore has stung.Elliot Schrage, Facebook's vice-president of communications, concedes that the privacy changes have been handled badly. He said: "The most important thing for our business is trust. People trust Facebook with their most personal information – the photographs of their family, how they're feeling, the things they care about. What distresses me most is when people believe our changes are born from malevolence or sneakiness. It's our failure that people don't understand what we're doing with the data. That's a mistake in communications."But could this see Facebook going the way of Bebo, dropping out of fashion in a descent as dizzying as its rise? Industry experts believe this is unlikely.Ian Maude, from tech analysis firm Enders, said: "They're going to announce shortly they're over 500 million users. That's 40% of everybody on the internet on the face of the planet. Facebook accounts for about 8% of all time spent online. It's a runaway train, it's a phenomenon."
A California court has unsealed documents from the comedy of errors that we feel obliged (actually, happy) to call Gizmodogate.You'll recall: Apple staffer loses prototype iPhone 4G (for fourth generation) in Redwood bar. Someone else leaves bar with phone. Phone sold to Gizmodo, which puts up a video and, subsequently, a not very good public defence that it wasn'tcertainthat the phone belonged to Apple and that it was perfectly happy to give it back and so on.Criticism was aimed at Apple for allegedly having encouraged the police to go to the house of Jason Chen, the Gizmodo editor who appeared on screen showing off the "no really we didn't know it was Apple's" Apple phone while insisting he was sure it was an Apple phone.The question being:was Gizmodo a receiver of stolen goods?Did the person who left the bar with the phone try to give it back?Documents unsealed in the case now suggest (a) unfortunately, yes (b) not really.Wired's Threat Level blogpoints to a newly unsealed document from the case:"Police closed in on the man who found and sold a prototype 4G iPhone after his roommate called an Apple security official and turned him in, according to a newly unsealed document in the ongoing police investigation."The tip sent police racing to the home of 21-year-old Brian Hogan, and began a strange scavenger hunt for evidence that a friend of Hogan's had scattered around this Silicon Valley community. Police recovered a desktop computer stashed inside a church, a thumb drive hidden in a bush alongside the road, and the iPhone's serial-number stickers from the parking lot of a gas station."The papers also show that Gizmodo paid $5000 for the iPhone, with a bonus promised to Hogan when Apple officially announced the phone, plus an extra $3500 payment from "another source." (It turns out Hogan's [female] roommate was worried that Apple would track her down from her computer's IP address because he plugged the stolen phone into it: "Therefore she contacted Apple to absolve herself of criminal responsibility."You can read thesearch warrant affidavit(10 pages, PDF). It shows that Steve Jobs personally contacted Gizmodo to ask for the phone back.Brian Lam, editor of Gizmodo, responded to Jobs. You canread the letter on PaidContent, but here's some of the takeaway clauses (all punctuation and spelling as in original): "It conflicts with my own responsibilities to give the phone back without any confirmation that its real, from apple, officially. ... If the phone disappears without a story to explain why it went away, and the proof it went to apple, it hurts our business. And our reputation. People will say this is a coordinated leak, etc."This is perfectly reasonable: Gizmodo would lose the trust of its readers while also getting chomped by Apple if Apple doesn't officially demand the phone back, publicly.Gizmodo actually needed Apple to, in effect, get legal on its ass so that readers won't think it's all just a con. (As so many people insisted it was: that it was a careful piece of marketing by Apple.Nowdo you believe us that it wasn't?)There's also some complaint there about how "Apple PR has been cold to us lately. It affect my ability to do my job right at iPad launch. So we had to go outside and find our stories like this one, very aggressively."The thing that's remarkable is that Gizmodo has tried to do the right thing here: find stories that its readers want to read. It's unfortunate that it has, pretty clearly, fallen onto the wrong side of the law (strictly read) here.The noise from the Appleosphere at present is that Apple will sue Gizmodo to hell and back, but my feeling is that it won't. Gizmodo got its story fair(ish) and square; it is Apple's new phone, and it's tough on Apple that it was lost by an employee and that it ended up with a news organisation. Apple may be slightly miffed that the phone sustained a little damage in Gizmodo's disassembly. Then again, it must have others.The person Apple should really go after is the guy who walked out of the bar with the phone. But one suspects that his failure to report it lost - as detailed in that Wired Threat Level blog above - is going to attract the attention of the county's district attorney.Put it this way: Apple can't gain anything from being vicious to Gizmodo, except a reputation for being controlling, plus a lowered status in the eyes of news organisations. It's been down that road in the past when it sued Nick Ciarelli of Think Secret forbeing too good a journalist- and ended up funding Ciarelli through college. (He's nowworking at the Daily Beast, since you ask. And evenwriting about Apple.)The upshot? Gizmodogate is almost played out. I doubt Apple is going to sue anyone further.
With the current fascination with the 80s, 3D Dot Game Heroes seems a timely if low-key arrival. Best seen as a homage to the 8-bit era, with gameplay firmly rooted in the NES classic Legend of Zelda, 3DDGH looks and plays like nothing else around at the moment.The plot takes the familiar Japanese arcade adventure format, as your chunky pixellated hero tries to stop the dark king Onyx from conquering a 2D world reluctantly forced into the 3D age. Before you even start, you can select from a large range of Lego-like designs, editing them pixel by pixel if you choose. Disappointingly, despite coming in many breeds (ninja, dragon, mage etc) they all move and fight in much the same way, with swords being the weapon of choice. These are wielded by using the analogue stick to swing and range from your basic prodder to enormous, Soul-Calibur style weapons that can dominate the screen if your health is sufficient.You can also unlock other weapons by locating orbs, spread across six themed dungeon areas, so expect to collect speed boots, bombs, bows and grappling hooks, some of which are essential to negotiating the level that follows and the Boss character waiting at the end.The game takes the form of an overworld punctuated by dungeons; the former filled with hidden dangers but hiding gold and other bonus items. However, because this overworld is so visually featureless you soon feel punished for the developer's shortcomings than your own, while formulaic dungeon design soon makes these stages seem repetitive. It's also worth mentioning that the trial version we reviewed was prone to crashing at regular intervals and the graphics took a noticeable frame-rate hit in some battles. Hopefully, these glitches should be sorted in the final release.So granted, 3DGH is great to look with a difficulty curve that rises sharply to reward mastering its controls and perspective. However, by aping Zelda's gameplay so closely, the developers merely show how far they have to go to rival Nintendo's design skills – even with a formula that's more than 20 years old. At times, you long for more Sam and Max-style irreverence to a subject so well suited to it. Which is not to say 3DDGH is not amusing, but they're more in-jokes for retro fans of a certain age than genuinely laugh-out-loud moments. 3DDGH is still worth a look but it runs out of ideas and impetus all too quickly.
Hulu, the US-only TV and movie site, has released a major update to its video player with features such as adaptive bitrate streaming, ad volume normalization, new closed caption display options and "seek preview", where hovering the mouse over the timeline provides a screen thumbnail.Like most cross-platform video players, it has been developed in Adobe Flash, and the obvious competitor is Microsoft's Silverlight, not HTML. In a long blog post by Eugene Wei,Pardon Our Dust, Hulu points out that you just can't do all this stuff in HTML5. It says:"When it comes to technology, our only guiding principle is to best serve the needs of all of our key customers: our viewers, our content partners who license programs to us, our advertisers, and each other. We continue to monitor developments on HTML5, but as of now it doesn't yet meet all of our customers' needs. Our player doesn't just simply stream video, it must also secure the content, handle reporting for our advertisers, render the video using a high performance codec to ensure premium visual quality, communicate back with the server to determine how long to buffer and what bitrate to stream, and dozens of other things that aren't necessarily visible to the end user. Not all video sites have these needs, but for our business these are all important and often contractual requirements.That's not to say these features won't be added to HTML5 in the future (or be easier to implement). Technology is a fast-moving space and we're constantly evaluating which tools will best allow us to fulfill our mission for as many of our customers as possible."Of course, even if HTML5 had been developed to the point where it was usable, that would just present Hulu with a different set of problems. The biggest is that a lot of the browsers that are currently in use have limited or no HTML5 support. (Sure, users can upgrade: good luck with getting them to do that.)Another major problem is the choice of a video codec, as discussed here previously. YouTube is using the H.264/AVC codec, which has become a video standard (it's needed for Blu-ray), but which is heavily patented. Not everyone can pay the huge sum needed for a license, and those who can afford it may be unwilling to pay as a matter of principle: Mozilla's Firefox can't show HTML5 videos for that reason. How many of the "Adobe can get stuffed" brigade realise that they're also saying "Mozilla can get stuffed", at least until a free and open codec is widely adopted. And unless it gets adopted by YouTube, that's pretty unlikely to happen.Using Flash does mean that Hulu videos are not available on the iPhone and iPad, but Hulu could offer an app and charge for video that way --  indeed,Business Insiderclaimed one was imminent, more than a year ago. Certainly the lack of Flash makes vast amounts of web content inaccessible to iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad users, which should make them ideal targets for a sales pitch.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?My favourite is my Gator – which, if you're not familiar with it, is a six-wheel independent transmission all-terrain vehicle that I use at my vineyard. It has a light footprint, huge fat tyres, and it's endless fun. In springtime, we're dogged with kangaroos which come out of the bush and nibble the new vine shoots. Because we don't want to shoot them, I get my Gator out and go up and down the rows chasing kangaroos. There's no more contemplative experience than watching kangaroos bouncing along in front of you.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it last weekend when my family came up camping at the vineyard. I took my grandsons for a spin.What additional features would you add if you could?I would put on a klaxon horn that did a fanfare. I think that would be quite a feature. Something really grand announcing your presence. That would teach the roos a lesson.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Absolutely not. It's now 10 years old and it's as good as the day I bought it. Barring disaster, I think it'll still be going strong.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Built-in obsolescence. The minute you buy something, it's already out of date. With most hi-tech products, it's all built-in. You just know that with the iPad they already know what the better ones are going to be like. But they have to sell it in layers.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Beyond a potato peeler? I've got to admit, I'm struggling with my iPhone. It's a glorious thing, but because I travel a lot I've found it very difficult in the US with the network restrictions on it. It's locked into a telephone company. That's been a real shame; the idea of getting it was getting something that would work wherever I go, but the US is a huge stumbling block to that.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?You have to have my eldest son at your beck and call. I pay him a retainer because he's a technological genius. He can troubleshoot me wherever I am, take over my computer with terrifying software, and I just sit and watch things moving on my own desktop.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?A born-again luddite. I'm definitely not a nerd. I'm competent with what I need to do, for the most part, but I do find myself hankering for simpler technologies.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Apart from a car, I guess it would be two Leica 35mm cameras. I expect someday my grandchildren will be using them. I love the old range-finding focus technology: the images are stunning.Mac or PC, and why?It can only be Mac. Otherwise I'd be completely in the dark. Macs help you to blunder your way around. The great bugbear with modern tech is that usually the instructions are inside the actual thing. There's no manual any more. You have to be able to use the thing in order to find out how to use it. It's very frustrating.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I do download, but I'm one of that dying breed that has to own the physical object too. Funnily enough, the last CD I bought was the soundtrack to [my 2009 film] The Boys Are Back. My youngest son's band is on it, and I wanted to get that track to somebody.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I think if it was modelled on Stephen Fry's Jeeves, with the voice, that could work. My wife for my birthday gave me a clock which wakes you up with the Jeeves character in those dulcet tones laced ever so slightly with contempt. A whole robot ... as long as you could turn it off.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I need a Tardis. Something I could just step into and be somewhere else. Enough of all this travel. Just a Tardis. That would be fantastic.•The Boys Are Back, directed by Scott Hicks, is out on DVD on Monday
The Financial Times and the Wall Street Journal were both carrying full-page "We Love Apple" adverts on Friday morning, but the space was not bought by the Californian technology giant but by Adobe, the web technology firm that is locked in a bitter dispute with Steve Jobs.The adverts, using a variant of the famous"I love New York" motifcreated byMilton Glaser, have appeared in newspapers including the Wall Street Journal andSan Jose Mercuryand online on websites including Wired and TechCrunch.They present the latest front in an increasingly nasty war between the two companies. Adobe's web video technology Flash is not supported by Apple's iPad or iPhone and Jobs has publicly criticised it for causing battery problems and crashes.In a blogpost last month, Jobs said the most important reason for keeping Flash off his devices was that "letting a third party layer of software come between the platform and the developer ultimately results in sub-standard apps and hinders the enhancement and progress of the platform."He contrasted Flash, over which Adobe has control, with open web standards that Apple has adopted - HTML5, CSS (Cascading Style Sheets, used to format sites) and the programming language Javascript.Today's adverts follow the large "We love Apple" with a pointed list of 13 other things that the company loves: "We love creativity. We love innovation. We love apps. We love the web. We love Flash. We love our 3 million developers. We love healthy competition. We love touch screens. We love our Open Screen Project partners. We love HTML5. We love authoring code only once. We love all devices. We love all platforms."What we don't love is anybody taking away your freedom to choose what you create, how you create it, and what you experience on the web."The adverts appear to have been prompted by Apple's decision last month to change its iPhone Developer Program License Agreement so that all developers have to write applications for the iPhone and iPod – and by inference iPad – so that they run directly on the device, a move that effectively bans software translation solutions like Adobe's CS5.Adobe's founders, Chuck Geschke and John Warnock, haveposted an open letter on the company's website– to which the online version of the "We love Apple" advert links – arguing that "freedom of choice on the web has unleashed an explosion of content and transformed how we work, learn, communicate, and, ultimately, express ourselves".They warn that Apple is trying to control the world wide web, something which would damage its evolution."We believe that Apple, by taking the opposite approach, has taken a step that could undermine this next chapter of the web — the chapter in which mobile devices outnumber computers, any individual can be a publisher, and content is accessed anywhere and at any time."Apple responded: "Yes, we believe in open web standards too, like HTML5. Flash is not an open web standard like HTML. It is a proprietary Adobe product. Just ask the W3 consortium that controls web standards – they have chosen HTML5 as the open web standard to move forward with."Alan Rusbridger, the editor of the Guardian, complained that the lack of Flash on Apple products - which means no video content is accessible of websites including guardian.co.uk and the BBC - was an"extreme irritant at the very least" in a review of the iPad in the Observer last month.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Dell Unveils AMD Six-Core PC - Information Week"The Dell Studio XPS 7100 is available as of Wednesday with AMD's Phenom II X6 six-core processor." You can also have 16GB of memory, 4TB of disk and a real 64-bit operating system, Windows 7. Prices start at $699.Which Celebrities Did People Force to Follow Them the Day Twitter Exploded? - GeekosystemSee if you can guess the top 10 celebs that Twitter users wanted to follow them. Simpler, guess how high @billgates came....Exclusive BlackBerry tablet information - Boy Genius Report"We have confirmed with multiple sources that the 8.9″ BlackBerry tablet will be strictly a "companion" device. If you are wondering what it is all about, take a good hard look at the Palm Foleo. Yes, the BlackBerry tablet will not have any cellular networking built in, and will rely on either a Bluetooth connection to your BlackBerry or the built-in Wi-Fi radio."Facebook Privacy: A Bewildering Tangle of Options - Graphic- NYTimes.comYou are in a twisty maze of privacy choices, all looking the same...Larry Ellison On Sun Ex-CEO: Blogging Was Silly Diversion- InformationWeekLarry is never short of a pithy comment. And he's still on top. (Thefull Reuters interviewis worth reading, but might be removed from the web where the IW story won't.)Air Force may suffer collateral damage from PS3 firmware update- Ars TechnicaThe USAF built itself a supercomputer with PS3s. But new ones can't run Linux... which is a bit of a problem as that's what the supercomputer runs on.Nokia's Problem Isn't The iPhone, If Only It Were- WSJ Blogs"Much of Nokia's strong growth came in an era during which hardware innovation on its own could secure high margins, and more importantly, when hardware and software were considered independent. The premium-handheld-device business now is about which device can run software applications most smoothly — a matter of hardware-software integration. Nokia has not been able to make the transition."Defeat for the digital army?- BBC dot.RoryThe Digital Economy Act looks unlikely to be repealed - despite, or because of, the massed email blitzes aimed at MPs. As Rory Cellan-Jones observes, "If even the most digital MPs are treating mass e-mail campaigns as spam, it looks to me as though this particular weapon of political protest is now virtually worthless."Apple linksAnalysis gives first look inside Apple's A4 processor - EE TimesTurns out the iPad uses an ARM Cortex A8 core and the processor is made by Samsung.When did Apple become uncool? - Yahoo! News"Apple has been spending the last several months digging its own hipster grave as it becomes an angry sourpuss of a company that many have started comparing to Microsoft, something that was unthinkable only a few years ago. And Apple may actually be even worse than Redmond...."Apple Rumor Watch Part Infinity: Cloud-Based iTunes on June 7 - Wired"The timing of Apple's closure of Lala — May 31, one week before Apple's June 7 WWDC event — could very well indicate that it plans to announce a new use for Lala's code, which onlookers agree will eventually form the basis of some sort of Apple music streaming service."Our thoughts on open markets - Adobe founders take on Apple"No company — no matter how big or how creative — should dictate what you can create, how you create it, or what you can experience on the web," say Chuck Geschke and John Warnock.
Humour is a rare commodity in gaming but Fable III looks like it may raise a smile. John Cleese certainly hopes so anyway. In the latest developer diary - see above - the veteran actor talks about his role as a butler in the forthcoming action adventure.Lionhead's Peter Moulyneux is typically upbeat too.There's an element of uniqueness here which I feel lots more people will enjoy. There's drama, there's emotion, there's a feeling of power, there's a feeling of excitement and I think we're really learning to blend that stuff together and deliver an experience in Fable 3 that really hasn't been seen before.Molyneux – of course – is no stranger to hype but for me Fable 3 is one of the most interesting games due out this year.  I am slightly concerned about the apparent downplay of the RPG elements - dumbing down maybe? The GUI stuff looks impressive though.What about you? Looking forward to Fable III?
Oracle co-founder Larry Ellison doesn't talk to the press as often as we'd like, because he often ends up putting the boot into some company, product or person, and that's always entertaining. The latest victims include Sun Microsystems, its pony-tailed boss and its Rock microprocessor inCan Ellison be an Iron Man in real life?Ellison is having a busy time at the moment because Oracle is absorbing Sun Microsystems after a takeover that was delayed for many months while Europe's competition department groped around for a clue. He's been diving deep into Sun's business, rather than leaving that to henchman, and not liking all he's found. According to the longer version of the story atABC News, he doesn't seem that impressed by blogging former boss Jonathan Schwartz:"The underlying engineering teams are so good, but the direction they got was so astonishingly bad that even they couldn't succeed," said Ellison. "Really great blogs do not take the place of great microprocessors. Great blogs do not replace great software. Lots and lots of blogs does not replace lots and lots of sales."Ellison also shut down development of the Rock microprocessor, described as one of Schwartz's pet projects:"This processor had two incredible virtues: It was incredibly slow and it consumed vast amounts of energy. It was so hot that they had to put about 12 inches of cooling fans on top of it to cool the processor," said Ellison. "It was just madness to continue that project."Then there was Sun's move to let resellers sell more systems, rather than using its own sales force:"Astonishingly they laid off all the sales people and they laid off all the field service people. They just got rid of them all," he said. "Guess what? Sales dropped. It's breathtaking!"The result: Sun went from being tied with IBM as the market leader in 2005 to No. 2 in 2009, when its $474 million in sales were about half those of IBM, according to data from IDC.Although Oracle has always been a software company, and didn't look like a natural home for Sun, it now looks like turning into a full-scale computer company selling hardware, operating software, applications and services. In fact, it could turn into a giant version of Apple, as run by Larry's friend Steve Jobs. Ellison's pitch is to be a one stop shop providing preconfigured off-the-peg systems. The Reuters story says:This approach traces back to Ellison's strategy for building his software business. He has spent two decades telling customers that they should buy pre-integrated software business management suites from Oracle, rather than dealing with myriad vendors. His mantra: best of breed is good for dog shows, but not software."Where we think we'll make our money -- where we think we're able to differentiate ourselves from IBM and everybody else -- is by building complete and integrated systems from silicon all the way up through the software, all prepackaged together," he said.Oracle doesn't want people messing about tweaking the stuff it sells."We don't want customers making those decisions. They never quite tune it the way we would," said Oracle President Charles Phillips.Only 10 or 15 years ago this might have been a great strategy, and it could still work. Over the next decade, however, those prepackaged systems are more likely to be virtual ones, that only exist in the cloud.
US record labels have claimed another victory in their war against filesharing, winning a major court case against LimeWire. On Tuesday, a federal court ruled against the popular peer-to-peer platform, finding LimeWire's owners personally liable for copyright infringement.The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), which represents the four major US labels, brought the case against LimeWire in August 2006. Almost four years later, the service is still perhaps the most popular software for exchanging files – allowing users to search each other's music libraries for songs they would like to share. According to CNET, LimeWire has been downloaded more than 200m times – including 340,000 downloads last week. A survey by the NDP Group found that LimeWire was used by 58%  of people who have downloaded music from a peer-to-peer network in the last year.Like Napster (and AIMster and Grokster) before them, LimeWire's owners denied they were responsible for the legality of files shared by their users. Unlike Napster, LimeWire does not host any shared files on their own servers – the material is distributed among users. But Judge Kimba Wood was not convinced by the argument. "The evidence demonstrates that [LimeWire] optimised [their] features to ensure that users [could] download digital recordings, the majority of which are protected by copyright," she said.. "[Lime Wire] assisted users in committing infringement."In a summary judgment, Wood ruled that LimeWire founder Mark Gorton, as well as parent company Lime Group, had committed copyright infringement, engaged in unfair competition, and induced copyright infringement. By finding Gorton personally responsible, Wood's decision will be particularly terrifying to other "edge case" entrepreneurs. In other words, Facebook's owners had better make sure people don't start uploading illegal MP3s.The court has not yet determined the issue of monetary damages, though the RIAA has claimed they are owed up to $150,000 for every infringing work. With millions of files in question, that number could become huge. "[LimeWire] thumbed its nose at the law and creators," the RIAA's chairman said. Labels will now likely move for an injunction against LimeWire, forcing the service to go offline.According to George Searle, chief executive of LimeWire, the company "remains committed to developing innovative products and services for the end-user and to working with the entire music industry, including the major labels, to achieve this mission".
Sin &amp; Punishment enjoyed cult status on the N64 and a decent, if largely unnoticed, conversion to Wii's Virtual Console, so it's encouraging to see the sequel get a full UK release.It shows arcade-gaming pioneer Treasure in their usual fine form, with an unusual shoot-em-up perfectly adapted for analogue control. The plot is as bizarre as only the Japanese can get, featuring a battle between groups of mutants on an alternate Earth. You have a choice between two heroes – Isa, who targets whole groups of enemies with an explosive blast, or Kachi, who uses more precise homing missiles.And although the gameplay is straightforward (basically, kill anything that moves) it's the myriad ways this is accomplished that reminds you of the great arcade shooters of old. Constantly surprising, always pushing the technology, Sin &amp; Punishment 2 is steeped in genre awarness. So expect to see a mix of shoot-em-up, beat-em-up, platform and even puzzle-gaming, as you battle on foot or on a variety of hovering, flying, and floating devices against wave after wave of ingenious enemies. Yes, it's largely "on rails" and, as with most classic shooters, relies too much on memorising attack patterns; but when accompanied by score multipliers that depend on both avoiding hits and scoring plenty of your own, it makes for a truly challenging game that rewards repeat playing like few others.Graphically, it's impressive without being showy. Spread across seven huge manga-inspired levels, each concludes with some of the toughest boss battles I've seen in a long while. So whether facing off against robots on a floating fortress, out fighting a giant submarine or facing a boss who literally tries to kill you with Tetris, there's always a daunting challenge just around the corner. Of course, none of this would matter is it didn't play right and Treasure has done an inspired job with the interface. Using the Wiimote to lock on to targets and shoot, and the nunchuk to move or dodge, you can also unleash stinging melee attacks with the buttons when enemies get too close. Sadly, this versatile control works less well in co-op mode, where only one player is visible onscreen as a cross hair. It's like having an extra tail-gunner, but the experience is undeniably less satisfying for the second player.With its vivid graphics, soundtrack and challenging, perfectly balanced levels, S&amp;P2 deserves a bigger audience than it will probably receive. However, it's one of the most imaginative Wii games currently available and will tide you over the impending summer slump a lot better than many better known titles.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Like Free Software? You'll Love Microsoft Office 2010 - FOXNews.com"The Office 2010 suite, which Microsoft will release to business customers tomorrow and to consumers in early June, will include the ability to create, edit, view and share files online using the company's SkyDrive website. In fact, you won't even need to buy the program to use the online tools; Microsoft will make the majority of Office functionality available for free to anyone -- whether they've bought the new suite or not."Microsoft defends its Web Apps, says fidelity tops Google Docs -- TechflashGoogle retorts: "It says a lot about Microsoft's approach to customer lock-in that the company touts its proprietary document formats, which only Microsoft software can render with true fidelity, as the reason to avoid using other products."Jack retorts: Hey, Googlers, love the Data Lib! However, the fact that users can redownload trashed versions of what were (de facto and de jure)standarddocuments is not much compensation for Google "losing" their original content and formatting.Google Docs does not make Office better - Why MicrosoftMicrosoft's Alex Payne shows in a video (above) how Google docs fails to support a large number of commonly-used features in Microsoft Word, even though Microsoft has published the details of its binary file formats (in excruciating detail, at huge expense) and has also published its XML formats as royalty-free open standards ratified by both ECMA and ISO. By contrast, Google's .doc format -- which demonstrably fails to be compatible with Word .doc files -- is an unpublished and effectively proprietary format. (Google's online docs system is a closed box on which we have no real information. We can only observe its horrible effects.)All-new Hotmail to take on Gmail next Monday - Venture Beat"Microsoft has totally overhauled Hotmail as an unabashed Gmail competitor.  Next Monday, the company will take the wraps off its new version at a media event in San Francisco," says Venture Beat. Well, Gmail is inferior to what I was using more than 20 years ago (it still lacks sort by size, by subject etc, usable folders, proper threading etc - and it's rubbish at search) but I suspect that boat has sailed....Google Loses Senior Android Product Manager Erick Tseng To Facebook - TechcrunchEveryone's going mobile, it seems.Facebook Calls All Hands Meeting On Privacy - AllfacebookPresumably it'll be available for everyone to read about?Facebook Makes Ad Inroads but Still Trails Rivals in Revenue - WSJ.com"Facebook.com served 176.3 billion display ads on its website over the first three months of 2010, or 16.2% of the total, said comScore. Yahoo served 131.6 billion banner ads to Yahoo users, and Microsoft served 60.2 billion, according to comScore. The data don't include ads that Yahoo and Microsoft delivered to other Web sites through their networks, a major source of revenue for each," says The Wall Street Journal.Mozilla CEO John Lilly speaks about his future and the future of Firefox - LA TimesDeparting for venture capitalism, Lilly says: "Now we have a strong build-out of Firefox 4 and 400 million users. It seemed like a good time to jump off, although I am staying on the board, so I will still be involved here."SAP to Acquire Sybase for $5.8 Billion &gt;&gt; AllThingsDInterestingly, SAP says it's a strategic move "to accelerate the reach of SAP solutions across mobile platforms" in its top line. But that's a lot of money to spend.Palmisano outlines IBM's 2015 roadmap; Earnings to double; Consumerization mocked - ZD NetPalmisano doesn't rate "the current consensus view of ... technology's chattering class" but then he's not selling shiny toys to the twitterati. IBM is no longer twice the size of the rest of the IT industry put together, but its high-priced kit is still mainly responsible for keeping western civilisation running.IBM's Future: The Same, Only More So - New York TimesIBM is promising business as usual, with "a $20 billion budget for acquisitions". It's not going to waste $40bn buying somebody....And finally….Comparing an Apple iPad with a NotepadThe iPad wins! ;-)
Oh, Obama, we thought you were cool. Or rather, with your Twitter campaign and your BlackBerry, we thought you were a geek like us. So how could you say this,at a graduation speech at Hampton University? "With iPods and iPads; Xboxes and PlayStations – none of which I know how to work – information becomes a distraction, a diversion, a form of entertainment, rather than a tool of empowerment, rather than the means of emancipation."Obama gave the Queen an iPod last year, so if he doesn't know how to work one he really should ask her for a lesson. After an aide has dialled her number for him on a newfangled telephonic communication device, of course.Sadly, his focus on consoles panders to a popular belief that games are pointless. That, unlike novels, newspapers, sculpture, classical dance or opera, they are a waste of time. It's rubbish, of course. There are worthless novels and highly intelligent games. Butas Cicero knewa politician can't go wrong exclaiming, "O tempora, O mores!" – decrying modern times and declaring that things were better in the past.But, maybe, underneath Obama's confused statement there's a grain of truth. Winifred Gallagher's recent book Rapt says we're suffering because so many forms of entertainment are squabbling for our attention. With Twitter, Facebook, IM, RSS, email, our world is constantly beeping.In fact, what games do better than almost any other medium is to hold our attention. I've never listened to opera for four hours straight without noticing the time, but that happens frequently with a great game. Perhaps the growing popularity of games is partly a desire for the focus we've otherwise lost.
The fight between Apple and HTC, maker of mobile phones using Google's Android platform, is growing increasingly acrimonious with the Taiwanese firm calling for the regulatory authorities to halt the sale of iPhones, iPads and iPods in the US.HTC, which makes Google's Nexus one as well as its own-branded HTC Desire, hasfiled a complaintwith the US International Trade Commission (ITC) calling for it to "halt the importation and sale of the iPhone, iPad and iPod in the United States."The move comes afterApple sued HTC back in March, alleging that it had infringed 20 patents relating to "the iPhone's user interface, underlying architecture and hardware".Calling for sales of a rival's products to be halted is common practice in patent disputes. As part of its legal action against HTC, Apple has also filed a complaint with the ITC, which would see sales of HTC's products - including the Nexus One - halted.Nokia, the world's largest mobile phone manufacturer, is also embroiled in a patent fight with Applealleging the iPhone infringes 10 of its patents. It launched the legal action last October after the collapse of long-running negotiations to agree a deal that would have seen Apple pay a licence fee to use technology Nokia developed, which is fundamental to the way a mobile phone works and is already in the iPhone.Apple hit back in Decemberclaiming that Nokia had infringed 13 of its patents, singling out the E71 handset as being particularly egregious.Nokiathen took its complaint to the ITCsaying the Californian company had infringed seven Nokia patents across its iPhone, iPod, and Mac products. In March a judge in Delaware ordered a suspension to both the original Nokia lawsuit and Apple's countersuit while the ITC deliberates.Part of the reason for the current fight between HTC and Apple, meanwhile, is believed to be the fact that in February HTC released handsets which use "pinch-to-zoom" functionality which resembles that of the iPhone.The legal spat, which could drag on for years, also comes as devices using Google's Android platform are starting to have a serious impact on the market for so-called smartphones.Earlier this week market research by the NPD Group saidAndroid devices have outsold the iPhone in the US for the first time, although the figures did not include iPod Touch devices. Android phones now make up the second most popular category of smartphone in the US. The market for phones that can send emails, access the web and download applications is still, however, dominated by the BlackBerry, made by Canada's Research In Motion.Android sales in the UK, meanwhile, have also started to take off,with sales of mobile phones using the software platform increasing fourfold in March, according to recent figures from retail watcher GfK. Almost one in every five smartphones now sold in the UK is Android.Last month,Microsoft seemed to weighin to the fight by signing a patent agreement with HTC that provides "broad coverage" under Microsoft's patent portfolio for HTC devices running Android mobile platform. Under the terms of the agreement, Microsoft receives royalties from HTC, which created the first smartphones that ran its Windows Mobile operating system."As the innovator of the original Windows Mobile PocketPC Phone Edition in 2002 and the first Android smartphone in 2008, HTC believes the industry should be driven by healthy competition and innovation that offer consumers the best, most accessible mobile experiences possible," said Jason Mackenzie, vice president of North America, HTC Corporation. "We are taking this action against Apple to protect our intellectual property, our industry partners, and most importantly our customers that use HTC phones."HTC currently sells a dozen smartphones in the US, including the HTC EVO 4G which is sold by Sprint, the DROID Incredible which is being sold by Verizon Wireless and the HTC HD2 which is stocked by T-Mobile.
If you set out to make the exact polar opposite of the typical Wii game, the result would be something like Lost Planet 2.The second iteration of the third-person shooter, in which you battle giant Akrid monsters and human pirates on the planet EDN III, is strictly for the hardcore. And preferably groups of mates who are hardcore gamers – the offline campaign can be played by four people co-operatively, and given that the AI controlling your squad-mates is distinctly dodgy, it isn't easy to play through the game on your own.This time around, the once-snowbound planet EDN III has thawed in places – thanks to the thermal energy generated by the Akrid, which you can also harness to regenerate health. So rather than being set in uniformly Arctic conditions, missions take place in jungles and towns. Lost Planet 2 has its own jargon-ridden vocabulary, but it's really pretty uncomplicated – the missions are split into bite-sized chunks, in which you must basically pour more lead into the enemies than they pour into you – ammo is never in short supply. There are strategic decisions to make, such as whether or not to jump into mech-suits, and it pays to take care over your route through each mission. Plus there are sequences in which you activate machinery and must keep it going for a timed period while under heavy assault – pretty exhilarating stuff.New chapters are signalled by the appearance of Akrid bosses, each of which is roughly the size of a mansion. You can choose to shoot the weak points on their legs, briefly immobilising them (annoyingly, their legs grow back rapidly after you shoot them off) before taking out their weak spots, which can be tricky to reach when the bosses are moving, but at least are easy to see since they glow orange.Lost Planet 2 does have a storyline of sorts, but it's thoroughly incidental to the action. Its gameplay is very impressive, though – the weaponry and control system are spot-on, the graphics are superb, and you really get a sense of the difficulty of surviving in such a hostile environment. It should prove pretty popular online, too, with various game modes, both co-operative and adversarial. Although casual gamers would be likely to find it a soul-destroyingly bewildering experience.Hardcore shoot-em-up fans should love it, though, both on and offline: it's a well made, impressively sorted game that offers non-stop, over-the-top action. Just don't expect to see it come out on the Wii.
Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear. While movie tie-ins rarely impress – the recent Wolverine and Alice in Wonderland being notable exceptions – it's been a while since it generated something as flat-out awful as Iron Man 2.On the surface, things look good. You've got Robert Downey Jr, Don Cheadle, Mickey Rourke and Samuel L Jackson among the voice cast – and a game that effectively allows you to put on THAT suit, fly around and shoot things with the pulsey thing in your palm. That, by any masculine stretch of the imagination, is going to be fun.Unfortunately, the only metallic thing that's likely to be flying around is the disc as you remove it from your console and hurl it, and its botched contents, from the nearest window. What you want is the sort of free-ranging fun provided by Spider-Man 2 only with in-built jet engines and state-of-the-art weaponry. What you get is Transformers: The Game – with clunkier controls and worse animation.As achievements go, it's almost remarkable. Even if you've never played a game before, a quick look at any games review archive would give you an outline as to what people want and what things most annoy. In the first category, there's graphics and gameplay and plenty of evidence to suggest we'll eschew the former if the latter's up-to-scratch. In the second, there's the hated whirling camera, illogical, unresponsive controls and silly glitches that suggest nobody's tested the finished product beyond the first couple of levels. Iron Man 2 somehow – with a Guantanamo level of cruelty that can surely only be deliberate – gives you all of the annoyances coupled with dull gameplay and hilariously bad animation.The game itself takes place outside of the movie's plot, which is a small bonus: here your purpose is to defeat the Russians who have stolen Stark Industries technology to make their own Iron Man variations. This means flying around, destroying enemy helicopters/drones etc, in a series of repetitive missions. There is some variation as, in accordance with its "two heroes, two suits, one mission" tagline, you can play as either Iron Man or "sidekick" War Machine, and there's a decent interface where you can customise the suits, the weaponry, the ammunition, etc. Why, though, is there no two player option?And why is the flying so dull? Why can you lock-on to distant targets but not inflict ANY damage on them? Who decided to make the right stick the control for both the target lock and the camera? And why is it so short? Assuming you can be bothered to stick with it, which is unlikely, there's maybe four hours of play here. Mind you, in the circumstances, that's probably Iron Man 2's biggest selling point.
Wikipedia has been deleting images that could be considered pornographic – including some used to illustrate articles on sexuality, which has upset some editors who felt they should have been consulted first.On his Talk page, co-founder Jimmy Wales wrote that: "Wikimedia Commons admins who wish to remove from the project all images that are of little or no educational value but which appeal solely to prurient interests have my full support."A magazine you probably won't see on an iPad. Photomontage: Guardian"Wikimedia Commons" is a "free media repository" and a sister project to the Wikipedia encyclopedia. It was set up so that all the Wikimedia projects could share photographs, cartoons and other materials. However, it had been accused of holding pornography.Wikinewssaid Wales and some other administrators had changed policy so they would delete first and argue about it later. "Images that in the past had survived deletion reviews were speedily deleted, including many which were being used to illustrate articles on sexuality across the Foundation's projects," it reported.Fox Newssaid Wikimedia's actions were "in response to reporting by FoxNews.com". The US news channel said it was contacting some of the project's donors including Google, Ford Foundation, Best Buy and Craigslist Foundation. It would hurt Wikimedia financially if any foundations withdrew their support it because it was associated with pornography.Meanwhile, Apple is keeping porn off the AppStore that serves the iPhone and iPad in light of concern about making undesirable content accessible to children.Developers of iPhone apps have already become used to having their programs censored, while the iPad – due in the UK at the end of this month – is introducing more British magazine and ebook publishers to Apple's strictures.This doesn't apply to pornography, which is already banned, but to fashion magazines such as Dazed &amp; Confused. "A D&amp;C insider revealed that the mag's iPad edition has been nicknamed the Iran edition by the people putting it together, given the parallels between censorship in the Muslim theocracy and the iTunes store," according toAnna Leachof the ShinyShiny blog.Leach said she hadn't heard of any iPad apps being rejected, and it was a precautionary response. But, "I can see it being quite widespread in magazines that deal with edgier street fashions, such as Dazed &amp; Confused, Vice, and Love," she said.Apple's chief executive Steve Jobs has defended the level of censorship it applies. "We do believe we have a moral responsibility to keep porn off the iPhone," he told one customer in anemail. "Folks who want porn can buy an Android phone," he said.The problem for content producers is that they don't know exactly how far they can go, though established publications such as Sports Illustrated (which has a famous swimsuit issue) appear less likely to run into problems than less famous titles. Infamous ones probably shouldn't bother. They can still reach iPad and iPhone users via the Apple web browsers built into these devices, they just can't trouser the cash for selling apps.Although some will cry censorship, British publishers operated for many years under a similar unofficial self-censorship regime, with editors wary of publishing content that would upset their main distributor, WH Smith.
Running Exchange and thinking about upgrading to 2010? There's a myriad of new stuff in the latest version of Microsoft's enterprise mail and calendar app – including greater mailbox resilience, higher availability and simplified compliance.However, what's really improved is the user experience. You don't have to search very hard to find that one of the biggest grumbles about Exchange has been the pitiful cross-browser support for its webmail client, Outlook Web Access (OWA). With full drag-and-drop and right-click functionality only available in recent versions of Internet Explorer, it's been a very unattractive option for Mac users – or, indeed, anyone who prefers or has to use a browser other than IE.The biggest advance in Exchange 2010 is that finally OWA works properly in more, but not all, browsers. It offers all the functionality in Firefox on Mac or Windows, Safari for Mac and Chrome for Windows – but not Safari for Windows, nor Chrome on the Mac, nor in Opera. In those cases, you'l l see the same Light client as Exchange 2007.If you like threaded conversation views, you'll love OWA 2010 as they're on by default; and if you're syncing with a Windows Mobile device, you'll get threaded emails there, too. Fortunately, for those of us who don't like it, you can turn it off – and you can specify it on or off for each folder.For an admin, the new OWA client also lets you manage users, roles and groups under the options tab, meaning that if you're away from base you won't have to log on to the server remotely. Users too can do more for themselves via OWA, including joining public groups and wiping a device paired via ActiveSync if it's lost or stolen.OWA can also handle voicemail and texts, and by adding Office Communications Server to your Exchange infrastructure, your users can communicate via instant messaging in the OWA client.On the downside, the default theme for OWA 2010 is hideous – a bilious yellow with two-dimensional buttons that feels like a step back from the elegant default blue theme of OWA2007. Out of the box it does have a couple of other themes, including an ugly Zune one, but for now only an admin can change the theme, and only for all users. However, SP1 – a beta of which will be available in June – promises to restore the choice of themes to individual users.Under the hood, Exchange 2010 is only 64bit and demands Windows Server 2008, so it's a significant upgrade if you've skipped Exchange 2007. Also, it doesn't run on Small Business Server, as Exchange 2007 does, so that's not an upgrade path for a smaller company. However, you'll spend less time nagging your users to keep their mailboxes under control as 2010 can use cheaper storage than previous versions required and also lets users have much bigger folders.That's just scratching the surface. At the end of the day it's a big upgrade in terms of functionality, user experience and hardware requirements, and no IT admin embarks on such a move lightly. However, if you gave 2007 a miss and your hardware is creaking, now is as good a time as any to make the jump.Pros:vastly better user experience; more self-service options for users, reducing the load on a help desk; less exacting storage requirementsCons:Ugly and hard to change OWA default theme; requires Windows Server 2008 and 64bit hardwareMicrosoft Exchange online
On this week's programme, we look back on the past 14 days of politics, and the uncomfortable love triangle that unfolded between the three main party leaders. Their allegiances flipped faster than the MP housing market, and we've been watching it all on the web.So to what extent has the UK general election of 2010 been a digital election? Discussing this are the Guardian's new media correspondent, Jemima Kiss, and Matthew McGregor fromBlue State Digital, the team that orchestrated the Obama new media campaign.We also have a dispatch from the front line of online crime: Joseph Menn, the author ofFatal System Errortells us about his research into cybercrime that could end up bringing down the web.And in the week that the iPad's UK pricing plan was unveiled, we take a look at one of Apple's most persuasive competitors,the JooJoo Tablet, with the CEO of Fusion Garage, Chandra Rathakrishnan.  Originally this device was to be released as the CrunchPad as a pet project of TechCrunch's Michael Arrington – but the relationship fell apart and lawsuits seem likely.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
The Sims series is - rather scarily - 10 years old but new releases keep coming. Sims 3 will be coming to the consoles later this year but the latest release is due out next month.The Sims 3 Ambitionspromises to add some more structured "gaming" to the classic freeplay Sims template. I spoke to producer Grant Rodiek about the game and whether it would scare off traditional Sims fans.Can you give an overview of Sims 3 Ambitions?The Sims 3 Ambitions is all about giving your Sims a variety of ways in which to make an honest (or not so honest) living. You control your Sims' actions throughout the day and make important choices, so it's no longer a "fire and forget" affair. Careers like Firefighter, Private Investigator, and Architectural Designer let you be a hero, scum bag, or creative genius, while new skills like inventing give you awesome objects to use around the town.What was the thinking behind the new "career" focus? Is it purely to attract more hardcore gamers to a brand that they may have previously discounted?Ambitions should actually have a little bit of something for everyone. Firefighter and Ghost Hunter may skew more towards your "hardcore gamer," while Stylist and Architectural Designer are for players who love the creative tools of the Sims. Private Investigator and Doctor are perfect for Sims storytellers. We wanted to do something new and we wanted to design something with a big impact for our players. Sims have always just disappeared to go to work and we wanted to change that. The work day is anything but routine now!How exactly will this new career focus work?Players pick one of six new careers: Firefighter, Architectural Designer, Ghost Hunter, Stylist, Private Investigator, or the new Doctor (a modification of the Medical career from The Sims 3). Your Sim will receive jobs that they can choose to fulfill.  For example, Architectural Designers can offer their services to potential clients around town, or respond to requests for a Kitchen Remodeling, new "Man Cave," or painting studio from Sims around town. There are tons of jobs so there will never be a lack of variety.Private Investigators can find cases via the computer or local police station, or they can wait for clients to call them with cases.  Firefighters can prepare for emergencies at the fire station. Equipment requires maintenance, plus skills like athletic and handiness come in handy. However, once the alarm sounds the firefighters need to book it to the site of the emergency. We have quite a variety of emergencies, including raging infernos and earthquakes. These are just a few examples.How did you decide on these specific careers?It was a combination of things. We made a huge list of ideas that we thought would be fun and would work well with our game. Sims have always had to deal with Firefighters, plus it's such an iconic profession that it was a shoe in. We've wanted to do a Private Investigator for a long time and it worked well with our existing Opportunities feature. We've done a variant of stylist before, but we really wanted to improve it. Players love Create –a- Sim so it was a natural fit.  Basically, we picked the ones that provided players with the most variety and the ones we knew would provide the best experience.Are you worried about alienating traditional Sims players by this emphasis on more traditional or challenging gaming?There's always a risk that when you change things players may be leery. But at the same time, change is good and we never forget our core players that have made our games so special and powerful. Our last expansion, World Adventures, introduced some pretty dramatic changes, with more linear tombs, puzzle solving, and adventures. Players responded incredibly well to this, so we're encouraged to try things outside of the traditional Sims boundaries. Ambitions was designed for storytellers, builders, Sim creators, movie makers, and traditional gamers who want a little more challenge. But, this still isn't a super difficult game by any means. Really, the Sims excels at allowing the player to make the game as easy or difficult as they want.What has been the biggest challenge in developing Ambitions?Players have high expectations for what it means to be a Firefighter, fashion expert, inventor, or even a Ghost Hunter. It was really challenging to find the right balance of fiction and gameplay and providing enough variety to satisfy everyone. We think we've struck a great balance though and are quite happy with the game.How important is the Sims community when it comes to developing new expansion packs and features?I can think of fewer things that are more important. We are always checking the boards, engaging players for their feedback, and trying to incorporate loads of tiny improvements they've requested. The update that will be provided to all players, even those who do not purchase Ambitions, will feature a great deal of new content and polish updates, like a completely revised user interface to make the experience easier and more enjoyable.Our community is what keeps the game alive much longer than most games. They are constantly sharing new creations, stories, and movies and we are always thankful to have such a vibrant community supporting us.Ten years on where can the Sims go next?I love that The Sims provides such a broad canvas of possibilities. As we largely mimic human culture and life, our inspiration is really boundless. My hope is that our players continue to surprise us and we are able to continuously give them new experiences they love and cherish.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Exclusive: Mozilla CEO John Lilly to Step Down and Head to Greylock - All Things DLilly is leaving after just two years as CEO, saying that "Venture investing is what I've wanted to do for quite a long time..."Analysis: Some Facebook Privacy Issues Are Real, Some Are Not - Inside FacebookA great overview of Facebook's long-running struggles.Windows Phone 7: Near-Final Screenshots - Supersite for WindowsThough one hopes that the final Windows Phone 7 will have colour. Come on, it's sure to.Study: Twitter Is Not a Very Social Network - Read Write Web"After analyzing over 41 million user profiles and 1.47 billion follower/following relationships, the researchers concluded that only 22% of all connections on Twitter are reciprocal."Android Rising - Armed &amp; DangerousEric Raymond (ESR) speculates on changes in the US smartphone market...How a Web Design Goes Straight to Hell - The OatmealBased on *actual* events. Which is really quite scary. "You begin to fantasize about other careers, like someone who digs ditches for a living or gives sponge baths to the elderly."8 Websites You Need to Stop Building - The OatmealTotally right on every one of them. (Err, we'd already built this one before his post came out. Exempt?)New attack tactic sidesteps Windows security software - ComputerworldBasically, another hole in Windows XP (though Vista SP1 is also vulnerable). And a bit scary.Square Brings Credit Card Swiping to the Mobile Masses, Starting Today - Fast CompanySet up by Jack Dorsey, co-founder and chair of Twitter, it aims to make it easy to do credit card sales on iPhones and Android phones.Better government through code - O'Reilly Radar"For some cities, it's not a long education process. Some of them get it very quickly.It's not just selling them on Code for America. It's selling them on the idea that there's something to Web 2.0 in terms of driving transparency, efficiency and participation for cities. That this isn't just an extra program. It's really a way to transform government."Expect more of that over here in the UK now...Apple &amp; the solution to its Dark Cloud of Censorship - AskTog"The simplest way out of this quandary might be for Apple to expand from having an App Store to having an App Mall, anchored by the App Store and flanked by a small number of independent "boutiques." (No, they wouldn't all be for porn. There could be a liberal boutique, a conservative Christian boutique, etc., anything not rigidly corporate-mainstream.)""Apple would require these independents to apply the same stringent interface, safety, and legal standards as Apple, monitoring them from time to time only to the extent that, with parental controls turned on, unsuitable material as defined in their "lease" remains inaccessible. However, the independents, within those few, well-defined constraints, could mount whatever products they so chose. Apple could still, as mall landlord, get a cut of every app sold without getting its hands dirty at the same time."A nice but completely impractical idea - what's the screen metaphor for a mall? Same as a store.
Washington-based gaming giant, Valve, has announced that it will be bringing itsSteamdownloadable game platform to the Apple Mac –tomorrow. An initial batch of titles will be available from the outset with further games joining on subsequent Wednesdays.Launched in 2004, Steam is a digital distribution system, which allows PC owners to purchase games digitally and then download them, rather than buying boxed copies from a retailer. In 2005, the service was opened up to other video game publishers, and there are now over 1000 titles available. Valve estimates that it has over 25 million active users worldwide.Among the first titles to become Mac compatible will be Runic Games' well-received action RPG,Torchlight, and Valve's own excellent first-person sci-fi puzzler,Portal. The latter uses Valve's Source engine, and, according tothe company's press release, native OS/X support for that technology will be made available to game developers signed up with the Steam system. The Steamworks suite of development tools will also be available on the Mac platform, allowing studios to implement a range of copy protection, social networking and match-making features.The debut titles will be compatible with 'Steam Play', a feature that allows users to buy a game once, then download it to any PC or Mac machine. Also, PC owners who've already purchased 'Steam Play' titles will find tomorrow that they have the Mac versions as well.
How do you get teenagers interested in the Napoleonic wars? Short of casting Robert Pattinson in an adaptation of War and Peace, or running a seafaring reality TV series entitled Celebrities with Scurvy, most commissioning editors would probably be stumped.But earlier this month Channel 4 Education launched a free browser-based game entitledTrafalgar Origins, a beautifully designed Napoleonic sea battle sim, with crisp overhead visuals, thudding sound effects and plenty of palatable historical detail. It's been created byPreloaded, a developer that specialises in interactive educational projects for TV series' as well as galleries and museums. Another of their Channel 4 projects,1066, has been played 16 million times online since its debut last year.Trafalgar Origins, then, provides a series of missions in which you guide your nineteenth century frigate against aggressive enemy vessels. Plundering sinking craft earns loot which can be invested in better crew members who will improve your ship's attacking and defensive stats. There's also a range of weapons to call on including round shot, chain shot and powder barrels, which can be dropped into the sea and employed as rudimentary mines.I only meant to play for a few minutes last night, but ended up spending two hours sailing through the tutorial missions, then tackling the historical encounters, each based on genuine face-offs between the English, French and Spanish navies. There's also a multiplayer mode, in which groups of up to five users can indulge in oceanic deathmatches. And naturally, Preloaded has implemented Facebook Connect, so players can post their achievements, compare stats with friends and set-up multiplayer sessions via the social networking site. (Preloaded creative director Phil Stuart, has written an interesting blog post entitled'socialising Trafalgar Origins', which looks into the process of providing Face Book connect support.)The game is designed to tie in with Channel 4's 'Bloody Foreigners' season, which kicks off in June and features a series of documentaries about the role of non-British nationals in the advancement of Britain as a world power (for example, a significant number of ex-slaves and foreign convicts were press-ganged into the British navy). And with 3.2 million missions already played, there are plenty of gamers already picking up interesting trivia about life in the Victorian navy; possibly more than you'd get from Celebrities with Scurvy...Anyway, give it a go and see what you think. The boat handling takes a while to get used to, but it's fun to work out the best angles of attack, and to start using the anchor for aquatic 'handbrake turns'. A guided missile would come in handy, though. They had those in 1806, didn't they?
BrinkYou may remember we featured acinematic trailer for Brink on the sitea couple of months back – and while I normally disapprove of trailers that don't feature any in-game footage, it gave a strong impression of the game's unique visual style and scenery-grappling dynamics.Paul Wedgwood, owner of the game's developers, Splash Damage, was probably the most enthusiastic of all the presenters at the Bethesda event, and from the looks of it that enthusiasm was certainly warranted.Aside from by-the-numbers sci-fi setting ('floating city', 'rival clans' and '2045' is pretty much all you need to know) Brink looks like it will be a breath of fresh air for the well-trodden FPS genre.Pitched as a more cerebral, co-op based alternative to CoD and the like, we were shown an hour of gameplay across a number of locations.One of the most immediately impressive aspects of the game is the fluid mix of on and off-line game modes. Unlike your standard FPS, with separate multiplayer and single-player settings, all of Brink's missions can be played with the same character, gaining experience points whether or not you are connected to the internet. Even if you're just waiting for your friends to fire up their Xboxes and playing with AI team-mates, they can still jump in at any time to assist you as all the game's levels are co-op-based.The missions themselves are fiendishly clever, dynamically changing at in-game checkpoints depending on your priorities. Attacking a power plant won't just simply involve running in, planting a bomb and running out again, as you're regularly given opportunities to switch your objectives and gain control of new areas, earning exp as you go. What this means is that while there are a finite number of missions in Brink, you never need play one out the same way twice.Different classes are available to make up your team, again meaning more opportunity to play through the game in a variety of different ways. Those willing to take less glamorous roles like medic or engineer will be rewarded with extra exp points, meaning team strategy is cleverly incentivised.Customisation is also one of Brink's key features, as your in-game character and weapons can be altered in hundreds of ways. Clothes, weapons upgrades and new abilities are unlocked as you progress, with the idea being to use them across a group of customised characters, each suitable for different situations. A fat character can carry larger weapons, while a thin, agile character can leap over obstacles and climb scenery.The interaction with Brink's in-game landscapes using the SMART system (Smooth Movement Across Random Terrain) is another great new feature. Simply hold down the SMART button and run towards an obstacle and your character will vault across or climb up, thankfully saying goodbye to the horribly imprecise world of FPS jump mechanics.While the graphics aren't particularly impressive (with the smoothness of online play clearly a priority), the stylised, colourful art design goes some way tp make up for this. The characters' elongated faces and distinctive outfits contribute to giving the game a truly distinctive atmosphere. Combined with such a fresh approach to the co-op based FPS,  Brink looks like it could well be surprise hit upon its release in autumn.Brink is due out on Xbox 360, PS3 and PC this autumn.RageRage could well be the best-looking game ever releasedAnother game which I knew very little about, Rage was probably the surprise hit of the event. Once scheduled to be released by EA, id software have been working on the title for quite some time, and it looks to be in fantastic shape.Tim Willits, who guides us through about 45 minutes of gameplay, seems pretty pleased with its progress. His company created first-person shooters, he says, and this title he believes will propel them back to the forefront of the genre.Borrowing heavily from both Borderlands and Fallout, Rage adds story-driven RPG elements and vehicle combat and racing to a pretty standard FPS template. Your character wakes up in a post-apocalyptic world (called, um, the wasteland) and has to shoot his way through mutants and bandits, stopping to talk to human characters in junk-filled shanty towns along the way to pick up missions and plot exposition. Sound familiar?To be fair, it would be harsh to criticise a game that's been so long in development for any seeming originality. Mad Max is probably just as much of an inspiration.As you'd expect from such FPS heavyweights, the in-game action looked solid and hugely entertaining. Weapon-mounted-buggy racing looked a pleasant diversion from the more straightforward shooting action, but even this had its clever touches, with an interesting array of weapons and fun toys like turrets and remote-control car-bombs to play with.The graphics are simply stunning, leaving many of the assembled hacks to question whether or not we were really being shown an Xbox 360 game. The high frame-rate and gorgeous textures of the new idtech5 model have to be seen to be believed -  if it came out now, it would probably be the best looking game ever released.Despite lacking originality in some areas id look to have created another classic single-word franchise (Doom, Quake, Wolfenstein), it's just a shame that we won't see Rage until some time in 2011.RAGE is due out on PC, Xbox 360 and PS3 in 2011.
With games retail relying more and more on exchange and the sales of pre-owned titles it is probably no surprise that publishers - who obviously only get revenue from the initial sale - are coming up with some new ways to make money. DLC is a big factor but Electronic Arts have gone further than most.Project Ten-Dollarhas already seen the likes of Mass Effect 2 require purchasers of pre-owned copies to pay for access to online services that were initially included for free. Now it looks like things will be going further. EA has announced that all EA Sports games released after next month will come with anOnline Passthat is required to play online. This code is included with all new copies of the game but if you pick up a pre-owned copy you will need to pay to play online - probably around, you've guessed it, ten dollars.So how does it work?  Andrew Wilson, SVP of EA Sports explains:Every game will come with a game-specific, one-time use registration code with each unit sold new at retail. With your Online Pass, you'll have access to multiplayer online play, group features like online dynasty and leagues, user created content, and bonus downloadable content for your game including, for example, a new driver in Tiger.Of course, the main reason this is likely to cause a fuss is:If the original access code has been redeemed and fans wish to get access to the online content (for example, if you pick up a used copy), you can access a free 7-day trial or additional Online Passes will be available for $10.Remain unconvinced? Wilson sums it up:We want to reserve EA Sports online services for people who pay EA to access them.Clearly EA are trying to encourage sales of new games rather than pre-owned - but is this move a sign of things to come?What do you think then? Annoyed that you will need to buy FIFA 11 new to play online for "free"? Or is this just to be expected now given the huge amount of pre-owned sales?
All three mobile phone networks that will be offering mobile broadband access for iPad users have now announced their pricing and buyers of the latest Apple gadget are likely to find themselves choosing between O2 and Orange when they want to access the web on the move.Vodafone was thelast of the three networks that will provide mobile coverage for the 3G version of the devicewhen it goes on sale at the end of the month to reveal its prices. But neither of its two 30-day offers – one of which gives less downloading capability than Orange's weekly bundle – have any Wi-Fi component and they are by far the least attractive options.Orange, meanwhile, does not allow users of its pay as you go, daily or weekly offers to access Wi-Fi hotspots.The two monthly packages that it offers – at £15 and £25 a month– do come with Wi-Fi access but that access is capped at a rather paltry 750MB. The reason, it would seem, is that Orange customers can not only access BT's 3,800 Openzone hotspots, but also a further 150,000 BT Business Hubs, giving users a total of 153,800 places in which they can browse the web over Wi-Fi.O2, however,allows anyone signing up to its three tariffsunlimited Wi-Fi access to BT Openzone hotspots as well as locations operated by The Cloud. In total that will give iPad users with O2 access to Wi-Fi in 7,500 places across the country.A spokesman for O2 said there is no "fair usage policy" on Wi-Fi access but the operator reserves the right to limit someone's access if they are "clearly abusing the service". But many early adopters of the iPad are likely to think twice about relying upon O2's network for a device that requires a fast data connection. O2 came under fire last year for the poor quality of its network, especially in London. UK boss Ronan Dunne admitted in December that the firm had suffered "a short-term blip" in network quality in the capital.The poor perception of its network, which O2 has been fighting hard to rectify, is one of the reasons why both Vodafone and Orange have done so well in sales of the iPhone since O2's exclusive clutch on the device was broken last November. Vodafone, however, is unlikely to pick up many iPad users as it is offering just two deals – £10 a month for 1GB of data and £25 a month for 5GB – both of which are easily beaten by Orange and O2.Based on the current pricing:Best for light/irregular 3G usage:Orange's 5p/MB pay as you go tariffBest for regular 3G usage:Orange's pay monthly £15 for 3GBBest for heavy 3G usage:Orange's iPad Monthly £25 for 10GBBest for light/irregular 3G and Wi-Fi usage:O2's £2 a day/500MB offer (unlimited Wi-Fi on 7,500 BT Openzone and The Cloud hotspots)Best for regular 3G and Wi-Fi usage:O2's £10 a month for 1GB offer (unlimited Wi-Fi on 7,500 BT Openzone and The Cloud hotspots)Best for heavy 3G and Wi-Fi usage:O2's £15 a month for 3GB (unlimited Wi-Fi on 7,500 BT Openzone and The Cloud hotspots)O2's unlimited Wi-Fi offering makes its offer best for customers who expect to use their iPad on the go.None of the mobile phone companies are demanding that iPad users sign up to long term contracts. The "monthly" deals from O2, Orange and Vodafone can all be cancelled at the end of the month, given 24 hours notice.If iPad users breach the usage caps on their tariffs they will be charged an additional fee. For Orange, all its data bundles charge 5p per additional MB used with no apparent pricing cap. The exception is Orange's 5p per MB pay as you go offer, under which users can only be charged a maximum of £40 in a single month. So once a user has exceeded £40 worth of data (800MB) they will not be charged for any more that they use. But it's a rather expensive way of getting unlimited 3G access.O2 customers, meanwhile, can buy the bundle again or switch to a daily rate. So an iPad user who buys its £10 a month for 1GB service and exceeds the 1GB in just a few days can either buy a new 1GB bundle and re-start the 30 days or use the £2 daily option whenever they want to access the web until their previous monthly bundle recurs.Vodafone, meanwhile, does not automatically charge people who exceed their monthly allowance. It treats the 1GB and 5GB limits as "fair usage" caps and a spokesman said if a user consistently exceeds the limits they can expect to get a call from customer services.O2 also maintains that it is the only operator that will allow iPad users to easily manage their tariffs, adding and changing bundles directly from the iPad device. Orange and Vodafone customers will have to register their SIM cards, either by calling the network's customer service centre or going online. The iPad is the first device launched in the UK which makes use of micro-SIMs and according to the mobile phone companies it will be possible for consumers to request micro-SIMs from all three networks and use whichever SIM card they wish. As a result, consumers will be able to switch between networks just by switching SIMs.Micro-SIMs can be ordered from the operators themselves or through Apple. In fact, Apple's pre-order site restricts iPad users to just one micro-SIM per device; any customer looking to try other networks will have to deal direct with their chosen alternative network. Apple also charges 20p per micro-SIM while the networks are giving them away for free.For many consumers the easiest thing to do at first is to order both an Orange and an O2 micro-SIM and experiment with their networks using their pay as you go and daily bundles, before signing up to anything more long term.Here's the full list of offers:O2£2 a day for 500MB (unlimited Wi-Fi across 7,500 BT Openzone and The Cloud hotspots)£10 per 30 days for 1GB (unlimited Wi-Fi across 7,500 BT Openzone and The Cloud hotspots)£15 per 30 days for 3GB (unlimited Wi-Fi across 7,500 BT Openzone and The Cloud hotspots)Orange5p per MB pay as you go (no Wi-Fi; unlimited 3G usage, but maximum charge £40/month)£2 per day for 200MB (no Wi-Fi)£7.50 per week for 1GB (no Wi-Fi)£15 per month for 3GB (Wi-Fi capped at 750MB/mth but available in 3,800 BT Openzone and 150,000 BT Business Hubs)£25 per month for 10GB (Wi-Fi capped at 750MB/mth but available in 3,800 BT Openzone and 150,000 BT Business Hubs)Vodafone£10 per 30 days 1GB (no Wi-Fi)£25 per 30 days 5GB (no Wi-Fi)Thursday 5.20pm update:Vodafone originally announced two 30-day offers – one of which gave less downloading capability than Orange's weekly bundle – and with neither having any Wi-Fi component they were the least attractive options. On Wednesday, apparently in reaction to the poor response to its prices, Vodafone unveiled a third option – £15 per 30 days 3GB (no Wi-Fi) – which is the same as O2's heavy-use offer.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
iPad Usability: First Findings From User Testing - Jakob Nielsen's Alertbox"Summary: iPad apps are inconsistent and have low feature discoverability, with frequent user errors due to accidental gestures. An overly strong print metaphor and weird interaction styles cause further usability problems."Android Shakes Up U.S. Smartphone Market - NPDNPD says: "NPD's wireless market research reveals that based on unit sales to consumers last quarter the Android operating system moved into second position at 28% behind RIM's OS (36%) and ahead of Apple's OS (21%)." But a second opinion would be useful...iPhone can't win the smartphone wars - Beta NewsJoe Wilcox reckons that "iPhone is to Android -- and somewhat Symbian OS -- handsets as Macintosh was to the DOS/Windows PC in the 1980s and 1990s." Only time will prove him wrong....Apple and AT&amp;T signed five-year iPhone exclusivity deal -- but is it still valid? - EngadgetCourt documents filed in California tell all. Except whether it's still in force.A faster Wi-Fi format aims to eliminate most wires - Los Angeles Times"The Wireless Gigabit Alliance [and] the Wi-Fi Alliance will lobby wireless networking manufacturers ... to build the new WiGig format into upcoming products over the next couple years."In Mobile Age, Sound Quality Steps Back - NYTimes.comAnother whinge about the decline of sound quality brought about by compressed (lossy) music file formats and overcompressed recordings....Will the Internet Kill Traditional Car Radio? - New York TimesIn the US, there is no DAB. But apparently some people have mobile data connections good enough to stream Pandora....Imagine A Pie Chart Stomping On An Infographic Forever - Smashing MagazineSmashing presents A Showcase Of Bad InfographicsNew Programming Jargon — Global NerdyA compilation from comments on the Stack Overflow site.Five Things IE9 is (Actually) Doing Right - Six RevisionsJacob Gube writes: "At the risk of being completely alienated by my fellow developers, who — like me — have fostered a gut instinct reaction to stand on guard and be ready to attack whenever we hear the words 'Microsoft' or 'Internet Explorer', I'd like to highlight a handful of things that the company is finally doing right with their browser."Javascript code "likes this" on Facebook - Sunbelt BlogFall for this JavaScript copy/paste trick and you'll spam your Facebook friendsBT to announce expansion of fibre-to-the-cabinet network - thinkbroadbandBuilding on an FT report, it adds: "An increase in footprint would put BT in a stronger position to sell the service to other providers on a wholesale basis to providers such as Sky or TalkTalk who could avoid the high costs of deploying their own street-side infrastructure."It would also put BT in the dominant position for fibre coverage. Monopolies? Remind us how many you need of them?GamesApe Escape swings onto PS3 - MCVAmericans spend $25.3B a year on video games - VenturebeatNintendo chief: 3DS will have a 2D switch - CNet
Mobile phones using Google's Android operating system have outsold Apple's iPhone in the US for the first time, according to new research, as the battle between two of the biggest American technology firms to dominate the mobile web steps up a gear.The iPhone revolutionised the mobile phone industry when it appeared three years ago, but fearful of being squeezed out of the mobile internet market, Google quickly hit back with its own software platform called Android.Despite a shaky start when the first device, the G1, went on sale more than a year after the iPhone launched, Google's platform has gone from strength to strength with a slew of new handsets, some of which have been received favourably compared with the latest version of Apple's flagship device.Mobile phones using Android now make up the second most popular category of smartphone in the US, according to market research by the NPD Group. The market for phones that can send emails, access the web and download applications is still dominated by the BlackBerry, made by Canada's Research In Motion and a brand which last year celebrated its 10th birthday, but Android is closing the gap. BlackBerry devices accounted for 36% of the smartphone market in the first quarter of the year, according to NPD, while Android devices had a 28% share and the iPhone 21%.But Google is unlikely to have the upper hand for long. Apple is expected to unveil its new 4G iPhone at the Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco next month, and it will be upgrading its mobile phone software so that existing iPhones can run more than one "app" at a time – one of Android's current selling points.The NPD survey follows news from the retail watcher GfK last month, which showed thatalmost one in five smartphones now sold in the UK uses Android. GfK, whose pronouncements about the retail industry are pored over by City analysts, said Android handsets accounted for 12.3% of all phones sold to customers signing up for a long-term mobile phone contract in the week ending to 18 April – compared with just 3% of the market in the last week of March.The reason for the rise in Android's market share on both sides of the Atlantic is the increased number of devices that use the software. In the UK, for instance the HTC Desire – which is ranged by four of the five UK networks – has been selling well since its recent launch, while Sony Ericsson has been heavily marketing the Xperia X10. In the US, meanwhile, Motorola scored a big hit with the Droid, which was backed by a massive advertising campaign from its network partner Verizon Wireless. But its UK version, called the Milestone, has so far failed to find a major network partner, while its previous Android device – the Dext – is only sold by Orange.The survey will cheer Google as sales of its first own-branded Android device – the Nexus One, made by HTC – have disappointed analysts in the USsince it was launched at the start of the year. In March Goldman Sachs slashed its estimate for Nexus One sales this year from 3.5m units to just 1m worldwide. Vodafone started selling the device in the UK last month and ran out of stock within days despite the network already stocking the HTC Desire,which has been widely seen as a better phone.NPD said the market in the US has been buoyed by promotions, especially from Verizon Wireless, in which Vodafone is a minority shareholder, as it looked to compete with AT&amp;T, which has the iPhone under an exclusive deal.In the three months to end March, AT&amp;T grabbed 32% of the smartphone market, according to NPD's Mobile Phone Track, followed by Verizon Wireless with 30%, T-Mobile with 17% and Sprint with 15%. The news is disappointing for T-Mobile as it was theoriginal launch partner for Google in the USfor the first Android device, the G1, which arrived in September 2008.News of Android's success came as O2, Orange and Vodafoneannounced pricing plans for Apple's latest gadget, the iPad, which can access the web using wi-fi or 3G mobile phone networks and will be available in the UK later this month.
The hugely popular micro-blogging service Twitter has come from a standing start in 2006 to become as well known as Facebook in the US, with African Americans proving particularly keen on "tweeting".Some 87% of Americans know what Twitter is, compared with just 5% two years ago, giving it almost the same visibility as Facebook, which wins 88% awareness. But according to a study by the polling firm Edison Research, actual usage still lags far behind. Just 7% of Americans are on Twitter, while 41% are on Facebook.Twitter users tend to be disproportionately young, affluent and technology-savvy. And, in a curious finding, Twitter is particularly popular in the black community – 25% of US users are African American, roughly double their representation in the overall population.Tom Webster, Edison vice-president, said: "African Americans are more likely to be status updaters in general, whether it's on Twitter, on Facebook or on other social networks. They're more prominent adapters of mobile technology in general. You have African Americans out in front a little bit in mobile technology, the mobile web and SMS's [text messages]."A report last year by the Pew Internet &amp; American Life Project found 26% of African American internet users tweeted, compared with 19% of white users. Commentators have remarked on the prevalence of "trending topics" reflective of African American culture. Edison suggested that black users tended to use Twitter in a more "conversational" way than a "broadcast" approach of posting observations.In encouraging findings for advertisers, 44% of Americans on Twitter are aged 18 to 34, while 24% live in homes with annual income above $75,000 compared with a national average of 18%. Twitter, founded in Silicon Valley four years ago,  dipped its toes into the commercial sphere last month by introducing "promoted tweets" that integrate ads.
It is just over 6m long, and can withstand bomb blasts and a hail of bullets. The Knight XV, a £323,000 beast of a car made byConquest Vehicles, a Canadian company, has  "created an entirely new niche in the luxury armoured vehicle market", according to its manufacturer. What sort of person would buy this car? "Celebrities, rappers, professional athletes – people who want the biggest, the baddest, and the newest," says Conquest's president,  William Maizlin.You can buy armoured  versions of many cars. Barack Obama, for instance, is driven  in an armoured Cadillac.  Jeff Jankelovits, president of Manhattan Armor, the US's biggest armoured car dealership, sells cars to diplomats, royalty, heads of state and, currently, to oil executives in western Africa. "You are at your most vulnerable from point A to point B and the added cost of an armoured car is not going to bother most people who buy them," he says. He thinks the market is growing. "Where you have such a huge disparity in wealth, criminality grows, and people who are wealthy  become the object of that  criminality." Mexico, Colombia, Brazil, United Arab  Emirates and Lebanon are among the countries with the highest numbers of privately owned armoured vehicles.Not all armoured cars are so discreet. While the Knight XV is a wonder of intimidation, nothing quite beats the ostentation of the cars made by Dartz, a Latvian company. Last week, it announced it was building a model whose wheels would be made from gold and decorated with bullets.
After months of speculation and some teasing articles in the specialist video game press, Sony has officially announcedLittleBigplanet 2, sequel to its hugely innovative PlayStation 3 platformer. With the original title, launched to widespread critical acclaim in 2008, players were able to create and customise their own levels, using a highly intuitive interface, before sharing the results with other users around the globe. Over two million user-generated levels have since been uploaded to the game's community.With LGP2, the game's creator,Media Molecule, will once again structure the experience around its own full-length platform adventure, now benefiting from a drastically overhauled graphics engine. This time, there will be a complete story mode in which players set out to save the LittleBigPlanet from catastrophe. Loveable lead character Sackboy will also get a Bionic Commando-style grappling hook to access new screen areas.But it's the revised do-it-yourself component that's set to generate most interest...This time round, gamers won't just be able to design new platform levels, they'll be able to create and distribute whole games in a variety of genres. This is down to several intrinsic additions to the editing package. The first is AI: LBP2 features intelligent characters named Sackbots, which users can 'program' with behaviours, aims and 'fears', allowing the introduction of enemies as well as NPC allies. Another vital addition is the 'direct control seat' which allows the play to assign joypad controls to any in-game object. Draw a car for example and you can quickly bolt on a rudimentary handling mechanic, allowing the production of a racing game. Go for a spaceship, and you can add controls to form the basis of a scrolling shooter. There's also a new movie mode, allowing the creation of story sequences and therefore a narrative element to the action. That'll be dozens of LBP RPGs on the cards, then.It also looks as though media Molecule is adding to the whole community aspect by integrating social networking elements. According toa preview on Computer and Video Games:"On top of all that is a new section of the LittleBigPlanet website called LBP.me, which is essentially your own LittleBigPlanet homepage - with an unsurprising URL of http://LBP.me/yourPSNid."Your homepage allows anyone in the world, PlayStation owner or not, to log and see what you've been playing or creating. Each level has its own URL for you to email, tweet or text and other LBP players can add the levels to their own 'queue' to play later. As if that wasn't enough they can do all this using their mobile phone as well."According to VG247, the game will not feature Move support in the beginning, but is likely to at a later date.There have of course, been plenty of attempts to create user-friendly game creation packages, but few have benefited from Media Molecule's approach to interface design, or from the instant cuddliness of Sackboy and his handicraft world.Sony has yet to finalise a release date, but Autumn 2010 is likely. For now, here's a video...
Powerful, fast and skilful, Rugby League is a fantastic sport to watch. This video game adaptation is less exciting to play, but is still worth a look for fans.The main problem is the controls. As a Wii-only release, unfortunately you have to use the Wiimote controller to play. It only takes a few minutes of misdirected passes and flailing tackles before it becomes clear that a Gamecube controller is the only way to play. Assuming you have one of these, then things start getting better. Passing becomes much more intuitive and it is fairly easy to put together some fast-flowing moves.While League is a faster and more flowing sport than Rugby Union, it is still some way off the simplicity of football. Picking up and playing is easy enough, but ramp up the computer AI and you will need at least some knowledge of basic tactics to succeed. Luckily, a handy strategy system allows you to change tactics on the fly and adds some welcome depth to the game. Alternatively, it is easy to set up a multiplayer chuck about with tries a-plenty. RL3 supports up to eight players at once and, assuming you have enough controllers and space, you can set up some enjoyably frantic games.The franchise mode is the main single-player attraction. Here you get to manage your team on and off the field. While the options are basic compared to big budget sports titles like Fifa and Madden, the challenge of managing injuries, tactics and budgets is entertaining enough. Like all sports games it helps if you pick a better team to play as. RL3 includes all the UK Super League and Australian NRL teams. Picking St Helens over, say, Salford is advised.Of course, if you're a Rugby League fan and a gamer then RL3 is going to appeal, if only because there is no competitor out there. But less committed fans looking for a decent multiplayer sports game on the Wii will find some entertainment here too.
The first thing that strikes you about Alan Wake is how scary it is. Not just by the usual computer game scariness triggers – dark, loud noises, voiceovers so gravelly they sound like they're being voiced by a throat cancer sufferer – but there is a promising amount of scary material here, right from the gripping opening dream sequence.By the end of chapter one the game had made me jump so many times it could make a claim to being an aerobics video (albeit one that M Night Shyamalan might make), and even with tricks as basic as the "sudden-descent-of-darkness-and-cue-distant-screaming" gambit, it often finds a way to make them feel fresh and surprising.The combat is solid, if a bit middle-of-the-road. You have to use your torch to "burn the darkness" off enemies before they become susceptible to such weak, piddly little things as shotgun shells – which works reasonably well, except that you spend much of your time looking for torch batteries. A lot of the baddies are a little identikit, which reduces their terror potential after you've killed the same scary yokel model 15 or 16 times, but by and large the combat is well-balanced and challenging without being frustrating. I also liked the fact that the game doesn't drown you in ammo, making you think about each bullet as a valuable commodity.This, however, is a game that has been sold mainly on its storyline. In practice, this means the combat levels are interspersed with large storyline-filler segments; half-hour chunks of the game in which nothing really happens. While the monotonous drone of your character's inner monologue slowly belt-sands your consciousness like Hal from 2001: a Space Odyssey slowly having his processors removed, you are tasked with doing nothing more interesting than "check the fuse box" or "put the coffee on".You play a thriller author (the eponymous Wake) suffering from writer's block who begins to find pages of a thriller that he apparently has written, but doesn't remember writing. Then the things prophesied in them begin to come true, and part of that requires you to be chased by and fight with lots of things that in a less pretentious game would be called zombies.Alan Wake was clearly conceived as a high-minded literary project rather than as a game. All well and good, but when reasonably straightforward horror-game fayre are overlaid with an ambitious but ultimately flawed attempt to do something post-modern, it feels like a waste of potential.Let me be clear: I don't dislike Alan Wake. It is hugely (capital A) Atmospheric and (capital C) Cinematic, even if it is hilariously self-conscious about it. The soundtrack is fantastic, and the story is pretty good, even if to top up your understanding of it you have to wade through vast chunks of Alan's novel every time he finds some more pages under a mulberry bush.But in trying too hard to be a book, or an interactive book experience, Wake completely forgets that it ought also to be a game: the action sequences are so spaced-out by the awkward and unfulfilling flashback levels and cut-scenes that any sense of urgency is lost. If you want to read a thriller novel, pick up a thriller novel and read it. If you want to play a thrilling computer game, there are plenty out there that shine in their own right, and which have excellent stories, but don't sit you down and force-feed it to you like you're in A Clockwork Orange.If you simply must have a cross-breed, then Alan Wake is right for you. But it is very much a jack of two trades, and a master of neither.
Regular Gamesblog readers will know that I occassionally blog about vaguely relevant art exhibitions. Here are two interesting examples.First up, a collection of concept sketches produced for the recently released fighting game,BlazBlue: Calamity Trigger, will be on show in Bath on Wednesday May 12, as part of the city's 2010 Japanese Festival. The stunning video game brawler has attracted plaudits for its hypnotic special effects, imaginative characters and densely detailed environments, and visitors to the exhibition will get to see how developer Arc System Works plans out its unique visual stylings.The exhibition will be open from 7pm until 10.00pm at the Bath Royal Literary and Scientific Institution (BRSLI), 16-18 Queen Square.A detail from Venice by VitaliVElsewhere, Ukrainian-born artist VitaliV will be exhibiting at London'sSalon Contemporaryvenue from June 2. VitaliV is heavily inspired by microchip design, producing amazingly vibrant and complex images that would work brilliantly as surreal video game environments. The event, entitled Digital Life, will also include some of his 3D work. Definitely worth a look.
O2 has announced its pricing plan for the iPad, offering customers a better daily rate than rival Orange, which unveiled prices on Friday, but heavy mobile broadband users will be better off looking elsewhere.On Friday,Apple announced that the iPad will go on sale at the end of the monthand start at £429 for the basic Wi-Fi only version. The basic Wi-Fi and 3G device will cost £529 (including VAT). The prices have annoyed consumer groups, as the basic version in the US retails at the current pound-dollar exchange rate for £338.Apple, however, points out that the US price does not include sales tax – which is 10% in California – while the UK price includes VAT at 17.5%. Stripping out VAT, the UK iPad is £365.10 with the difference made up for by factors including higher transport costs in Europe.Customers can pre-order the device from today and retail analysts are already estimating spectacular sales. Apple sold 1m iPads in the first month of sales in the US – outstripping sales of the iPhone, which took 74 days to shift its first million units in 2007. Market research firm GfK NOP, whose pronouncements about the retail sector are well regarded, estimates that Apple will sell more than 2m iPads in the UK."While we may not see the same initial frenzy as the [US], there is intense interest in the product here with around 5% of Brits intending to buy an iPad," said GfK NOP's emerging technologies expert, Ryan Garner. "This will be helped by its pricing structure, which is expected to compete with netbooks and basic home laptops – making it a real option for the casual PC and internet user."Alongside the up-front cost of the device, consumers will have to pay for Wi-Fi access when they leave their home, or sign up for a 3G mobile broadband package.O2 has announced that it will be offering three tariffs. For £2 a day, iPad owners can access up to 500MB, without having to sign any contract. It also has two monthly payment options: for £10 a month iPad users get 1GB of usage and for £15 they get 3GB. Customers can cancel their contracts – with 24 hours' notice – at the end of the month.Orange's pay monthly optionoffers a better deal for heavy mobile broadband userswith £25 buying 10GB. But all three of O2's offers come with unlimited Wi-Fi access through hotspots operated by BT Openzone and The Cloud. Only Orange's pay monthly deals come with Wi-Fi access and they only include a paltry 750MB of Wi-Fi browsing – again through BT Openzone's network of hotspots.Vodafone,the last of the three mobile phone networksthat will be supporting the iPad when it goes on sale on 28 May, has yet to announce its prices. Figures being quoted on some websites are apparently incorrect, according to a Vodafone spokesman.
"Typical – I get the election!" moaned OneDaveOfMany, when he mailed over his Best Of text to me. But it turns out that Gamesblog regulars were more interested in crazy ex-lovers, Modern Warfare DLC and the Halo Reach beta than deciding the fate of the country. So you can probably blame us for this hung parliament mullarkey, then.Anyway, this is what last week looked like from a certain angle...Chatterbox W/E 7th May 2010by OneDaveOfManyLet's Get PoliticalThis week people all over the country marched to their local primary schools, drill halls and community centres, and firmly decided that they didn't know who they wanted to run the country. The Chatterbox was naturally abuzz with electoral conversation before and after the big day; coming from the Grauniad it should be fairly easy to ascertain where people's loyalties lay, or didn't lie. Such feelings often ran deep, as evidenced by the Best of's first ever missing words round – election special. Which robust words and phrases have been removed from the following comments?Artiefufkin:"this is clearly going to get messy. I'll save myself the trouble of getting involved by calling you all [gentlemanly scholars] now and getting it over with."Bigworv:"I think it is testament to how rancid Labour have been on many issues that readers of the Guardian are more than happy to come out and say they're voting Tory. I'm not voting Tory obviously, I'm not a [Daily Mail reader]"Alimantado:"I have no love for the mess the Labour party have done but it will seem a picnic in the woods compared to a Tory government. Underneath the foundation and the airbrushing, they are still the same party and unless you're a [banking professional] or a friend of Dave's then you will be [hugged gently] like an Eton [student]"Bonus points for spotting any missing phrases that could be legally broadcast before 9pm. However, on the whole, the conversation was of a more mature and reasoned persuasion, nicely summarised by FerrisSaved:"Yes there is an element of Engo-centricity about all three candidates, but on the whole they are all good blokes. They are putting themselves forward for a ridiculously difficult job, with guaranteed unpopularity given the belt tightening we will need to do."Spinky was one of the brave few who attempted to steer the conversations gamewards: "The best politics game ever, is, and probably always will be, Seaside Special on the C6. You had two stages, you had to pick radiated seaweed from a polluted beach, then take it to 10 Downing Street and throw it at politicians who appeared at windows, in order to give them radiation sickness. With a final boss battle against Maggie." My money's on Vernon Kay hosting a live action version of this within the year.Natal AttractionAfter the bank holiday, the blog was enlivened by CountGinula's regaling of his current women troubles: "I left my phone at hers last week and have not had the chance to get it. It turns out she rang most people on my phone screaming obscenities." Apparently, she later informed the Count that the phone had then been microwaved. But was she bluffing? Sadly not. "She has emailed me pictorial evidence," he concluded.The whole encounter lead the blog neatly onto the topic of 'craziest girlfriend', a topic arguably won by PDMalcolm: "my first serious girlfriend once asked me to break her hands to get out of an exam, and when we broke up posted me some soft toys I bought her, which had been horribly mutilated." Needless to say the mere fact that most of us spend all day posting on a games blog, robs us of the moral high ground on this, or indeed most, subjects.Stick together, fight aloneThe big game release of the week came with Capcom's re-issued and updated version of Street Fighter 4. Initial reactions were very positive indeed, and it wasn't long before the seriousness with which people take their fighting games was revealed, and the chat turned to controllers and fighting sticks.Resident blog overlord™ BeardOfBees opened proceedings: "Buttons are sticking on my arcade stick though. Think I need to replace them or at least open it up and clean them. Will probably ruin it." After some further soul searching his dilemma reached it's inevitable conclusion: "There we go, just ordered eight new push buttons for my arcade stick costing me twenty quid. If that isn't 'serious about your hobby' I don't know what is" Top work.Umboros was equally enthusiastic, though he did leave some wondering exactly what he was talking about: "I do love my stick! A quality stick is well worthwhile, especially if you play various fighting games, but you will have to spend time getting used to it and you'll get a lot worse before you get better." Better watch out for wrist strain there.What is it good for?This week also saw the release of the first lot of Modern Warfare 2 DLC on the PS3. Consequently the multiplayer counted for double XP all week leading to a bit of a resurgence in players, though the mess that Sony managed to make in actually releasing the maps and allowing people to buy them was a but of a disaster as BigWorv found out: "Had a shambles buying the maps, didn't look like it had worked, then it looked like I had bought about seven copies, thankfully all worked out in the end. I think" Best not to worry about it too much. Once people got through the install process, much fun was had, though Uncle3en described the experience of many: "I spent the remainder of the evening blindly running around in all manner of game modes getting shot lots."Practice makes perfect and all that.As well as Modern Warfare 2 the blog's Battlefield Bad Company 2 games continued on most evenings across both consoles. Zelos certainly seemed to be enjoying himself: "I went to the dark side a bit on that last map. I hung back in the enemy base after the MCOMs blew up, stole their Bradley and tactically waited next to their spawn. Kind of evil, I guess." If I knew what any of that meant, I'd probably be impressed. Or affronted.On Friday however things took a turn for the worse as Crispycrumb felt compelled to confess his sins: "I've been tactically waiting with a sniper rifle all afternoon. I disgust myself." Admitting you have a problem is the first step to recovery. It's times like these when you need to take a cold bath and a long hard look at what your life has become.Other gaming talkMuch to everyone's surprise people occasionally talked about other games this week. Keith's glowing preview of Red Dead Redemption further increased many bloggers' anticipation for a slice of Rockstar Western action, childhood dreams of gunfights and horseback riding through the wilderness look soon to become a reality.This week also saw the release of the two week Halo: Reach beta which tempted some bloggers back. The general consensus seemed to be in line with Dylillama's comments on Monday: "it's very pretty, and very Halo… Overall - good, but not great. Feel like I might have been playing too many other good shooters to go back to Halo."Finally, the publication of generally positive Alan Wake reviews drew the attention of some bloggers to this long delayed title, though the lack of a PC version was a sticking point for many. All in all, indications are that this year's influx of big games for the boxers to discuss doesn't seem to be slowing down anytime soon.Quote(s) of the Week"My cat has two legs and looks like the eye of mordor. I put my real name into the anagram and came up with: king clandestine knicker collector of the known universe. I'm Russian."Mollocate on barnstorming form as usual. Answers as to what he's on about on a postcard please."Woke up with a chestful of elbows, and about 6ft of neck."Fantomex's Giraffe gene-splicing experiment goes awry."He's a big unit. Skinny, but deceptively fluffy. Massively long. Shame we had his balls lopped off. Now I feel guilty. We should have put him out to stud."Craggyisland, talking cats but chanelling Tobias Fünke."My wife pointed out that if I put as much effort and persistence into other endeavours as I do into things like this, I could have solved half the world's problems by now. I hit the combo, stood up and cheered loudly in triumph. 'That's a cure for cancer you could have found,' she pointed out. Screw that, I just unlocked the 'Weekend Carpenter' title...."BeardOfBees gets his priorities in (dis)order.Welcome:Tzameti, Lanark777, G33kwithCh1cFilms:Iron Man 2, District 9, The Ghost,Music:Laura Marling, 65daysofstatic, ESTLinks:Digital Camera Reviews,Anagram yourself.Keef's regulars:Gamesblog Spotify list - as music is a regular source of Chatterbox discussion, I've created a collaborative Gamesblog music list. If you followThis Linkyou should be able to add any tunes that you've been raving about.The Gamesblog wiki- find everyone's gamertags, and much more!
It can be painful, as well as inspiring, when you see a pupil becoming the master. Activision's Tony Hawk's Pro Skater franchise put skateboarding games on the map, but went from decline to disaster with last year's all-but-unplayable Tony Hawk: Ride. Meanwhile, deadly rival EA's Skate arrived on the scene, initially with little but a more logical control system (largely eschewing button-presses in favour of both analogue joysticks) to recommend it. However, Skate has steadily improved and its third incarnation marks the point at which it leaves the opposition in the gutter, most likely nursing two broken ankles and in dire need of an ambulance.Skate 3 has plenty of new elements, most notably a massively ramped up social element, which encourages you to form an online skate crew with your mates, and take on rival teams (co-operative online play even speeds your passage through the single-player side). There's an incredibly powerful skate park editor, enormous flexibility when it comes to customising anything to do with your skate team, new tricks (including the Darkslide, where you grind with your board upside-down so you must end it with a flip) and a glorious set of diverse challenges. These include Own That Spot, where you must pull off high-value tricks in specific places; photography and video challenges, where you must perform specific tricks in specific places; Pro challenges, where you follow pros lines or play squash-like games of 1-Up with them; races; and several types of contests (often sponsored by the same brands active in the real-life skateboarding world – if product placement worries you, you'll hate Skate 3).The hilarious Hall Of Meat, in which you launch yourself like a human rag doll in a bid to break as many virtual bones as possible, has been ramped up, giving you amazingly fine control over your self-immolation. Each completed challenge breeds sales of the board you designed, milestones open up new areas and challenges and downloads of photos and videos of your skills in action add to those board sales.As in previous versions of Skate, the control system leaves you feeling much more connected to your board than in rival games, and you have to work much harder to nail high-value tricks. But the real star of the game is Port Carverton, the fictional city in which Skate 3 is set. It is, quite simply, a skater's dream, with vertigo-inducing vertical sections, skate parks everywhere, an abandoned shipyard and an unfeasible amount of rails, ledges and ramps. If it were real, it would have long since been abandoned by all non-skaters.Skate 3 is meaty, has lashings of the attitude and ambience that skaters demand and is hugely addictive. It is, by some distance, the best skateboard game yet, and is surely destined to achieve cult-classic status.
How was your weekend gaming then? Mine was dominated by Alan Wake. The loooong awaited Xbox 360 adventure horror title arrived on Friday. I'm probably about a third of the way through and so far it's been an enjoyable ride. The environment - all misty forests and shadowy assailants - is wonderfully Twin Peaks and draws you in. The TV-style pacing - "previously on Alan Wake" - is effective too. Less impressive are the character models and lip sync issues in the cutscenes, both of which betray Alan Wake's lengthy development time. The atmosphere-sapping coffee flask collection element feels anachronistic too. Oh, and the simpering female lead who is terrified of the dark won't impress any watching/playing wives or girlfriends.Despite this I've been enjoying Wake so far. The combat is effective - use light to weaken enemy before finishing off with gun - while the marvellous setting drives you onto the next heavily lit sanctuary. The Guardian review will be out any day now - I'm not writing it - but after what I've played so far Wake is recommended to anyone wanting a slower-paced survival-thriller kind of game. Was it worth the 5 year wait though? Let me finish the game and I'll get back to you on that.Anyway, what about you? How was your weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Chavez rockets to No. 1 on Twitter in Venezuela - AP"Chavez's account, @chavezcandanga, had racked up more than 237,000 followers as of Saturday morning," says AP, and he's hired 200 people to manage his account.Obama stresses education over iPod, Xbox - Reuters"With iPods and iPads; Xboxes and PlayStations -- none of which I know how to work -- information becomes a distraction, a diversion, a form of entertainment, rather than a tool of empowerment, rather than the means of emancipation," Obama said.'Long-term harm' of too much TV for toddlers - BBC NewsToddlers who watch too much TV do less well at school, eat more junk food, and are not as healthy, according to research by Michigan and Montreal universities.Hands-on with Microsoft's translating telephone | Beyond Binary - CNET News"The effort combines speech recognition, machine translation, and text-to-speech technology to let two people who don't share a common language nonetheless carry on a phone conversation." Ina Fried saw it at this year's TechFairYes the iPad is sexy, but global sales are the real ebook growth news - O'Reilly RadarAndrew Savikas provides data on the book publisher's growth of ebook revenues...The Ever-Widening World of Tiny Projectors - New York TimesThere's growing interest in picoprojectors and "projectors now in the prototype stage will be appearing in many new guises" including games.Everybody's Business - How Early Adopters Help the Rest of Us Save - NYTimes.com"Early adopters" of technology products are acting irrationally, from the point of view of economics, but they get pleasure from showing off.What has Apple got against eastern Europe? - The EconomistThe Apple Store is fussy about who it deals with: "China and Russia don't appear, but Luxembourg does." Vietnam is in but Poland is out. Sten Tamkivi describes the Apple rule as "a weird relic of commercial east-west segregation inside what is otherwise known as the European Union".How to access the old Google Search. No hacks or scripts required - The Next WebIt's now a dead certainty that Google will continue to make search more complicated and less attractive, but at least for now, you can go back to the "good old days" -- though not before the introduction of pointless and stupid disappearing links.Facebook and privacyThe Tell-All Generation Learns When Not To, at Least Online - NYTimes.com"While participation in social networks is still strong, a survey released last month by the University of California, Berkeley, found that more than half the young adults questioned had become more concerned about privacy than they were five years ago."Spotted: Facebook's Check-In Functionality And New "Places" Tab - TechCrunch"Based on the code, this is what it seems that Facebook is about to launch: A mobile version of the site using the HTML5 location component to grab your location information from your phone. Once it does that, you're taken to this new Places area of Facebook that presumably will have a list of venues around you. From here you can click a button to check-in. Yes, there will be check-ins."The Evolution of Privacy on Facebook - Matt McKeonSomeone had to show you how Facebook's idea of what's "private" has eroded over the years. Matt McKeon has. It's scary.Lock Down Your FaceBook Profile in 20 Minutes (Video) - ZD NetJason Perlow provides advice...Facebook's Gone Rogue; It's Time for an Open Alternative - Wired.com"So in December, with the help of newly hired Beltway privacy experts, it reneged on its privacy promises and made much of your profile information public by default. That includes the city that you live in, your name, your photo, the names of your friends and the causes you've signed onto.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The gaming community is gearing up for its biggest cultural event since the launch of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City eight years ago. That ushered in a new era of "open world" games, with cool soundtracks, multiple cinematic influences and rounded characters. Next week that game's creator, Rockstar, launches Red Dead Redemption, a sweeping  open-world adventure, which is already topping the pre-order charts on Amazon.Here, the player becomes an ex-outlaw making his way through a violent, lawless society. This will all sound familiar to Grand Theft Auto veterans. But Red Dead Redemption promises something much more intriguing. Set during the dying days of the old west, it's an elegiac investigation of a vanishing culture. As players ride through the game's spectacularly detailed environments, from the endless dusty scrublands of the Mexican border territories to the mountains of West Elizabeth, the sun realistically rises and sets in the looming skies. An eagle swoops overhead, its shadow falling across a corpse – a grisly touch Sergio Leone would have appreciated.Game magazines have wondered for years why there have been so few western-themed  titles, but I think it's obvious. Until now, the technology hasn't been there to replicate the scale of a John Ford landscape. It's much easier to model a skyscraper than a tree. Or indeed a cactus. This could be the first widescreen,  giant LCD display cinematic gaming experience.Perhaps what's most interesting though, is a sense of individual responsibility in the narrative. Lead character John Marston must find his own route through the madness of the Mexican revolution, and that might not necessarily mean perpetrating the sort of criminal carnage we're used to in the GTA series. He can help civilians in distress, and has an honour rating that rises with every good deed – the tabloids will doubtless be disgusted.There is a step forward too in terms of storytelling and characterisation. While Grand Theft Auto is filled with comedy gangsters, Red Dead Redemption has wizened old snake-oil salesmen, cowardly drunks and educated prospectors scared senseless of the nightmare in which they find themselves. All are rendered in delicate detail – a long way from the jolting bug-eyed marionettes so often seen in games.Although there is an overarching story, I suspect many  gamers will spend more time simply camping, riding,  shooting and foiling bank robberies. That is why Read Dead Redemption promises to have real cultural impact. Like the psychological thriller Heavy Rain, released earlier this year, it says that games really have grown up: they can present us with moral choices, they can make us experience living  virtual worlds.
How do you decide whether a technological development is significant or not? Here's a simple rule: if the mainstream media — as represented by, say,Daily Mailcolumnists — are baffled by, or contemptuous of, it then it's probably worth paying attention to.Twitter is the latest case study of the decision rule in action.When it launched in July 2006, the non-geek world greeted it with incredulity. I mean to say, what possible use could there be for a service that let you broadcast 140 character updates on what you were doing or thinking at any given time? (The fact that text messaging on mobile phones had spread like wildfire despite being restricted to 160 characters seems to have eluded the mainstream sceptics. But, hey, consistency is a puerile obsession, as Oscar Wilde famously observed).So at first, Twitter was primarily a geek and early-adopter zone.Geeks loved it because it enabled them to plug into the thoughtstream of their peers, and to seek quick and informed answers to puzzles or problems. If you wanted to know why your new netbook wasn't picking up the Wi-Fi signal, you had two options: you could Google the problem and maybe find an answer after wading through a few pages of results, or you could put out a tweet and receive an informed answer from a real human being in seconds.Part of the genius of Twitter was that it wasn't reciprocal. So if I chose to make my tweetstream public, there was no way I could stop you from following me — unlike on Facebook where you can only become my "friend" if I agree to become yours. Twitter's asymmetry thus meant that one could be part of a sociable discourse without incurring the responsibilities — and the email load — that true dialogue imposes.This had an unintended consequence which eventually triggered mainstream media interest in the service. It turned out that some celebrities — Stephen Fry and Jonathan Ross, for example — were on Twitter and in no time at all they had many thousands of "followers", apparently hanging on their every tweet. Now this was something that even Jan Moir could understand: Twitter must bejust another social networking service— an anorexic version of Facebook with no pictures or videos, just 140-character status updates.One of the most intriguing and useful features in Twitter is the "retweet" facility. If you see something in your tweetstream that you think might interest others, then you can click a button to make it visible to the people who are following you. Retweeting has become so commonplace that its conventions have already been the subject of aserious studyby the anthropologist Danah Boyd and her colleagues at Microsoft Research. But it turns out that retweeting is not just interesting in terms of discourse analysis; it's also the key to understanding why Twitter is a radically different form of social networking.We know this because of a remarkable study conducted by someresearchers at the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technologyand published last week at a major academic conference.They assembled a cluster of 20 PCs, collected the entire contents of Twitter for the month of July 2009 and then set their algorithms to analysing the resulting mountain of data.One of the researchers' conjectures concerned the number of "degrees of separation" one would expect between Twitter users. Ever since Stanley Milgram's famous "six degrees of separation" experimentsof the 1960s in which he showed that any two people on earth were separated by at most six hops from one acquaintance to the next, studies of social networks – both offline and online – have generally confirmed that figure. Given that only about a fifth of Twitter relationships are reciprocal, the Korean researchers conjectured that the degree of separation among Twitter users would be greater than six. But what their data showed is exactly the opposite: the average path-length in Twitter is just over four.If you're not into network theory, then the difference between six and four may not seem very significant. But if you're interested in how news spreads around a network then it's dynamite. Next to traditional, few-to-many broadcasting, Twitter is the fastest way to spread news and information. In fact, it's the nearest thing the web has to wildfire. And the key mechanism that enables that is retweeting. The Korean researchers have found that this single facility generally enables any given message to reach a much bigger audience than those who are followers of the original tweet. So the moral for those politicians out there who are thinking about the next election is: forget Facebook, think Twitter.
Offering an escape from the daily grind is one of gaming's biggest boasts and yet, often the endless succession of mayhem, tumult and frenzy can become, well, a little tiresome. Welcome, then, this point-and-click adventure from German developer Daedalic, which aims to befuddle you with conundrums and curios rather than urge you to blow things up or dash to the credits – it's a low-key release but well worth tracking down.Far from any of the usual madding crowd, you play as Sadwick, a morose young clown who cuts a forlorn character amid the enchanting and beautifully hand-drawn wonderland ofThe Whispered World. Gaming tradition is upheld in that you are charged with saving the world from impending ruin, which leads to a perilous voyage of discovery accompanied only by your strange, shape-shifting green blob of a friend, Spot. Along the journey, numerous fun and challenging puzzles crop up, which can be tackled either with help from Spot or by collecting various bits and pieces along the way to fill your inventory. This is, in every sense, a classic adventure game.Reminiscent of the magnificent Monkey Island series,Whispered World's controls are pleasingly simple, enabling you to either move around or interact with the surrounding environment by looking more closely at something, picking things up or speaking to people. It places the focus on interactions with the many weird and wonderful characters and the charming, and often laugh-out-loud funny, storyline. If you can endure Sadwick's infuriating shrill voice (no mean feat), then this is a heady, beautiful and vibrant piece of escapism.
EA's benchmark skateboarding series has always been about realism, andSkate 3is no exception. It's a remarkably accurate tribute to sidewalk surfing which avoids the pantomime excess catered for in most of its contemporaries, instead providing a considered, authentic experience defined by a brilliantly instinctive control system.That isn't to say that the title is merely a staid simulator, however. It is still very much a game, rich in character and immensely good fun. Featuring a new sprawling metropolis named Port Carveton, this is a digital playground with the capacity to entertain for hours.Other than this new locale,Skate 3'skey distinguishing feature is an emphasis on co-operation with other real world players. The game encourages forming teams and climbing through the ranks from amateur to professional through communal effort and a camaraderie that will be familiar to many real world skaters. It is, of course, ultimately fairly similar to its predecessors, but with such high quality, its creators can be forgiven for sticking with what works.
As Japanese publishers reach out to a growing western audience, their games often result in clashes between the design ideologies of the two regions. These collisions are sometimes fascinating, but frequently messy; unfortunately, Capcom'sLost Planet 2falls firmly into the latter category.The single-player campaign is a strange beast indeed, offering episodic missions that play more like a multiplayer mode minus the human companionship. With three computer-controlled allies, you'll spend your time blasting soldiers and indigenous creatures, while bashing buttons to activate data posts. It's all curiously uninvolving, looking far more exciting in trailers than it is to play.Replace the bots with human players and the hybrid ofGears of War's third-person shooting andMonster Hunter'sco-operative beast-slaying suddenly makes a good deal more sense. However, the foibles from the solo game remain: controls feel counter-intuitive, and the grappling hook and weapon-change buttons sporadically refuse to function. Despite impressive visuals and a fistful of entertaining boss encounters,Lost Planet 2is a disappointment from a publisher which, particularly in recent weeks, has proved it can do better.
