A sale of Wembley stadium memorabilia was simultaneously broadcast on television and the net last night as QXL.com launched its live auctioneering programmes.The company has rebranded its subsidiary, Ibidlive, as QXL.tv after increasing its stake to 62% last week; it plans to run hundreds of online auctions every year.Jim Rose, chief executive officer of OXL, said the move followed a year of working with Ibidlive and examining the opportunities for interactive auctioneering."QXL.tv is a platform from which we can showcase our regularly featured, live, online auctions," he said in a statement to the stock market.Analysts describe the Ibidlive subsidiary, which provides the interactive online auctioneering software, as a "very interesting business" but still in its infancy."The Ibidlive name is a slightly more recognised brand in the US, although it's in its early days," said Phil Clark of Goldman Sachs. "QXL has a strong brand in Europe, so from that perspective the rebranding makes sense."Football fans were yesterday able to bid for a piece of history as everything from flags to the famed steps went under the hammer, screened over the web and on BSkyB's Sky Sports 1 channel.It is hoped the high-profile launch will further boost the popularity of online auctions, already very popular in America, within the UK.QXL's rebranding comes in a turbulent year for the company, which has suffered a 96% fall in its shares from the highs of 800p to only 31p earlier this month.Analysts have blamed a fickle marketplace and the sell-off of hi-tech stocks, which appears to have hit QXL more than most dot.coms, for the rapid decline in its fortunes."There's been a general negative sentiment across the whole internet sector," said one. "The fact QXL will need cash to fund it into profitability is not new, it's just been more of a focus since the change in sentiment."But as the London markets closed last night there was still no respite for QXL's management, with the shares slipping 0.5p to 28p - perilously close to its 22p year-low.The company is due to report its third quarter figures at the end of next month.
The company behind virtual newsreader Ananova yesterday said it will work on technology to make virtual people, or avatars, look more human.Glasgow-based Digital Animations said animation would remain at the core of the business, but it would also attempt to create a convincing world of virtual secretaries, receptionists and call-centre workers.It has been working on more realistic animation, lip sync and the use of human voice as well as computer-generated speech."We have a vision that virtual characters will become prevalent in the next couple of years," said chief executive Michael Hambly, pictured above with a new avatar, TMmy, created to showcase the advances. TMmy will release a pop song, You Make My Day, be fore Christmas. The company will also produce title sequences for the Christmas releases of two leading computer games companies.The 10-year-old company was reporting its first profits since it floated in 1996. Pre-tax profits for the six months to September were &#163;1,175,717 but included a one-off gain of some &#163;920,000 in reduced tax liability for employee share options. In the same period last year, the company lost &#163;491,000. The shares rose 7p to 70p.
It is a  virtual face that haunts any thrusting dotcom entrepreneur. The legendary Miss Boo symbolised the profligacy and mismanagement of around &#163;100 million and became synonymous with the phrase 'cash-burn',  writes Faisal Islam.But Boo is bouncing back tomorrow under new US owner Fashionmall.The new site will feature content from magazines such as  Dazed and Confused,  plus chat rooms where international trendsetters can test out their ideas . A tearful Miss Boo was featured mourning her lost wealth earlier this month.But, mindful of past excesses, there won't even be a launch party for the new Boo.
'We saved them a lot of embarrassment,' was the taciturn verdict of Tommy Helsby, senior executive with corporate security firm Kroll Associates. Embarrassment and probably a lot of money. Helsby was referring to one of his clients, a US internet giant, which was recently poised to launch in the UK. What the US dotcom didn't realise was that the head of the company it had chosen as its UK partner had been convicted of peddling indecent material.Maybe this was something that would not have worried the US firm's investors had they known. But the fact that the company had been kept in the dark by a potential business partner set the alarm bells ringing; the deal was pulled.With internet companies rushing to enter new markets as part of a frantic land grab, online firms are ignoring lengthy auditing procedures - designed to check the quality of their investors, business partners or staff - in a bid to beat the pack. This highlights the extremely fragile, get-rich-quick nature of the dotcom sector.Typically, Kroll would expect to find problems in 10 per cent of the people it ran background checks on - but last week the company sent shockwaves through the dotcom sector when it published a survey showing that senior executives at internet companies are   four times more likely to have what Kroll diplomatically describes as 'unsavoury backgrounds'. To put it another way, of the 70 'due diligence' background investigations performed on key internet personnel by Kroll between April and September this year, 39 per cent of the subjects had been involved in illegal activities such as stock market violations, undisclosed bankruptcy and insurance fraud. These are all issues that would have raised huge corporate governance concerns and sent investors fleeing.Often those checked by Kroll were the senior personnel drafted in by the young, relatively naive, founders of dotcom firms looking to add experience to the board in a bid to attract further funding. Venture capital firms are usually wary of injecting cash until the management board has been beefed up with executives who have experience of running companies, not just starting them.But with background checks taking an average of six weeks to complete, some dotcom firms find they haven't the time to examine their new executives' credentials.Many in the dotcom sector expressed little surprise. 'We've looked at loads of dotcom companies, and in many cases it's always been quite clear that the management was never up to scratch,' said a spokesman for one US bank that invests in internet firms.An analyst with an internet research firm agreed: 'Given the huge amount of hype, it's not surprising that the sector would end up attracting some of the less credible types.'But it is not just the managements of some start-ups who represent the Wild West spirit of the darkest corners of the world wide web. Some of those seeking to back the firms have dubious backgrounds as well. 'We've had cases where people have come to us because they've been approached by mysterious people,   usually based in an offshore tax shelter, who wish to invest big amounts of money,' Helsby said. 'These people would say "we don't want to invest the $2 million you're asking for. We want to invest $5 million".'He offers three possible responses for any dotcom company that finds itself in this situation. One: The people involved are unbelievably stupid, so don't deal with them. Two: They are money launderers, so don't deal with them. Three: They are scam artists looking to control the business in order to take it public and pump it out to gullible investors.This so-called 'pump and dump' habit is now increasingly common on the web. Investors pile into a company (usually penny stocks so that there is little liquidity, allowing for much greater price volatility), hype it in internet chat rooms, wait for the stock to soar and then sell at the peak.These types of schemes have been around for years but the emergence of the internet means they are now much easier to pull off. As Arthur Levitt, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said recently: 'The internet, with its low-cost anonymity and large number of innocent investors, makes it ripe for out-and-out fraud.'First, the hype around the actual internet stocks themselves has made investors more gullible and thus more hungry to take part in such schemes. Second, the internet as a medium has made it easier for more investors to get   sucked into the mania, no matter where they are based.The most famous example so far came earlier this year when Eulex Corp, the giant US networking equipment maker, saw more than $2.5 billion wiped off its market capitalisation in only a few hours after a fake press release, sent to various newswires, claimed it was having to adjust its earnings and was consequently being investigated by the SEC. Investors dumped the stock, allowing those who had posted the warning to sell short and make a killing.As if to illustrate just how easy such schemes are to perpetrate (if not to get away with) last month 15-year-old Jonathan Lebed was forced to pay $285,000 to avoid prosecution by the SEC, which alleged he bought large numbers of shares and then proceeded to flood internet chat rooms, suggesting the stock was 'the most undervalued ever'.The number of such schemes is growing fast. Since 1995 the SEC has been involved in nearly 200 actions similar to the one it took against Lebed. More than a third of these have taken place over the past year.Worryingly, organised crime is now showing an interest. In June 104 people with suspected Mob links were arrested   in the US following the largest securities fraud crackdown in the country's history. Those arrested dealt largely in small cap firms - the sorts of businesses that are usually ignored by Wall Street. It is alleged that those involved in the scam, including representatives of the notorious Bonanno crime family, the Mafia's largest drug dealers, developed a network of internet newsletters and chat rooms to promote the stocks they held.Helsby said: 'People think that these internet stock scams are done by 'boiler room' operators, the sharp city slickers, but very often they are linked to organised crime.'Typically a company set up in one country will sell securities issued in a second country to investors in a third. So the problem is who regulates? US and Canadian criminals are experts at this, but the Russian mafia is catching on fast.'Faster than the regulatory authorities anyway. Despite the growing concerns about the financing, management and fiduciary responsibilities of dotcom firms, policing the sector is still in its infancy.Not until next year will it become a civil offence for UK investors to initiate pump and dump schemes. Currently the authorities only have the power to initiate criminal proceedings, something they are reluctant to do because of time and cost constraints. It is symptomatic of the fact that, as more and more companies move at internet speed, the sheriffs of the wild, wild web find themselves outgunned.
Cock-up or conspiracy? Only the hacker and Microsoft know whether the penetration of its computer systems was a skilled break-in using custom code, or whether somebody working for the software giant did something human, and stupid. Microsoft is not saying.Chris McNab, a network security analyst at MIS Corporate Defence Solutions in Maidstone, says there are three possible scenarios. The most feasible, in his view, is that the hacker got a Trojan (rogue program) past Microsoft's defences using email.The second possibility is that the hacker exploited a security lapse: perhaps an employee disabled his security software, or not all Microsoft's anti-virus software was kept up to date.The third possibility is that it was "an inside job": a disaffected employee or "summer intern" let the hacker in.The current speculation is that Microsoft's firewalls   (software designed to block intruders) and mailsweepers (software to detect malicious code attached to email messages) were penetrated by a Trojan: a program that presents itself as, perhaps, a useful document, image file, utility or game.When the user runs the attachment, the hidden Trojan code is installed on their computer.Once installed, the Trojan could, for example, record log-on names and passwords and email them to an address outside Microsoft. The Love Letter   virus used similar techniques to mail itself to people in its victims' address books.The hacker could use the stolen names and passwords to log on to Microsoft's internal network, in effect pretending to be an employee.Depending on that user's security level, the hacker might be able to find and download the "source code", the program code used to create popular applications such as Microsoft Office or Windows 2000.Having the source code could enable a hacker to learn the strengths and weaknesses of Microsoft's programs.According to the conspiracy theory, a skilled hacker created a custom Trojan to evade Microsoft's defences.But according to the cock-up theory QAZ, or a similar Trojan, was installed by accident, and a hacker got lucky. Perhaps someone downloaded an infected program from the internet, installed it from a CD-rom, or brought in an infected notebook computer.Such things should not happen, but they do.Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at Sophos Anti-Virus in the UK, says: "All companies are at risk, because firewalls and anti-virus software are not enough. Staff have to realise that they can't download programs from the web, and they can't run programs unless there's a justifiable business reason for running them."
Hackers have broken into Microsoft's computer network and gained access to blueprints of its latest software, the company admitted yesterday. Initial investigations suggest that the hackers could have links with, or be based in, St Petersburg, Russia.Microsoft, already embroiled in a legal battle with the US government, said it is working with the FBI and law enforcement authorities to trace the source of "a deplorable act of computer espionage".Steve Ballmer, the chief executive, confirmed that hackers gained access to the source codes - which include the software for products such as the Windows operating system - but insisted they had not tampered with them."They did in fact access the source codes," Mr Ballmer said during a meeting in Stockholm, Sweden. "You bet this is an issue of great importance. I can also assure you that we know that there has been no compromise of the integrity of the source codes, that it has not been tampered with in any way."The company said consumer, business and government computers running Microsoft software should be safe."We're still trying to figure out how it happened," another spokesman said.The break-in raises fears that companies may be facing greater threats from hackers with a commercial mission than those bound on merely committing mischief. The break-in also raises fears of a "mole" within Microsoft.Members of Microsoft's security team apparently found that passwords used to transfer the source code behind Microsoft's software were being sent from the company's computer network headquarters in Redmond, Washington state, to an email address in St Petersburg.The hackers are believed to have had access to the company's software codes for as long as three months.
When the last great hacking scandal broke in February, there were gloomy predictions in the United States about the vulnerability of companies to such attacks. Time magazine reported that the government was fearful of "some future electronic Pearl Harbour".Philip Bobbitt, the former national security council senior director for infrastructure protection, warned ominously: "We're entering a period when a very small number of persons can do greater damage to our American infrastructure than all our previous wars combined."Mr Bobbitt was speaking before the latest electronic break-in at Microsoft, but what has happened bears out the fears - if in slightly less apocalyptic terms - that industrial espionage at such key companies as Microsoft is becoming a reality.Gaining access to Microsoft's source code would be like obtaining the secret ingredients of Coca-Cola. It is the fount of Microsoft's huge success and monopolistic grip on world computers, more than 95% of which have an operating system (mainly Windows) designed by Microsoft.The company's policy has been to integrate its operating system with other popular applications such as the Excel spreadsheet and Word wordprocessing package (also providing Microsoft with a market share of around 95%) to expand its firm grip on the market.Critics complain that Microsoft's integration of applications with its operating system stifles competition because a rival company could not invent a new spreadsheet and give it away free - in order to be successful, it would have to displace Excel, which has become a world standard.In recent years Microsoft has been using versions of its operating system to expand into other fast-growing areas such as cable television (where it has been buying minority stakes), palm-top computers and mobile phones. In Europe, its chief competitor in the mobile world is Symbian, part owned by Britain's Psion which yesterday warned that its profits would be well down on market expectations.Another success for Microsoft is Internet Explorer, which has long since dis placed Netscape Communicator as the leading internet browser.At the heart of Microsoft's success is the intellectual property rights it asserts over the source code to its operating system. Its main rival is Linux, the operating system devised by devotees around the world which can be downloaded for free from the internet. Although it has had some spectacular successes in professional applications (particularly running servers), it has never made any impact against Windows run on personal computers.Microsoft's dominating position, its often arrogant attitude and its claims to have a high level of security have made it a prime target for hackers. In the past 12 months its Hotmail subsidiary, one of the most successful emailing companies, was subjected to a spectacularly successful hack, and its Explorer browser was exposed as having security holes.But the most worrying aspect of this is undoubtedly the fact that it has happened on this scale at all. If a company such as Microsoft - which probably has the densest concentration of intellectual firepower of any large company - can fall prey to hackers, can anything be safe? The answer, in a word, is no.The break-in could not have come at a worse time for Microsoft, still embroiled in its long-running and expensive anti-trust battle with the government. The battle has even had ramifications on the presidential election, with Al Gore visiting Microsoft's home state of Washington to try to woo back the company's workers and families who feel bruised by the way the government has behaved, thus helping to turn the normally Democrat state into a marginal.It was only on Wednesday that Microsoft's lawyers and those representing the US government joined in raising concerns about plans to conduct a computer seminar for the US appeal court judges who have to sit in judgment on the break-up of the company.Microsoft and the government have both requested a preview of what the instructor, Michael Hites, a computer technician from the Illinois Institute of Technology, intends to tell the court, fearing that Mr Hites might unintentionally stray into some of the key appeal issues.But the greatest concern to Microsoft is the implications of the break-in. Previously, the hacker as a figure had been regarded mainly as a nuisance, albeit a disruptive and costly one. Many of the most spectacular acts of hacking have been aimed at proving a point and have not been done as acts of commercial theft."The media's obsessive focus on computers and the extraordinary growth of electronic commerce on the internet has led to a 'dumbing down' of the terms used," Kevin Mitnick, the world's most celebrated computer hacker wrote in the Guardian earlier this year. "The media now uses 'hacker' to describe crimes using computers and 'hacking' is now a pejorative used to label those crimes."Mr Mitnick spent four and a half years in jail for his hacking activities, although none of them were for commercial gain. He has always argued that the FBI and government have concentrated their attention on the wrong targets and the latest break-in might prove his point.Microsoft yesterday confirmed the hackers had accessed its source codes but denied that they had tampered with them.A British security expert said yesterday that the hackers may well have needed inside help. Former det supt Graham Satchwell, Microsoft's senior investigator in Europe, the Middle East and Africa until last   month, said: "If this was not a case of a 17-year-old hacker getting lucky and actually a case of organised crime then they would need someone on the inside."So, just when Microsoft would have wanted to be using its fire-power in its legal battle, it is having to mount a public   relations exercise to deal with the damaging implications of commercial espionage.The great irony is that the hackers have accomplished what the US justice department has been unable to do: get access to the company's source code. The other irony is that Microsoft will have to   work the FBI at a time when it is crossing swords with a different branch in its anti-trust case.The fact that the presidential campaign is at its height may prove a blessing - diverting attention from Microsoft's current embarrassment.
Technology stocks mounted a comeback yesterday after the severe battering they suffered earlier this week at the hands of nervous Wall Street traders.With the obvious exception ofPsion, which saw its shares sink 165p to 410p after a surprise profits warning, the sector looked to be in generally good health.Bookham Technologyended a dire week on a positive note with a gain of 141p to &#163;22.91, helped by better than expected results from JDS Uniphase, the Canadian fibre optics supplier.Also reversing the previous day's losses were a clutch of IT companies, withLogicaup 109p at &#163;19.75,Misysclimbing 41p to 750p andSemacrawling up 6p at 916p.The moves provided a tonic for the Techmark index which rose 55.77 points to 3,411.55.However, traders warned that the past week's upheavals, principally sparked by the disappointing statement from Nortel Networks, meant the market was likely to remain sensitive.Last night it was the telecoms stocks which stood squarely behind a bolstered FTSE 100 and forced the lead index up 64.2 points to 6,366.5 by the close.Vodafonewas up almost 5%, rising 13p, to 283p, and added 35 points to the FTSE's haul, whileColt Telecomput on 109p at &#163;22.20,Energisenjoyed a 38p climb to 543p andCable &amp; Wirelessclosed the day at 980p, a rise of 9.8%.BTalso weighed in with a 45.5p rise to 783p, despite the announced price controls imposed by Oftel, the industry regulator.Analysts at Investec Henderson Crosthwaite rated BT shares as "buy" for the first time in 10 months and said it was likely to undertake a radical series of disposals, demergers and flotations to reduce its debt.Staying with telecoms,Kingston Communicationsenjoyed a 20p rise to 320p on the back of restructuring plans. The Hull-based company plans to divide itself into retail and network divisions to cut costs.Pharmaceuticals saw some impressive rises withCambridge Antibodyup 162.5p at &#163;40 and theCelltech Groupputting on 17p at &#163;13.97.Glaxo Wellcome, however, dropped 18p to &#163;20.26 andSmithkline Beecham, which reports first-half results next week, slid 14.5p to close at 917p.Dealers said the FTSE 100 volume of 1.2bn shares was down on the week's average of 1.5bn and this was attributed largely to people being away for the school half-term break.Oil stocks lost ground after Opec warned its price stabilising mechanism, which keeps costs within a range of $22 to $28, would soon kick in.The announcement, by Ali Rodriguez, president of the oil cartel, of a potential output increase on Monday causedBP Amocoto decline 17p to 588p andShellto close 7p lower on the day at 557p.Elsewhere,Linx Printing Technologiesput on 20p to 355p after announcing its sales and profits were ahead of expectations in the first three months of the year.Geo Interactive Mediawas buoyed by market whispers of a possible deal with Ericsson to develop a mobile phone project aimed at youngsters. The shares went up 5% to 965p at one stage before slipping back to 950p - a gain of 35p.It was a good start forLighthouse Group, the independent financial adviser which made its debut on the Alternative Investment Market. By close of play its shares stood at 180p, up from the 160p issue price.ButQuicks Group, the vehicle retailer, had a torrid time after warning its full-year results would be "significantly below the board's previous expectations". Its shares sank 11p to 55.5p as a result, some way off the 78p year's high, although comfortably ahead of the 30p low.Other indices also climbed with the FTSE Midcap 250 up 19 points at 6,568.7 despite being a victim of Psion's plunge, while the FT Small Caps rose 15.2 points to 3,269.2.
Psion, the hi-tech company best known for its handheld computers, faced a crisis of confidence in the City yesterday after warning that a collapse in demand for its modems would push its annual profits "well below" analysts' expectations.The news led to a fall in the company's shares of 165p to 410p, wiping &#163;650m, nearly 30%, off its market capitalisation. Analysts questioned whether the management could deliver on other projects, such as its Symbian venture with the world's leading mobile phone companies.Psion's chief executive,   David Levin, said: "Of course this is disappointing, it's particularly disappointing to me."But does it impact one's view of our strategy? The answer is no."Psion has been hit by a technological shift as an increasing number of laptop computers are manufactured with built-in modems. This has meant that fewer people are buying Psion's detachable PC card modems.Although the modems business, Psion Connect, had anticipated such a change, the effect has been more sudden than expected. Psion Connect's next products, a range of wireless modems, are not due to be introduced until next year. Mr   Levin said: "I don't feel we've been tardy or acted inappropriately with this - quite the contrary. Maybe we announced that this would happen too early and people have forgotten we predicted it."Psion's problems have been aggravated by rising prices for commodities such as memory chips, and by the weak euro, which means its European earnings are less valuable.The profits warning provided ammunition for critics of the company, who suggest that its core handheld computers are losing ground to competitors such as those of the Californian company Palm.Mr Levin denies this, maintaining that because Palm Pilots are cheaper and have no keyboards they are targeted at entirely different customers.   The firm has also been hit by rumours that it has been losing key staff, although insiders claim this is a false allegation that has been spread by a disgruntled former employee.Furthermore, Psion's Symbian joint venture, which is to develop operating systems for net-enabled mobile phones, has been hit by revelations that two partners, Ericsson and Motorola, have been talking to other computer companies. Mr Levin pointed out that they both still stress their commitment to Symbian.Philip Smith, an analyst at Teather &amp; Greenwood, said: "The general environment for Psion has not been good. When you bundle all these factors together it's not a pretty picture."Founded 20 years ago by Zimbabwean physics professor David Potter, Psion is one of Britain's most successful technology firms but its shares have historically been volatile. Microsoft boss Bill Gates famously identified the firm in 1998 as his corporation's "number one threat".Before yesterday's warning the group was predicted to make profits of &#163;6.7m.Psion spent &#163;250m last month buying Teklogix International, a Canadian maker of handheld scanners.The group said integration was going well, with costs likely to total &#163;3.5m.
Technology funds were the big "must haves" in the last individual savings account selling season. Now many investors are doubting that particular piece of financial adviser wisdom. Many bought at the top of the boom: some have lost up to 60% of their money.Now, however, the funds could be due for a comeback. Basing their marketing appeal on stratospheric past performance figures, discount brokers sold the specialist unit trusts by the million. But the mid-March madness in technology markets, both in the US and Britain, coincided with the Isa sales high point. Since then, the UK-based FTSE Techmark 100 index of medium and smaller-sized technology companies has fallen by 40% - and the US   Nasdaq by around a third.Aberdeen Technology and Henderson Global Technology, the two biggest technology funds and both heavily sold last spring, have fallen 27% and 13% respectively since their peak. SG Asset Management's smaller fund has also given many Isa investors a torrid time.It is not just small investors who have been caught out. The largely institutional shareholder list of Aberdeen European Technology and Income split level investment trust have seen their money drain away. This trust raised &#163;200m in January, matching it with a further &#163;200m loan from Bank of Scotland. But now it is raising a further &#163;45m to prevent lenders calling in their money. The capital growth shares have crashed from 15p to under 5p, while the income shares have collapsed from 85p to 52p.Matters have not been helped by the gearing, which magnifies problems, and the fund's reliance on junk bonds to produce a high income. Framlington's highly hyped NetNet fund rocketed from 50p at launch in May 1999 to &#163;1.51 in March 2000. Now it is trading at 66p. As Framlington delicately puts it: "Some investors are nursing a reduction in the value of their investment."But now technology funds are attempting a comeback. The &#163;1.5bn Aberdeen Technology and the equally sized Henderson are striking out in new directions.And two new unit trusts aimed at tracking technology indexes are launched this weekend with offerings from both Legal &amp; General and   Close Brothers. SG is offering a mix'n'match Eurotech Isa with 50% going into the technology trust and half directed to European Growth.Henderson's fund hit question marks after the resignation of the two main fund managers, Brian Ashford-Russell and Tim Woolley, quitting to set up their own operation. But while ratings agency Standard &amp; Poors expects new fund manager Nitin Mehta to be as successful, doubts remain.Mr Mehta has no doubts. "This fund has been around for 10 years. We did dip in March but we are ahead over the past six months," he says. His first-division performance has been based on switching heavily into what he expects to be the next big trends. More than 70% of the trust is US shares.Around a third of the fund is in "enterprise software" - shares such as BEA Systems and SBL Systems. These US companies make their profits from the links between a firm's in-house system and the internet.A second 30% slice is in   "next generation networks" - companies such as Nortel Networks, Juniper and Ciena."These firms sell technology which effectively makes phone wires fatter so more information can be squeezed through at faster speed. We are in a hyper-demand phase for these products," he says.The flipside is what is left out or downsized. "We have little in computer hardware stocks such as Dell, Compaq, in semi-conductors such as Intel or Texas Instruments, or in Microsoft which has become too mature for us - and has problems shipping Windows 2000," Mr Mehta adds.At Aberdeen, fund manager Ben Rogoff puts faith in DWDM, dense wave division multiplexing, which can increase phone line capacity by 192 times. "You've got to look for the next system bottleneck and find firms with a solution. Phone companies then have no option but to buy this kit. Internet security is also a big theme," he says.Active fund managers believe that tracking a market   where product lives can be as little as six to nine months means ending up with technological dinosaurs.Legal &amp; General stayed out of technology last spring because L&amp;G strategist David Rough "doubted prospects in the midst of dot.com madness". Now prices have fallen to "more sensible levels"."Our technology index fund offers lower risk, lower charges and global diversification," says L&amp;G's Michael Hayden. The fund tracks the FTSE World Index technology section which is published daily.And Close Brothers, which already has an index fund based on Techmark, is launching a European technology tracker based on the FTSE eTX 50."This fund avoids huge holdings in Microsoft and Intel - this way you can profit from targeting specialist stocks in the tier beneath established global giants without worrying about fund manager bias. And you could gain further if the euro is near its bottom," says Close's Marc Gordon.
Adding "co.uk" on to "estateagent", "homepages" "rightmove", "propertyproperty" "08004homes" gives access to large numbers of properties across the country.For people who know exactly where they want to live the sites are of limited use. Even the most comprehensive will not be able to compete with a local newspaper.But where they really come into their own is when someone wants to find out about house prices in a certain area whether with a view to choosing somewhere to live or buying a property to let. Those who are simply curious about property prices will also enjoy using these sites.By far the best-designed site for researching prices is home.co.uk. It has nearly 200,000 property particulars, the majority being with estate agents, although private sellers can advertise their homes free.While the information one can glean from this site will not be as accurate as the major house price indexes prepared by the Nationwide and Halifax, these only divide the country up into regions such as East Anglia and the south-west.Prospective buyers can specify a type and size of property, an area of up to 80 miles across and a specific price range. Asking it to find a home for less than &#163;50,000 within a 15-mile radius of London EC1 is an easy way to find out where the cheapest homes are in the capital. This somewhat scotches the popular wisdom that an income of &#163;30,000 is necessary to get a foot on London's property ladder.There are 21 homes avail able for under &#163;46,000, which should be within the range of anyone earning &#163;15,000 and having a small amount of savings. The cheapest are one-bedroom flats in Dagenham and Shooters Hill for &#163;39,995.At the other end of the scale one can find the most expensive properties by seeking those over &#163;5m. Top is a 12-bedroom mansion with an acre of grounds near Holland Park at &#163;15m. Prices fall to &#163;21,400 in Basildon, followed by only slightly more expensive places in Maidstone, Sheerness and Rochester.Birmingham is not always cheaper than the home counties, with prices starting at &#163;22,500 for a one-bedroom flat in the Quinton area. The most expensive house within 20 miles of that city's centre is &#163;900,000 for a six-bedroom house in Edgbaston.Those desperate for a cheap property will find several in Sheffield, Newcastle and Liverpool for under &#163;10,000.Someone with a very specific area in mind can glean a good deal of information from the site that would have taken ages to obtain by identifying and ringing local agents. For instance, within ten miles of the Scottish border town of Newton St Boswells, there are 21 properties available from a &#163;36,500 two-bedroom apartment to a detached country house for &#163;285,000.Some areas are not so well catered for though. Within the same distance of Haverfordwest in Pembrokeshire there were only four properties. That though is the exception and for the vast majority of the country home.co.uk has the potential to be used for relatively serious research.&#149; Richard Colbey is a barrister.
Cock up or conspiracy? Only the hacker and Microsoft know whether the penetration of its computer systems was a skilled break-in using custom code, or whether somebody working for the software giant did something human, and stupid. Microsoft isn't saying.Chris McNab, a network security analyst at MIS Corporate Defence Solutions in Maidstone, says there are three possible scenarios. The most feasible, in his view, is that the hacker managed to get a Trojan (a rogue program) past Microsoft's defences, using electronic mail. The second possibility is that the hacker exploited a security lapse: perhaps an employee disabled his security software, or not all Microsoft's anti-virus software was kept up to date. The third possibility is that it was "an inside job": a disaffected employee or "summer intern" let the hacker in.The current speculation is that Microsoft's firewalls - software designed to block intruders - and mailsweepers - software to detect malicious code attached to email messages - were penetrated by a Trojan: a program that presents itself as a useful document, image file, utility or game. When the user runs the attachment, the hidden Trojan code is installed on their computer.Once installed, the Trojan could then do its work. It could, for example, record log-on names and passwords and email them to an address outside Microsoft. The common Love Letter virus used similar scripting techniques to mail itself to people in its victims' address books.The hacker could then use the stolen names and passwords to log on to  Microsoft's internal network, in effect pretending to be an employee working "off campus". Depending on that user's security level, the hacker might then be able to find and download "source code", the program code used to create popular applications such as Microsoft Office or Windows 2000.Having the source code is like having a secret recipe for Coca-Cola.  Examining the source code would enable hackers and rival software vendors to learn the strengths and weaknesses of Microsoft's programs. They might be able to improve their own software, by making it more compatible with Windows, or exploit any security holes they might find.According to the conspiracy theory, a skilled hacker created a custom Trojan to evade Microsoft's defences, which would identify and remove any of the ones in common circulation. Examples include QAZ, SubSeven, Netbus and BackOrifice.But according to the cock up theory, QAZ or a similar Trojan was installed by accident, and a hacker got lucky. Perhaps someone downloaded an infected program from the internet, installed it from a CD-rom, or brought in an infected notebook computer loaded with an out-of-date virus checker.Such things should not happen, but they do. Philip Ryan, chairman of the  Security Forum and an information security specialist with Peapod, says: "I do security audits all the time, and even in companies that you would think would be the most secure, there are always staff using out-of-date security products."Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at Sophos Anti-Virus in the UK, says: "All companies are at risk, because firewalls and anti-virus software are not enough. Staff have to realise that they can't download programs from the web, and they can't run programs unless there's a justifiable business reason for running them. It's all about getting users to act sensibly and take responsibility for the data on their disks."Related articles:The issue explained: How Microsoft was hackedHackers attack Microsoft networkUseful links:Internet protection centre - nipcMicrosoft
Hackers have broken into Microsoft's computer network and may have stolen blueprints to the latest versions of the company's Windows and Office software.Microsoft confirmed the electronic break-in late last night and said they were working with police and the FBI to investigate. They believe the episode was "industrial espionage".Rick Miller, a spokesman for Microsoft, would not confirm whether the hackers may have accessed any of Microsoft's "source code", the blueprints for such products as the Windows operating system.But he said there was no evidence that any source code for Windows, or other commercial software, had been modified or corrupted in the incident.Mr Miller said: "We're still looking into it. We're still trying to figure out how it happened."He added: ""This is a deplorable act of industrial espionage and we will work to protect our intellectual property."Security employees discovered on Wednesday that passwords used to transfer the source code behind Microsoft's software were being sent from the company's computer network in Redmond, Washington, to an email account in St. Petersburg, Russia.A source quoted in the Wall Street Journal said that it appeared the hackers accessed Microsoft's system by emailing software, called QAZ Trojan, to the company's network. They then used this to open a "back door" through the infected computer.In hacking terms, a "trojan" is similar to the trojan horse of Greek mythology. It looks like a normal attachment in an email, such as a word document or picture, but contains a hidden code that can take limited control of the recipient's computer.Once inside, the hacker software can be used to deliver passwords from one computer to another or even to destroy files.The identities of the hackers are unknown. They are believed to have had access to the software codes for three months.In order to make sure that the hackers cannot use any stolen source code, Microsoft may now have to change commercial software used internationally by businesses, governments and consumers. The risk of this is said to be remote, although the firm have admitted they are not certain of the hackers' motives.The FBI have so far declined to comment on the incident.Useful linksMicrosoft underground - ZDNetTackling Trojan - PC HellFBI computer protection squadCry hackerdom - FEED magazineFeds' crusade - ZDNet
Two aviation business to business internet exchanges are to merge, bringing together customers and suppliers in an attempt to cut costs.AirNewco, which includes leading British, mainland European and US airlines, is teaming up with MyAircraft, a supplier-based exchange, in a new service that is expected to come into operation in the first quarter of next year."The deal is one of the first to bring together buyers and sellers in a major industry as joint owners of a neutral, global e-marketplace," the companies  said yesterday. "Up to now aviation's e-business race, as in other sectors, has involved exchanges that are seller driven, buyer driven or independent."The combined exchange - which has yet to be named - will be open to all industry players and provide an electronic marketplace for fuels, parts, maintenance, airport support services and on-board catering provision."These services will enable buyers and sellers to reduce transaction costs, lower inventories and realise significant supply chain savings," the companies said.AirNewco includes British   Airways, Air France, American Airlines, Delta, Continental and United Parcel Services among its members, while MyAircraft is made up of United Technologies, Honeywell, BF Goodrich and i2 Technologies - an internet commerce specialist.Ownership of the new exchange - which will be independently managed - will be shared among the member companies. According to investment bank Schroders Salomon Smith Barney analyst Nick Cunningham, the new exchange should be stronger than the two businesses operating separately.
Kate Buggeln has been selling things all her working life. But selling investors and customers on the new look Boo.com, a name associated with the world's highest-profile dot com failure, is her biggest challenge yet.The 39-year-old American has been charged with the revival task byfashionmall.com, the American fashion internet portal that paid an estimated &#163;250,000 for Boo's brand, logo and the right to use its domain name after the e-tailer went into receivership this year. Ms Buggeln is relaunching Boo as a fashion and lifestyle site on Monday, and believes her team have learnt lessons from the collapse of Boo mark one."We want to bring to our customers the best of international style from interesting websites that we have located around the world", said Ms Buggeln, who hopes her 17 years' experience in the retail sector will help revive the site.A history graduate from Farleigh Dickinson University in New Jersey, Ms Buggeln began her career as an executive trainee at Bloomingdale's department stores. She has also worked with retailers to design and launch brand strategies and business models.Despite the negative connotations attached to Boo.com - the company began trading in early November last year and went bust in May after investors refused to add to the estimated &#163;80m they had poured into the firm - Ms Buggeln is determined to cash in on the well-known name that Boo established."Retaining the name Boo uses this awareness of the name to bring people to our site so they can see how great our product is", Ms Buggeln said.She admitted to feeling fortunate that the original Boo team spent so much   money on marketing. The high level of awareness they created is now helping her cause.The brand, name and customers the new site targets, as well as the team's sensibility to style - "We have the same sort of irreverent sense of humour as our predecessors" - are, however, where the similarities between the original Boo and the   new incarnation end. Ms Buggeln and her team number nine, whereas the original Boo employed between 300 and 400 people.The new company is also financially secure. Fashionmall.com has about $27m in the bank. It is estimated that will last 10 years based on the current burn rate.The new Boo also has a different business model. "We do not own and sell our own inventory, what we do is connect people to great e-tail sites and product. So our value to the visitor is about connecting them to interesting places through Boo."We have a very long-term view about this. We're not trying to take over the world in a year, we're trying to take over the world in a series of years."The new Boo, which will focus on the American and British markets this year, offers users an unusual mix of products, such as clothes that have the customer's e-mail address put on them. These products are specifically aimed at the 18 to 30 trend-setting group of people which the site targets.The site specialises in beauty products, clothes, gifts and toys - from hi-tech gadgets to motorcycles. There is also a community aspect to the site: users can talk to each other in the party section.Whereas the original Boo focused on brands and, according to Ms Buggeln, was all about the fashion trend of the moment, the new Boo is about the product."We will have some of the same brands the original Boo had but when they are on our site it is not because of the brand, it is because the product is really cool."Boo.com plans to make money through advertising and sponsorship appearing on the website. It is also developing a database that can be sold to companies which want to know about and target the people Boo.com attracts.Ms Buggeln, who only expects to spend $1m on marketing, compared to the $40m the original Boo spent, predicts the site will be profitable in the near term, certainly within two years.Her certainty of success is clear: "It will work because we are applying the lessons of the original Boo to a new business model and retaining all of the positive elements of the Boo brand."
Hi-tech shares in the US took another nosedive yesterday as investors feared further earnings disappointments.The technology driven Nasdaq composite index fell almost 3%, or 95 points, to 3,133 at one stage yesterday, touching the year low reached only last week. The Dow Jones industrial average remained steady as investors sought the stability of blue chip shares.Nasdaq's fall knocked European hi-tech shares - on the Paris bourse, Alcatel closed down &euro;3.90 or 5.24% at &euro;70.50; meanwhile in London Bookham Technology ended as the biggest FTSE 100 loser, down 274p to &#163;21.50. The Techmark, the City's index of technology stocks, fell nearly 3% to close 3355.78.Yesterday's Nasdaq decline follows a fall of almost 6% on Wednesday. The index is down more than 30 % since reaching 5,132 in March, before investors lost faith in almost all internet-related companies.Larry Wachtel, an analyst at Prudential Securities, said that few hi-tech shares remained unaffected by the crisis in confidence. "You have destroyed all the sacred cows. You started with the dot.coms, then the PCs, then wireless and now it's fiberoptics. You have pounded that down, so there is no place to hide."Shares in fibreoptics companies were among the hardest hit yesterday as this week's profits warning from Nortel Networks, the huge Canadian telecoms group, continued to reverberate across the once popular hi-tech sector.JDS Uniphase, which receives about 20% of its revenues from Nortel, fell before its quarterly earnings announcement late last night. At one point yesterday shares in the fibreoptic equipment supplier were down 10 % at $64.
Microsoft is aiming to draw Europe's "new affluents" to its MSN portal through a new partnership announced yesterday with Swiss bank Credit Suisse.In its first significant signing for its new MoneyCentral personal finance portal, which is to be launched in the UK, France and Germany later this year, Microsoft said Credit Suisse would make its new investment service aimed at Europe's 40m wealthy individuals available on MSN.As a result of the deal announced yesterday, customers of Credit Suisse can start trading shares and other investment products in a few weeks, while other personal finance products will be added later on.The move came on the day that a study showed that established firms would dominate the internet economy. GartnerConsulting said that the value of the European internet sector will soar from $53bn (&#163;37bn) to $1.3 trillion in the next four years, with old economy rather than dot.com companies responsible for the bulk of the upturn.The report, commissioned by networking company Cisco, claimed that up to 95% of   dot.coms were expected to fail within two to five years. For most, the costs of setting up a website and distribution system and establishing their brand were crippling.However, the growth of European e-commerce was not expected to result in a significant increase in overall sales. Nick Smith, vice-president of GartnerConsulting, said: "People are not going to want more lawnmowers just because of the internet."The Gartner report shows that more money is being spent in Europe on internet infrastructure and applications than on online deals. But while infrastructure spending would grow slowly, the value of e-commerce would soar 123% a year over the next four years.Over the same period, average transaction values per head of population would jump from $500 to $12,000 in the US from about $300 to $8,000 in the UK, and from $240 to $7,000 for the European Union members as a whole.&#149; Patrica Hewitt, the e-commerce minister, yesterday said the auction of 42 licences to deliver broadband internet and multimedia services over the airwaves will start on November 10. The government is expecting to raise a minimum of &#163;78.3m from the auction.
Bookham Technologywas the highest profile victim in a depressing day of trading which saw Wall Street jitters over technology stocks impact hard on this side of the Atlantic.The company, which makes fibre-optic components, took the mantle of the FTSE 100's biggest loser after shedding 11.3% to &#163;21.50 as traders spent much of the day monitoring events stateside.Yesterday's slide, which followed a 13% drop on Wednesday, means the company is now way off its &#163;54.37 year high and sliding ever closer to the &#163;16 low.Hopes of a bounce in New York failed to materialise as the markets closed, with the main index dragged a further 65.5 points lower to 6,302.3.The Techmark 100 index of technology companies fared worse, sliding 101.9 points to 3,355.78.Logicawas down 154p at &#163;18.66,Semashed a further 70p to 910p andMisysended the session 48p lower at 709p.They were not alone.Baltimore Technologies, the Irish internet security outfit, announced it was teaming up with Motorola, the US communications company, to develop secure solutions for mobile phones and other wireless devices.But even Baltimore, which has outperformed the UK software sector by about 40% this year, saw its shares initially gain 4% before sliding back 24p to 527p.AEA Technology, the science and engineering firm, had a dire day after issuing a profits warning due to a delay in the award of contracts. The stock plummeted almost 30% from 482.5p to end the session at 342.5p.Telecommunications stocks were also out of favour withCable &amp; Wirelesssuffering a 6% fall to 897p andBritish Telecomnot far behind as it slipped 16.5p to 737.5p in the wake of this week's advances.But it was not all bad news. The pharmaceuticals sector, at least, had something to cheer as it contributed 14 points to the FTSE's haul for the day.Shire Pharmaceuticals, replacing Woolwich following the acquisition of the mortgage bank by Barclays, celebrated its arrival in the FTSE 100 with its shares rising 35p to &#163;13.85.Glaxo Wellcomewas 42p higher at &#163;20.44, whileSmithKline Beechamrose 19.5p at 931.5p.AstraZeneca, the Anglo-Swedish drugs group, which announced it was outsourcing its IT infrastructure services to IBM, climbed 46p to &#163;32.16.Most retailers were also looking healthy withSainsburyadding 11.5p to 382.5p,Tescoinching up 5.75p to 262.75p andSafewayputting on 5.25p to 285.75p.There was, however, little joy for beleagueredMarks &amp; Spencerwhich lost a further 8p, representing just over 4%, to 175p.The media sector was besieged with worries over advertising and ITV revenues which impacted strongly on the fortunes ofGranada Media,which dropped 28p to 368p, andCarlton Communications, which lost 36p, or 6.3%, at 534p.BSkyB, the satellite broadcaster, bucked the sector trend to enjoy a buoyant time with its stock up 23p to 885p.Banks had a generally poor day withBarclaysgoing down 24p at &#163;18.80,HSBCslipping 15p to 968p andLloyds TSBlosing 3p to close at 657p.Elsewhere, shares inChurchill China, the British ceramic products maker, rose 11p to 157.5p after the company said trading was exceeding expectations.The improvement, it said, came from progress in its "Dining In" division where sales in north America were higher than last year.Imperial Chemical Industrieswas another gainer, up 15p at 412p on the strength of positive comment from its broker UBS Warburg.Away from the turmoil of the main FTSE 100 index, life was fairly tranquil with the FTSE Midcap 250, which crawled 5.3 points higher to end at 6,549.7.
Microsoft is to spend $1bn (&#163;690m) relaunching its web-based services in an attempt to topple America Online as the world's leading internet service provider.The group said the global marketing campaign begun yesterday was designed to make MSN, its online brand, as well known internationally as Windows, the operating software used on more than 90% of the world's computers.Few other companies have spent as much on advertising their online products, although few are as wealthy as Microsoft. The company has cash on hand of almost $24bn after gaining $3bn from operations in the past three months alone.Analysts were sceptical about the company's ability to improve dramatically the popularity of MSN by spending huge amounts of money on a marketing campaign."They want to close the gap &#91;with AOL&#93; and so they're throwing money at it," said one. Shares in Microsoft fell slightly in a difficult market for the hi-tech sector.Microsoft has just 3.5m subscribers compared with AOL's 25m. MSN also ranked third in the September web league tables compiled by Media Metrix, the online data group, behind AOL and Yahoo!The company came relatively late to the internet with its Internet Explorer web browser. Wall Street has also blamed the legal battles with the US government for hampering its expansion plans. As the company's anti-trust trial moves into the appeal stage, one analyst said yesterday: "They have no choice but to step up their growth prospects."Some $150m of the marketing campaign will be used on television advertising across north America, Europe and Asia. The first advertisements, designed to show how the internet can improve home life, were aired last night.Microsoft has also fitted out a Manhattan loft with the latest company products. The "Microsoft home" in Tribeca is an attempt to show how the company's internet-friendly devices can "simplify daily tasks, keep us connected, and help us have fun and relax in the home".The rest of the $1bn will be spent over the next year on partnerships with retailers, cross-promotions, rebates and other marketing campaigns.The initiative, which includes a new multicoloured in ternet browser, is designed to make it easier to swap services from software to the internet. As such, it is part of the company's new strategy, .NET, which was introduced in June.Deanna Sanford, product manager for MSN marketing, obliquely positioned the new-look services as a direct challenge to AOL by saying: "We are making MSN the easiest way to get online, not only for new users but also for those users out there who for whatever reason are unfulfilled."
It all looked so bright forQXL.comearlier in the year. The online auctioneer's shares touched 800p, chief executive Jim Rose and his team were using their highly rated shares to snap up continental rivals and there was a growing feeling in the City that the UK upstart might actually beat the US firm eBay to European domination.Analyst Thomas Bock at SG Cowen in the United States even came out and said it was only a matter of time before the shares hit &#163;44.Seven months later QXL shares are trading at just 31p - a 96% fall from their high and less than half the 69p issue price. The paper-led acquisition strategy is in tatters and Mr Bock is keeping an extremely low profile. Analysts say the company needs   to refinance in the next six months and a takeover by a European portal is likely.So how did the wheels come off a company so dramatically that its market valuation fell from &#163;2.6bn in March to less than &#163;100m by October?Analysts blame the fickleness of the market and the sell-off of hi-tech shares. Dealers say sentiment towards loss-making business-to-consumer companies is so negative at the moment that nothing appears to be underpinning the share price.Confidence is unlikely to return quickly enough for QXL to raise money through a share issue. A strategic partner seems inevitable. Ironically, it was the acquisition that was supposed to have turned QXL into a serious rival to eBay that has been one of the most important factors in its undoing.The &#163;668m takeover of Germany's Ricardo.de has been beset with difficulties and the price was renegotiated when it emerged that Ricardo's revenues were not as strong as hoped.The subsequent slump in QXL's share price has put an end to any further all-share   takeovers for the foreseeable future. Investment bank analysts are less likely to follow the shares while the company's value is so low.Mr Rose now faces having to complete the thorny task of integrating different management teams, cultures, and concepts, while keeping staff morale high as the value of their share options falls.Even Mr Rose is likely to concede that a partner is now needed. At the end of June QXL had around &#163;56m in the bank and was burning &#163;15m each quarter. It needs to refinance within the next twelve   months and find the cash that will take it through to 2004 when profitability is forecast. The longer it leaves it, the worse the terms of any deal become for shareholders.eBay has long been touted as a possible suitor but the two firms have talked and eBay has said it is not likely to bid. One analyst said: "eBay is doing very well in Europe. It dominates Germany, is doing very well in the UK and is about to launch in France. It doesn't need QXL."Lycos Europe has consistently been linked with a bid that analysts believe would increase stickiness on its own site. Lycos' &#163;8bn merger with Terra Networks of Spain is due to be completed on Monday. Investment bank CSFB acts for both Lycos and QXL could then be tempted to engineer a merger of the two parties sometime over the next few months.People close to QXL suggest Lycos may not be the most likely partner. Others include T-Online and Yahoo!Third-quarter results are due towards the end of next month and QXL will be under pressure to give firm pledges on financing.
The price of powerHow expensive is it, electricity wise, to run a computer? My wife is always chasing me to turn it off when I am not using it.Joe Phillipscountry.joe@ntlworld.comJack Schofield replies:Personal computers don't use much power: they often have power supplies in the range 120-150watts, and probably draw less than 100watts even when working hard. A system should therefore use roughly the same as a 150watt lightbulb, including the monitor.Most PCs nowadays meet the US government's Energy*Star 2.0 requirements,   which means both PCs and monitors should switch to a low power mode after 15-30 minutes of inactivity. In low power mode, each must consume less than 30watts. Given that, in my opinion, PCs are subjected to more stress when being turned on and off than they are when left running, this suggests it is not worth turning a machine off for short periods, especially if it is being used to receive faxes and voice messages.An increasing number of PCs do not actually turn off completely when you hit the off-switch. They have features that enable them to be "woken up" by a network message or fax or whatever, so even when they are off they take a trickle of electricity. This also applies to other devices including some answering machines, satellite receivers and VCRs. If you really want to turn them off, you have to pull the plug.Any power transformer plugged into a wall socket is probably consuming electricity as well.Shelter from the stormAfter a violent thunderstorm the other night the modem on my iMac ceased to function. Can lightning cause this sort of damage to a computer and if so how can I prevent it?Iain NobleIain.Noble@tees.ac.ukJS:Modems and personal computers, with parts usually   designed to operate on 12v or lower voltages and small currents, can certainly have their chips fried by lightning, and by unexpected surges in mains power supplies. However, it is hard to know how often this happens.Fortunately it is cheap to protect a PC and modem using surge suppressors supplied by companies such as Belkin and APC (American Power Conversion), and sold byThe NetShop,Action Computer Suppliesand similar outlets. Surge protectors look like multiway power adapters, but bigger. Some also protect your telephone, fax, modem, TV and satellite lines, such as the Belkin SurgeMaster 5-way 2m (&#163;14.99 plus VAT from Action). APC also sells the ProtectNet range of devices designed to protect various kinds of data line. The Apptel2, for example, will protect two phone lines (&#163;14.40 plus VAT from The NetShop).Suppliers may also offer "connected equipment warranties" of up to &#163;10,000: it varies according to what size spike the device is designed to withstand. If your equipment is fried, this should cover the cost of replacement.Size mattersWhat are the advantages/ disadvantages of different image formats? I have bought a scanner, and when saving an image I am offered a bewildering choice. I scan mostly black   &amp; white line drawings and have found that a TIF format produces a much larger file than BMP, but the saved images appear to be as good as each other.Jack Freemanjack.freeman@ukgateway.netJS:If you don't own the original, save the biggest file you can, preferably in the TIFF (Tagged Image File Format), and store them on CD-R or CD-RW discs. TIFF is horribly complicated but the closest we have to a publishing industry standard.You can also save and/or convert images to the JPEG (Joint Photographic Experts Group) format for viewing and general use. JPEG (.jpg) files are "lossy", ie information is lost when you convert to the compressed JPEG format.However, you can adjust the file to be as big or as small as you like, depending on how much information you are willing to sacrifice. (Once it has gone, of course, you can't get it back.)CompuServe's GIF (Graphics Interchange Format), which is limited to 256 colours, has fallen out of favour recently, but it is better than JPEG for some purposes, and one may be drawings. You will have to experiment to find out.GIF is supposed to be replaced by PNG (Portable Network Graphics), a standard backed by the World Wide Web Consortium. It is a lossless system, and not much used. Seewww.w3.org/Graphics/PNGandwww.libpng.org/pub/pngfor more details.Finally, BMP is the Windows Bit Map format. It produces huge files and I cannot see any reason for using it.Which address?I don't want to have to dial in through different ISPs specific to reach my preferred email address, I want the convenience of sending messages from different email addresses while connecting through only one ISP only. Is this too much to hope for?Roddy Forrestroddy.forrest@ntlworld.comJS:Yes, it is. Nowadays most Internet service providers (ISPs) will not let you send email if you are not logged on to their service, to help prevent "spamming" (mass commercial e-mailings). If they let you come in from another ISP, you could be anybody....ExtensionOne of the students on the public introduction to Java course that I run came up with another solution to creating .Java files: simply put the file name in double quotes when using Save As in Notepad.Also, cheap and user-friendly alternatives to Notepad include editors such asTextpad, which does syntax highlighting, and environments such asElixir.Dr Tom Sharpetom.sharpe@man.ac.ukJS:Several readers wrote in to point out that using quote marks works. And it does, as long as you remember to do it!Another waySomeone asked how to find out what programs Windows 95/98 was running in memory and how to stop them loading if necessary. The solution you offered didn't include the option to type in "msconfig" at the Run prompt. This command brings up a huge list of options for starting Windows , the last section of which specifies what programs will load up and sit in your in-tray. To get rid of troublesome memory-resident programs all you have to do is untick the relevant box.Niall Leonardniall@codology.comJS:Many thanks to all the readers who wrote in to point this out: I had forgotten that msconfig included a Start-up page. The drawback is that msconfig arrived with Windows 98, and is not included in all versions of Windows.
Hi-tech stocks in the US and Europe took another pounding yesterday as investors reacted to what they saw as disappointing sales figures from telecommunications network company Nortel.The Canadian group reported that third-quarter sales of its optical sales system rose by 90% on the same quarter last year - a performance that failed to meet market expectations of around 125%.The resulting sell-off saw Nortel shares down 28% to $45.25 at one point, and trading was later halted on the Toronto exchange.The fall-out from the Nortel figures quickly hit prices on the Nasdaq index."Nortel's news indicating a revenue slowdown hit the market hard," said one US analyst. "Buyers have just beaten a path to the sidelines, expecting that this may be a test of the lows on the Nasdaq."In Europe, the hi-tech dominated Neuer Markt in Frankfurt was sharply lower, with Adva Optical Networking leading the decline as it fell more than 10% on the Nortel figures.Hi-tech related stocks on the main Frankfurt market did not escape either. At one stage the semiconductor maker, Infineon, was down almost 7% while software group SAP fell by some 3.5%.In France telecoms equipment manufacturer Alcatel was in the firing line, falling more than 8%, while internet service provider Liberty Surf lost more than 15%.Britain's Bookham Technology was hit, too. Nortel is Bookham's biggest customer and the British company saw   its shares down 15.5% at one stage. Marconi was another big faller, down 8%.Later in the day, however, there were signs that investors were recovering their nerve."There may have been a bit of overcompensation on the sell side. There will be some buying now the Nasdaq is climbing back," said a New York trader.By the close in Europe London's Techmark was down 2.3%, while the Neuer Markt's Nemax 50 and France's Nouveau March&eacute; were 0.98% and 3.5% lower respectively. After a modest recovery, Nasdaq again slipped lower and was down 4% in late trading.
We like to boast that we can surf the world using the web. The sad truth for a lot of us is that we can - as long as the web speaks English. But there are a lot of sites out there which can help us to broaden our linguistic horizons.One, for example, contains a section with the delightful title - at least to English ears - De klank van de Nederlandse Klinkers.  It means "the sound of Dutch vowels". I found the site two nights before a flying visit to Brussels when I thought it might be courteous to extend my knowledge of Dutch beyond "two beers please" ("tweetal bier wees zo goed").The Nederlandse Klinkers appear on Chris Sonnemans's splendidwww.learndutch.org. This site shows where the web can score over a book. You can click on words to hear what they sound like and learn the language of Rembrandt, Spinoza and Vermeer (and don't forget Hans Brinker, the little boy who stuffed his finger in the dyke) by following the adventures of the folk in the Crossroads cafe (no relation to the ancient TV soap).If you are going abroad and want to learn a few phrases in a hurry,the Travlang siteis indispensable. It covers 74    languages from Afrikaans to Zulu giving you basic phrases for shopping, eating, travelling and telling the time and date - and lets you hear how they sound. It also provides a huge range of online dictionaries and pointers to other language websites.Should you be bound for Russia, it might be useful to find out what some of those street signs mean. Alexei Ivanov offers a colourful collection of 144 signs athttp://russian.about.com/homework/russian/library/blsigns. htm with translations.For a more in-depth view of the Russian language, with guidance on how to download Cyrillic fonts, trywww.lidenz.ru/links.htmlwhich has a series of links to online Russian courses. Check out the delightful online picture dictionary atwww.visi.com/~swithee/dictionary/welcome.html.  Click on the picture of a sheep to hear the word.More useful might be the correct pronunication for beer, wine and vodka. Winter sunseekers can find    out how rusty their Spanish is before heading to the Costa del Sol atwww.geocities.com/Athens/Thebes/6177/spantest/spantest_intro.htm.This test devised by the University of Birmingham can take 20-40 minutes to complete. A running score is kept so you can duck out at any point if you feel that your score is becoming embarrassingly low. Click to the WebSpanol home page atwww.geocities.com/Athens/Thebes/6177to brush up your Spanish and find out which Beatles song begins: Cierra los ojos y te besar&eacute;.For many, German without tears is unimaginable. But why not lighten those hours of ploughing through strong and weak verbs with a little light literature? Athttp://german.about.com/homework/german/library/weekly/aa071000a.htmyou can find out how reading Harry Potter Und Der Stein Der Weisen (Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone) can improve your German. Chinese is a baffling language for Westerners, particularly because saying a word in a different tone can totally change its meaning. But you can learn Chinese online and master those tones atwww.csulb.edu/xtxie/online.htm.One wonderful resource here is the use of animated pictures showing you exactly how to draw the beautifulChinese ideograms- particularly useful if you want to send a friend a card for the Year of the Snake which starts on January 24 next year or write to ask Jackie Chan for his autograph.Even on holidays there are moments when we need to express our darker selves. Should you be stressed in Stockholm then a course in    Swedish cursing atwww.santesson.com/curshome.htmcould be just the thing.The more even-tempered might prefer the Swedish course atwww.people.fas.harvard.edu/~arubin/swedish.html.  Many opportunities to improve your French can be found atBucknell University's French siteincluding the words to numerous French songs. Unfortunately Bucknell offers no help with the songs of Renaud who uses slang extensively - his Mon Beauf, a hymn of hate to his brother-in-law completely blew away the otherwise excellentInterTran online translator. To freshen your French slang, try the running discussion (in French) atwww.argots.com.The best thing about the web is the number of free language courses out there. I have covered only a few. My advice is to type into a search engine like Google: "learn (your choice of language) online" and see what comes up. You might want to talkTurkey, studySwahili,learn Latvianor furnish yourself withFinnish. Just get out there and klank those klinkers.
They are the consumers who feel most comfortable with online shopping. They have lots of
    disposable cash, like buying computer games, books and CDs and have plenty of time to
    shop around. They are potentially the net's best customers. But without credit cards
    teenagers cannot buy goods from the internet. That is, until now.The way for e-tailers to tap into a market which KPMG estimated as being worth 2bn a
    year lies in an idea culled from pre-paid mobile phones. Most UK providers will lease a mobile
    phone only to a credit card holder. But most playgrounds and common rooms in the UK are
    abuzz with teenagers text messaging each other, most using "pay as you go" vouchers
    bought in shops.Last week, Y-Creds, the UK's leading player was acquired by UKsmart, for an undisclosed
    sum, believed to be 5.2m. The company announced that it has set up an exclusive deal
    with the Post Office to sell its pre-paid vouchers over the counter.Y-Creds has been operating a teenage payment system since January. This depended on
    parents or guardians "uploading" money from their credit cards. With the new system,
    teenagers will go to the Post Office, purchase a card, scratch off a hidden pin and then
    enter the pin number on to the Y-Creds website.Teenagers will have to register and, says Kevin Sefton head of e-commerce at UK Smart,
    each transaction will be "age verified". This will prevent a 14-year-old buying a certificate
    15 movie. 
    Sefton says the voucher scheme will be in Post Offices by Christmas. The company plans to
    release 300,000 Smart Creds - 6m worth of "teenage spending power". But it will have to
    move quickly to achieve market dominance.Companies like BT and Hewlett Packard are all rumoured to be developing "credit cards for
    kids" and last month a new company Splash Plastic launched its website atwww.splashplastic.com.Splash Plastic is backed by a number of leading venture capitalists, and financed to the
    tune of 6m. It uses "top up" swipe cards that can be refilled at the same pay points used
    by the utility companies.In the US there are already has a number of teenage payment systems such as CyberMoola
    and Pocket Card. But Briand Beausoleil, marketing director of Splash Plastic thinks that
    thanks to the culture of "pay as you go" mobile phones, the UK is an ideal market place for
    a pre-paid system."The distribution networks for paying utility bills like gas and electric are already in place,"
    he says. "This is something that the mobile phone companies are just beginning to tap in to
    and we want to ride in on the crest of that wave."Unlike Y-Creds, Splash Plastic has no barrier to entry and no need for registration. This
    does not mean that teenagers can then go off and download a load of porn from the net.
    Splash Plastic will work only with a number of authorised partners. Beausoleil is being very
    coy about who those partners actually are.Beausoleil says Splash Plastic will be available in the shops in January. A pilot scheme will
    run in Edinburgh, Brighton and Birmingham next month. Already 20,000 retail points have
    signed up to Splash Plastic, with another 40,000 in negotiation. If all goes to plan, the
    company will launch early next year with nearly twice as many retail points for their cards
    as there are National Lottery terminals.Both companies stress that their systems are marketed at teenagers but there is no age
    limit to entry. And with nearly one in four of UK citizens unable to get a credit card, it
    might not just be teenagers opting to pay as they go on the net.
Keep in touchYou've changed jobs, moved house, jumped to a new ISP (internet service provider) and have a new email address: no wonder no one ever writes or calls. Maintain your social life - and all those business contacts you'd like to keep from your old job - by having your latest contact details always available online.ContactDetailsoffers this free service. Choose a brief ID that you can give to friends or print on business cards, then others can use it access your latest details online, and eventually by mobile devices as well. You   can also set up an address book that lets you store the current details of all your acquaintances who use the service, too.E-seanceLooking for something spooky to do this weekend? Attila, founder and web master ofHorrorMovies.com, has decided to conduct a virtual s&eacute;ance to try to bring back Vlad the Impaler, better known as the inspiration for Bram Stoker's Count Dracula. The online Dracula seance will be webcast live from New York City onwww.eYada.comon October 28, between 8pm and 10pm (Eastern Standard Time). Email in your questions at the site and see if Vlad has anything interesting to say to you.Web noseStudents are invited to compete for a new award in the Guardian/Becta's School and College Web Site Awards 2001: The Comic Relief Web Nose Day Award. The new    award will coincide with Comic Relief's Red Nose Day event in March of next year. The aim of the awards is to inspire creativity, new content and new participation, and to highlight excellence in web publishing from schools and colleges. Web Nose Day sites need to be live the week before Red Nose Day on March 16. For more information, seeBecta's site. A free CD is available to order from the site, with details on the awards and a guide to good web design, tutorials and more.Barbie radioCatch the final prelaunch broadcast today ofBarbieFM, a net radio station aimed at three to nine year old girls and   featuring young girls and a mother-daughter team as the show's presenters. As the name suggests, the station has the backing of Mattel but was the inspiration of a broadcaster who heard his young daughters doing a pretend radio programme with their Barbies. The show plans to focus on things young girls are interested in: apparently, sleepovers, pencil cases, animals, music, friendship, and of course, fashion and beauty. The station goes live next month.Wap huntNokia and Excite have teamed to offer a Wap search engine, accessible either fromwww.nokia.comorwww.excite.co.uk.Design EdgeSix women have launched a new style and design site,Defining Edge, which is a combination magazine and shopping zone. Along with articles on subjects such as lighting for the home, the site features a designer and resource directory.Grass rootsIf you don't know how the institutions that serve you work, you can't influence them. That's the inspiration behind educational organisation Common Ground's new website:www.citizensconnection.netThere is plenty of advice not just on how government and other systems work in the UK, but how to use them to go about changing things. Why not volunteer, become an MP, or start a campaign?Frag the presThe Presidential race in the US is so close that there's only one fair way to decide it: throw all the contenders into a Quake 3 simulation, in the form of models that you can download fromwww.planetquake.com/politicalarena. Of course, there's Al ("Al Gore invented the internet, so he has an edge in the domination of The Arena") and George ("The Texecutioner has executed 140+ people by proxy, and was anxious to get his hands dirty in the arena"). But why not blast away at Ralph Nader, Joe Lieberman, or Dick Cheney as well?AntiquesAntiques and collectibles enthusiasts should enjoySuperantiques, which was already getting top ratings in its prelaunch phase. Now it is officially online, and functions as a sort of eBay for antiques and art. Accredited dealers give background information on items offered for sale and there's plenty of educational   material as well for those interested in learning about collecting. The only problem is all the dealers are in Southern California. But then, shipping costs never seem to dissuade collectors.New and noted&#149; The Guinness Book of World Records has a new entertainment site atwww.guinnessworldrecords.com.&#149; People who are the targets of cyber stalkers or mobile phone harassers can join a UK-centric discussion group atwww.egroups.com/group/Anticyberstalkinguk.&#149; Link to the Land Registry and other property-oriented services atwww.propertyspy.com.&#149; Visit the surreal world of celebrities and non-celebrities at The World of Mr Gibson,www.mrgibson.net.&#149; Comparison shop for gas, electricity or mobile phone services in the UK atwww.uswitch.com.Six of the best:HalloweenVirtual haunted housewww.bonegarden.comGhoulish games and factswww.spooky.org.ukVampire Lestat Fan Clubwww.arvlfc.orgSamhain lorewww.witchvox.com/holidays/samhain.htmlPumpkin scratchcardswww.tombola.co.ukBats, ghosts and morewww.nationalgeographic.com
Tuvalu, Moldova, Lithuania, Monserrat, Ascension Island, St Helena, South Georgian and the Sandwich Islands_ What have these countries got in common? A terrific internet suffix. Two lower-case letters could be a cybergoldmine as businesses chase an eye-catching easy-to-remember address for e-commerce.In Tuvalu any registered internet domain name is followed by .tv - the perfect electronic calling-card for any television company. The quick-witted Tuvaluan government has sold its registration rights in a $30m deal. A nice little export earner for the tiny Pacific coral island republic that beats selling copra any day. It was lucky they changed the name from the Ellice Islands.Moldova, sandwiched between Russian and Romania,   got a windfall from every doctor on the planet when it got the registration rights for .md.But my hopes rest on Lithuania. They landed .lt. Nothing special in its own right (except for London Transport). But .lt makes lots of appetizing words as electronic des res for sale or rent. I have registeredwww.heartfe.lt- ideal for any business which wants a romantic location.Education and training establishments should be fighting for mywww.perfectresu.ltandwww.bestresu.lt.A gym would profit fromwww.wellbui.ltand any business can seal bids for mywww.consentingadu.lt,no questions asked.I expected many drams from the whisky industry forwww.singlema.lt, but when I offered it to the Scotch Whisky Association I got a frightfully stiff letter back from the chief executive, complaining that there was   far too much of this sort of thing going on. This sort of thing is called originality and it could help to sell Scotch whisky in a very tough world marketplace.As the island of Montserrat battles to recover from the volcano, it should get some help from its suffix .ms. This should appeal to any feminist organisation, but my eye lit onwww.grandsla.msfor a bridge club or a sporting business.It is simplicity itself to look for a likely domain name. There are hundreds of businesses online willing to check whether your choice is free. Vanity made me look up all thewww.hellers.UKThe   version (quite fairly) was registered by the Heller Machine Tool Campany of Redditch, Worcerstershire, and I wish them well with their horizontal centring range.But the US .com version has been snaffled for no good reason by John Mayes Aviation of Palo Alto, California, and if they do not give it back I shall never fly to Palo Alto again...Having checked the chosen name, the online companies will register it for you with the appropriate agency: it costs typically &#163;50 for an attractive overseas suffix and as little as &#163;10 for a boring old .uk.co. Once registered, the domain name is yours for a year, renewable. You can trade under it yourself or put it up for sale or auction online.My names are registered atwww.register.comorwww.virtualnames.co.uk. Information on registration procedures for many countries is available atwww.safenames.com.Some phenomenal prices are sought for apparently desirable names. Someone wants $2.5m for www. onlinechecking.com (on sale bywww.URLmerchant.com).Any American lawyers could find $1m from petty cash forwww.USlawyer.com, butwww.ethically.comwill cost only one eighth as much for any business self-righteous enough to use it.By comparisonwww.genuinebusinessdeals.comlooks a bargain at &#163;2,000.Most sales are of registrations in the UK or the USA with the drab suffixes .com or .co.uk. Only a few smart lexiconetheads seem aware of the creative word possibilities of less familiar countries.Tiny Ascension Island, gateway to the Falklands, population 2000 not counting sooty terns, has got itself suffix .ac. I tried registeringwww.bigm.ac- already gone.   So waswww.applem.ac.So, to my fury, waswww.Milan.ac.But.  I have registeredwww.SerieA-Milan.ac- open to offers from Italian football fans.St Helena, where nothing exciting has happened since Napoleon, now has a show-off suffix .sh. That is why I confidently expect towww.makemoreca.sh.Most amazing of all, South Georgia and the Sandwich Islands have an internet registration for their penguins - a highly useable .gs. Someone beat me to the signature ofwww.RyanGig.gsbut I am happy enough in the entertainment business withwww.musicgi.gs.However,  I am furious with the Italians. They have the mother of all suffixes .it. There is a new exam helpline business calledwww.revise.itand the founders have passed the hardest exam of all - getting an .it registration.The Italians have made it fiendishly complex. Even their embassy could not tell me how to go about it. When I did eventually find an online company to handle Italian registrations, it charged at least four times as much as for other countries and sent me a long incomprehensible form from the Italian registration office in Pisa.I have dozens of domain names pining for their .it ending. But if the cybureaucrats in Pisa are going to make an expensive meal of .it they canwww.stuff.it.Me and my names are heading for Lithuania, where there is al.lt o play for.
The United Nations wants to do for e-commerce what the web has done for information: create a global standard that will allow anyone and everyone to join in. If it succeeds, it should boost e-business everywhere - especially between small companies, and in the Third World.Through UN/CEFACT the UN has been the major force behind the Edifact (Electronic data interchange for administration, commerce and transport) standard. But while UN/Edifact has been successful, it has not taken over in the American market - many US companies still use their own X12 standard - and it has been too expensive for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Klaus-Dieter Naujok, chairman of UN/CEFACT, is keen to redress this with a new standard called ebXML.On a visit to London last week Naujok, from San Francisco, was accompanied by Ray Walker, Britain's e-trade guru, DTI advisor, and chair of the UN/CEFACT steering group. They had contrasting styles - Naujok jokey and outgoing, Walker more quietly-spoken - but the same message, and the tendency to finish one another's points that comes from working in tandem."We did something for the big companies with Edifact, and that goes on. But it's vitally important that we get the SMEs involved, and that's much more appreciated in the developing countries than it is here. By getting interoperability, you'll be able to do business with anyone anywhere in the world at any time," they said. "It's trade facilitation, basically."This was important for countries such as Bulgaria, Iran and Pakistan, "which have been a bit out of the   mainstream. It's a huge step forward in opening those markets up and enabling those countries to participate in world trade," added Walker.The UN's initiative is based on XML, the eXtensible Markup Language backed by Tim Berners-Lee's World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). When Berners-Lee invented the web, the aim was to provide a simple way of sharing texts and pictures across many different types of computer: HTML (HyperText Markup Language) did that. Now companies need to move structured data around - the kind stored in spreadsheets, databases, and accounts packages. XML does that.For real electronic trading, the data also has to be identified and presented so that a machine can read it, and process it. This is not the same as, for example, phoning in a purchase order, or putting the details in an email message. That may be e-commerce, but it usually depends on having a person to accept and probably retype the data at the other end.In an electronic trading system, a computer could place a purchase order with the supplier's computer (perhaps when prompted by a stock control system) and make the payment without a person being involved at either end.That is already possible using Edifact, but it is used mainly by large companies across dedicated networks or Vans (value-added network services). With XML, small companies will be able to do their electronic trading   cheaply "over the internet in a secure way. That's the most important part", said Naujok.XML, which first emerged in 1996, is rapidly becoming an important open standard. Its leading backers include three major rivals, IBM, Microsoft, and Sun Microsystems. Indeed, Microsoft is basing its whole future strategy, called .Net, on XML.But the problem with XML, quipped Ray Walker, "is that it's extensible. There are three or four hundred different purchase orders out there in XML format. Businesses don't want that: they want one way of going forward." So for global electronic trading, businesses must not only use a common language, they must also standardise their data sets and interfaces to provide interoperability. If ebXML takes off, there could be a single XML standard for business, instead of hundreds.Traditionally, big businesses wrote or customised their own software to handle what they perceived as their unique business needs. Wal-Mart would neither know nor care how Marks &amp; Spencer generated purchase orders. That is why the UN project is using business processes as building blocks, rather than terminology, which varies between firms. "It's a big thing for Wal-Mart to use the same data set as M&amp;S, but we should distinguish between the internal implementation and what it takes to exchange information. At that level there is more commonality than people like to admit."Obviously not every company can be involved with defining ebXML, but UN/CEFACT is working in partnership with Oasis, the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards, and numerous industry bodies. These include Acord, for the insurance industry, the Auto motive Industry Action Group (AIAG), footwear manufacturers in the Confederation European de la Chaussure (CEC), the Open Healthcare Group, and the Open Travel Alliance.Last month, members of the Global Commercial Initiative (GCI) adopted ebXML, and the membership includes 40 leading manufacturers and eight trade organisations representing a grand total of 850,000 companies. Peter Jordan, a GCI board director and European systems director for Kraft Foods, said: "It is clear to us that ebXML will soon become the standard for all global trade."All the draft specifications have now been drawn up, and should be finalised at meetings in Tokyo next month, in Vancouver, Canada, in February, and in Vienna, Austria, in May, 2001. Naujok thinks off-the-shelf ebXML software could be available by the beginning of 2002, if not earlier. Walker expects prices to start at around $150.Companies that intend to trade with other companies over the web, or have already started trading electronically, can start asking their software suppliers about their plans to add ebXML compatibility. Especially Microsoft, which has so far remained strangely silent about the whole affair.Web addressesebXML official sitewww.ebxml.orgUN/CEFACTwww.unece.org/cefactOasiswww.oasis-open.orgGroup 8760www.8760.comW3Cwww.w3.org/XML/XMLwww.xml.comUN-XMLwww.edi-tie.nl/edifact/xml-edi.htm
ET got it wrong. These days, any sensible stranded alien would have only one thing to say: PC, phone home.Internet telephony, or VOIP (voice over internet protocol), is hot. Suddenly, as bandwidth, chip power and applications have improved, personal computers are being turned into what technology pundit Robert X Cringely has jokingly called "the world's most expensive telephone".Yesterday's geeky hobbyist pastime, complete with terrible sound quality, echoing lines, and silly headsets, is today's intelligent way of ducking high international phone rates. The line quality can equal that of a good mobile phone connection, you can dial from your PC to someone's phone, rather than having to prearrange a time for a PC to PC call using headsets, and several companies have begun to bring out special netphone devices."The reason it's taking off is that processor speeds have increased significantly and bandwidth has improved," says Larry Spear, a co-founder of Go2call, a company that lets individuals place PC to phone or PC to PC calls from the web. Calls to the US, Canada, and many European countries are free. "Our network architecture translates into extremely low costs. Our advertisers are willing to pay for the cost of calls," says Spear.Like many online telephony companies, Go2call began by offering "arbitrage" - cheap long-distance callcard services. This remains one element of the business, but Go2call is running full-speed after the net telephony market, cutting deals with ZDnet to offer its service to users, for example, and establishing a network of sites around Europe, includ ing the UK and Ireland.The company's own private IP network enables it to offer a higher-quality service than some competitors that run calls entirely over the problem and delay-prone public internet. A caller dials from the Go2call.co.uk website using a small Java applet, which routes the call to a gateway that transfers it to the company's own fibre lines. "We connect into the major internet backbones and get your call off the public internet as quickly as possible," Spear says. Callers can experience some slight delay that causes one speaker to overlap with another, but in an era of fuzzy mobile lines and dropped calls, many people are happy to trade off some loss of line quality for the free service.But ringing mother at negligible cost from your Dell is only a small part of a very big picture. According to analysts, the technology behind VOIP is about to transform the telephony scene for both consumers and businesses. The end result will be a universe in which all types of digital data can merge - voice, video, text, the web. Wireless and land-line networks also will blend. People will be offered a smorgasbord of new applications and services for communication and entertainment that bring audio and video together over television, PCs, mobiles, and new connectivity devices like netphones that mate full-size handsets and viewing screens."The market has really matured in the last year," says Susan Thomson, an analyst with Dataquest/Gartner Group. She is quick to emphasise that, except for a few small consumer companies targeting home PC users,   VOIP does not involve sending calls out over the public internet. IP is simply a protocol for transferring information over any digital network - in this case, fibre cables used by telecommunications carriers - using an efficient method that also is used on the public internet. "This is not just a new technology," she says. "It's the way that voice is going to be carried and the big carriers are all investing heavily." This is not surprising when analysts are predicting the revenue stream from VOIP may surpass $24bn by 2003.Last month Global Crossing, for example, announced that it is converting its entire fibre global network to VOIP and transferred the first part of its US network onto VOIP routers capable of handling 1,600 calls per second. London and the rest of Europe will follow by the end of this year. Cable &amp; Wireless signed a $1.4bn deal two weeks ago with Nortel to convert its circuit network over to VOIP.There's one compelling reason why carriers want to move to VOIP, say analysts: cost. "IP as a technology is inherently cost efficient relative to ATM and frame relay, alternative telecommunications technologies for sending data over phone lines, and a lot easier to deploy and manage," says Jim Reilly, Cable &amp; Wireless's senior vice president of global networks. And as revenues fall from traditional switched voice networks, carriers must seek new markets, and those are clearly in data services, says Reilly. Cable &amp; Wireless currently gets 60% of its revenue from voice services for businesses but margins are narrowing and growth is slowing. "The only place we see any growth is in the delivery of IP services and applications that run on those services," he says.That has spurred infrastructure providers like Cisco to regear towards VOIP as well. Maren Bennette, emerging technology sales manager for Cisco UK, says VOIP is integral to Cisco's future. "It's the cornerstone of much of what we're doing. The networks that we've known of old aren't capable of handling the wide amount of data we're throwing at them."Businesses will be driven to VOIP because of cost savings as well, says Dataquest's   Thomson. Communications needs are the third largest cost to companies, according to Henry Woods, managing director of Softech Telecom, a company which makes telecommunications software for managing and tracking calls. Most obvious is the price of making calls, which will drop drastically with VOIP. Less visible are areas the industry calls "moves and changes". If an employee changes desks and needs to move an existing extension, or if extensions need to be added, or extra handsets, "quite a lot of work has to be done to make that switch," says Woods."Sometimes, a company has different exchanges in different buildings, all managed by different software and different switch cards. And the cards are phenomenally expensive" - the order of &#163;2,000 to add four extra   lines, he says. VOIP replaces the costly cards with much cheaper and more intelligent routers from companies like Cisco and Juniper, and allows all the extensions of a single company to be managed from one point. Move to a new desk - even for five minutes - and your extension follows you to the new phone.That's another key benefit of VOIP - the intelligence moves out of the cards at the middle of the network and into smart phones and other devices at the ends of the network. "The phone becomes an IP appliance and it's relatively simple to add new applications," says Bennette, who addressed Softech's user conference in Dublin last week. "You can do a lot of clever stuff you'd never even think of doing with a regular circuit-based phone." For example, you can create personalized menus, use web-based services, and layer on applications to make your phone a personal assistant; you can video-conference, let any phone you're sitting next to know you're there for call-forwarding, integrate voice,   fax and email in one device. "It's the user applications that give you the sizzle on top of the steak," he says.All very nice, says Thomson, but carriers and service providers still need to come up with a business model. "They don't know how to price, bundle or bill for these services," she says.Many also feel VOIP is not yet ready for mainstream take-up by either consumers or businesses. The main reason is obvious as soon as you try your first net phonecall - the quality is unpredictable. Nonetheless, companies are beginning to convert. Some 5% of UK companies say they are testing VOIP systems and 15% have told analyst Gartner Group that they will be trialing VOIP by the end of the year. The Business Communications Review predicts 60%of companies will have VOIP in place within two to three years. Systems should be up to scratch for businesses within that time, says Woods.But almost nobody has considered the legal and political ramifications of the move to VOIP. Because IP telephony networks place all data on a single line, monitoring and surveillance of those   lines is far easier than ever, says David Banisar, legal counsel for Washington DC privacy advocates the Electronic Privacy Information Center. For companies like Softech Telecom, that's a plus, enabling them to create software that makes the management of company systems much easier and allows firms to precisely track and analyse data traffic.But those capabilities also raise privacy concerns. Documents on the FBI's secret Carnivore surveillance system recently released under court order to EPIC reveal the FBI is actively looking at surveillance over VOIP. "But using encryption is also easier," notes Banisar. He hopes the use of encryption will become widespread with VOIP's adoption, and cautions that provisions within the UK government's Regulation of Investigatory Powers (RIP) act would presumably allow VOIP systems to be monitored with few checks and balances.If that's the case, visiting aliens might want to proceed carefully if phoning home from a PC in the UK - or at least download an encryption program first.What you needWhile there is a lot of interest in VOIP, the idea has not exactly fired the imagination of most computer users - yet. Only 4% of calls last year were made over the net, says Probe Research.But Forrester Research predicts that net calls will be a $1bn industry by 2002.Making calls is easy.  Most computers shipped in the past two years need little additional gear, since nearly all have a sound card.So just add a headset- widely available from computer stores for under &#163;10 - and you're ready to dip into free calls or low, flat-rate global calls.Sites require you to register and in some cases, to download a small application.Trywww.net2phone.com,www.go2call.co.uk, orwww.iconnecthere.com.BothMSNandICQoffer calls along with their instant messaging software.If you're hooked, you might consider buying a special $160 Internet PhoneJACK card from Quicknet.com that turns your PC or laptop into a mini-switch for IP calls.US Robotics/3Com makes a modem with Net2phone that allows you to make IP calls through your phone seeewww.usr.com, or you could try anAplio netphone.Bsquare makes software that turns a Windows CE handheld into an IP telephony device.AndCiscohas a new, if pricy, webphone complete with screen.How it worksNearly all voice traffic at the moment is carried over circuit-switched networks - a telephony concept that hasn't changed much since Alexander Graham Bell said: "Mr Watson, come here."Once, an operator connected a call by plugging a set of wires into a big switchboard to link the caller to the recipient, creating a complete circuit. Today, despite the fact that most voice traffic on modern networks is digitised - converted into samples of sound which are transmitted across the phone network - each call still requires a dedicated route to be set up for it to link you and the person you're calling.That circuit remains open for the duration of the call and claims a small slice of bandwidth on new-era digital, fibre optic networks, even when no one is saying anything and no digital information is moving across the line.IP telephony, in contrast, uses the internet's method of efficiently using bandwidth. The digitised sound samples of your voice are broken into tiny packets of information that scatter and reassemble to be delivered into the recipient's headset or telephone. Six times as many calls can be squeezed into the same amount of bandwidth, making huge cost savings.In addition, a single router can handle many times the amount of data at a tenth of the cost of expensive telephone switch cards, without the additional wiring, software and management costs. And, VOIP networks integrate video, voice and data onto a single line.
The old man had never seen a computer up close before. As countless other first-time computer users had done before him, he picked up the mouse, pointed it at the monitor, and clicked.The hundred computer executives, researchers, and marketers who were watching him laughed out loud. Some of the well-dressed executives even turned red and got tears in their eyes.The poor old guy was approaching a new technology in the most natural way he knew how. But because he didn't conform to the machine's needs, he became the object of ridicule.I won't mention the name of the company where this   horrific display took place, because it wasn't the first time I've seen people in the technology business make this same, stupid mistake. Their own insecurity and lack of knowledge about how computers work leads them to laugh at anyone who is even less new-media-literate than they are. It's a way of feeling experienced, and "with it".It's also a way of missing out on perhaps the only meaningful information one can derive from such "user testing" - namely, how people naturally respond to technologies and interfaces.Were any of the assembled researchers confident enough in their own relationship to technology to take notice,   they would have marveled at their test subject's steadfast belief in the ability of the computer mouse to function like a television remote control.In fact, if a majority of people confronting a mouse for the first time really do attempt to use it in this fashion, might there not be an interface idea in there, somewhere? Is there any logic in developing, or at least testing, a mouse that points directly at the screen? No, let's not even consider that. We made the adjustment to mouse-thinking, so the old man must do so, too. It's part of the pain of initiation.I'm not arguing for a new kind of mouse, here, but a   new way of understanding how to approach the interface between humans and their machines. It's not a matter of figuring out how to get people to conform to the technologies we've already developed. The people who succeed in the device-driven networking economy of the future will be those who create applications, interfaces, and designs that conform to human need and expectation. The businesses that continue to work on strategies for "getting people to do this", or "figuring out how to make people do that" will fail as surely as WebTV.The trick here is to put ourselves back onto the human side of the cybernetic equation. What does a person nat urally do with a device in a certain environment? What do people need in airports, for example, in their cars, at their desks, or in their living rooms?Rather than struggling to bring people to technology, figure out how to bring technology to people. Instead of turning the old man into a proper mouse-user, turn the mouse into a proper remote control!After all, the technology is supposed to be serving the people - not the other way around.Get it, businesspeople? You say you do, but I don't believe you - not given what's taking place on cell phones right now. Or on the world wide   web, for that matter. Most companies in these spaces are ignoring the way in which people actually use these technologies.Consider something as simple as the size of devices - what we could call their "scale". More enlightened user-experience research companies like Creative Good here in New Yorkwww.creativegood.comhave broken   down technologies into three major groups: inch devices, foot devices, and yard devices. Each scale of device has a most natural set of uses.An inch device, like a cell phone's Wap interface or a Palm device, is pretty much like a Post-It note. We use it to retrieve a note or record one that we'll use later. We hold it in one hand and enter text with another, and we use it in a public environment, for as short a time as possible.A foot device, like a computer, is where we work with the information we may have recorded on the inch device. It's where we'll actually manipulate our database of contacts, or write the article using the names of user-test ing companies we gathered on the Palm. Yard devices, like televisions and video projectors, are used to present or collaborate about this information with others.Obvious? So then why are wireless companies attempting to shrink the web, through Wap, onto tiny cell phone screens? Don't they know the web was designed for the foot-scaled computer screen, and not a two-line text-only inch device?Apparently not, which is why anyone who has tried to do what one might actually want to do through the internet on a cell phone - like check email or a stock quote   - is suffering through dozens of keystrokes and nested screens rather than the simplicity of true inch-scale interfaces, such as those on Palm or Rim devices.It's the same sort of mistake that dozens of streaming media companies have made: believing that the computer screen is a proper place to watch feature length movies. They are mistakenly broadcasting yard-scale media through a foot device. That's why they're all going out of business.This is not rocket science. It's merely a subtle shift in how to think about making new media decisions. Bring your technology to the human being, and not the other way around.
Earlier this yearJungle.comwas swinging confidently through the virtual trees expecting an immensely successful flotation on the stock market. But the leading UK e-tailer, like many other dot.coms, was suddenly brought down to earth with a painful bump when hordes of investors began to frantically dump over-valued technology stocks.Seeking extra cash and a concrete strategy for the future, Jungle.com linked up in September with the UK-based catalogue retail group, Great Universal Stores. To take control of Jungle, GUS agreed to pay &#163;37m.This move has been seen as evidence that traditional bricks and mortar companies are now striking back. As dot.coms have tumbled in price, they are swooping down and trying to snap up some virtual bargains. Their aim is to gain quick entry into the online economy, with an established brand and the technology, without having to take on the risk of launching their own start up operations."A year ago everyone was saying the new economy is here and the old economy is dead. Now everyone is saying dot coms are dead and the dinosaurs have won. Both of these are overstatements and the truth is somewhere in between," says Andersen's UK head of e-strategy, Andrew Mendoza, who expects to see plenty more corporates closing in to acquire dot.coms.For his part, Jungle.com's chief executive and founder, Steve Bennett still feels some disappointment that his company failed to cut it as a stand-alone web e-tailer.'If you roll out five years from now when you will have higher internet penetration, then you will find it easier to be a stand alone online business. Today it makes much more sense to be part of a group," he says.Being a part of GUS has relieved a lot of the pressure that Bennett was under. The deal has meant that Jungle.com's marketing and customer acquisition costs have now been considerably   reduced. GUS own Argos and it is able to use its purchasing power to introduce more electrical goods to Jungle's site. The company also promotes Jungle's services through its stores.Faced with potential rich pickings from the dot.com world, it can be difficult for bricks and mortar companies to know the exact value of what they are buying. Often the main knowledge about an e- business is stored in the heads of a few of the dot.com directors and predatory corporates have to be careful to hold onto those key staff when they start plotting their mergers and acquisitions.Kingfisher, which owns Comet, B&amp;Q and Woolworths, has set up a dedicated unit to invest in dot.coms. Launching the e-Kingfisher service, chief executive Geoffrey Mulcahy pointed out that sales of more than &#163;11bn in Kingfisher's market sectors in Germany, France and the UK will have moved online by 2004. He wants Kingfisher to "grasp e-commerce and develop value and service-driven direct channels to customers which respond   effectively to their changing needs".Already Kingfisher has invested in the natural health and body care site,Think Natural.com, on the grounds that it complements Superdrug's high street offering."They offer us a brand which is in a space we're not in and they offer us online expertise," explains chief executive of e-Kingfisher Ventures, Stephen O'Brien. "I don't think if you're a bricks and mortar retailer you're going to automatically succeed in the online world. We have to make the right alliances and move quickly into the right space."He adds that B&amp;Q has invested inImproveline.comwhich recommends DIY professionals to help people carry out their home improvements. But does he think bricks and mortar companies and dot.coms are entirely compatible?"There are slight differences in culture," admits O'Brien. "The dot.com start-ups are usually very lean and have very few people and they are used to cutting through things more quickly." He thinks a number of   pure internet retailers will succeed on their own but, generally, he feels bricks and mortar and dot.com partnerships can strengthen both parties - especially when it comes to finance."In recent times, financial advisers have been much happier when someone like us has been alongside a dot.com," he says.The fact that corporates are making their presence felt is largely a symptom of the fact that the internet market is still immature. Steve Bennett   acknowledges that bricks and mortar companies have a part to play in the market's development but in the long term he believes stand alone web e-tailers will change the face of shopping."When you buy a CD online it is a much better experience than going to HMV or Virgin," he argues. "It's cheaper and you can listen to every track."The ability of the internet to cut costs also convinces him that the new medium will transform old business models. He points out that traditional catalogue companies can now send out one-to-one personalised emails taking account of a customer's previous shopping preferences which is much cheaper than shipping out hefty publications.Just recentlyLastMinute.comimpressed web sceptics in the City when it announced the appointment of Allan Leighton as non-executive chairman. His bricks and mortar credentials are impeccable. Until recently he was chief executive of Wal-Mart Europe and before that he was group chief executive of the Asda Group.Martha Lane Fox, Lastminute's co-founder, argues that there is little difference between e-tailers and traditional bricks and mortar retailers. "We just happen to deliver through the internet. There are obviously some differences but at the same time the same challenges face us all. The focus is on delivering services and value to our customers."Needless to say there is likely to be more of a dot.com shake up over the coming months. But in spite of the headline-grabbing failures, the fact remains that bricks and mortar companies and their top executives are now actively seeking out and integrating themselves with a few select dot.coms which suggests that e-business is slowly shaping up to become a real business of the future.
This radio gets a poor receptionWavefinderWindows 98/Me/2000	&#163;299 Radioscape/Psion	**If you want to listen to digital radio on your PC, Psion's new Wavefinder makes that possible. And because the signal is digital, it is very easy to capture audio files by saving them as either MP2 or MP3 files. However, it comes at a high price, when you consider that the basic digital radio is now available free, via a Sky Digital or better set-top box. The main drawback with those, of course, is that they deliver television signals as well.Digital radio, or DAB (Digital Audio Broadcasting), seems to have been introduced because it was possible, not because anyone needed it. FM radio works well enough in most areas: if it didn't, people would buy better radio tuners and complain about the stations that pump out mediocre FM signals. But   digital radio provided a way to exploit some of the spectrum formerly used for 405-line TV transmissions, if listeners could be persuaded to buy new digital radios.So far, they have not been persuaded. Following the launch in 1995, manufacturers have failed to introduce cheap products and the public has stayed away in droves. Although the Wavefinder may be "inexpensive" at &#163;300, as Psion claims, it is still three times the price of a basic hi-fi tuner and 10 times what the average pop fan wants to pay.It is, however, a remarkable piece of British technology. The Wavefinder is basically a 68cm radio aerial with a hand-sized bulge in the middle, and the bulge contains all the electronics required. There is no need for a big box or a PC expansion card: you just plug it straight into a PC's USB port. It does require its own mains supply, which is a minor drawback, but there is only one wire to the aerial.Like Apple's iMac, the Wavefinder comes straight out of the Jetsons school of pretentious plastics engineering, and pulses with coloured lights when in use. But it is unlikely to harmonise with many of your furnishings, unless you own a Lava lamp, and there is no software for Mac OS.The Wavefinder is easy to install using the CD software supplied, which searches for available stations and displays them as icons on a pop-up screen. When you select a   station, it takes up to about 10 seconds to tune in. To make a recording, you have only to click a button and type in a file name.There is, unfortunately, one serious drawback: the software does not include a timer, so you can't set it to "tape" a program while you are out. Much cheaper analogue PC radios, such as the D-Link, provide this function.The audio quality is very impressive compared with internet radio, and does not break up due to congestion (traffic on the net). In fact, it sounded better than I expected, considering that digital radio uses a psychoacoustic "perceptual coding" system to reduce the amount of data transmitted. (Briefly, the system assumes you can't hear sounds that are masked by other sounds at the same frequency.)However, one of the reasons people listen to radio stations on the net is because they can hear things that are not available any other way. The Wavefinder produced only 40 stations (this will vary by area), including the national BBC stations, Capital Radio, Jazz FM, Kiss FM, and TalkRadio. There are some different stations such as the Ministry of Sound, but it is not an exciting selection. Most of it is pap.The digital advantage is that you could get read-outs of the tracks being played and other information. There has even been talk of transmitting pictures, web pages or games using digital radio, but the reality is only a shadow of the hype.Digital radio stations are transmitted together in packages (called "ensembles" in the trade), so the maximum bandwidth of 2.3Mbits/sec may be shared by eight to 12 broadcasters. (My 40 stations, for example, came from four ensembles; there could be up to seven.) Individual stations may therefore be using as little as 64-128kbits/sec, which is barely hi-fi, and legally they are only allowed to use a small proportion of their band width for other data. It is technically possible to use DAB to carry information from the internet, in one direction, for free, but it does not make much sense.It would be great to receive internet radio stations at the sort of audio quality the Wavefinder provides, but unlike 3Com's Kerbango, Psion's device cannot tune in to internet radio stations. It would be useful if the Wavefinder could be set up to record songs while you were out, preferably by name, and save them as MP3 files... but it can't, so you might as well download MP3s from the net. And it would be an entertaining toy at under &#163;100, or even less, especially if built into something mobile. But at the price, it is much less fun than an Arcam Alpha and a decent aerial.www.wavefinder.comwww.radioscape.com
Spurred on to greater effortsChampionship Manager 3 Season 00/01PC	&#163;19.99 Sports Interactive/ Eidos Interactive	*****It was a great season in the Premiership with Tottenham Hotspur winning the 2000-01 title on goal difference from Liverpool, ahead of Chelsea and Southampton. But not so good for Bradford City, Manchester City and Charlton, who were relegated. It was even worse for England, who were thrashed by Finland, Greece and even Albania, and look like finishing bottom of Group 9.The main problem is that Spurs's manager, my son James, can't take the England job. He has to go to school.The Collyer brothers, creators of the long-running Championship Manager series, may be upset, too. They keep making CM more realistic (ie harder) and it may now be impossible to win the Champions League with Wycombe Wanderers. Even with Spurs you can't afford the players you want, and the ones you can afford won't sign. However, it is still possible to win the title first time out with skill and a couple of judicious buys (Misto, Solano), though I have yet to prove I can do it with Arsenal.Suffice it to say that the new version of CM3, launched tomorrow, is an essential buy for the updated and re-rated squads and managers, and new rules.   Also, managers can now respond to media stories, and the transfer system has been improved. Otherwise it plays almost exactly as before.The new season's version also extends its geographical reach with 10 new leagues, including Australia, Greece, Poland and Turkey. The game now includes about 50,000 players in 26 leagues, though you can also play with random, fictional squads if you fancy the challenge. Since half the fun is beating Manchester United, Barcelona or Juventus on their own turf, however, not many people will bother.Apple Macintosh users will not have long to wait before they can join in too. The Mac version of CM 00/01 will be published byFeralon November 10.  (JS)This Blairs no resemblance to the filmBlair Witch Vol 1: Rustin ParrPC CD-rom 	&#163;19.99 Terminal Reality/ Take 2 Interactive	***The witching hour is truly upon us. Not only is The Blair Witch Project coming out on video, but Blair Witch 2 is preparing to darken our cinema screens, and as an eerie coup de grace the first of (at least) three Blair Witch games is about to hit the shelves.Mind you, the connection between this game and the doomed documentary-making trio is a shaky one. You see, Rustin Parr is not just the first Blair Witch game; it also marks the second adventure for Spookhouse, a team of government-sanctioned paranormal   investigators who made their debut in 1999's Nocturne.The tie-in? The Nocturners are investigating the crime that kicked off the Burkitsville witch-hunt - the murder of six children by local hermit Rustin Parr. Spookhouse suspects something more sinister than a case of cabin fever, and dispatches boringly gorgeous agent Doc Holliday to investigate.What follows is only tenuously in keeping with the Blair story. Zombies? Vampires? Spectral proximity sensors? But it is every bit as scary. Atmospheric environments, superbly effective lighting and a slick graphics engine add up to a visual fright on a par with a headlong dive into Noel Gallagher's eyebrows.Fortunately, our foxy doc has a of knapsack full of knick-knacks to help her complete her quest: pistol, rifle, energy weapon, compass, sensors, flashlight and night goggles.Gameplaywise, Blair Witch   is unashamed in its cannibalisation of dead third-person adventures. The programmers have clearly spent plenty of time playing Resident Evil, and there's an even stronger odour of those pioneering point-and-click horror titles, Phantasmagoria and Gabriel Knight. Unsurprisingly, BW:RP suffers from similar drawbacks: linearity, low replayability, self-determining cameras and cramped little spaces that mean the bad guys are on top of you the second you enter a new area.But if there are flaws in the design, there are none in the execution. It looks simply sumptuous, and is positively suppurating with detail: Holliday's jacket sways as she walks, leaves on the forest floor stir in her wake, and stakes that have been used to dispatch undead drip ghoulish splotches of blood. If only it weren't so damned hard to play with mummy holding your hand.  (AB)Star guest at the plumber's ballMario Party 2N64	&#163;44.99 Nintendo 	***While ostensibly a plumber, Mario has turned his hand to many things in the past 18 years or so. From kart racer to tennis and golf pro, Mario has had a varied career, with his latest release continuing that trend.Mario Party 2 is a strictly multiplayer affair that uses a board-game setting as an excuse for a multitude of mini-games.There are 64 of these ranging from simple button bashers to rhythmic workouts, and   depending on where you land you could be jostling for coins with up to three other players. The only things each game has in common are lashings of Japanese imagination and a tendency to cause arguments among your human opponents. Despite veering towards the juvenile end of twee, Mario Party has a charm all of its own. Most notably in its colourful visuals that help add to the often anarchic proceedings.Like most Nintendo games, the childish graphics mask a tough challenge, with some tidy skills needed to prevail. Of course, as with every party,   there's a hangover close by.In Mario's case the basic game structure means that even the shortest possible permutation takes at least 30 minutes, with a full turn of 50 rounds taking hours.Also any loners would be best advised to seek alternative entertainment - the sober computerised competition means Mario Party 2 is simply not worth playing on your own. But while we wait for Mario to return to what he does best - rescue princesses, consume red mushrooms, that kind of thing - this will do nicely. (GH)
Fowl playThe star of Channel 4's Big Brother series now has its own game, which is being rush-released by Scarlet Software tomorrow for PCs at &#163;9.99. It may not have had   the intensive development time of Shenmue or the Final Fantasy series, but they don't have the 11 levels of shotgun-powered combat found in Revenge Of Marjorie The Chicken.A demo version of the game has apparently been a popular download at Marjorie's websitewww.marjoriethechicken.co.ukwhere you can order the full game.Flip thisFlipside.comis not just a new website for online gamers, it is also the place to collect "flips" and exchange them for prizes.Flipside has been created by merging two earlier sites, Won.net and Prizecentral.com, and the site is owned by Havas Interactive, the American consumer software giant that is a subsidiary of the huge French conglomerate, Vivendi. British players can enter the site athttp://uk.flipside.comNostalgiaGerry Anderson's Thunderbirds Are Go-ing to appear on Nintendo's Game Boy Color next month, in a game with 22 missions to complete, courtesy of SCi.Or, if you preferred Mr   Potato Head, as brought to life in the Toy Story films, he is now starring in Mr and Mrs Potato Head Go On Holiday (www.mrpotatohead.com), an educational PC game costing &#163;19.99.Nowadays, of course, some people are nostalgic not for toys but for the videogames of their childhood, and Hasbro Interactive is tapping into this market with Frogger 2: Swampy's Revenge, also &#163;19.99 for the PC and PlayStation.Swampy is a crocodile, and Frogger now has a girlfriend called Lillie. Presumably she used to be a princess...
Until recently, the only thing of interest about Linux for me was how to pronounce it ("Lih-nuks", according to my new manual). But that was before the challenge of being able to browse the web across my home network without mortagaging the house.In our kitchen a venerable Acorn A3000 sits at the centre of a Heath Robinson multimedia centre, providing computer, TV, CD, fax and email in the room we use the most. Although the old warrior, upgraded to a massive 8MB of memory, refuses to die, it has one limitation: a very slow serial port, making it next to useless for web browsing.Given that I use Mac OS at work, look after three versions of Windows on the home network and still use Acorn's Risc OS for preference, tackling yet another operating system,   would not be the first-choice solution.In fact, the first method I hit on was to download a proxy server on to the PC, which, after a couple of splutters, the A3000 browser happily picked up across the local area network, giving us access to unlimited Guardian Unlimited while waiting for the carrots to boil.But the proxy server was a demo - and the full version cost a cool $450 - a bit steep even for convenient access to the net's best news site. So how about taking up the proud claim that: "You have to spend nearly $5,000 for a 50-user licence for Windows NT at the time of this writing, whereas you can get much more (including more than 1,000 programs) from Linux for the cost of this book" (&#163;10 with CD in a remaindered shop).A first piece of advice: read the (expletive deleted) manual.   Linux may well be, as claimed, stable as a rock compared with Windows, logical and in open code for teccies; but intuitive it is not. I have cursed Windows' "unexpected errors" and pulled hair out at trying to get it to recognise a new piece of hardware (three weeks and several software reloads for an internal modem once), but a Linux instruction like:mount -t iso9600 /dev/cdrom/mnt/cdrom/which you have to type in just to be able to access the CD rom drive, brought on a sudden affection for Windows' point-and-click friendliness.The second surprise to a novice was the sheer size of Linux "distributions" - the term for the various collections of programs based around the Linux operating kernel put together by the leading suppliers like Red Hat, Caldera, Suse and Corel. The minimum hard disc   storage required is about 300MB, with about 1.2GB required for a full load (those 1,000 bonus programs). And you have to create space and a separate Linux partition on the disk to load all this into.I solved the problem by adding a second hard disc to my system. But if you don't fancy getting under the bonnet, some dealers offer ready-loaded hard disks (and will probably fit them) and shops like PC World are now even selling complete Linux systems.Third illusion shattered is how much knowledge of dead languages you need. Where Windows offers wizards to install system components, Linux has quotations from the Rosetta Stone. I wouldn't advise anyone attempting Linux without some familiarity with a text-based language   like DOS. The two main Linux graphical user interfaces, Gnome and KDE are fine, if a bit clunky, but virtually any tweaking of the system has to be done from a text command line (showing the derivation from Unix).Here's how to load WordPerfect, for instance, in one version I tried:cp guilg00.gz $HOME/tmpcd $HOME/tmpgunzip guilg00.gztar -xvf guilg00./runme.Try to get that right with dyslexic typing and fading eyesight.But I now have Linux Red Hat 6.2 loaded and I can do most desktop work with very acceptable word processor, spreadsheet and organiser programs.But... it will work only on relatively low resolution, I can't get sound, it can't find the network and I have yet to introduce it to the modem - which makes it extremely   slow to load as the Sendmail module searches high and low for it. So another illusion shattered: it makes Windows chuntering load sequence look like turbodrive.Needless to say, I haven't solved my problem of web access via the local area network (LAN).However, I'm persevering. In the short term, there's no cost-effective replacement for my kitchen computer - though the new generation of internet TV boxes (many of them ARM and Risc OS based) may provide the solution. And every new version of Linux is more user-friendly - and every new version of Microsoft software just as expensive.But for the idly curious, I can only repeat the on-screen warning as I tried to change the installation parameters to access the modem: "Unless you really knows what you're doing, don't play here."
Washing onlineThe wired kitchen, where connected appliances download new programs and recipes, is almost a reality -but only in Korea.  Hot on the heels of the internet fridge which it launched several months ago, LG has debuted its first internet washing machine.  The LG Internet Turbodrum aims to keep up with advances in washday technology by offering the user the chance to download new programs from the company's website. As it has no modem, the washing machine has to be connected to a PC to undertake the upgrades.LG is hoping to deliver a home network modem that will enables users to monitor and programme all their home appliances remotely.  And the fridge and washing machine will soon be joined by an intelligent microwave oven that can be connected to the net to download recipes. Britons will have to wait a little longer for the connected kitchen. The internet fridge goes on sale in the UK in January 2001 priced at around &#163;6,000, while the internet washing machine (expected price &#163;1,000) is due at the end of next year.Zip-ah-de doodahIf you sense a feeling of d&eacute;j&agrave; vu when you see Iomega's new Pocket Zip storage disks, you're not going mad.They are actually a re-branded version of the company's Clik! disk. The big difference is that Iomega has found new uses for its   technology.Next month Iomega debuts its first personal digital music player, the &#163;289.99 HipZip. The player stores MP3 and Windows Media Audio files on to a 40MB PocketZip.Unlike most of its rivals, the HipZip uses Windows Media Player 7 as its default software, which Iomega claims compresses data twice   so that the 40MB PocketZip can actually store 80MB worth of music.The player also features digital rights management (DRM) technology and has the backing of several record and book companies including EMI and Simon &amp; Schuster.The unit can also be upgraded to play back future formats including Dolby's AAC which some industry pundits predict will be the successor to MP3.Iomega claims its price is cheaper compared with rival smart memory cards: the 40MB PocketZips, bought in packs of 10, work out at &#163;8 each. Iomega promises that 100MB and 250MB PocketZips as well as pre-recorded   disks will also be on sale next year.  (AN)Let Audrey be your guideAudrey, one of a new breed of "lifestyle appliances", is an attempt to make accessing the internet as easy as using a TV set.  The $499 device provides one-touch access to email, pre-set internet channels, a household calendar, address book and Palm HotSync technology, to synchronise with two Palm-compatible handheld organisers. 3Com, the developer, says you can "simply scroll through the content with a turn of Audrey's channel selector knob".  Five channels (websites) have been set up for the US launch: ABC News, AccuWeather, ESPN (sport), CBS MarketWatch and MrShowbiz. Users can select another six channels from a short list. The European launch, expected next autumn, depends on 3Com "completing relationships with content partners to create the appropriate channels for &#91;European&#93; consumers", says a spokesman.Audrey has a built-in microphone, stereo speakers    and a V.90 (56k) modem, and can be operated using a stylus or an infra-red keyboard. It runs the QNX real-time operating system, and comes in five colours: ocean, meadow, sunshine, linen and slate. In the US, Honeywell has also started shipping the S7350A portable WebPad. This is much more expensive at $995, but has a wireless link to a base-station so it can be carried around the house. The WebPad uses Microsoft's Windows CE (originally, Consumer Electronics) operating system. See http://content.honeywell.com/ yourhome/  3Com's Audrey, Netpliance's i-Opener, various WebPad designs, Microsoft's MSN Companions and similar devices are all targeting an "information appliance" market that IDC (International Data Corporation) predicts will grow to 89 million units worth $17.8bn in 2004.Pick your own PCCompaq UK has started shipping a new range of 10 Presario PCs aimed at home/internet users. The range includes six desktop PCs - one microtower and five minitower designs - and four notebooks running Microsoft Windows Me (Millennium Edition).The desktop PCs use Compaq's My Style Accent Colour system, which lets users select colour panels and coloured speaker grilles to customise their machines.The ranges include Smokey Quartz (supplied as standard), green, red,   orange, blue and purple panels. Prices start at &#163;849 including VAT for a microtower system with a 700MHz AMD Duron processor and a DVD drive.Compaq has also started shipping a monochrome version of its small, fast handheld iPaq PocketPC for &#163;288 plus VAT. Two expansion sleeves, available at extra cost, enable the iPaq to be used with standard PCMCIA/PC Cards and CompactFlash cards, including GSM cards and 802.11b wireless local area network cards.   (JS)
It is a busy arcade in downtown Tokyo, but rather than the crackle of virtual gunfire, this one is alive with the sound of music. Two gyrating teenagers step swiftly around a dance pad, matching their feet to the onscreen commands, while nearby a middle-aged couple rhythmically shake maracas in time to the electronic samba.Welcome to the world of music videogames which, like Karaoke, are set to become the next big Japanese export. Known as Bemani in their native country, the games all work in a similar way: as a song starts the player must match moving arrows with those at the top of the screen. Depending on the title this could involve strumming a guitar, playing a keyboard or physically stepping on a   specific part of a dance pad.Emily Britt product assistant, of Konami, the official manufacturer, says: "These games are phenomenally popular in Japan and have sold about three million units altogether." And Britt feels it's more than just a trivial pastime: "These games are popular because they take their fun seriously over there, they practise at home, then they go and show off in the arcades. There are huge tournaments where competitors dance in front of packed auditoriums."Konami introduced the first machines into UK arcades in 1998 but the games are now coming to a far more culturally significant space (in the UK anyhow) - the home. The PlayStation and Dreamcast are the main emissaries, with each console   sporting a varied musical catalogue. But, while the last 18 months has seen the beginnings of an invasion, with games like Parappa the Rappa, Bust-a-Groove and the recent Space Channel 5, these games have all been controlled by the standard joypad.This summer saw the release of Beatmania, an accurate conversion of the arcade game, which actually came bundled with a plasticated all-in-one mini keyboard and turntable.   December sees the release of Sega's Samba de Amigo where the player connects a pair of maracas to the Dreamcast before shaking away to Ricky Martin and the rest. Finally, Konami is releasing Dancing Stage, which is best experienced using its 1 metre squared dance pad. So, rather than embarrassing yourself in public, you can learn your steps in private.Another significant factor in the success of music games has been the genre's wider appeal. The UK release of Dancing Stage has been bolstered by the inclusion of western-friendly tracks by Boyzone and Gloria Gaynor, which Britt sees as important."We're hoping that Dancing Stage will have a universal appeal as it's certainly a far cry from your traditional shoot 'em up or a   racing game," she says. The game even includes a calorie counter, making it possibly the first to ever to help you get fit. While seasoned Quake fanatics will choke on their pizza, it's likely that women, whom the mass-market needs if these videogames are ever to become truly mainstream, will be keen.However, there are problems for companies wishing to import this Japanese musical phenomenon into the UK. A combination of cultural differences and peripheral expense has made it hard for the genre to gain more than a niche foothold.While an average PlayStation game costs &#163;30, a musical controller can double the cost, making it less attractive than, say, the latest football game.Still, Britt is confident that there is a market in this country. "We have great expectations for Dancing Stage. It has wide appeal, the tracks are well known and popular. We're hoping it will appeal to peoples' sense of fun and humour, as well as their competitive streak."Traditional British reserve suggests that it may be a while before, in true Japanese style, stressed businessman work out their frustrations on an arcade dance machine. Still, in the home at least, there are signs that the growing number of dancing titles could become a viable alternative to driving or sports games.
Banking onlineWhere has Roger Willcocks been (People need banking not banks, October 19)?I'm aware that building societies are deeply unfashionable but at least he ought to check before making such a blanket condemnation.I have used a direct PC link to the Nationwide for years to manage my current account. I can check balances and pay regular bills up to month ahead to organisations for which I had made prior arrangement (eg services and credit cards). A transfer made one day will in general be executed the following morning. I also use Nationwide's ISP (internet service provider) which is reliable, fast, free and free from bull. What more does he want?Alec Williamsalec.williams@nationwideisp.netRoger Willcocks rightly draws attention to the state of the art of the banking world.I'm still waiting for an idea to be used that's so old, the patent has just expired: RSA encryption to digitally sign electronic cheques. Many people do not buy over the internet because they are dissatisfied with levels of security.Come on, banks, you only have another two months to get into the 20th century.Dave Nealedave.neale@btinternet.comWrong track?F1 is the most misunderstood genre. That was proved on October 19 when you reviewed two F1 games.I own both and I think you must have mixed them up. To say F1 Championship Season 2000 is realistic is a joke. Twitchy handling? Difficult overtaking? Didn't find that.Formula One 2000 (where, you can also lose your gears) is genius. It is the one with the twichy handling. Carbon chassis does fly all over the place. Also, the track map isn't unrealistic, considering many drivers have one on their steering wheel.Duncan Stephendoctorvee@yahoo.co.ukViral firstVictor Keegan reckons viral marketing was invented by Netscape half a dozen years ago. Get away. What about Unix?It was handed out free to academic institutions in the 1970s and infected thousands of CS students then, who advocated it in their earlier jobs and chose it when they had the opportunity.Unfortunately, too few had achieved adequate status before Windows came along.Sam NelsonSam.Nelson@cs.stir.ac.ukPage powerAll the talk about e-books appears to miss the fact that fluent readers scan chunks of text of up to a page at a time, often in paragraphs, and usually at least two or three lines.Boggling at a monitor is not comparable. Until a screen is adaptable enough to make available the equivalent of the double-pages of an ordinary book, with the comfortable seating at choice of the average reader, paper books will not only survive, but win.John RobertsJRmundialist@compuserve.comLicence fee"No one collects online licence fees" (Online, October 5). Well, they do. Online licences are and have been available for two years from the writers and publishers of music via their collection societies, MCPS &amp; PRS.Anyone using copyright music online should ensure they have both a performing and a mechanical licence. Seewww.mcps-prs-alliance.co.ukTerri AndersonThe MCPS-PRS Alliance, LondonTo e- or not to eTo hyphen or not to hyphen: that is the question. E-books, e-commerce, e-literature... so why does the hyphen disappear when we refer to email?Geoffrey Woodcockglw@liverpool.ac.ukBugs bashedGuy Clapperton (Time to give the bugs a bashing, October 19) describes a recent bug in a program called rhnsd which is part of Red Hat Linux 7.0. This leaks file descriptors.But why doesn't Guy tell us the rest of the story? It isn't a security flaw at all, but simply a program that forgets to close   files it has opened. This would cause a Linux machine to start behaving strangely after about three weeks, but to most users of Microsoft operating systems, three weeks of continuous crash-free running is close to an eternity.The bug was reported by a user on October 4 via Red Hat's bug-reporting website, http://bugzilla.redhat.com/ bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=18345 Within four hours, another user had pinpointed the problem in the source code and posted it to the same site.Red Hat released a fixed version of rhnsd within a week and made it available for free:www.redhat.com/support/errata/RHBA-2000-081-06.html.Can anyone imagine a bug in a Microsoft product being fixed with such alacrity, and discussed so publicly on the company website?Dr David HarperCambridgeHappy surferSince signing up for Freeserve's service, which complements BT's SurfTime, I have had no problems worth moaning about.Yes, there have been times where the line has been engaged, but redialling has got me on track pretty quick.Unlike Bernard Harper (Feedback, October 19), my online speeds have matched my modem's capabilities, and if he read the conditions of Freeserve's service, he would realise that being kicked off after two hours is exactly what they state will happen.Before whingeing, my advice would be to check the small print before clicking on that Agree button. Some of us acutually do, you know.Paul GrahamEmail address withheldIdiot overloadVictor Keegan's "information overload" (Second sight, October 19) is nothing to do with information. The inability to keep your fingers off the keys, like the inability to keep your gob shut, signifies nothing so much as the tiny brain of a corporate nobody devoured by a terrible sense of insecurity.Perhaps calling all those "managers" and "executives" by titles more descriptive of their real functions - clerks, secretaries, and bean-counters - might puncture their self-importance to the extent that they spend less time reminding the rest of the world of their existence and more doing some work.Root CartwrightRadlett Herts
Prime minister Tony Blair and education secretary David Blunkett today launched learndirect, a new online initiative that aims to give adult education a 21st century internet boost.The scheme allows learners to choose from a range of over 400 courses, most of which are available over the internet, in a wide range of areas, such as business, technology and other basic skills. More than 700 centres are also opening.The initiative is being run by the University for Industry (UfI), a public-private partnership that has been created to promote and innovate within lifelong learning in England, Wales and Northern Ireland.The learndirect scheme "represents a revolution in learning," said Mr Blunkett, who was speaking at an event to mark the opening of a learndirect centre in Stratford, East London, today."By grasping the opportunities of new technology, it offers a unique way of reaching more people in new and exciting ways and engaging them in learning to boost their own employability," he explained.Dr Anne Wright, chief executive of UfI, said: "Over 36,000 people have already tried online learning through learndirect as part of our national pilot. Nine out of ten say they would recommend it."This is hugely encouraging and demonstrates real enthusiasm for this revolutionary new way of learning."Mr Blunkett also announced a further 10m of funding for Ufi to provide a fleet of branded learndirect vehicles - mobile learning centres - to bring learning to the doorsteps of small businesses, including those in rural areas.Useful linkslearndirectThe University for Industry
Plenty of unpleasant things lurk online. Bomb-making and bestiality are two of them. Paedophilia, however, is a different matter.The drive to exorcise paedophiles from the internet has been just as remorseless as the News of the World's campaign to publish their whereabouts - and, to the casual observer, considerably more effective.Most web hosting companies take down any child pornography they find and report the perpetrators to the home office and the Internet Watch Foundation.British ISP Demon Internet doesn't tolerate paedophile newsgroups either, and will contact the police if they are found on Demon servers.Move them on, officer. Fair enough. No one wants to be responsible for harbouring paedophile activity. But cracking down on any illegal vice - whether it is kerb crawling, drug trafficking or paedophilia - tends to mean the trade reappears elsewhere.Patrick Green chose to use private chatrooms, rather than public websites, to introduce himself to a young girl in the guise of a 15-year-old boy. He then started to email her, enclosing naked photographs of himself.Green was yesterday jailed for five years in the first such conviction of its kind.No amount of web policing could have prevented Green from doing this, because the space he operated in was outside the public domain. Just as the law of indecent exposure can only apply in a public place, private chatrooms are beyond the ambit of police surveillance.The new RIP Bill would certainly have made it easier for police to access his emails once they suspected something, but because Green was impersonating another teenager, scanning for words like "paedophile" would probably have been unsuccessful.It's easy to report the dodgy-looking character hanging around outside a school to the police. It's even easier to tell the Internet Watch Foundation about a dubious site.In the same way that children already know why they shouldn't accept sweets and lifts from strangers, perhaps we should tell them why emails can be dangerous, too.Chatrooms are a kind of online playground. Anyone venturing outside them for a private meeting does so at their own risk.Useful links5 years for man who lured girl through internetInternet Watch Foundation
A paedophile who used an internet chatroom to entice a 13-year-old girl to his home for sex was yesterday jailed for five years in the first conviction of its kind.Patrick Green, 33, a divorced exports clerk from Iver Heath in Buckinghamshire, logged on to a chatroom called Younger Girls for Older Men and exchanged messages with the girl for two months, gaining her trust before arranging a meeting and then abusing her.Green pleaded guilty to two counts of indecent assault, four counts of unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor and one count of attempted unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor.He also admitted eight counts of possessing indecent photographs of children and further charges of abduction were ordered by the judge to remain on file.Passing sentence at Aylesbury crown court, Judge Christopher Tyrer described Green as a "predator" and ordered him to remain on the sex offenders' register for life.He said: "The victim of your sexual offences was a child. She was naive and vulnerable to predators like you. She was a virgin, she had no previous boyfriends or sexual partners or experience. You engaged her interest through an internet chat room in a deliberate and premeditated course of conduct."He said children were encouraged to use the internet for educational purposes and their curiosity was bound to   lead them to explore sites they should avoid. "Those who exploit children the way you do should expect serious sentences. This was premeditated, persistent and determined."Judge Tyrer said that he had passed a long sentence because of the "disgraceful betrayal of a girl's innocence".The court heard how Green, who had no previous convictions, had posed as a 15-year-old boy while using internet chatrooms. In a two-month cyber relationship with the teenager, he had sent her pictures of himself naked which he said had been taken by his last 13-year-old girlfriend.Green then arranged a series of secret meetings by flattering the teenager via the chatroom. He sent her messages saying: "I believe the way we feel about each other will mean we will always stay together - I'm lucky to have you in my life."He also said that she was a caring, loving and wonderful person, and told her in a later message: "I don't want you to be afraid of me. If you decide to meet me we will meet in a public place to be safe."He arranged a series of secret meetings at Sutton Railway station in Surrey, from where he took her to his flat in Buckinghamshire.Robert Spencer, for the prosecution, told the court: "From an early stage he was communicating with her in a deliberate and calculated manner... He was exciting and encouraged her to become a willing sexual partner."Green was eventually arrested in Cumbria on his way to meet another 14-year-old girl he had met online and   arranged to spend the weekend with in Blackpool.Thames Valley police, who led the investigation, said: "This is the first time that somebody convicted of these offences has used the internet to meet his victims and this sentence should send a strong message to other offenders."Even though the technology used is still fairly new, the police have the ability to use this same technology to gather evidence against offenders and use this to prosecute them."The victim's parents said they believed the judge was right to give Green a longer than average sentence. "As parents, no sentence seems long enough, when this man took from our daughter something that can never be given back."Safety: monitoring web access&#149; Install your child's computer in a communal area, such as the living room so children are not isolated with the net.&#149; Tell your child never to divulge the name of their school or their sports and subject interests online - school timetables are often published on the internet and could lead to the child being tracked down.&#149; Install an internet filter. These work by stopping a child downloading sites on the filter's "badlist", for example those including violence, intolerance or sex. There are seven leading filters available in the UK. Seewww.internetwatch.org.uk,  which features a WHICH? report on the best products.&#149; Some filters vet newsgroups, chatrooms and emails and stop children sending personal details such as addresses. These include Cyber Patrol (tel: 01293 651300), Cyber Sentinel (01932 255480), AOL Parental Controls (0800 3765432) andwww.netnanny.com&#149; queries or report illegal sites on the Internet Watch Foundation hotline on 08456 008844&#149;The DfEE offers an children's internet safety pack. Call 0845 6022260&#149; Microsoft Explorer and Netscape Communicator have features in their browsers which allow parents to choose the sites they would like their child to access.&#149; Choose a specialist children's internet service provider, such as Kidz.Net or Planet Kids which limit children to pre-approved sites.&#149; The internet safety organisationCyberangelsprovides advice on monitoring sites.
News Corporation has cut about 15% of the editorial jobs at News Digital Media, its online media division, in the latest sign of the axe being wielded across the news media sector.About a dozen journalists working for Foxnews.com were laid off on Friday as the company decided to scale back its news gathering operations. The cost-cutting exercise came days after Rupert Murdoch, head of News Corporation, cast doubts on the value of the internet in comments made to shareholders in Adelaide.A spokeswoman for the company told Reuters that the positions were cut because the company has decided to narrow its focus to national and political news.Reporters covering science and technology were among those to be laid off from a newsroom staffed by more than 80 people. News Digital Media employed about 475 people in total before the recent job cuts.The New York-based division was founded three years ago by James Murdoch, the mogul's youngest son, who was largely credited with changing his father's mind about the value of the internet. Since then, James has moved to Hong Kong to run his father's satellite television operations in Asia.The reorganisation after his departure has included a plan to move NDM's sports newsroom from New York to Los Angeles. About 20 staff members are understood to have decided to leave the company rather than relocate.The downsizing by News Corporation and several other online news sites comes as a study by consultancy Challenger, Grey and Christmas was released yesterday which revealed that job cuts at internet companies have risen by 18% between September and October. The online specialists also predicted that the trend would accelerate in the run-up to Christmas.Several online media companies have laid off staff in recent months as the market for new technology companies has crashed and funding has dried up. News.com reported that four senior executives of NBC Internet, the online division of the television company, resigned yesterday.The company has already announced plans to cut 20% of its staff by the end of the year in an attempt to stem losses.Last week, Red Herring Communications, which runs the eponymous website and magazine, cut 25 jobs - around 7% of the workforce. Last month, Space.com, the high-profile start-up founded by a former CNN anchor, laid off a fifth of its staff.
A teenage entrepreneur has made &#163;300,000 by selling a website he set up in his bedroom 18 months ago to a company planning to build a global multi-media firm focused on the Jewish community.Benjamin Cohen, 18, from Elstree in north London, has sold his sojewish.net website to AIM-listed Totally in return for shares. The site, which was set up in 1997, originally featured a cyber-rabbi, agony aunt and business listings. It now includes synagogue listings and kosher recipes.Totally has also bought London Jewish News, a free newspaper with a shareholding in sojewish, for around &#163;3m, including &#163;1.5m debt.London Jewish News has a circulation of 40,000. Revenues in the year to December 1999 were &#163;720,000. It is forecast to break even next year.The present owner is Michael Sinclair, a prominent businessman in the Jewish community who will become non-executive chairman of the enlarged group.Totally chief executive Steve Burns said the company planned to break into the US market by buying a Jewish television station or newspaper. An approach for the Jerusalem Post, owned by Conrad Black's Hollinger Group and valued at around &#163;100m, has been rejected. Observers believe virtualjerusalem.com   or one of the Jewish TV channels in the US could be a target."We want to build a Jewish-focused group that can achieve critical mass, harness serious sales and marketing skills and become a sizeable and profitable concern," Mr Burns said.Totally was set up to create specialist websites for defined communities.Its existing Jewish assets include Totallyjewish.com.Mr Burns hopes to emulate ZeeTV, which has focused on the British Asian community after buying a series of television, print and film assets. He believes that in time his media group will expand into Jewish-focused restaurants, clubs and travel services.
Senior US diplomats have praised the efforts of Tony Blair's government to capture the drive and productivity of Britain's emerging technology and internet sectors and help them turn the domestic economy into Europe's top performer, according to documents obtained by the Guardian.In private dispatches to Washington this year, officials at the US Embassy in London have reported that US firms "have taken notice of how the one-time 'sick man of Europe' is now the economic leader" on the continent".They added that Britain's hi-tech entrepreneurs have cast off the old "British reserve" and are now imbued with a new "can-do" spirit.A campaign to increase trade between US and British firms should "go a long way to fulfilling the needs of our new generation of exporters," the Americans wrote.The officials wrote in June: "As New Labour enters its fourth year in power, the government is taking action to build on the macro-economic success it enjoys in having created the strongest UK economy in more than two decades."By introducing new policies and legislation to foster entrepreneurs and the emerging technologies needed to transform the economy, the government intends to increase productivity, and hence UK global competitiveness, far into the 21st century."In March, the officials had told colleagues in Washington: "The prime minister and the New Labour government have set out to make the UK the economic engine of the EU, with e-commerce and emerging technologies the means to achieve this goal."The reports underline how the embassy has been working closely with the "highest levels" of the Blair government to encourage American firms to invest in Britain. Ambassador Philip Lader has met chancellor Gordon Brown and trade and industry secretary Stephen Byers several times.In the spring, a team of embassy officials were tasked to investigate "Britain's second industrial revolution, the change to an information-based economy".The diplomats reported: "The team criss-crossed 'Silicon Fen', the area surrounding Cambridge, to meet the inventors, entrepreneurs, academics, venture capitalists and officials that have turned this area into Europe's leading area of innovation."They added that a "rapidly increasing number" of American IT and internet companies were seeking business partners in this "hotbed of cutting-edge technology companies".The embassy reports were disclosed to the Guardian under the US freedom of information act.They show that the Americans were pleased with a conference which they organised in March this year on new technologies."One event, a panel discussion by local 'start-up' business leaders most of whom are now billionaires, epitomised the switch from the old 'British reserve' to the new 'can-do' approach of UK industry - with US technology and partners."Despite the diplomatic backslapping, many industry executives are concerned   with the latest corporate developments in Britain. Smaller start-ups say provisions for share options in their profit and loss accounts - recommended by the Accounting Standards Board - could cost the industry billions.The government's controversial regulation of investigatory powers (Rip) bill, which relates to computer communications, was deemed so draconian that companies such as Nokia and Yahoo! warned they might move from British shores.The chief executive of one UK internet success story said: "What the government has got to stop doing is treating the internet as a photo opportunity and more as a serious commercial prospect."Live wire ideasTony Blair pledged to put electronic business at the heart of the British economy. Initiatives included:&#149;Appointment ofPatricia Hewittas e-commerce minister.&#149;Working withOftelto foster competition in telecoms markets and drive down the cost of net access.&#149;A 100% first year capital allowances for IT investment bysmall businesses.&#149;Gettingschoolsonline and fostering students' IT skills.&#149;A national network ofonline business advisers, helping firms go online.&#149;TheElectronic Communications Actprovided for electronic signatures to be admissible as evidence in legal proceedings.
A 16-year-old American who made hundreds of thousands of dollars by using internet bulletin boards to manipulate the price of shares he owned has said he does not think there is anything wrong with the practice.Jonathan Lebed, who lives in New Jersey, bought his parents a $40,000 Mercedes car after surrendering $285,000 in profits from the scam and promising the securities and exchange commission that he would not do it again.Jonathan, who is not old enough to smoke or drive legally, earlier this year became the youngest person to be charged with illegal stock dealing. Last month he agreed to hand over $285,000 to the SEC to settle civil charges that he fraudulently committed stock deals that netted him about $800,000 over a two-year period."Yes &#91;I manipulated stocks&#93;, but I wasn't doing anything wrong ... I wasn't posting any false information," Jonathan told CBS's 60 Minutes in his first interview last night.Jonathan told the programme how he made a fortune from "pumping and dumping" shares. That involves buying a stock, tipping it in internet chat rooms and selling when the price rises.However, he said he was merely highlighting a number of undervalued companies "that would be worth a lot more if everybody knew about it".SEC chairman Arthur Levitt saw it differently. Jonathan, he said, "used fictitious names. The purpose... was not to help investors... but rather to line his own pockets as soon as he hyped the price of the stock."Jonathan's father Greg was proud of his son's gains. "He earned it. He did a lot of work. He didn't sit behind a garage smoking pot, or stealing wheels off a car."
In a world in which more and more cars look like they have been designed by someone taking a hairdryer to a block of soft cheese, the Beetle is a breath of fresh air. Among the bizarre mobile closets, family spaceships and executive aircraft on the road, it will invariably raise a smile of recognition. It's a smile that seems to be beamed back at you by the design, a simple collection of arcs and circles, bug eyes and a snub nose.No wonder Hitler called it his "Strength-Through-Joy Car". His dream was that every member of his "workforce" should have a car - a Volksauto. The idea was quietly written off as absurd when he insisted they must be sold for under 1,000 Reichmarks (&#163;85) but one engineer - a certain Dr Ferdinand Porsche - took up the challenge, partly because it coincided with his own ideas for an economy car. Workers paid for the car with a stamp system, accruing tokens that could eventually be swapped for a vehicle.Production was temporarily halted by the second world war but by 1955 no fewer than a million Beetles had scuttled off the assembly line. German production of the original Beetle ended in 1978, but it is still manufactured in Mexico. So when VW radically updated the design a couple of years ago, giving those charming Herbie looks a no less charming turn-of-the-millennium makeover, it was religiously referred to as the New Beetle. The new addition to the range has a 1.6 engine instead of the 2-litre GTi, and does away with the alloy wheels and the air conditioning. More importantly, it costs &#163;2,000 less.The New Beetle has remained    faithful to the vehicle's shape. It looks a little like an Audi TT that has been driven through a hall of mirrors, giving it a more dome-like roof without sacrificing that chunky, wide stance   on the road, with arches that create the effect of oversized wheels. The two arcs meet to form the back, which is elegant, simple and looks like it belongs. (Why is it that so many cars look like they've left the garage with the wrong backside?)But all of this is really a cosmetic memory of the original. Mechanically it is very different. The VW after-dinner joke about the woman who stops to help a fellow motorist, claiming she has a spare engine in the boot, is now gratifyingly extinct. Flip up the tailgate on the new one and you will discover that they kept everything so neat back there by assuming that you travel rather light.It's quite difficult to comprehend that as you go nipping along the road because the expanse between the steering wheel and the windscreen stretching out towards the horizon could quite happily accommodate a small wedding reception. It's one of the pay-offs of being design-led, like the limited back seats. But for the driver it gives a feeling of being right in the middle of an oval shell, which in turn makes the handling feel immediate. Beetling along with enough room above your head for a fairly extensive afro, you almost expect the vehicle to be ungainly around corners, and to lean forward   during braking. But there is very little hangover - it handles like a buggy. And all that room between you and the engine, plus the safety-conscious heavy doors, means good soundproofing. The time lag before acceleration when you hit the floor in second or third is understandably longer with the smaller engine, but it still feels unexpectedly responsive for its unaggressive, soft shaping.Add the airbags, Conran-style handbrake, pretty displays, Electronic Stability Programme (which senses slipping and automatically corrects it by individually braking each wheel), sporty suspension, beverage whatnots and electrically heated this-that-and-the-other and you can see how far it has come from being a basic people's wagon.One other distinguishing feature of the original Beetle has also gone: the ludicrous farmyard farting that used to herald its arrival. That indestructible plodder of an engine, which didn't so much rev as snore, has been replaced by VW's hugely successful 2-litre from the Golf GTi, or, in the latest model, the new 1.6.And what's this? Just between the steering wheel and the dash there is a small plastic funnel. It won't hold a pen, a coffee, a map or a 20p. Maybe it's a valve to stick your lips round and blow up the airbags. The manual is having no jokes about this little homage to the car's hippy status in the Herbie films: "No articles should be kept in the vase when the vehicle is in motion. This could be a potential danger during a sudden braking manoeuvre as the contents of the vase could fly out and distract the driver from what is happening on the road." Just imagine getting a face full of daffodils when you switch on the air conditioning. Tricky.But it's a little emblematic reminder that this is a car with character, and has managed to hang on to it while getting bang up to date. For some drivers, character is a bad word. Character equals frivolous. They want something that looks like a "serious bit of kit". But they can keep their motorised willies - this is much more fun.The lowdownVolkswagen Beetle 1.6Price:&#163;12,995Acceleration:0-62mph in 11.6 secsTop speed:111mphConsumption:36.7mpg (combined)At the wheel:BodOn the way to:InterfloraOn the stereo:Herbie Hancock
Media industry executives who once viewed the internet as a serious threat to their business, soon grew to love it once dot.coms started spending billions of dollars on advertising. But now the fear may be coming back.Dot.com advertising - which reached its apogee when Pets.com appeared during the Super Bowl, the most expensive television event in America - is drying up, and traditional media companies are suffering.The impact of a declining internet sector, combined with an expected economic slowdown, has dawned on media industry analysts as the days have drawn longer. Last week's wobbles on Wall Street were partly prompted by once cheerleading analysts warning of the coming slowdown in advertising spending.Among the hardest hit by this autumnal crisis in confidence to date have been online companies themselves. Shares in Yahoo! and Doubleclick, which depend on their internet peers for a large percentage of their revenues, have been crushed in the past month. Yahoo lost more than 200 online advertisers during the past quarter as dot.coms either cut their spending or went bust.Even the mighty America Online, which takes money from more than 24m subscribers before it even starts charging advertisers, has been hurt by the dot.com fallout. The stock market value of the world's largest internet service provider has fallen so sharply - halving since the beginning of the year - that shareholders in Time Warner, the media group being taken over by AOL, have now started to question the value of the deal.But the downturn is also being felt by traditional media companies. The question is, how much will it hurt?In a report issued last week, Merrill Lynch, once the most bullish of US investment banks, revised its 2001 estimate for growth in domestic advertising expenditure from 7% to between 5.5 and 6%.The dot.com fallout was the main reason for the downgrade, although rising inflation and lower corporate profits across the board also played a large part.Last year, when fledgling companies thought nothing of paying top dollar for the most expensive advertising slots in the world, traditional media companies such as television networks and newspapers earned an estimated $3.5bn-$4bn from dot.coms, according to Merrill Lynch. Anecdotal evidence of this spending came when webzines such as Wired grew fatter than telephone directories.Until last week, Merrill Lynch expected this spending to increase to between $7bn-$8bn this year. Lauren Fine, the bank's media and publishing analyst, admits that these figures were based on the assumption that "dot.coms could do no wrong". Last week, some time after they started to go wrong in a big way, she chopped $2bn from her 2000 estimates and remains pessimistic about 2001.Most industry analysts expect the pain to be felt most keenly by national radio stations and newspaper groups in the US as opposed to broadcast networks. Figures from the Radio Advertising Bureau of America suggest that month-by-month sales growth more than halved from 25% in May to 10% in August. In the fourth quarter, revenues are expected to increase by a less than staggering 0-5% before falling again next year.Advertising revenues at national newspaper groups such as Gannett, which publishes USA Today, and the New York Times are also expected to slow significantly next year.Some media executives were at pains to suggest that the glass was half full rather than half empty last week. Gerald Levin, the head of Time Warner, was contemptuous of the panic stalking the industry. He described talk of a dot.com shakeout as "a kind of nervous Nellie".Rupert Murdoch took a different approach when speaking to shareholders of News Corporation. This latecomer to the dot.com party admitted that advertising sales for the Fox television network looked "a little uncertain" and explicitly blamed the downturn in dot.com spending.In some ways, both men are right. Dot.com's share of television and radio advertising in America's biggest markets during 1999 - its peak - reached 13-15%. The 20 largest hi-tech companies in America - giants such as Microsoft and Dell - contribute about 5% of total national advertising expenditure.Huge media companies like the proposed AOL Time Warner, with assets that stretch from the internet to print, cable and film, will still attract advertising from traditional sources such as food and drug companies.The worry is that, without the competition from little-known brands trying to make a name for themselves and with the added pressures of higher prices, advertisers will no longer be willing to pay a fortune to advertise. Media industry executives could then become nervous Nellies indeed.
More than a third of orders for goods placed via the internet cause problems - including fraud, misplaced or forgotten orders and late deliveries - according to the Institute of Trading Standards.In one study officials had difficulties with 38 per cent of their orders. In another, they found that 25 per cent of websites were insecure.Jennifer Mundie, a market trader of Mintlaw, Aberdeenshire, ordered &#163;554 of Pok&eacute;mon goods from a Chinese website. She realised she had been defrauded when customers returned the children's toys complaining they were fake. 'I felt terrible,' she said after refunding the cash. 'I felt like a criminal because I had sold these items, when in fact I was a victim.'Other dotcom victims were Phil Dart and Karen Gianfreda. After buying a Caribbean holiday worth &#163;2,700 on the web they arrived at their island resort to find one beach (not two as advertised) strewn with signs warning of falling rocks, poisonous fruit and tree sap that caused skin blisters. Swimming in the sea was not allowed and an advertised roller-blading track did not exist.In the first survey, trading standards officials tried to make purchases through 102 British-based internet sites. Some sites veered towards the fraudulent. One officer tried to buy a penknife from a company based in south-west England only for the site to crash after credit card details had been entered. A postal address and telephone number given on the site were false. 'The firm only existed on the internet,' said Simon Cripwell, a trading standards spokesman.For 17 per cent of orders, goods simply failed to appear, either forgotten, out of stock or blamed on 'system crashes'.Most consumer worries about internet shopping have focused on security and giving credit card details over the net. The second survey, of 70 sites, found such concerns are justified: a quarter of sites investigated were insecure - credit card data were not encrypted before being transmitted. Officers also expressed concerns about inaccurate price information and misleading advertising on a third of these 70 sites.'Just as you would avoid disreputable-looking shops in the high street, so you should avoid sites on the internet which look dubious,' said Alan Stevens, in charge of internet-based training for the Consumers' Association. Shoppers should steer clear of sites which ask for credit card details by e-mail or which do not give a telephone number or physical address. A failure to respond to e-mail enquiries is also a bad sign.The CA runs a 'kitemark' scheme whereby internet sites that have met security standards and abide by an accepted code of commercial practice display a red and grey coloured ' Which? Web Trader' logo.Reduce the risks:  how to minimise the dangers of being defrauded when internet shopping:* Don't give credit card details by email.* Avoid buying from sites that don't give a telephone number or physical address.* Look for the Consumers' Association kitemark, the ' Which? Web Trader' logo.
The Guinness Book of Records is to launch its first foray on the internet. 'It's not the book online,' says Stephen Nelson, chief executive of Guinness World Records. 'We have a very powerful search function, and a rich database.'The site,Guinnessworldrecords.com, will be aimed mainly at 15- to 25-year-olds, and aims to build a community by extensive use of video, and by offering a facility for sending e-cards of particularly photogenic record-holders, such as the world's most pierced lady.Nelson says: 'A Guinness World Record is an aspirational achievement with very broad appeal, from Olympians to people who can swallow a large number of worms in 60 seconds.'Sadly there is no innovative e-commerce business model to capitalise on this. The site aims to be in the top 10 of entertainment websites, but its main source of revenue will be advertising.
Priceline.com Europe, the offshoot of the troubled US internet firm which allows customers to name the price they are prepared to pay for flights, car hire and other goods and services, is to adopt a low-key approach when it launches in the UK within the next two weeks.In a move which illustrates how internet companies are becoming more cautious about how they spend their cash - the fear of the so called 'burn rate' - the company will not proceed with a full-scale marketing campaign until the start of next year.A large online campaign will start when the site is launched in the UK, but the company decided against   paying higher offline advertising costs before Christmas. Instead it believes a so-called 'soft' launch now, aimed at attracting the early adopters, followed by a full-blown campaign in the first quarter of next year is a better use of its &#163;10 million marketing budget.The company also says that it has learnt from the problems suffered by some of the online banks who were inundated by swarms of internet users after they launched in a wave of publicity. A quieter approach, Priceline Europe believes, will allow it to address any teething problems early on.Priceline Europe is a joint venture betweenPriceline.com, the US firm which was once valued at more than $17   billion but is now worth less than $1bn, and venture capital firm General Atlantic Partners.The joint venture made headlines earlier this year when it pulled off a major management coup by appointing Dennis Malamatinas, the respected boss of Burger King, as its chief executive officer. At the time Malamatinas said he was attracted to the company because it was a 'genuine' idea suited to the internet.The company has patented its own internet pricing system which allows web users to type in the price they want to pay for goods and services. The more flexible consumers are prepared to be - for instance if they are prepared   to fly from a range of airports rather than any specific one - the greater the discounts.However, despite claims by the US company's founder, Jay Walker, that Priceline's business model could be extended into any area, the business has already had to pull out of a number of ventures such as Priceline WebHouse Club, which allowed consumers to bid for cut-price groceries. A plan to launch a specialised online credit card was also dropped.A further blow came in recent weeks when the company warned of an impending downturn in airline ticket sales, which account for more than four-fifths of its revenues.
Welcome to the aftermath of the old economy. In the race between Europe's new 'just-in-time, 24-hours-a-day, seven-days-a-week' super-states, we are in danger of losing our ability to manage the expectations of an increasingly wired society. Technology can help fulfil our ambitions, but it doesn't do much for people who can't afford ambition.A warning comes from the heart of the internet revolution, the US. A Gartner Group report has found that a whole generation of up to 50 million Americans could become 'functionally illiterate' in the future due to a lack of knowledge of, or access to, the internet.Gartner found that just 35 per cent of adults in the lower-socio-economic-status bracket had internet access, compared with 53 per cent in the lower-middle, 79 per cent in the upper-middle, and 83 per cent in the top bracket.The report identified three digital divides: access to the internet; a skills gap between those who know how to benefit from the internet and those who don't; and speed of access to the internet.As the posturing over cheap, unmetered internet access continues, and the availability of broadband (ADSL &amp; cable) increases, a danger exists that this third divide - between those with high-speed access and those without - may leave non-metropolitan areas disadvantaged.In many respects this threat mirrors the socio-economic gaps in PC ownership today and raises the unacceptable prospect of second-class access to the information super-highway. In Brit-ain, where a quarter of homes are believed to have access to the internet, one can sit comfortably inside the well-connected embrace of the M25 and imagine the benefits of the new dot-communism reaching equally in all directions. But look less than a hundred miles into the South East, as far as Margate perhaps, and the gap between new- and old-economy imagination and aspiration starts to resemble a chasm.Where does one draw the line between one industrial era and another? Is the criterion for an advanced information society really as simple as counting the number of electronic messages that pass between individuals and companies? According to the latest government-sponsored survey, 27 per cent of UK businesses are now using the internet. Scotland leads, with 29 per cent of companies trading online. But compare these figures with private-sector research. Although Ministers claim that the UK is on a par with Germany, the US and Sweden, PricewaterhouseCoopers recently announced that Germany was leading Europe in online transactions.Uncomfortable facts of early twenty-first century life are that we live in a time of profound and complex change in a global economy constantly pursuing   the highest profits and lowest transaction costs and that the remains of our manufacturing base is increasingly moving overseas. Unskilled Indonesians may pack processors for a few dollars a day, but a skilled European information worker can command more than &#163;50,000 a year. Between these two extremes, and in every industrial society, there are populations who are too poor and unskilled to share in the new affluence; whose opportunities are increasingly restricted by economic and political forces outside their control.Throughout Europe, governments are anticipating a long-term devastation of the retail and public sector workforce caused by 'disintermediation': the elimination of the middleman by the arrival of the 'just-in-time' forces of information and communications technology (ICT). But the forces of progress carry the seeds of their own acute skills crisis. No single nation has a large enough pool of information-literate workers available to sustain the rapid growth in the global networked economy.The Institute of Directors has 50,000 members from across the old and new economy spectrum. For many, commercial ambition is increasingly constrained by the people factor. While optimism remains high, ICT employment costs are spiralling, and in the absence of a silicon-savvy workforce any vision of economic utopia appears increasingly distant. Understandably, Professor Jim Norton, the IoD's director of e-business development, believes human capital is our ultimate resource. 'Bridging the digital divide and enfranchising all of our population in the e-economy must be the Government's top priority,' he says.In the race to wire UK society into the internet, the Government has a vision, a budget and an initiative. The UK Online project, directed by Department for Education and Employment Minister Michael Wills, has set itself the ambitious target of full digital emancipation within five years. A new research centre is to be created to investigate the impact of new technology and will lead the efforts to end the so-called digital divide before it becomes a problem of acute social exclusion.Facing the prospect of a lost generation, how do governments plan to re-engineer the workforce to meet the demands of a global networked economy?Wills sees the UK Online project meeting the challenge, with two core priorities. 'First, the internet revolution isn't happening for everyone. Every person has the right to access and participate in these technologies. Second, we need to make sure that we have the right skills base. Alongside this comes another range of priorities; the right use of ICT in schools and communities. In the medium to long term, we have to close the skills gap in society. In the short term, and like every OECD country, we have a shortage of people with the right skills, and we have to tackle this head on and in a variety of ways.'In Wills' opinion: the principal challenges that governments need to address urgently are hardware, software and connectivity. 'The danger of a "third-divide" appearing is enormously important, which is why we are encouraging the widest kind of competition from telecommunications carriers. While we have a quite well developed cable industry, government needs to immediately target the danger of rural deprivation, and we wish to find innovative ways of reaching disadvantage and deprivation.   The truth is that in 20 years we will have got there - but we have to get there quicker than that.'While nobody would doubt that the Prime Minister's own commitmentto rapid action, investment and education are a vital first step in devising a strategy to address a growing skills deficit, there is a harsher macro-economic big picture to consider. Do we in Europe have, like the Americans, a lost generation of our own, a thirtysomething workforce intel lectually and emotionally unprepared for the changes and challenges ahead?The new 'knowledge economy' will be a harsh environment for the common man. While a universal grasp of and access to ICT will emancipate more people in the device space of the web, one must question whether UK Online can deliver a central part of its vision in time. Can it swiftly produce the army of skilled and educated experts required to run tomorrow's new economy today?
