The taxi giantUberis reviewing its systems in the UK after an investigation raised questions about the robustness of its approval procedures for driver documents.Related:Uber drivers threaten rebellion against the $40bn companyDrivers have claimed that as Uber expands rapidly, the system is vulnerable to cheating by those looking to save money following reductions in Uber’s fares – a claim denied by the insurgent technology firm.The Guardian demonstrated that a driver was able to pick up a paying customer having provided fake insurance paperwork via its computerised system. Some drivers fear that breaches in the technology could put customers’ safety at risk.The regulator Transport for London (TfL) has now launched an investigation into Uber over the breach.The San Fransisco-based technology company has 15,000 drivers in London working through its smart-phone app. It has been valued at more than $40bn (£26bn) and has expanded rapidly in cities around the world.Uber’s driver approval system encourages them to submit renewals of insurance, driving licences and MOT certificates through the internet “to save time and costs of coming in to the office”.The Guardian worked with a whistleblower who wanted to test Uber’s system after hearing that other drivers may be trying to find loopholes to cut costs. Insurance premiums for new drivers in the UK can cost up to £4,000 ($6,200) a year.Fake insurance documents created by the Guardian.Photograph: The GuardianHe uploaded an entirely fabricated insurance policy under the logo of a made-up insurance company, “Freecover”, and Uber approved him to pick up customers.“Photoshopping is what everyone is talking about,” said another Uber driver on condition of anonymity. “With the fares coming down you have to look at other ways of exploiting the system.”It was impossible to verify how widespread such attempts to cheat the system are, and Uber said drivers attempting to use fake documents would be reported to the police.Jo Bertram, the regional general manager for Uber in the UK, Ireland and Nordics, said the breach of its vetting procedure with the Freecover document was “a unique situation”. She strongly denied there was a wider problem with the company’s “very robust” document handling.“It is absolutely not possible to cheat the system,” she said. “Public safety is our number one priority. We have no interest in allowing any driver who is not fully licensed and insured on the platform.”But Uber admitted a member of its staff approved the fake Freecover document even though the insurer on the letterhead does not exist.London cab drivers protest.Photograph: Amer Ghazzal/CorbisDespite admitting to the mistake by approving the Freecover insurance, Uber has de-activated the whistleblower from its system and reported him to TfL and the police.The driver, who asked not to be named, said Uber appeared to be trying to “shoot the messenger” and said he was acting in the wider public interest. He stressed he had genuine insurance in place when he posted the fake document.“We have demonstrated you can take a job on a fake document but I had genuine insurance,” he said. “It is absurd and uncalled for.”Uber said its failure to spot the fake document was “a unique situation triggered by a deliberate attempt to try and cheat the system”. But it said it shouldn’t have happened and the company was taking the situation seriously.Related:All hail Uber! But what about the black cabs?“The Guardian has helped identify an important point and we are always looking to improve our document management processes,” said a spokesman. “We are going through our processes and evaluating them to make sure something like this can’t happen again. It [the fake document] was checked. It was a case of human error. The team involved has been spoken to to ensure our high level of practice has been maintained at all times.”The company said it would reduce the number of insurance companies drivers can use in the UK, to help prevent fraud.Uber said on Friday it had a “backstop” insurance policy that would cover customers if a driver had an accident without insurance. However, it said, this did not exempt drivers from having their own insurance policy which was required by law and the terms of their private hire licence.“All trips are covered by commercial insurance,” said a spokesman. “Uber maintains coverage to ensure that this is the case.”
Oculus Rift’s virtual reality headset has moved another step closer to serving up heart-in-mouth moments in gamers’ living rooms with news of alink-up with Microsoftthat will see every headset ship with an Xbox One.Having paid $2bn for VR startup Oculus in 2014, Facebook is making its plans to be one of the key providers of the technology, alongside companies including Sony, Google and games firm Valve. Its Oculus Rift VR headset can only be bought by developers at the moment, but will go on sale commercially in the first quarter of 2016.Oculus held an event in San Francisco this week to provide more details on how VR will be controlled, and what kind of games people will be playing – while stoking anticipation for a technology that at various points in the past two decades has failed to live up to its hype.“VR allows us to experience anything, anywhere … This is going to change everything. It is a fundamental shift: a paradigm change. And it all begins now,” said Oculus’ chief executive Brendan Iribe at the event.The Oculus Rift is a head-worn device with a built-in screen, with a separate sensor that sits next to its user’s PC to detect their movements. VR enthusiasts can crane their necks upwards to take in the building-sized monster that they’ve got to slay, or peer into the deep abyss that they’re about to jump into, but after Oculus announced that every Rift will ship with an Xbox One gamepad made by Microsoft, they now have the controls to do more than simply look.Oculus founder Palmer Luckey displays an Oculus Touch input during an event in San Francisco, California.Photograph: Robert Galbraith/ReutersSeven-story monsters, chasms and ‘jump-scares’Oculus is creating a $10m (£6.4m) fund to invest in VR games made by independent developers. The company also showed off its Oculus Home software, which Rift owners will use to browse and buy new games and applications, as well as launch the ones they already own.Developers who attended the event were enthusiastic about the potential for virtual reality games in general, and the Oculus Rift specifically.“We want to really make the player feel like they’re in the world. Sometimes it’s the little touches like having ants crawling on the ground, or a bird calling over your shoulder that, when you turn around, flaps off,” said David Adams of Gunfire Games.“Or there’s the big cyclops guy that you might have seen before in games like God of War, but now it actually looks like a seven-storey-tall creature. I played one demo where you look up, and a spider drops down. I don’t think I’ve ever jumped so much in a game before!”Besides scale and scares, developers see VR as a way to increase the emotional impact of their games.“When you put on a headset, you do feel like you are there. To me, that makes the connection between you and the character even stronger,” said Ted Price of Insomniac Games.“What’s happening to the character resonates more strongly with the player, and that’s exciting, because that’s what we’ve been going for for several decades: strengthening that player/character connection.”Price warned that developers would need to resist the temptation to make games with a barrage of scary moments. “If you create jump-scares every minute, they become less interesting,” he said. “All great games, great movies and even great books require pacing to heighten the emotions that the authors, filmmakers or developers want you to feel.”Oculus will be prominent at the E3 games industry show in Los Angeles this coming week, with Sony expected to announce more news and games for its rival Morpheus headset, which is expected to go on sale this year.Beyond gamingFacebook has its sights set beyond gaming, however. “Imagine enjoying a courtside seat at a game, studying in a classroom of students and teachers all over the world or consulting with a doctor face-to-face – just by putting on goggles in your home,” wrote the Facebook chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, in March 2014, as he announced the acquisition of Oculus.For now, it’s games developers that are stretching VR technology with the help of companies such as Oculus. Despite past attempts at virtual reality having fallen flat, the developers present at the Oculus event were not afraid to trumpet their creative ambitions.“This is just the beginning. Since we are all discovering more about what VR can bring, I think we’re going to see a lot of unexpected surprises over the next several years,” said Price.“Our goal is really to transport the player into these fantasy worlds,” said Adams. “I love Star Trek, so that whole idea of the holodeck? Man, this is basically the holodeck!”
It may not be obvious when you look at screen shots, but the Street Fighter games have more in common with chess than they do with less accomplished beat ’em ups. Stratagems are executed in split seconds, while individual frames of animation mark the difference between a successful attack and risible failure. Ultra Street Fighter IV adds the ability to trigger two ultra combos at once and time your character’s wake-up after being knocked down, along with a wealth of minuscule alterations to every fighter in the roster. For less obsessive fighting game fans most of these tweaks will be undetectable, but for those who have never put away their tournament joysticks, this is the definitive edition of the game. New players may find the complexity and subtlety overwhelming, but for seasoned Street Fighters this is as good as it gets.
For some shameful reason, being a sniper in video games is brilliant fun. Hitman: Sniper knows this, delivering an entire game in which your only interaction with people is shooting them from a very long distance. Overlooking a sprawling Alpine chalet, you’re given 10 minutes to kill a series of targets, all of whom are people traffickers, which assuages the messy moral ambiguity. Your prey and their security guards wander about waiting to be picked off, preferably by putting a bullet into a piece of machinery or plate glass balcony to make it look like an unfortunate accident. Bonus points are awarded if corpses fall somewhere discreet; popping your target near a swimming pool or precipice does the trick. Over successive missions you get to know the location and the pieces of scenery that become lethal when shot at the right moment. All in all, a wonderful guilty pleasure.
Supremacy, the third downloadable add-on for Activision’s monstrously successful Call Of Duty: Advanced Warfare, follows the series’ template of four multiplayer maps and an extra chapter of the celebrity cameo-infested Exo Zombies game, which adds Evil Dead star Bruce Campbell to John Malkovich, Bill Paxton and Rose McGowan, who were introduced in past instalments. Of the four multiplayer levels, Skyrise is a remake of old favourite Highrise, retaining its multi-tiered design that encourages sneak attacks; Kremlin is set in a bullet-pocked Red Square with two opposing towers overlooking a bridge and a minefield that arms itself midway through each round; Parliament sees you fighting on a futuristic boat embedded in a partially destroyed Westminster Bridge; and Compound supplies a nice mix of open spaces and claustrophobic interiors. Although there are no real standouts, it’s all competently designed, even if Exo Zombies is starting to feel a bit tired. The Call Of Duty juggernaut rolls on.
BACKGROUNDFiveis set eight months afterHalo 4and, with what is described as “mysterious events threatening the galaxy”, the game will bring an expansion to the fundamentalHalocanon. Having built a new game engine specifically for the Xbox One, game developer 343 was committed to ensuring the game ran at 60fps in campaign and multiplayer modes. Alongside Master Chief there is a large supporting cast to drive the story and help expand theHalouniverse. Crucially, this allows the game’s narrative to be told from two perspectives.THE TWO TEAMSMaster Chief heads the Blue team, with whom he has teamed up following the loss of Cortana at the end ofHalo 4. His three surrogate brother and sister Spartans each have different skills that are reflected through their characters. Having gone awol, Chief’s team is being pursued by Fireteam Osiris, led by Spartan Jameson Locke, in a four-person squad including a welcome return for Edward Buck, again voiced byNathan Fillionwho proved so popular in ODST. The additional characters allow the game to be played individually or in up to four-player co-op mode.Spartans Kelly-087, Locke, Tanaka and Edward Buck.Photograph: © Microsoft CorporationCO-OP AND AIIn single-player mode, the Fireteam is run by AI and allows the player to give simple orders to the squad: go here, attack that, revive, drive vehicle – it’s intuitive and not over-complicated and does not divorce gamers from the action as some AI controlled squad-based shooters can do. In co-op mode, the ability to revive injured comrades (incentivised with a reward) is particularly clever, reinforcing a sense of teamwork. Conversations with the team are dynamic, reacting to the plot around you, and it was pleasing to act as a team in combat – even more so with human companions in co-op. A level may be completed more quickly this way, but there is a real sense of teamwork and achievement.NEW AND OLDOld foes the Covenant return, but now resurgent and eager to reimpose themselves, while the Prometheans that made their debut in Halo 4 have also received an upgrade with new enemies on the agenda. As well as Buck, there is also a welcome return for the ever-popular Arbiter, who is continuing his war with the Covenant, albeit in a non-speaking role. The new Spartan abilities debuted with the multiplayer beta remain, with the campaign-specific ones of revive and tracking added. Classic multiplayer features are in place, although new arenas now feature what is described as more “verticality”, which works well, offering a more three-dimensional way of playing. A further announcement of a brand new multiplayer experience will be made at theE3 Expo. Finally, having sacrificed herself to save the Chief, does Cortana return? Well, she certainly features on some level, with a cut scene, possibly sub-concious or hallucinatory, revealing her announcing: “The reclamation is about to begin.”Capture the Flag in the multiplayer arena FathomPhotograph: © Microsoft CorporationLEVELS AND LOOKSNew locations and levels have been designed with single player and co-op in mind. The mapping on many is bigger than usual, offering alternative routes and ways to achieve objectives. These make them longer, more involved and offer more in replay value both through finding different routes and completing them in co-op. In the latter the difficulty scales up according to the number of human players – with four, for example, the volume and skill of the enemy threat increases, while the larger playing field encourages players to go through in pairs to achieve the goal by different routes. In terms of look,Guardiansis a huge step forward. While playing in campaign and investigating a Research and Development vessel, the Argent Moon, the detail, foreground and back, were quite breathtaking. The sense of grandeur and immersion even byHalostandards is hugely impressive and in combat the improvement that running at 60fps has engendered is palpable.SOUNDSCAPESAlways a hugely important part of theHaloexperience, thesoundtrackhas been composed byKazuma Jinnouchi, including a re-recording of the classic Halo theme at Abbey Road studios that features a rather pleasing piano motif providing a counterpoint to the traditional operatic sweep. Forty thousand lines of dialogue have been recorded – more than on any otherHalotitle – and with an intent to be more immersive, 343 has re-recorded the sound of guns and bullets in different locations, indoors and outdoors, recorded falling debris and even huddled beneath a culvert to capture the sound of live rounds passing overhead. Even Locke has his own theme, a suitably militaristic piece of bombast that would be at home in the opening titles of a blockbuster movie.
There are few success stories in gaming quite like that ofHalo, a title that has become a phenomenon and one of the few that has entered mass, popular consciousness. The franchise has sold 60 million games and with the latest,Halo 5: Guardians, due out later this year, will doubtless sell millions more. Yet when it all began in 2001, such success was far from guaranteed.Although it may be hard to imagine, now that the console gaming landscape and in particular the first-person shooter has been shaped by whatHaloachieved, at the time it was a risky venture. Microsoft had been looking for a launch title to accompany its new Xbox console, the firm’s first foray not only into gaming but into consumer entertainment. In 2000 it went after the shooter that Bungie was developing for the Mac.The Master Chief: part of his appeal lies in his anonymity.Photograph: © Microsoft CorporationFrank O’Connor is the franchise development director forHaloand the longest-serving member of the team. He joined the game’s original developer, Bungie, in 2003 and before that had covered the game as a journalist. “There hadn’t been a good first-person shooter on a console, they didn’t have the right control input.Goldeneyewas good but it was limited, it was a hard thing to get right on a console,” he says. “But Microsoft saw a cool-looking universe and an interesting looking game, and thought, ‘maybe we can make it work on the Xbox’.”Bungie was forced to adapt its game to the new control system, and the console functions were improved to suit the demands ofHalo. The results were extraordinary: a epic, sci-fi romp, playable with the two analogue sticks and trigger control system that is taken for granted now.The gamble paid off and then some. Of the original Xbox sales, more than half were purchased withHalo. A sequel followed, and when what was now a trilogy concluded on the Xbox 360 in 2007, the final instalment sold 14.5m copies. But perhaps what was most noticeable was that Bungie had created a scenario, so involving and well-crafted it appealed beyond the actual game. It had a universe and a central character in the Master Chief that people wanted to know more about.Halo 5’s creative director, Tim Longo, confirms the appeal of the game’s scope. “It is presented in an operatic way and that it is cinematic too means we are framing the worlds in an exciting way,” he says. “We are setting up these grand scenes but in our case you get to walk through them rather than just watch them.” These involving episodes engendered even more as books, comics, web series, toys, anime and action figures all followed.Much of this can be attributed to the original premise that Bungie crafted. Still platform-exclusive to Xbox, Halo may be outsold byCall of DutyandGrand Theft Autonow but they are titles that reinvent their characters and universe with each new iteration. TheHaloteam, from the moment its success guaranteed its future, chose to make the most of the future they had created. “We don’t make a game every year, so we are able to invest more in our characters without changing the universe so frequently,” says O’Connor, having moved to 343 Industries who took the franchise on after Bungie. “We are much more like a Harry Potter series, you are learning a little bit more about the characters as you grow up with them, so it’s hardly surprising people become attached.”They are most attached of course toHalo’s lead, super-soldier Spartan, the Master Chief, with whom the series has turned what may have appeared to be an unlikely choice into one of its strongest assets and perhaps the key element to its appeal. As the central protagonist and the character that drives the story, Chief is unusual in that his face, hidden by his visored helmet, has never been seen.Halo 5: Guardians cover artworkPhotograph: © Microsoft CorporationThis brave decision, especially for a launch title for a brand new console, was crucial. The Chief has allowed players to inhabit the game in a unique way. “It all goes back to the Master Chief,” says O’Connor. “You’re putting yourself in this world and all these scenarios and you’re not constantly reminded that you are not the hero.“There are these shoes that you can plant yourself in and be yourself and still enjoy the adulation and heroism that Master Chief has built up over the years.”Here is a game that, despite a sci-fi setting and entirely fictional universe, offers asense of inclusion and participation that crosses boundaries in the real world. “We have girls who play; African-American kids who play,” O’Connor explains. “It is almost cognitive dissonance. They love being the Master Chief. The Master Chief might in that case be a 19-year-old girl, a college student from Iowa, but she also loves Master Chief the character, who she knows is a 42-year-old orphan who was put into this huge war machine. You get the best of both worlds with the game.”Halohas been careful with the Chief, graphical advances aside, maintaining his look and his character from that first iteration. There is an element of Judge Dredd (another man in the shadow of a helmet) and Dredd’s progenitor, Dirty Harry, to the Chief, which is no doubt part of his appeal. He says little and achieves his ends in straightforward fashion.“His laconic brevity has stood him in good stead because he is very seldom tripping over himself or saying anything stupid,” O’Connor confirms. “Because he doesn’t say much at all. Like John Wayne or Gary Cooper.”It may not be particularly complex but, in a vast universe conceived some time ago now, it has made for a character that is easy for players to inhabit. “The simplicity is key,” says Longo. “He has depth but he doesn’t question. When something has to be done, he does it. Chief is always there to help humanity.”HOW THE FRANCHISE EVOLVEDThe evolution of Halo.HALO: COMBAT EVOLVEDRelease: 2001, Bungie, XboxIntroduced the Master Chief, the Covenant and the Flood and quickly became the killer app for Microsoft’s new Xbox console.HALO 22004, Bungie, XboxCame in for some stick for a short campaign mode with an unsatisfying cliffhanger finale, but an unquestionable success in online multiplayer.HALO 32007, Bungie, Xbox 360Brought the opening trilogy to a close in spectacular fashion and enjoyed even greater popularity and critical acclaim.HALO 3: ODST2009, Bungie, Xbox 360A superb break from the main series, playing as human soldiers outside the narrative arc.HALO: REACH2010, Bungie, Xbox 360A prequel toHalo: CE, it had no Master Chief but a superb story, combined with some of the best elements of previous games.HALO 42012, 343, Xbox 360Fears that the franchise would go downhill disappeared when new developers 343 issued a game matching the original vision.
Snoop Dogg has professed an interest in becoming chief executive of Twitter after the announcement that current chief Dick Costolo is to step down.The rapper, briefly known as Snoop Lion during a short-lived reggae phase, tweeted: “I’m ready to lead @twitter!”, following up with: “First order of business, get that moolah!”It’s unclear whether this was the reason for abrief 8% rise in Twitter stock, but the Guardian would like to think so. Shortly after Snoop’s announcement, hashtags#SnoopforCEOand#IfSnoopWasTwitterCEOwere created.Im ready to lead@twitter!!#SnoopforCEO&mdash; Snoop Dogg (@SnoopDogg)June 11, 2015First order of Business! Get that Moolah!#SnoopforCEO@twitter&mdash; Snoop Dogg (@SnoopDogg)June 11, 2015Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey is to take the helm at the social network as interim chief executive, after Costolo’sshock departure, but users backed Snoop’s tongue-in-cheek ambition.Tweets in support quoted Snoop lyrics and puns and referred to the star’s well-known love of marijuana. Many were retweeted by the star.#ifSnoopWasTwitterCEO...&mdash; Snoop Dogg (@SnoopDogg)June 12, 2015#ifSnoopWasTwitterCEOhe&#39;d still have his mind on his money and his money on his mind&mdash; Jerzy Jen (@JerzyJen)June 12, 2015#ifSnoopWasTwitterCEO&quot;hashtags&quot; would only be called &quot;-tags&quot;. All Hash goes to Snoop.&mdash; DJ Jazzy Fish (@CallMeCapnD)June 12, 2015@SnoopDogg#IfSnoopWasTwitterCEOWe&#39;d get retwizzles instead of retweets.&mdash; Captain Vizatic (@Vizatic)June 12, 2015Recognizing the cultural import of#BlackTwitter@SnoopDoggto replace@dickcas new CEO of@twitter. The company will be renamed Twizzle.&mdash; Orlando Jones (@TheOrlandoJones)June 12, 2015@SnoopDogg#ifSnoopWasTwitterCEOthe max letters wouldn&#39;t be 140 it would be 420&mdash; Kane (@KaneStunts)June 12, 2015Snoop is well known for his wide range of interests. He is abig fan of football(aka soccer) but perhaps most brilliantly, he is a follower of British soapCoronation Street, evenpursuing a cameo roleandprofessing his attraction to the character Deirdre Barlow, played by the late Anne Kirkbride.Speaking about the programme, he said: “I love the whole dynamic, the way it is put together, it is my world, it is something I could fall into.”Costolo leaves Twitter with the network reporting302 million MAUs(monthly active users), but his tenure has been marked with issues surrounding abuse and bullying on the platform.In aleaked staff memo, Costolo wrote: “We suck at dealing with abuse and trolls on the platform and we’ve sucked at it for years.”
The next BlackBerry smartphone could run Android and have a sliding physical keyboard, according to reports.BlackBerry briefly showed off a slider device on stage at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona in March, but has provided little detail on it since.The move would make BlackBerry the latest Android device manufacturer, having brought Android apps through the Amazon app store to its BlackBerry 10 smartphones in an attempt to help tempt users with more apps.Four sources talking to Reuters said the move to use Android is part of BlackBerry’s strategy to focus on software and device management, rather than handset sales after its market share declined to less than 1%.Whether a move to Android, an about-face for the Waterloo, Ontario-based company, would spell the end of BlackBerry 10 devices is unclear. Launched in 2013, BlackBerry 10 devices have struggled to compete with Android smartphones from Samsung, Motorola or LG, or Apple’s iPhones, mainly due to a lack of big name apps.“We don’t comment on rumours and speculation, but we remain committed to the BlackBerry 10 operating system, which provides security and productivity benefits that are unmatched,” said BlackBerry in a statement.Software and services, not phonesBlackBerry chief executive John Chen has pinned the company’s hopes on a new device management system called BES12, which allows corporate and government clients to manage BlackBerry devices as well as devices powered by Android, iOS and Windows operating system.One of the hurdles it faces in that transformation is convincing big customers that its device management software works across many different platforms.By launching an Android-based device of its own, BlackBerry would be sending a signal to sceptics that it is confident that the BES12 system can not only manage, but also secure smartphones and tablets powered by rival operating systems.In March, BlackBerry announced that it planned to deliver its patented security, productivity and communication tools to any mobile device running iOS, Android or Windows.After launching its then popular BlackBerry Messaging app on Android and iPhone, BlackBerry said it plans to offer more in-house features on rival devices, including BlackBerry Hub and the predictive text capabilities of its virtual keyboard.•BlackBerry left on the line as UK users continue to hang up
The outspoken Twitter chief executive Dick Costolo will step down in July, the company’s top brass said on Thursday, even as he insisted the sudden departure – which arrived after years of stalled user growth and amid a storm of controversy – was his own decision.Related:Twitter CEO: We suck at dealing with trolls and abuseAn immediate search for Costolo’s successor was barely under way, but Jack Dorsey, the company’s co-founder, chairman of the board and first CEO, will take over as interim chief executive when Costolo leaves the top post on 1 July. Dorsey will continue to run credit card payment concern Square during a major transition that sent immediate shockwaves across Silicon Valley.Costolo, who will remain on Twitter’s board of directors, repeatedly characterised the departure as his call, in a briefing with shareholders on Thursday.“I initiated conversations with some members of the board at the end of last year about CEO succession as I contemplated what was next for me,” said Costolo. “And ultimately following discussions with the full board and at February meeting and then at our meeting last week, we agree that now is the right time to begin this transition.”Dorsey echoed the sentiment. “One thing I do want to make clear”, he told investors, “is that this transition is not the result of anything more than Dick deciding to move on from his role as CEO.”Twitter has been in the middle of major controversies recently, among them widespread piracy of the Mayweather v Pacquiao title fight using the company’s new streaming video platform, Periscope, and sustained issues related to trolling and bullying on the service, which critics say it has been slow to address.Jack Dorsey, co-founder and chairman of Twitter, will take over as interim chief executive.Photograph: Justin Tallis/AFP/Getty ImagesCostolo seemed to agree with the latter charge in memos obtained by tech site the Verge in February. “We suck at dealing with abuse and trolls on the platform and we’ve sucked at it for years,” hewrote. “It’s no secret and the rest of the world talks about it every day. We lose core user after core user by not addressing simple trolling issues that they face every day.”Costolo said the issues were “nobody’s fault but mine”. “I am tremendously proud of the Twitter team and all that the team has accomplished together during my six years with the company,” Costolo said in a press release on Friday.“There is no one better than Jack Dorsey to lead Twitter during this transition. He has a profound understanding of the product and Twitter’s mission in the world as well as a great relationship with Twitter’s leadership team.”Dorsey praised Costolo’s “dedication and vision”. Peter Currie, lead independent director of Twitter’s board, said Twitter was “fortunate to have Jack – one of our founders – step back into a management role and help lead Twitter as we continue executing on our strategic priorities”.It was a surprising move, to say the least. Kara Swisher of recode.netwrote shortly after the news brokethat as recently as two weeks ago Costolo told her he and the eight-member board – which also includes former CEOs Ev Williams and Dorsey – were “completely in sync”.On the investors call Anthony Noto, Twitter’s chief financial officer, answered a question about the financial impact of Costolo’s departure by affirming that the CEO had left of his own volition. “There’s no financial impact from the departure – Dick decided to step down and resigned so there’s no severance package tied to someone volunteering to step down,” he said.But the change is certainly sudden: Dorsey confirmed that the CEO search is barely under way. “The search committee expects to retain a search firm shortly and to begin a thorough process to identify a new CEO,” he said on the investors’ call. “That process has only just begun and there is no timetable. That firm will take the time it needs to identify candidates within the company and outside.”#ThankYouDickCtrending because that&#39;s how we do it at Twitter.pic.twitter.com/vO0LWK8wfZ&mdash; Eleanor Dowling (@eleanordowling)June 11, 2015Shareholder confidence in Twitter has waned in the recent past, and in the five minutes after the news hit, the company’s stock spiked in after-hours trading (the announcement was made just after the market closed) from $35.75 to $39.29. Twitter said its second-quarter financial projections would not change on the news.Twitter’s user base is massive – 255 million worldwide – but its growth has slowed and is slowing further: eMarketer estimates that Twitter’s monthly user base will grow by just 14.1% this year. Two years ago, growth topped 30%. The company predicts it will be down to 6% by 2019.One thing that has not diminished is the social network’s penchant for M&amp;A. Twitter has purchased at least six companies a year since 2011, including several marketing, analytics and advertising software firms – notably Trendrr and Bluefin – as well as former competitor Vine.But it still lags behind Facebook in ad revenue: the company accounted for less than 1% of the $145bn spent on digital advertising worldwide in 2014, eMarketer said, though it had nearly doubled its take in the past year. Facebook controlled 7.93% of the market last year.Former colleagues showered Costolo with praise on the platform, using the hashtag#ThankYouDickC.
Twitter will remove the 140-character limit on direct messages from July, the social network has announced.But don’t expect the same change to occur in public-facing tweets, as the company has been at pains to make clear that there are no changes coming to the main part of the service.The change,which was announcedahead of time to Twitter’s developer community so that third-party apps can support it from launch, will raise the character limit on direct messages from 140 characters to 10,000. For comparison, Facebook Messanger has a character limit of 20,000.“We’ve done a lot to improve direct messages over the past year and have much more exciting work on the horizon”, said Twitter’s product manager for direct messages Sachin Agarwal. “You may be wondering what this means for the public side of Twitter. Nothing! Tweets will continue to be the 140 characters they are today.”Twitter’s attitude to its direct messaging feature has varied wildly over its history. The service was all but abandoned for years, leading to many wondering if the company was about to remove it altogether. Read counts failed to sync, or reflect whether a message had been read at all; notifications were flaky, leading users to miss messages; and a bug in the spam detection feature prevented users from sending links in DMs for over a year, even as Twitter insisted that it was not a bug at all, but a valuable anti-spam feature.But towards the end of 2014,internal feelings towards DMs apparently warmed. Longstanding bugs were fixed, and new features were introduced, including the ability to send pictures in DMs,create and join group DMs, and receive DMs from users who aren’t followers.
It says something about the extraordinary scale of social platforms when a technology behemoth with 302m active users every month can be seen as failing to achieve its potential. Yet that is exactly why it appears that Twitter’s chief executive, Dick Costolo,now has to go from the company’s top post.Related:Twitter's outspoken CEO Dick Costolo to step downIn after-hours trading following the sudden announcement on Thursday, Twitter stock briefly fluttered up 8% higher. It was a reflection of the uneasy feelings from investors towards a man who fell under their increased and ultimately poisonous scrutiny as he navigated the social networking firm through its public offering in November 2013, having been CEO since he took over from Evan Williams in October 2010.Despite being a very different product serving a very different audience, Twitter is often compared to Facebook – and often unfavourably. Therein lies an identity crisis of sorts.For Twitter’s investors the concern was less about user numbers than the growth and aggressiveness of the company’s online advertising. While Costolo was popular with many staffers for bringing structure and co-ordination to a chaotic young company, and took it to a market capitalisation of $23.4bn, he also oversaw the process of risk and uncertainty in pushing towards a brand new space.Costolo and Jack Dorsey, who now takes over as interim CEO, have both insisted that the move was not connected to Twitter’s recent financial results –which saw those user numbers grow just 4.86%– so much as a decision made purely by Costolo himself, as a capstone to discussions that had been going on since last autumn.Right now Twitter is in danger of becoming a niche product: it is beloved by journalists (guilty) and marketers, yet viewed with confusion by mainstream consumers.Where the selective friendship groups of Facebook make sense (to varying degrees), Twitter’s public face can be more intimidating. On the other hand, the 140-character simplicity of Twitter’s platform and the potential to be the “civic square” of popular debate offers just as much value and, usually, less flatulent conversations.In an era of endless feeds and the digital burden of email and obligatory posts from friends, Twitter’s brevity and ambience is a welcome change; what you miss is just missed – not mourned, nor added to a tedious, ever-increasing pile like email.But in focusing its business Twitter has made some strategic decisions, such as closing off access to selected third parties –Instagramat one point,Meerkatat another, and earlier to a wider stream ofthird-party developers. Twitter was under pressure to protect its valuable audience and its scale, and in doing so cut off the community that helped it grow.All of which left many users and especially those investors wondering: who is Twitter for? How does it distinguish itself against Facebook? And how can it expand its service while remaining simple and accessible?Twitter accounts for 1.6% of the critical US digital advertising market – a market worth $50.73bn – compared with Facebook’s 7.6%. Twitter accounts for 3.6% of US mobile internet ads to Facebook’s 18.5%. And in mobile display ads Twitter has a 7% market share compared to 36.7% for Facebook, according to eMarketer.On user numbers alone – Twitter has 302m monthly active users to Facebook’s 1.44bn – the share of ad market doesn’t seem so surprising. Yet it’s the slowing down of growth that has concerned investors: Twitter’s monthly active user numbers have fallen 30% from 2013 to 2015, and by 2019 growth – a critical indicator of future potential revenues – is heading for a slowdown to 6%.For a young public company those numbers are sounding more and more like a death knell. For investors, Twitter’s plans – and Costolo carried the can for this – have not confidently set out its future. Chris Sacca, a major investor,wrote an insightful essay on the company’s challenges: “Twitter has failed to meet its own stated user growth expectations and has not been able to take advantage of the massive number of users who have signed up for accounts and then not come back. Shortcomings in the direct response advertising category have resulted in the company coming in below the financial community’s quarterly estimates.“In the wake of this Twitter’s efforts to convince the investing community of the opportunity ahead fell flat. Consequently the stock is trading near a six-month low, well below its IPO closing day price, and the company is suffering through a seemingly endless negative press cycle.”But he says Twitter “has boldness in its bones” and that it can improve by making the service easier for new users, more supportive for users intimidated by the site, and by making it feel less lonely.
“I got really badly sunburned, chased by sheep, bitten to death by midges, got a tick which went bad; but when I got back, something had really shifted inside me.” This is how Phoebe Smith recalls her first time wild camping, an area in which she has since become an undisputed authority. At the age of 33 she is already the author of seven books on the subject, most recentlyWild Nights, published last month.Like most outdoor-types, she takes her technology with a pinch of salt. “People love kit, they love toys. They love buying stuff,” she says, “I’m not against progress, it’s great that people are making things easier, lighter and greener, but you need to know you can go out there and not rely on it at all.”Above all, Smith is preoccupied with spreading the word, convincing people that the British Isles are theirs for the exploring. So even if she thinks gadgets aren’t actually necessary for survival, Smith recognises their value in coaxing families and newcomers into the wilds: “If I take someone camping who isn’t into it, and I want to convince them, I give them my best kit: all the fun stuff, all the warm clothes, all my smartest gear. It helps people overcome their resistance.”Having all the latest gear, then, could help the tentative adventurer learn to cut ties with civilisation and enjoy what for Smith is the most rewarding experience of all: wild-camping solo. “Being out in these wild places alone, surviving, taking it all in, makes you look at things a different way,” she says. “When you come back, problems that you thought were problems don’t seem so difficult to deal with.”HEIMPLANET FISTRAL TENTHEIMPLANET.COM, £294Pole-free two-person tent supported by rigid inflatable tubing“I like poles. I know where I am with a pole. You can’t puncture a pole and you can improvise a makeshift pole if one snaps. That said, inflatable tents are becoming more popular, and for families I can really understand why: poles are heavy and unwieldy and there’s so many of them. How nice to just stick it on the ground and start pumping, and in three minutes it’s up.“But Heimplanet tents are hi-tech tents aimed at high-end expedition-y types, hence the price tag, and I think serious campers might think it was a bit gimmicky. That aside, it’s a very efficient tent. It’s fairly light, robust, with space for bags and a door on each side - very good if you need the loo! The pump adds a bit of weight, though, and it makes rather a loud noise. Slightly ruins it if you’re camping in secret.”GOAL ZERO SWITCH 8 KITGOOUTDOORS.CO.UK, £67.47Miniature photovoltaic panels and rechargeable battery module“Solar panels have come a long way, they power quicker and better in lower light. For a long time they were next to useless in the UK because there wasn’t enough sunshine, but now they work in ordinary daylight and a foldable one like this is very cool. It’s a trickle charge, it’s not like the mains, it takes several hours, so the best way to use it is to hang it over your rucksack while you’re walking, and by the end of the day the battery should be full. They’re especially efficient if you’re going somewhere hot, and you’re guaranteed wall-to-wall sunshine.“But it’s still something extra to carry, and its usefulness depends on how contactable and electronic you want to be. When I’m camping I try not to worry about the electronic side of my life - that’s why I go into the wild.”CAMELBAK ALL-CLEARHEINNIE.COM, £106.95Water bottlewith electronic lid that purifies contents using ultraviolet light“As an alternative to the UV SteriPEN, which also used UV to purify water, this is interesting. The SteriPEN was very portable, but this works much quicker and it’s very neat. Apart from camping, it would be useful if you were going on holiday anywhere where tapwater is questionable.“It’s worth bearing in mind that, while it purifies the water, it doesn’t filter it, so if you were drinking river water you might want to find another way to get rid of specks and floaters. And while the water is perfectly safe, it won’t necessarily be pleasant to drink, so I usually take some effervescent vitamin C tablets and throw them in to improve the flavour.”NEMO PRESSURE SHOWERSTORKZ.COM, £73.57Foot-powered collapsible water tank with pressurised shower-nozzle“This is new to me, but I’m not totally against it. You fill it with water, step on the foot pump, press the little trigger and have a shower. Because it’s black, if you fill it up in the morning and leave it in the sun, by the evening the water will be warm. It’s unnecessary of course: it’s extra weight, most people who go into the outdoors are having too much fun to worry about smelling bad, and you can always scrub in a stream if you need to. Even so, it packs down very small and for a family it’s another clever toy that helps turn camping into a game. It would be really fun with kids, though using it would quickly descend into waterfights.”BIOLITE CAMPSTOVECOTSWOLDOUTDOOR.COM, £140Fan-assisted wood-burning stove that powers a USB output“It’s a lovely collision of old-school camping with new-school technology, lots of people are going to love them, but it’s heavier and less efficient than a gas stove. It’s supposed to boil a kettle in 4.5 minutes, but to make that happen you have to have the electric fan on high, and you have to keep refuelling it as you go, which might be a struggle in bad weather.“Still, it’s very easy to light and easy to use. If you have kids, it can give you that toast-a-marshmallow experience you can’t get with gas, and it’s lovely to smell the wood burning and feel a bit primal.“I think this appeals to someone who likes to think of themselves as a bit of a Ray Mears, outdoorsman-type, but actually likes to have a phone and something to play with. And if these toys get kids excited about finding kindling so they can light a fire, boil a kettle and charge their iPhones, my god at least they’re engaging with nature!”
Google’s previous attempt to get us to wear something mildly ridiculous on our faces didn’t end well. But whileGoogle Glasswas released (and failed) to much fanfare, the growth ofGoogle Cardboardhas been unhurried, and – by Google’s standards – low key.Now on its second version, “Cardboard” is a cheap holder that turns your smartphone into a virtual-reality headset. Anyone candownload the templateand make one, while the impatient can buy a pre-made model for £10 from Amazon. (Currently only the template for v.1.2 is available, but v.2 will be downloadable soon – and it will be easier to build.) Once you have your Cardboard you can download VR apps fromGoogle Playor the App Store and experience the sensations of exploring far-flung cities, the stomach-in-the-mouth feel of a rollercoaster ride or simply be spooked by zombie children – all without leaving your chair.Mike Jazayeri, director of product management at Google VR, says he is pleasantly surprised by the success: “We never imagined the momentum it has had. Immediately we got a lot of interest from content creators, brands, developers – and a year later more than a million Cardboards have shipped and there’s hundreds of apps.”The rival dedicated VR headsets – Facebook’s Oculus, HTC’s Vine and Sony’s Morpheus, plus the augmented reality Microsoft HoloLens – have yet to be released, and when they do they’ll be much more expensive. For example, Oculus will sell for about $1,500 (although this includes a powerful PC to drive its graphics). Rather than suggesting that Google has stolen a march on its rivals, Jazayeri says the devices will have different “use cases” – engineer-speak for horses for courses. “For Cardboard our focus is on simple, fun, shorter experiences – bite-size VR. And they’re cheap, so, for example, everyone in a classroom can have one.” He says Oculus will need to be connected to a PC, but Cardboard is as portable as your phone.“Cardboard” is a cheap holder that turns your smartphone into a virtual-reality headset.As well as making VR accessible to smartphone users, Google is trying to simplify the creation of content. At adevelopers’ conferencelast month it announced Jump, a platform to create 360-degree content. This consists of three elements: an open-source template to build a 360-degree camera setup (they displayed a circular rig of 16 GoPros, but any camera could be used); software that colour corrects, processes and stitches footage together, and a player – YouTube now plays VR content. “Just capture your content in 360 and anyone can experience it. Jump will really lower the barrier to creating VR,” says Jazayeri.“Cardboard has primarily been devised for developers,” says Patrick Moorhead of tech analysts Moor Insights Strategy. “This is their primary target. Secondary are people who want to try out the technology. The issue here is that Cardboard delivers a lousy experience compared to other devices because of the lack of optics and image perfection.”VR is still emerging technology, and searching for a “killer app”. What does Jazayeri think could make Cardboard irresistible? “This idea of transporting or teleporting people to places that otherwise they couldn’t go, that’s something new and different.” Moorhead sees a more prosaic future for VR, “I’m not a big believer in the notion of a “killer app”, but VR will be most beneficial in games, and commerce where you have to see many elements of the potential purchase, like a hotel room or a car.”But Cardboard shouldn’t be dismissed as a gimmick, Jazayeri says, as it fits with Google’s broader ideological drive to democratise data: “It’s consistent with our mission to make the world’s information universally accessible – and experiences are part of that information, right?”VIRTUAL REALITY APPSCorridoom-AndroidTest your reflexes in this claustrophobic game which involves running along a passage while having to dodge obstacles with a flick of your head.Sisters-Android, IOSA gothic ghost scenario – all lightning, creaks and frankenkids – that demonstrates the ability of VR to spook and scare. She’s behind you!Titans of Space-AndroidAn app that shows the educational potential of VR, takes users on a guided tour of our solar system.
Net neutrality rules will go into effect on Friday, after a federal court rejected a bid by cable and telecommunication companies to stay the rules while a lawsuit challenging them is pending.“This is a huge victory for internet consumers and innovators!” Tom Wheeler, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission,said in a statement. “Starting Friday, there will be a referee on the field to keep the internet fast, fair and open.”“Blocking, throttling, pay-for-priority fast lanes and other efforts to come between consumers and the internet are now things of the past. The rules also give broadband providers the certainty and economic incentive to build fast and competitive broadband networks.”The fight for an open internet is far from over, however.“I plan to fight the order all the way to the supreme court,”said Daniel Berninger, founder of the Voice Communication Exchange.At the end of February, the FCC approved a 313-page order that wouldallow it to treat internet access like a public utility. Cable and telecommunication companies objected, saying the order was an overreach by the FCC and that such rules should be created by Congress.Related:FCC's net neutrality rules challenged in lobbyist lawsuitBy mid-April, a handful of lawsuits had been filed against the FCC, seeking to overturn the net neutrality rules. The Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association (CTIA) filed one such suit; so did the National Cable and Telecommunications Association (NCTA) and the US Telecom and the American Cable Association.“I am pleased that the FCC’s Open Internet Order and strong rules to ensure there are no slow lanes on the internet become effective tomorrow,”said Mignon Clyburn, a FCC commissioner, on Thursday.“A free and open internet is vital to our democracy and competitive market. I am proud to stand up for the consumer to protect free speech and a free market.”Not everyone at the FCC was as thrilled. Ajit Pai, one of the two Republican FCC commissioners who voted against the plan, said he wasdisappointedwith the court’s decisions. He added that the “development was not unexpected”.
With more than 37m subscribers, Felix ‘PewDiePie’ Kjellberg is one of the biggest stars on YouTube. Now he’s hoping to take bookshelves by storm too.The Swedish gamer has signed a publishing deal with Penguin Random House to release This Book Loves You in October. The 250-page book promises “indispensable advice and inspirational quotes”.Related:YouTube backs digital star Stampy's new Minecraft show Wonder Quest“This book is a great chance for me to reach my audience in a new way,” said Kjellberg. “The original idea actually came from my fans via Twitter, so I really think they’re going to love it.”The PewDiePie YouTube channel launched in 2010 as a way for Kjellberg to share “Let’s Play” videos of himself playing a variety of games. His videos have now been watched more than 9bn times, and in April 2015 alone,the channel notched up nearly 352m views.“With more subscribers than Taylor Swift and One Direction combined, Felix is without question one of the most influential stars of this generation,” said Ben Schrank, president and publisher at Penguin US’ Razorbill imprint.Kjellberg is just the latest YouTube star to release a book. British YouTubers Zoe ‘Zoella’ Sugg and Alfie ‘PointlessBlog’ Deyes have both had bestselling books in the UK, although Sugg was criticised after it emerged thatshe had worked with a ghostwriter on her debut.Related:Rooster Teeth plays the video game: ‘We’re competing with Netflix and HBO’The popularity of these books is just one sign of how the top YouTubers can expand into other forms of entertainment. In the US, the current spin-off of choice is longform films, albeit distributed digitally through stores like iTunes.Camp Takota, a film released in 2014 starring YouTubers Grace Helbig, Hannah Hart and Mamrie Hart,sold “hundreds of thousands” of copiesaccording to multi-channel network Fullscreen, which produced it.Other YouTube stars to have topped the digital charts with films include Cameron Dallas and Shane Dawson.
Facebook subsidiary Oculus has struck a partnership with Microsoft to bundle an Xbox One controller with its Oculus Rift virtual reality headset, when it goes on sale in early 2016.However, Oculus has also developed its own pair of Oculus Touch controllers designed to be worn on the hands, enabling people to “see” their hands in front of them in VR games and virtual worlds, as well as to manipulate virtual objects.At an event in San Francisco, Oculus also showcased several developers making games for the Rift, while talking up its capabilities in bullish rhetoric that inflated, rather than dampened down, the hype around virtual reality.“VR allows us to experience anything, anywhere... This is going to change everything,” said Brendan Iribe, chief executive of Oculus, which Facebook bought for $2bn in 2014. “It is a fundamental shift: a paradigm change. And it all begins now.”Iribe said that Oculus had tested a range of controllers before settling on the Xbox One gamepad, which is part of a wider partnership with Microsoft that will make the Rift easy to set up on PCs running its Windows 10 operating system.“We wanted a device that developers and gamers understood, one that they’re familiar with... one that’s really robust, well made,” said Iribe.The company went on to reveal Oculus Touch, a pair of wireless, hand-worn controllers that will go on sale in the first half of 2016 – so likely a bit later than the main headset – and which will enable a wider range of physical gestures within virtual games and worlds.Related:Virtual reality documentaries 'take the middle man out of journalism'Oculus founder Palmer Luckey showed off the controllers, claiming they’ll be used for everything from picking up and shooting guns to waving, pointing and “giving a thumbs up” while playing.Among the other announcements at the event, which took place a few days before the E3 games industry show in Los Angeles, were plans for software called Oculus Home that will help people launch the games and apps they own, as well as browsing and buying new ones.Oculus has also set aside a $10m fund to invest in Oculus Rift games made by independent developers. At the event, partners including CCP, which is making its EVE: Valkyrie game for the headset, showed off short demonstrations of their work.“This isn’t science fiction: this is reality, and it’s happening today,” said Luckey. What wasn’t happening today, however, was any announcement of the price of the Oculus Rift, although Iribe has previously said thatthe cost of the headset plus a PC powerful enough to run it will be around $1,500.
1.54pmETYou’ll be able to pick up virtual guns, manipulate virtual objects, make communicative gestures within games and virtual worlds, and have “hand presence” (so you’ll see your hands in front of you in the world). The controllers are wireless – no cables.It can detect “finger poses” like pointing, waving or “giving a thumbs up”. Or flipping the bird or making wanker signs, although he’s too polite to say that obviously.“This isn’t science fiction: this is reality, and it’s happening today,” says Luckey as a parting shot. And that’s a wrap.Oculus Touch will be shipping  H1 2016 - Preorders will open alongside the Rift.&mdash; Palmer Luckey (@PalmerLuckey)June 11, 2015Updatedat 2.03pm ET1.53pmETOculus VR has a pair of prototype hand controllers for virtual reality: Oculus Touchpic.twitter.com/aPvO9RWc0h&mdash; Guardian Tech (@guardiantech)June 11, 20151.48pmETOculus Touch hand-tracking controllersIribe is back on-stage. “Virtual reality is really unlike anything else, and Rift is simply the best way to experience it. And you’ll be able to get your Rift Q1 2016,” he says. So no more specifics on the launch date. On the plus side, it hasn’t slipped.“But before we go, there’s just one more thing that we wanna show you...” IT’S A SPOTIFY KILLER. Oh wait, wrong event. No, it’s founder Palmer Luckey, to spring a surprise around virtual reality input.” We see virtual reality input coming in many different forms, depending on the experience you’re looking for,” he says.Such as? Oculus Touch. “A pair of track controllers that we’ve created to take VR to the next level,” he says, stressing that they’re prototypes, codenamed Half-Moon.Updatedat 1.59pm ET1.47pmETSweet hands over to Nate Mitchell, VP of product at Oculus, to talk about the user experience. He shows off Oculus Home – a dashboard for the games you own, as well as a place to preview and buy the ones you don’t: “Your portal to everything Oculus, it brings all your Rift games together in one place,” he says.“When you put on the Rift, you’re going to be dropped straight in to Home”. Including VR previews of games before you buy them. There’s also a 2D interface: “You can browse the store, stay in touch with your friends and manage your games and downloads without putting the headset on.”1.44pmETNext, Anna Sweet, head of developer strategy for Oculus, who’s talking about the wider strategy with developer partnerships. “With the Rift, anyone can be a creator. A few simple clicks and you can build your own mountain in Unity and check out the view from the top in VR,” she says, showcasing partnerships with Unity and Unreal Engine.But how will developers get their games to Rift owners? Sweet talks about plans to revamp the Oculus Share community in the coming months, before praising independent developers for their efforts so far in experimenting with the Rift.“I am pleased to announce that we will be investing more than $10m toward developing these sorts of innovative, one-of-a-kind, independent games on the Rift,” she says.1.41pmETWho&#39;s making games for Oculus Rift? Here&#39;s a &quot;partial&quot; listpic.twitter.com/cprsBWIPlt&mdash; Guardian Tech (@guardiantech)June 11, 20151.40pmETNext up, David Adams from Gunfire Games to show a game called Chronos, an RPG set in a labyrinth that opens once a year to test the hero’s skills: you’ll play it at all stages of his life, from callow youth to old man.Next, Insomniac Games’ Ted Price talking about an Oculus-exclusive: Edge of Nowhere. “It’ll twist you, and eventually, it may break you.” Like Candy Crush Saga. Alright, perhaps not.“Edge of Nowhere has been designed for VR from day one: this isn’t an idea we had that we thought ‘hmm, maybe VR would work for this’,” he says, admitting to having been a sceptic about VR in the past, converted into a believer now.Other games coming: Damaged Core by High Voltage. VR Sports challenge by Senzari. Esper from Coatsink Software. AirMech and Lucky’s Tale. They’ll all be shown off at E3 next week, and then released in 2016.Updatedat 3.13pm ET1.34pmET1.27pmETIribe: “I’m just thrilled to have that device in there. It’s a terrific controller, one of the best in the world... but a VR platform, the VR headset, the input, as it all comes together really isn’t worth that much unless there’s incredible content.”He brings on Jason Rubin, head of studios at Oculus to talk about what owners will be doing with the Rift. Starting with Hilmar Veigar Pétursson from CCP, which makes EVE Online.“It was really a surprise how much VR added to the experience,” he says of CCP’s early experiments with the DK1 Oculus Rift devkit. “We knew we had something special, and we showed it to our biggest fan gathering... the feedback was anonymous: ‘please make this game!’. EVE: Valkyrie is the closest thing you’re going to get to being a real spaceship fighter pilot... You get something that feels so real, it’s more than real.”Updatedat 1.35pm ET1.25pmET1.22pmETSpencer talks about streaming Xbox One games to Windows 10 devices – PCs and tablets. “That same streaming capability will be available for Oculus Rift. People will be able to stream their Xbox One games – great Xbox One games like Halo, Forza, Sunset Overdrive... to the Oculus.”1.19pmETOculus Rift to ship with an Xbox One game-padIribe is talking about VR input. “We wanted a device that developers and gamers understood, one that they’re familiar with... one that’s really robust, well made. We tested all of them out there, we built our own prototypes... Including a game-pad in this generation of the Rift was really important.”“I’m incredibly excited to announced that we’re going to include a wireless Xbox One controller and adapter in the Oculus Rift.”Xbox exec Phil Spencer is on-stage now, to explain what looks like a partnership between Windows 10 and Oculus VR. “The Rift will natively work with Windows 10 to make it easy to set up, jump in and have incredible VR experiences from day one,” he says.Updatedat 1.21pm ET1.17pmET&quot;Here it is: the Oculus Rift&quot;pic.twitter.com/ItXwOYmNlp&mdash; Guardian Tech (@guardiantech)June 11, 20151.16pmET“Getting audio right is a critical part of achieving presence,” says Iribe, showing off the integrated headphones. But they’re removable, for people who want to use their own headphones with the Rift.Iribe returns to the issue of weight. “The comfort of having this device on your head is very, very important. You don’t want it pulling against your face, so we’ve spent a lot of time working on the strap architecture... you can really be in there for a while enjoying the experience. The goal is you put it on, and it goes away... You’re going to put it on like a baseball cap. Toss it on, and you’re away.”“We’ve evolved the form factor to better accommodate glasses. Something many of us have, including myself,” adds Iribe.Updatedat 1.18pm ET1.14pmET“Here is is: the Oculus Rift. It’s light: I can hold it in one hand,” says Iribe, brandishing the device. “It is a fundamental shift: a paradigm change. And it all begins now.”He’s talking up the tracking system of the model. “You have very precise low-latency movement,” says Iribe. “The same tracking system can actually be used for other real-world objects. We’ll get to that a little bit later.”Back to the external sensor which you put on your desk, plug in to your PC and “you’re all set: it just disappears. We wanted it to be incredibly simple and easy to use,” says Iribe, who says Oculus experiences will be a mixture of seated and standing: “You’ll be able to move around a little bit.”1.09pmETOculus CEO Brendan Iribe is on-stage: “We have a lot of great news to share with you,” he says, before reminding the audience that it’s only three years since Oculus VR took its first steps with a Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign.He talks about existing gaming being “trapped behind a 2D display... your brain knows you’re sitting in a living room playing on a TV... it’s still just trapped into a screen.” He shows off a massive T-Rex to prove his point – a bit scary on a 2D screen, and terrifying (in theory) on a VR headset.Brendan Iribe and scaly dinosaur friend.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the Guardian“With the Oculus Rift we are able to cross that threshold. We are able to finally deliver on the dream of virtual reality. VR allows us to experience anything, anywhere... This is going to change everything.” Rhetoric level: defcon five.Updatedat 1.12pm ET1.04pmETStep into the RiftFacebook bought virtual reality startup Oculus VR for $2bn in 2014, and the company has since been doubling down on developing the first commercial model of its Oculus Rift VR headset.It’ll be making a splash at the E3 games show in Los Angeles next week, but today Oculus is holding an event in San Francisco to talk... Well, it’s not entirely clear what it’ll be talking about. But we’re here live to find out, so stay tuned for updates.
iPhones could soon be made in India as well as China, according to Indian government officials.Apple’s manufacturing partner Foxconn, which makes the iPhone, iPad and several other Apple products in factories in China, is in talks to open factories in India to make iPhones.The move would help Foxconn mitigate accelerating labour costs in China, potentially lower prices for iPhones sold in India and move the site of construction closer to buyers in the world’s third-largest smartphone market.“Foxconn is sending a delegation of their officers to scout for locations in a month’s time,” said Subhash Desai, industries minister of India’s western state Maharashtra.Factories and data centresLower production costs could also help Foxconn keep hold of Apple orders amid intensifying competition with nimble manufacturing rivals such as Quanta Computer Inc.Foxconn, the world’s largest contract manufacturer of consumer electronics, has said it is aiming to develop 10-12 facilities in India, including factories and data centres, by 2020, but had given no detail.The Taiwan-based company declined to comment on detailed plans on Thursday, citing commercial sensitivity. Apple did not respond to comment. Desai said Foxconn had yet to make any firm commitment at this stage.Tough competitionIndia has the second-highest number of mobile phone accounts behind China. According to networking company Cisco Systems, there will be 650m smartphones in the country by 2019. The number of tablets will rise 9% to 18.7m by then.Apple holds 10% of the smartphone market in India, according to data from Counterpoint, and faces tough competition from arch-rival Samsung and local brands such as Micromax, which produce similarly specified smartphones for around half the cost than an iPhone 6, or less.Foxconn is no stranger to India. It ran operations in India until last year producing Nokia devices. Its return to the country would be a boon for India’s manufacturing industry, which prime minister Narendra Modi has made a target for a reboot to rival China.A lack of good infrastructure and suppliers are the biggest hurdles to making technology products in the country, forcing most of India’s more than 100 different phone companies to get their products from the mature markets of China and Taiwan.•China’s Baidu could beat Google to self-driving car with BMW
The European commission has launched a competition inquiry into Amazon’s dominant market position in ebooks, as Brussels steps up its scrutiny of US tech groups. The EU’s executive branch is looking at clauses in contracts between Amazon and publishing houses that restrict publishers from offering better terms to the online retailer’s competitors. The clauses sometimes require publishers to disclose to Amazon the terms offered to rival retailers.“Amazon has developed a successful business that offers consumers a comprehensive service, including for ebooks,” said the EC’s competition commissioner, Margrethe Vestager. “Our investigation does not call that into question. However, it is my duty to make sure that Amazon’s arrangements with publishers are not harmful to consumers, by preventing other ebook distributors from innovating and competing effectively with Amazon. Our investigation will show if such concerns are justified.”The inquiry will focus on English and German ebooks, which are the largest markets across Europe. Amazon also produces the popular Kindle e-reader.Two months ago, the commission opened a formal investigation into Google and itsdominance of internet search. Vestager’s team is also examining the tax affairs of Amazon in Luxembourg and Apple in Ireland. President Barack Obama, whose administration is trying to negotiate an ambitious transatlantic free trade deal with the EU, warned earlier this year against European protectionism hurting the US tech sector.Amazon said on Thursday it was confident that its agreements with publishers were legal and in the best interests of readers. “We look forward to demonstrating this to the commission as we cooperate fully during this process,” it said.Vestager, whotook over the competition brieffrom Spaniard Joaquín Almunia last year, has made a quick start in her new role. The 47-year-old told the Guardian in December that she has not been pressured by Washington. “I haven’t heard from the US in any way,” she said.The relationship between book publishing and the tech sector has drawn the attention of Brussels before. The Amazon inquiry comes two years after the commissiontook issuewith Apple and its deals with five publishers: Penguin Random House, Hachette Livres, Simon &amp; Schuster, HarperCollins and Georg von Holtzbrinck Verlagsgruppe. The tech giant and publishers were forced into a series of concessions.Apple and book publishers have also been on the back foot in the US courts, where they have been found liable for conspiring to breaching competition laws. Despite a long losing run in the American courts, last December, one US appeals court judge at least noted how unusual it was for him to be considering the enforcement of antitrust laws against Apple and the publishers in a way that blocked their efforts to challenge Amazon’s near-monopoly.“Would it not matter that all these people [Apple and the publishers] got together in order to defeat a monopolist [Amazon]?” he asked the court. “It is like ... the mice that decide that they want to put a bell on the cat.”Amazon also faces pressure from Brussels over tax. Last month it became the first high-profile internet firm to reconfigure its European tax structures to ensure thatsales from major markets such as the UK, Germany, France and Spain are no longer diverted through Luxembourg. Amazon said it was “now recording retail sales made to customers in the UK through the UK branch. Previously, these sales were recorded in Luxembourg.”The moves, however, while welcomed by tax campaigners, do not address the alleged “sweetheart” deal Amazon secured in Luxembourg, which remains the focus of the commission’s inquiry. Vestager is examining whether Luxembourg’s tax deal is so favourable that it constitutes illegal state aid.The commission intervened in the ebook market in 2012 to ensure that the VAT levels charged on online transactions – all diverted through Luxembourg – were not distorting competition. European member states are allowed to exempt VAT on physical book sales, but not on ebooks. Luxembourg had offered a low VAT rate of 3%, but this was viewed as inbreach of European rules.
I fell in love with Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain the moment I tranquillised a goat and then kidnapped it. The latest title in Konami’s 40m-selling stealth action series is set in a remarkable open world loosely based on 1980s Afghanistan, and wildlife dots the landscape. The animals are beautifully realised and, because this is a video game, they can also be collected.To capture my caprine victim, I crept forwards on my belly, lined up the perfect headshot, and poomf! down it went. I attached a cord to the prone beast, from which a giant balloon inflated, and lifted it a few feet in the air. At this point the goat woke up, looking pretty startled, and had a few seconds to hang there eyeballing me hatefully, before the balloon shot off into the sky with its cargo. The sound effect, a strangled cross between a bleat and a scream, trailed off as it disappeared into the heavens (where a plane would pick it up).War has changed.Say what you will about Kojima Productions, the studio behind the Metal Gear Solid series, but no one could ever accuse them of lacking humour. Over two days with a preview build of MGSV, I not only kidnapped goats, but managed to bag sheep, a bird (which lead character Snake unfussily pocketed rather than wasting a balloon on), and eventually found myself isolated in a canyon facing a bear. It took 12 tranq rounds to the face, and a lot of Benny Hill-ing around the uneven rocks, before finally settling it down. This time the balloon lifted it up by one ankle and, as the bear’s sad face turned towards me, I almost felt guilty. Then it shot upwards with a surprised yowl, and all I could do was smile.Such details may seem like trivialities when discussing MGSV, one of the biggest sequels of the decade and now one that bears an extra weight of expectation: though no one is quite sure of the details, series creator and presiding spirit Hideo Kojima has become estranged from publisher Konami and finished the game on contract. This will be his last Metal Gear entry in charge.MGSV has an importance even beyond this and its (very sizeable) niche: it promises a new take on the open-world genre. We’re familiar with the concept from games like Grand Theft Auto, but the term is a general one – referring not to scale so much as potential. The promise of an open-world game, unachievable though this may be, is that players can go anywhere and do anything. In essence, the player chooses how to play. This is why, though GTA has a campaign, when you talk to people about GTA it’s never mentioned. What is brilliant about that game is how it allows players to create their own stories. And so with MGSV, except with one difference that changes everything.MGSV’s open world is not enormous. It’s not a sprawling Just Cause-type map that requires jet planes to transverse. But this alternate-universe Afghanistan is dense in a previously unseen way, not only packed with stuff but underpinned by an integrity of structure that meanseverythingis a prop for interaction. Open-world games always have to compromise between scale and local detail – which is why GTA’s core gameplay is such a masterstroke, because it encourages driving. MGSV is the first open-world game that feels like every rocky outcrop, every bush and every patrol path has been hand-placed and then tested and then tested again for the possibilities it offers. It is a curated world of both wide open spaces and quite extraordinary density, where the player’s opportunities are greater than ever before.Take a simple example – buildings. In most open-world games there are buildings you can enter, and buildings you can’t. In the majority of cases, entering any interior requires an immersion-breaking loading screen. Not in MGSV. It is able to do this because, of course, there are fewer buildings in an Afghan settlement than a given patch of LA, but even so, the effect on the player is tremendous. This is integrity of design: the idea that everything in a world is a physical presence that reacts as it should, rather than a solid 3D shape that’s basically wallpaper. So used are we to the disappointment of locked doors, so inured to the possibility that things could be different, that the simple fact you can seamlessly enter any building you see in MGSV strikes with the force of a revolution.It is not just about doors. MGSV’s Afghanistan is populated with small settlements of Russian troops and larger bases, while the paths between them are patrolled and often broken up with checkpoints. The intelligence of computer-controlled soldiers in this series has always been a brilliant balance between predictable movements, patrol paths and so on, and the unpredictability of how they react upon Snake being spotted. If they call it in, they’ll trigger an “Alert” phase, before beginning to hunt the player down en masse. This AI flip between a sedate, controllable state and an aggressive pack mentality is not just a classic mechanic, but the underpinning to the whole game’s concept: if you didn’t care about being seen, then everything’s a bust.Metal Gear remains a stealth experience – it’s always better to sneak into enemy territory rather than stroll up with a machine gun.Photograph: KonamiIn MGSV, the AI has been improved enormously, and the greatest change is the addition of unpredictable movements when soldiers are not aware of Snake. In previous games you could watch them perform the same patrols again and again. In MGSV they have patrol paths, but within these they’ll pause at random points, occasionally chat to each other, and have a terrifying propensity to check over their shoulders just when you’re creeping up from behind.Get spotted and the game will move into “reflex mode” for a few seconds: a slow-motion sequence where you have the chance to silence them with your fists or a gun before they raise the alarm. Though a great mechanic in isolation, and a safety net for careless play, the brilliance of reflex mode is that you’re often unprepared for it – and a missed shot or a reload is disastrous. If an alert goes up, the soldiers swarm intelligently around the player’s position, never moving in straight lines but taking cover, attempting to flank, and doing everything they can to maximise the advantage of numbers.In these scenarios the enormous improvement in MGSV’s control scheme comes to the fore. In the previous games, controls were not optimised for shootouts, making any large-scale engagement a scary prospect. The theme of MGSV, the gradual disintegration of Snake’s moral core and mental state, means that killing no longer feels like a last resort so much as giving these scumbags what they deserve (though the game still emphasises stealth as the “best” way to play). To this end, Snake’s potential armoury is enormous, and combat features gorgeously smooth switches between the “standard” third-person camera and an over-the-shoulder aiming mode (also present in MGS4 but not nearly as slick), while movement in general has been made as unfussy and responsive as possible.Kojima Productions has the ability to reimagine mechanics without losing their core purpose. In MGS3, for example, Snake could be seriously wounded, and the player had to enter a menu screen to perform basic first-aid tasks like removing a bullet or disinfecting a wound. In MGSV, the idea of serious injury remains, but now there’s no need to jump out into a menu – the player simply holds a button while Snake takes care of it. This may sound like cheapening the mechanic but it’s the opposite: the point is not one button press versus several button presses and a menu, but the necessity to get out of combat and find 10 seconds to take care of the wound. The mechanic keeps its place, but is woven more naturally into the world, and contributes in the same way the doors do to an experience of seamless integrity.Perhaps the most brilliant manifestation of this is Mother Base. This is the offshore private militia that Snake is rebuilding, and everything about it ties into the world of Afghanistan. That bear I kidnapped? It went back to Mother Base to join my menagerie. Kidnapping guards eventually results in them being “turned” to your side and staffing Mother Base, after which they can be assigned to different departments. These units can then research new items or bonuses to help you in the field, and all of this is happening in real time – so it’s possible to kidnap a soldier, then a few minutes later assign them to R&amp;D, and use the increase in stats to research a new gun. Then you can call in your helicopter to drop off the new toy. Hell, you can call in the helicopter and make it drop the package on top of a guard’s head just for a laugh.And if you’ve found the right tapes, dotted around MGSV’s encampments, and researched helicopter speakers, you could have the chopper blasting out Hall &amp; Oates or A-ha or Kim Wilde for maximum impact – just in case you forgot this was set in the 1980s. Such experimentation has always been the lifeblood of MGS and here the possibilities are more numerous than ever before – Kojima Productions specialises in thinking through every possible interaction a given item or situation could lead to, and making sure it’s catered for in the game. Guards can be pushed and pulled around by any number of distractions, rendered paranoid by continual mysterious noises, and even freaked out by a dog’s barking.Snake can call on the help of various ‘buddies’ in the game. One is, of course, a dog.Photograph: KonamiThe dog is one of several “buddies” Snake can acquire through MGSV, one of which can accompany him on each deployment. You begin with a horse, soon enough find a puppy (that quickly grows up into a soldier’s best friend), and can soon go in with a human companion who will snipe enemies and infiltrate encampments to provide Snake with information. A particularly neat touch is the ability to “hang” on one side of the horse, meaning you can slowly trot it past guards who only see a lost animal wandering around. Such depth means that, while the open world offers a challenge unlike any MGS yet, Snake’s range of options is exponentially greater.MGSV feels like a game of endless possibilities. MGS as a series has managed one of the industry’s greatest feats, which is to have remained at the cutting edge over four console generations. No other AAA title has managed this. What is even more remarkable is that Kojima and his team have managed to maintain the core elements of the series over this time, and the way they work in MGSV is a revelation.The heart of MGS is remaining unseen. Whereas other games cast you as the vengeful hero or the central character all others respond to, the dream playthrough of any MGS game is one where you’re not spotted once (and each contains special rewards for this). The fact that MGSV manages to maintain this spine of play while adding so much depth of interaction and scale is nothing short of astonishing. I’ve never played in a sandbox like it, and Afghanistan is only one of several locations (the others are as yet unannounced).There is so much more. The day/night cycle alters guard patrols and reduces their vision, changing the world in a real way and encouraging different approaches. One mission ends in a boss fight that I ran away from, while a colleague blew them away – and MGSV was fine with both solutions. You can steal enemy gun emplacements and stick them on Mother Base. You canexploreMother Base, improve your troops’ morale by chatting to them, and on your real-life birthday get a nice surprise.You can train recon teams to feed real-time information about enemy patrol paths, turn your extraction chopper into deadly air support that strafes enemy bases while playing Ride of the Valkyries, or train up the horse to defecate on command – which can cause enemy jeeps to lose control. Then you can nick that jeep and drive slowly through an enemy base, and no soldier will think to look twice at who’s behind the wheel.MGSV promises so much, and after two days in its world it feels like, if anything, it’s going to over-deliver. If this is to be Hideo Kojima’s last Metal Gear Solid then all you can do is salute, and acknowledge that despite the sadness – what a way to go.
Google’s Nest will add a new wireless home security camera to its range of Internet of Things products, leaked pictures show.According to photos and details acquired bytechnology site Droid Life, the new camera is an update to the Dropcam wireless camera and will integrate with Nest’s smart thermostat and fire alarm. Google bought Dropcam last year.The Nest Cam is a slim webcam-style device standing on a small pedestal that is designed to be placed on a shelf, and is controlled by the Nest smartphone app.Google has committed itself to the Internet of Things (IoT),purchasing Nest for $3.2bn(£2bn) along with a few other smaller companies, including Dropcam.At its developer event in San Francisco last month Google said it aimed tobe the central hubfor the smart home and the IoT, launching a dedicated version of Android to run on low-power connected devices.Weave protocolProject Brillo is a cut-down variant of the software that powers Android smartphones, tablets, TVs and car infotainment systems that is designed to help developers make use of low-power sensors and make appliances smart.Google also unveiled Weave, a protocol for smart appliances to talk to each other, which it hoped would be adopted by manufacturers of devices from smart lightbulbs to cookers and door locks.However, Google is not the only big technology company making a play for the space. Samsung and Apple both have competing systems.Apple’s Homekithas yet to realise its potential with a small number of devices only now appearing on the market despite being unveiled more than a year ago.Samsung pledgedto make all of its devices internet-connected – from smartphones to fridges – and able to connect with those made by other companies within five years.The IoT is facing a standards war similar to Betamax versus VHS or Blu-ray versus HD DVD, where one manufacturer’s fridge will not talk to another’s smart heating system.Whether Google, Brillo and Nest can unite them remains to be seen.•Forget the internet of things – we need an internet of people
Two weeks ago, the delightful Splatoon arrived to daub the staid world of the first-person shooter with luminous joy paint. It promised a day-glo family-friendly revolution – and now here comes Payday 2 Crimewave Edition.Not only does it look like every other gritty crime blaster out there, it’s also yet another repackaged release, originally launched on the last-gen consoles in 2013, and now given a fresh spray job for the current platforms. Despite all this, Crimewave Edition is still well worth your time. Because it is insane.Those who missed it first time around may well look at the screens and see just another Grand Theft Auto knock-off, but this is not the case. Payday 2 does something different. Centring on a series of madcap heists, the game requires up to four players to work together in order to become rich. Shooting obviously plays a big part in this. Once the police are inevitably alerted to your presence (because stealth, while an option, is hard), the guns will very much be blazing. Yet that’s not the crux of the game. No, the main draw is the safe-cracking, gold-stealing, vandalising antics of your small team.xxxPhotograph: 505 GamesYour basic, bog standard attraction in Payday 2 is the bank robbery. Case the joint, put on your mask, take hostages (you’re penalised for harming civilians), drill into the vault, pick the locks of safety deposit boxes, escape with bags of cash. There’s plenty that goes on in between each of those points, but that’s your basic flow.What makes it so great is simple: everything takes time, and the longer you’re on a mission, the more cops will arrive to make things shooty. Waves of police, SWAT teams and FBI agents surge on your position at regular points, making those 320 seconds you have to wait for your oft-overheating safe drill to do its thing a hell of a lot more panic-inducing.Panic is a feeling you’ll get very used to – you’re rarely in full control of a heist, even if you know exactly what you need to do. Part of this is down to the randomised elements: a vault in a different spot, a helpful keycard no longer where it was before, that sort of thing. But it’s mainly down to the fact that ... well, you’re working with other people, and other people make mistakes.Your well oiled crime machine will falter, and falter a lot. You will cry out in anguish as one team member attempts to lone-wolf the heist, quickly overcome by law enforcement and requiring your rescue (either by braving the hostile situation or waiting for a hostage exchange). You’ll stamp with frustration as one teammate justdoesn’t getthat operating the crane only needs one person. You’ll spit with fury as people play as if this is Call of Duty or Battlefield, and not a totally different game.But then something weird happens: it starts to click. Everyone begins to function as a unit, reading silent cues from one another and operating in a manner that would make the Oceans 11 look like the crooks from Home Alone. The moment our four-person team organically set up a daisy-chain system to transport heavy loot bags from a crashed van to a waiting escape chopper was genuinely uplifting.And that’s the thing: the positive moments are genuinely brilliant, yes, but the points where it doesn’t go well are just as much fun. Frustrating? Sure. But a failure is rarely a reason to give up – and, if there’s no plan B, you’ll often find yourself restarting the heist with all four players, nobody wanting to drop out and try something else. It’s a learning experience, almost a workplace team-building exercise (just with more assault rifles).All of this is wrapped up with the sort of online progression system you’ve seen in many other games – you level up quickly at first, but hit a wall around level 40, requiring taking on the more difficult, longer, easier-to-fail heists to get enough XP to be worth your time. You also customise your loadout, purchasing guns, unlocking add-ons (silencers, grips and so on), choosing your armour and extras and all that good stuff.You unlock skills as you play more, making experienced players a valuable commodity in the game. A team of level 10 players will see a huge boost to their performance if a level 50 player joins in their caper, with more skills available to the higher level player (say, faster drill repair) and a general improvement in performance for the whole team as a result. In any other game this would be a terrible imbalance, but when you’re only competing against the AI, it matters not.These constant improvements and changes to your abilities – and the fact you unlock multiple character slots from level 50 on – means there is a reason to keep playing the same heists over and again. You can try different approaches with different skills, test out new weapon combos and even risk trying to stealth your way through a mission (youcando it, but you’ll likely fail).Even seeing the same levels on repeat doesn’t get old, as the experience of robbing a bank, trashing a mall for protection money, releasing a prisoner, or whatever else you’re getting up to, is always fun as a team. There’s the personal challenge of trying to do it again, but better, as well as the constant battle to have all four members of your team on the same page. It doesn’t always work, but when it does it’s something truly special.Payday 2: Crimewave Edition does have a few chinks in its kevlar body armour. You can play offline, with AI bots as teammates, but it’s like trying to hold up a bank with ED-209. They’ll shoot at officers, but they’ll completely ignore civilians, vaults, destruction targets or everything else useful – including loot.As a re-release, Payday 2: Crimewave Edition ticks all the required boxes but it hasn’t exactly ramraided the bank of special features and made off with everything inside. Graphically, there’s an increase to 1080p, but it’s not a work of profound beauty. The inclusion of eight DLC heist packs is welcome, but they’re not new content. Being able to pre-plan your heist is useful, but it previously featured on the PC version of the game.However, if you missed it first time around, Payday 2 is absolutely worth playing – especially for those who have been enjoying GTA Online’s heists, or still dream of a world in which Kane and Lynch: Dead Men wasn’t a gigantic missed opportunity.What this game brings is something that remains startlingly elusive in the modern canon: a co-op experience that genuinely requires you to work together. For a wildly violent first-person shooter, Payday 2 sure does promote a heartwarming spirit of unity.505 Games; PS4/Xbox One; £35; Pegi rating: 18+
The developer of Adblock Plus has cried foul over new features in Apple’s next update for its mobile operating system that could come equipped with ad-blocking built-in.The update for iOS 9 used on the iPhone and iPad and the Safari web browser was announced at Apple’s developer conference on Monday.It will bring with it a collection of new features aimed at speeding up the iPhone and Mac’s operating systems and extend battery life. One of those features appears to be the ability to natively block web content, including ads.The features built into Safari and iOS 9 were discovered as part of the developer preview builds ofOS X El CapitanandiOS 9released this week. But according to Adblock Plus, the new feature could render the extension redundant.“So far very little is known about content blocking extensions, available in Safari 9 and iOS 9,” said Adblock Plus head of operations Ben Williams from developer Eyeo. “We look nervously at how powerful their block lists will be.”A built-in ability to block unwanted content, including ads, seems like a good thing for users. It is less appealling for Adblock Plus - a business built on blocking some ads but allowing others through from sitesthat pay for the privilegeof being on its “whitelist”.‘End of adblocking on Safari’Adblock Plus recently released a browser for Android dedicated to blocking ads, and intends to release an iPhone version, which would be rendered useless should Apple provide an ad-blocking system baked into iOS 9 and mobile Safari.“The best case is that the new application programming interface will help us to improve the performance and adblocking experience on Safari, and paves the way for an iOS adblocker. If [Apple’s] block list format turns out to be useless, however, that could mean the end of adblocking on Safari,” said Williams.Apple has not said whether its content blocking system will be used for preventing adverts within browsers. The company runs an advertising service called iAds within applications that run on iPhones and iPads and is unlikely to adopt a system that could damage its own revenue stream.For publishers the ability to block adverts on mobile devices threatens a captive market for supporting their content through advertising. While the blocking of ads is common on the desktop, it is not on mobile browsers meaning that users viewing websites, including the Guardian, are guaranteed to be served any adverts that are planned by the publisher.Ad blocking threatens the chosen revenue model for the majority of web publishers. German broadcasters RTL and ProSiebenSat1 recentlylost court actionagainst Eyeo over Adblock Plus.The court ruled that Adblock Plus’s estimated 50m users did not put it in a dominant position of the market and therefore it was in breach of anti-competitive laws.•News sites lose German legal battle against ad blocking software
I have a four-year-old Windows desktop that frequently runs really slowly with Task Manager showing that 80-90% of the physical memory is being used even when I’m not running any applications. Svchost.exe seems to be the culprit, and sometimes RapportService.exe *32. I dida software spring clean as your column suggestedbut it didn’t help.My PC is an HP CQ5307UK desktop, with a 2.90GHz AMD Athlon II X3 435 processor and 3GB of memory running Microsoft Windows 7 and Norton Internet Security. I use Microsoft Office Pro and Mailwasher.JudithModern versions of Windows – the ones that followed Windows XP – are designed to use all your PC’s physical memory: that’s what it’s there for. Either way, 3GB of memory plus a 4GB swapfile (a hidden file called pagefile.sys) is more than enough for the software you’re running.Windows could be running slowly because a program or device driver is leaking memory, because you don’t have enough disk space, because a rogue process is running your processor at close to 100%, because your PC is overheating, or because of a virus or other malware.Since you’ve asked about memory use, I’ll concentrate on that. However, make sure you have at least 5GB of free hard disk space, in case Windows needs to expand its swapfile. Also, run a quick scan with the freeMalwarebytes Anti-Malware (MBAM)as a one-off check to make sure nothing has got past Norton.Free memoryWindows Task Manager is not a reliable guide to how much memory is free. Happily, Windows 7 has Performance Monitor. You can find PerfMon by typing pe or perf into the run box at the bottom of the Start menu. After you run it, click “Resource monitor” to get the readout below.An even better guide is Mark Russinovich’s freeRAMMap, which you can download from the Windows Sysinternals section of Microsoft’s website. (Russinovich’s tools were so good that Microsoft bought the company.)As mentioned, recent versions of Windows try to fill your PC’s memory: a program called SuperFetch looks for any free memory, and loads something into it. SuperFetch knows which programs you use, and silently preloads them. It’s much quicker to run things from memory than to fetch them from the hard drive.This makes it hard to answer the question about how much “free” memory you have at any given time. However, PerfMon and RAMMap do give you a reasonable answer in the form of “Available memory”.In the example shown here, I have about 2GB in use and more than 800MB available. This PC is running Firefox, Chrome and Internet Explorer as well as Microsoft Word, PerfMon, RAMMap and the Freecell card game.Reboot your PC and see how much memory is available. Don’t run anything else for 15-30 minutes to see if that changes: you may have a “memory leak” (ie a program keeps taking more memory and not giving it back).After that, load your programs one at a time to see how much memory each one takes, and whether your PC slows down. If a program creates the problem, uninstall it. If you can’t manage without it, re-install it and hope it behaves itself in future.Memory by the pagePerfMon shows that Windows uses pages of memory in many different ways. The main ones are Active (ie running programs), Modified, Standby, and Free memory. RAMMap provides a fuller picture by including Zeroed memory, and by showing how much memory is used for different purposes.Basically, most memory is free unless it’s in active use. If Windows needs more memory, it can instantly use Zeroed pages: these are blank. After that it can instantly use Standby pages, which may have been loaded by SuperFetch or left behind after you’ve closed a program. (These pages are not zeroed so if you restart the program, it will load very quickly. But they don’t need to be saved.) Next, Windows can use Modified pages, after saving them. Having to write data to disk slows the process, so this is not listed as available memory. However, it is still available if you need it.Need more? Windows can start “trimming” pages that programs have reserved for active use. It can decide to use that memory for more urgent purposes.Some memory isn’t available. There are the Page Tables (Windows’ index of pages of memory), a “Nonpaged Pool” (pages that can’t be saved to disk and must stay in RAM), Driver Locked memory (probably locked by a virtual machine, such as Hyper-V or VMware), and AWE (usually, memory being managed by SQL Server).On my five-year-old laptop running Windows 7, the Page Table is 37MB, the Nonpaged Pool is 180MB, and Driver Locked is 42MB. PCs obviously vary. However, large values could indicate problems that hurt Windows’ performance.You can use RAMMap tosave and compare snapshots. For example, you can take a snapshot of memory when your PC is running well, and compare it with one where it is running slowly.Problem softwareYou mention Svchost.exe and RapportService.exe *32 as programs that consume a lot of resources. Svchost.exe is short for “service host”, and your PC is running multiple instances of svchost to host different services. If you download and run Sysinternals’Process Explorer– another of Russinovich’s tools, and a good replacement for Task Manager – this should show lots of svchosts (perhaps eight or 10) and the various Windows services they are running.If a particular instance of svchost is a repeat offender, search for help about the service(s) it is hosting. Sometimes you can repair services via a Windows Update or system refresh, or change the way they work. Type local into the run box and select “View local services” to see which ones your PC is running, and whether they start automatically.RapportService.exe *32 comes from Trusteer, an IBM company, and is usually installed with banking software. Rapport is a small program and should not have any impact on your CPU or RAM. If you don’t bank online, you canuninstall it.Both svchost.exe and RapportService.exe are names that could be used by malware to hide their nefarious purposes, so don’t forget to run MBAM.The Windows Indexing Service – which can be turned off – and Norton can also cause PCs to slow down.Upgrade or refresh?It’s always better to have more memory. Unfortunately, yourHP/Compaqonly allows 4GB, so expanding from 3GB is not an economical option.According to HP, you could also upgrade the AMD Athlon II X3 435 (Passmark 2,496), but none of the Phenom II alternatives looks fast enough to be worth the cost or the effort.That leaves you trying to find the errant software, rogue process or leaky driver that is slowing your PC, or trying alternative solutions. One would be to upgrade all your drivers. Another would be to use the PC’s recovery partition (I assume it has one) to refresh or re-install Windows 7. That’s not much fun with an old system, because Windows Update will have to reinstall four years’ worth of patches. Based on my experience, this should go smoothly, but involves about a dozen restarts spread over two or three days.The drawback is that you will also have to re-install all your applications and restore your backed-up data.If you do this, take a full back-up of your hard drive first, so that you can restore your PC to its current state if something goes wrong. And when you’ve finished, take another full hard drive backup so that you never have to repeat the whole process.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Rebellious Reddit users have swamped the site with derogatory comments about staff and images of overweight people after its decision to ban several subforums.On Reddit’s r/all page there was an overnight deluge of derogatory postings about Ellen Pao, the interim chief executive, who has led a campaign to clean up harassment on the site.Five subreddits were banned in total: two which made fat-shaming comments, one racist, one transphobic and one which targeted gamers. One of the subreddits, r/fatpeoplehate, had more than 150,000 subscribers; the others all had under 4,000.Since the announcement, many alternative obesity-related subreddits have been created, and users have begun a petition calling on Pao to resign for what they claim is an attack on the unfettered free speech they had previously enjoyed on the site.(CW: violence, misogyny, bigotry) this is the face of reddit right now.pic.twitter.com/JjDyIDbSbB&mdash; Sarah Nyberg (@srhbutts)June 11, 2015Crude photoshopped images of Pao on an obese body were appearing, and the popular photography subredditr/picswas briefly flooded with images of overweight people.Wednesday’s announcement made it clear that direct attacks on identifiable individuals were the issue, and implied that the site would still notionally allow racism and other kinds of hate speech, if an individual was not the target. Users have argued that subreddits are their own, insular communities, with active policies not to link to other forums, and it would be unusual for anyone unsuspecting to come across them.In recent years, Reddit has made small inroads into the free-for-all atmosphere that had existed on the site, closing down forums dedicated to suggestive images of children and young teens, “creep shots” of unaware women, as well as a subreddit that had distributed pictures of hacked celebrity nudes.Reddit bosses have, however, allowed many pages critical of them to exist, including r/chairmanpao and r/paoyongyang.Wednesday’s announcementabout the subreddit closures said staff wanted “as little involvement as possible but will be involved when needed to protect privacy and free expression, and to prevent harassment”.“We’re banning behaviour, not ideas,” the statement continued. “We want to be open about our involvement: we will ban subreddits that allow their communities to use the subreddit as a platform to harass individuals when moderators don’t take action.” The statement was posted by Pao, as well as Jessica Moreno, head of community and support, and founder Alexis Ohanian.
For the past 30 years, the console wars have always played out in pretty much the same way. A new set of machines arrives with more powerful processors and graphics hardware than their predecessors. The console manufacturers compete directly against each other to get the best exclusive games and the best versions of multi-platform releases. The platforms mature, and rumours begin about more powerful hardware on the horizon. The cycle begins again.But this year’s E3 exhibition in Los Angeles sits slap bang in the middle of interesting intersection the dedicated games console business. From one direction comes a host of new rivals, from another, the dawn of an entirely new interactive entertainment technology. Of course, the traditional console business has been threatened before. Some analysts once thought that smartphones and tablets would strangle the market for dedicated games machines, others speculated that the resurgent PC, augmented by the digital games distribution platform Steam, would render them obsolete.But the new challenges are a little different because they are going to entirely reposition what we mean by a “games console”.First there is Valve and its Steam Machine, a gaming PC in a simplified format designed to be placed under the living room television and intended for gaming, video and other entertainment functions. Valve is not building anything itself, but has developed a SteamOS to run on the machines, as well as an innovative Steam controller. Third-party PC makers will produce their own versions, which will cost between £400 and £800.TheAlienware Alpha, for example, is set to cost about £430, complete with a decent Nvidia GTX graphics card and is designed as a pure Steam games machine. At the upper-end, theOrigin Omega, complete with multiple overclocked Intel Core i7 processors and a £3,300 price tag, is more of an all-round multimedia platform with television and home cinema in mind. Of course, both the PlayStation 4 and the Xbox One also have their eyes on our living room entertainment options, providing a wealth of video-on-demand and live TV services. But their hardware – which is already looking dated compared to current PCs – is not upgradeable. With the Alien Alpha Steam Machine you can upgrade the CPU, memory and hard drive – you can only do the latter with Sony and Microsoft’s consoles.Not everyone is impressed with the concept. “I’m not over enthused with the current Steam Machine offering and I doubt they will have an impact on the established order in the living room in their current forms,” says analyst Piers Harding-Rolls, head of games at IHS Technology. “And I don’t believe this is Valve’s core aim either. Driving this is an ambition to extend the PC gaming audience beyond its current confines: developing a more user friendly, TV-based experience, is a way to do this. Whether this disrupts the console market or not is less interesting to Valve in my opinion.“I think a very small segment of the Steam population may be interested in a Steam machine but many power users will already have a solution that connects to the TV or streams content from their gaming rig to the TV if that’s what they want. There is likely to be some uptake from existing console users that want a TV-based experience and access to the Steam library of games, but I don’t see many prioritising a Steam Machine over the purchase of a console at this stage.”Indeed, Valve may well face a similar problem to the aborted 3DO console, which launched in 1993 as an all-round multimedia player, but which wasn’t build or shipped by the 3DO company – instead partners like Panasonic and Goldstar licensed the tech and produced their own versions. The problem was, manufacturers were worried about committing until there was more software support and a proven market, but consumers were put off by the higher price point, and game publishers picked up on this pervading reticence.In the background, though, are several other media streamers and set-top boxes all offering a variety of services for the living room. Nvidia’s Android-basedShield consoleis set to offer TV, video and game streaming – apparently all in 4K resolution. Then there are the ever-evolving TV plans fromApple,GoogleandAmazon, the latter launching its own games studio last year.“The disruption of TV gaming has been on the cards for a number of years, but we are yet to see a compelling alternative to the current consoles,” says Harding-Rolls. “I would define the current market developments as being disruptive around the edges of the TV gaming opportunity but there is nothing there yet to really rip up the current status quo. Let’s not forget that it was only a couple of years ago that Android consoles such as Ouya were being proclaimed as key competitors in this space, and where are they now? Nvidia’s Shield Android TV console is interesting but the company is not pursuing game exclusives, which does not position it strongly in the eyes of the gamer as an alternative to the current consoles.”Reality warsThere is another interesting interloper waiting at the margins of E3: immersive technology. It is likely that Sony will provide more information about its Project Morpheus virtual reality headset for the PlayStation 4 – including supporting games, a release date and a price point.All we have seen is an impressive set of technology demos, and some neat ideas about how VR couldchange the living-room entertainment experience. The announcement of some big first-party support, perhaps from stalwart Sony studios like Naughty Dog (Uncharted, Last of Us) or Media Molecule (LittleBigPlanet, Tearaway), would reignite excitement.Meanwhile, Valve will not be showing its critically acclaimed HTC Vive VR headset at E3, but rival Oculus is holding a pre-E3 briefing that could provide launch details for its Rift virtual reality headset. The company has reportedly scooped its own announcement byaccidentally releasing details onto its website, although it has since claimed those are old prototype images.We are also expecting Microsoft to tease more about itsHololens augmented reality headsetat E3. The device, which will overlay computer graphics onto the real-world, similarly to the Google Glass headset, will be compatible with both Xbox One and Windows PCs, and games are set to bea big part of its offerings.In this way, E3 could become an interesting test ground for two competing visions regarding the future of immersive interactive entertainment. Will consumers want to be fully surrounded by a virtual environment, as they are with VR headsets, or will they favour technology that allows them to remain sentient to the world around them while game elements are projected on top? One of the major problems facing both VR and AR at a mass consumer level is that nobody in the industry really knows what people want.What they do know is that games as we know them will have to change. In virtual worlds, the player must have continual control of the camera viewpoint to avoid nausea and needs time to acclimatise to new environments – it could be that games turn into short experiential experiences, rather than lengthy cinematic adventures.Whatever the case, Steam Machines, media streaming and the rise of virtual and augmented technologies are all set to provide new paradigms for the games industry to understand and adapt to – and adapt to quickly. We may be between major console hardware iterations, but the smartphone market has significantly accelerated consumer demand for new platforms and experiences. Sony and Microsoft have to stay up to date in a market where an eight-year console cycle seems practically geological.The game-consoles wars we used to know are over. The hardware theatre is infinitely more complex and fragmented now. The immediate future is about ceaseless incremental updates as well as intricate multimedia plans, and multi-screen support (such as games that run on console, tablets, smartphones and computers, with seamless online interaction between all platforms). Further out, it is about removing the game from the 2D display altogether.E3 should give us a good idea of whether Sony or Microsoft will make the first and boldest move into this embattled territory.
Twitter has rolled out lists of trolls that can be shared among users and enables a one-click block from harassment on the social network.The new feature forms part of Twitterchief executive Dick Costolo’s pledgeto help users protect themselves and deal with being attacked and harassed by trolls – a common problem for certain users on the social network.“This feature is yet another step towards making Twitter safer for everyone and will be available to some of our users starting today and all users in the coming week,” said Twitter user safety engineer Xiaoyun Zhangin a blog post.Blocking an account stops trolls from viewing a user’s profile, sending them mentions or interacting with them in their feed. Until now each account had to be blocked individually.The system worked fine for most users who were only occasionally forced to block singular users from time to time. However, those who are subject to coordinated or sustained attacks by trolls can be quickly overwhelmed by hundreds of users, making blocking them all difficult. Shareable lists are aimed at solving that problem.Twitter also allows users to mute accounts, which does not block them from viewing their feed, but does stop mentions from troll accounts showing up on their timeline.•Troll uses Twitter adverts to urge transgender people to kill themselves•Caitlyn Jenner smashes Twitter world record, reaching a million followers•Twitter blocks Politwoops for breaching terms of service
Hi everyone! Today’s Chatterbox game of the day is Spectra, a twitchcore racer developed by indie start-up Gateway Interactive and published on PC and Xbox One by Mastertronic. There’s acool trailer, which you have to watch as the chiptune soundtrack isamaze.
There are two cities. There’s a city of people and cars, and a city of ones and zeros. This second city, this invisible city, grows with every tap-in, opt-in, jump-in, check-in, sign-up and tick-off. Every added location, pinned photo, Uber ride, Twitter post, every Tinder date builds up the city’s roads, nodes and alleyways. With every byte the invisible city swells.How can we make the data-driven city a place for humans? How can we make sense of invisible structures and use technology to not only increase productivity and efficiency, but challenge power structures, foster communities and make space for individual voices? An increasing number of writers and artists are exploring these questions, in ways that range from telling stories through location tracking to using smartphones to infiltrate the financial industry.In 2013, Sam Hill’s company Pan Studios, co-run with Ben Barker, set up a project calledHello Lamp Postin Bristol which lets people have SMS conversations with post boxes, bus stops and other street objects. To do this, the company hijacked the existing infrastructure of reference numbers found on the objects and used it to relay text messages.“A lot of our ideas were founded upon an observation,” Hill says, “that many street objects have maintenance codes or serial numbers on the side – and that these could be used as analog, but tangible, location markers. From there we started thinking about space, memory and sharing – and that’s how we came to the idea of conversational objects.”Hello Lamp Post invited the people of Bristol to attempt a new way of communicating, through lamp posts, post boxes and other familiar street furniture, by texting the unique codes found on each object.Photograph: PRChatting to street furniture proved popular, with more than 25,000 text messages sent over eight weeks. Last year the company followed this up with a project called A Fork in the Road, once again using a pre-existing system – this time the layout of the city itself. When A Fork in the Road ran in Indianapolis, players would use the grid system like a choose-your-own adventure storybook, with roads “re-appropriated as a platform for branching, forking storylines” and choices in the narrative made physically with choices in direction.Mapping a playful alternativeBoth Hello Lamp Post and A Fork in the Road take the city and add a playful layer of digital integration. They’re examples of a tendency towards appropriating systems of data, be it utility objects or road mapping. “The modern city is already so reliant on us collectively buying into a series of complex, interlinked beliefs and narratives,” Hill explains. “So why shouldn’t we opt in to some alternatives if they promise to be more fun?”Weaving playful experiences into the fabric of the city is one thing, but what about confronting systems so complex that it’s hard to comprehend where they begin and end? The interactive theatre company Coney is aiming to do exactly this withAdventure 1, an immersive experience that encompasses email, smartphones and corporate infiltration to explore our relationship to the financial system.“We’ve had a crash, an ideology of austerity that is being delivered to us now,” says co-director Tassos Stevens. “It has a massive impact and influence over all of our lives, yet we know very little about it, and our own positions in relation to it as a system.“The market is becoming increasingly abstract and algorithmic and removed from the original idea of the market, where people trade face to face. We’re increasingly removed from something that’s real and about people.”Using a smartphone both as a source of information and as a prop for blending in, players of Adventure 1 receive texts and audio files with instructions to tail someone who programmes code for the server rooms and data centres at the heart of the financial system. Players need to blend into the city around them, so that they don’t draw attention.“It happens in a location, somewhere in the financial district of London,” Stevens explains. “We don’t have permission to be there and we would never get permission if we asked.”This language of espionage frequently pops up in projects that intervene with the data-driven city. Coney’s infiltration adventure is one example, another isDead Drops, a project set up by Aram Bartholl in New York that involves cementing USB drives into the walls of buildings. There’s a subversive pleasure in using technology in this way, both public and secret. Spies and detectives are, after all, power fantasies – figures able to command the city, make it comprehensible and use surveillance for their own ends.Network cables are plugged in a server room in New York City.Photograph: Michael Bocchieri/Getty Images‘We need to reconsider the data-driven city’It’s understandable that projects seeking to subvert invisible systems of data will want to tap into these desires. And yet these fantasies, from chatting with lampposts to playing hide and seek with city bankers, are focused on individual empowerment. What happens when we look at digital empowerment on a community level?Mara Balestrini, an expert in Human Computer Interaction who has worked on technological interventions with communities in both London and Barcelona, says we “need to reconsider what a data-driven city might mean, and how to better collect and represent data that’s meaningful to individuals and communities”.While the idea of a smart city tends to revolve around using interconnected devices to increase the productivity of things liketraffic managementand rubbish collection, Balestrini’s approach focuses instead on how urban technologies can foster social interactions and community cohesion through playfulness, reflection and collective memory.“I’m working with local communities to deploy off-the-shelf and affordable networks of sensors to collectively monitor the environment and tackle local issues like air quality or noise pollution,” Balestrini says.“In other projects, such as CrowdMemo, I’ve worked with communities to use mobile phones and lightweight tech to preserve local heritage by embedding memories onto the facades of buildings, which are important for the community.”Balestrini makes it clear that storytelling is a crucial part of her job. As Tassos Stevens noted about the financial system, we’re increasingly removed from something that’s real and about people. Storytelling is an important way to preserve that sense of humanity in the swelling mass of big data.As the internet blurs the boundaries between communities bounded by geography and distributed communities of the post-internet world, projects like Balestrini’sCrowdMemoare encouraging social cohesion through cloud computing and collective memory.Good old-fashioned psychogeographyOne thing that connects all these projects is storytelling. As long as people live in it, the city will be a house of voices. Writers from Pepys to Dickens to Baudelaire toIain Sinclairhave sought to map cities on to pages, with the basic conviction that walking is narrative. Can we say the same thing about the digital city? How should writers map a city that’s unbound by physical geography?Academic Tom Abba and artist collectiveCircumstancetouched on this question in 2013 with These Pages Fall Like Ash, a project that used 15 Raspberry PIs to create an offline wireless network across Bristol. Readers received a physical notebook with a narrative, and filled in missing sections by visiting specific locations in Bristol and connecting to hidden computer networks.“When people connected to it they were disconnected from their regular internet access,” Abba tells me. “By almost locking the data into physical locations we wanted to remind each person of their presence in the world … The more digitally mediated our lives become, the more we need to be reminded that those lives are made of people, and human connections.”Combining digital dead drops with good old-fashioned psychogeography is one solution to mapping the invisible city, but Abba tells me it isn’t so much a question of chronicling either the digital or the physical, but the overlap between the two. “We all live between the digital and physical worlds – an ephemeral digital existence that records everything we do and preserves us in a kind of data-amber, and the physical world that the digital relies on in order to exist,” he says.As Abba suggests, our modern city is an overlap between two cities: between the visible and invisible, the pavements and the hidden server rooms. This overlapping is at the heart of it all, perhaps at the heart of our century in general. We overlap webpages, images, messages, communities, stories and maps. Making our surroundings a better place means using this overlap to challenge, provoke and humanise, because we don’t live in one city or the other but somewhere between the two.Mara Balestrini and Pan Studio founder Ben Barker will both be talking atA Smart Portrait of Londonon 17 June as part of the Open City Documentary festival.
The first Lightning connector-equipped headphones for the iPhone aren’t made by Apple – they’re a pair of Philips with excellent sound but major downsides.Apple’s Lightning connector can output audio digitally, rather than analogue over a traditional headphones cable. That allows the headphones to handle the digital to audio conversion and, in theory, sound better.Sounds, 24bit and dubstepThe Lightning connector delivers digital music straight to the DAC in the headphones, but only works with the iPhone and iPad.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Philips Fidelio brand has long been known for quality headphones and the M2L are no exception. They sound very similar to thebluetooth M1BT Philips headphones, with good range and a relatively spacious soundscape for compact on-ear headphones.They sounded balanced and were a little more punchy than the M1BT, making them a good all-round choice for a variety of music genres. Fans of deep, driving bass listening to dubstep or similar might find them a little lacking in the skull-shaking department. Classical music lovers might say they are not accurate enough or don’t have good enough instrument separation, but only if they’re being picky.The M2L support 24-bit high resolution music through the Lightning connector. Apple’s Music app does not support 24bit playback, but third-party iOS apps do. The audio quality was great, but only marginally better than standard high-bit rate 16bit music – for many, it would not be worth the hassle of having to side-load music into third-party apps through a computer.Fit and finishThe right-hand earcup has music and volume controls.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe M2Ls are headphones with a premium look and feel. They are comfortable on the head, if a little tight on the ears like most on-ear headphones.They pinched my ears after three hours listening. The ear cups do a good job of blocking out ambient noise, while the leather-covered aluminium headband and brackets for holding the ear cups feel sturdy and well made.The right-hand headphone has a hidden play, pause and track skip button - double click for next track, triple for one step back. A jog switch controls the volume.It would have been nice to have dedicated track-skip buttons as triple pressing the play button rarely worked first time for me.Unlike most headphones with remote controls, the M2L can’t be used as a headset for making phone calls.The Lightning connectorThe Lighting connector is all digital, but you can’t plug it into anything but an iPhone or iPad, no computer, stereo or anything else.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOverall the headphones are pretty good apart from one glaring issue – having a Lightning connector instead of a standard headphones cable or Bluetooth is a pain.It can only be used with an iPhone or iPad. It is a chunky connector with a relatively thick and stiff cable and it feels as if it could break when jutting into your leg while in a pocket.PriceThe Philips Fidelio M2L headphones cost £200, which is £40-plus more expensive than similar Philips models without a Lightning connector.VerdictComfortable and good sounding, but the Lighting connector is a curse for many.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe audio quality is solid, but isn’t enough of an improvement over Philips’s other headphones built using similar speakers and structure to justify the downsides of the Lightning connector.Perhaps the reason Apple hasn’t released a pair of Beats with a Lightning connector is that it isn’t worth the hassle.If you could connect the M2L via a standard 3.5mm jack or Bluetooth as well as Lightning it would be a different story. But you can’t, making it hard to recommend the M2L, despite their excellent audio quality and fit and finish, to anyone but die-hard iPhone music listeners. Buy standard M1s orthe M1BTs instead.Pros:compact, sound great, well made, look good, supports 24bit, integrated high-quality DACCons:Lightning cable is awkward, cannot be connected to anything but an iPhone or iPad, lacks dedicated track skip buttonsOther reviews•Philips Fidelio M1BT review: great-sounding Bluetooth headphones•Blue Mo-Fi headphones review: powered-up hi-fi headphones•Parrot Zik 2.0 review: wireless headphones designed by Philippe Starck•Six of the best noise-cancelling headphones to silence the commute
Need a spot of exercise but can’t face the gym? Love gaming but not the couch?Icaroscould be the answer. Devised by German design company Hyve, the contraption is paired with a VR headset to bring physical activity to a virtual experience.“You are balancing your centre of mass,” explains senior innovation designer Johannes Scholl, who came up with the idea for his industrial design diploma thesis in 2012. “When you are doing a steep decline, for example, it really goes into your shoulders, into your chest muscles. When you do left and right turns it is pretty exhausting to your abs and to your lower back muscles.”Currently in its second incarnation, the Icaros prototype has recently returned from a digital convention in Berlin where around 50 volunteers put the machine through its paces. “All of them said ‘phew that’s really exhausting!’” says Scholl. Plans are now afoot to refine the device while the company moots a potential crowdfunding campaign. “One prototype is very, very expensive but what we are aiming at is that [the price] can compare to gym equipment you would normally buy for your home.”With ocean dives, virtual gyms and interstellar flight among the scenarios being dreamed up, it might well have a sporting chance of catching on.
What should we make of recent overtures by tech firms to the news industry? Is this good news for news, citizens and the robustness of the tech industry?The industry has always been defined by technology, from its Gutenbergian roots to the digital, social and mobile journalism of today, but it is the accelerated pace of change that is now a greater challenge. In large media organisations, where institutional change is difficult, many have been slow to understand the potential and threat of technology – which can provide new audiences and formats, yet also unprecedented competition. It is a thrilling, if unsettling, time.The tech industry is largely indifferent to journalism, concerned more with engineering, expansion and revenue than the vagaries of complex editorial demands. The insistence of many firms that they are platforms rather than publishers – thus avoiding the responsibility that comes with being a publisher – is testament to that. Journalism was simply content and tech firms didn’t create services that could have blown publishers out of the water because they had bigger priorities.Yet in the past 10 years, tensions have become less reactive and more subtle. In 2004, publishing bosses stood up at industry events and called search firms “parasites” and “brand killers”. Today, they mostly prefer to be courted by tech firms – bar the odd rogue aggressor on the continent, which still insist on trying to sue for some kind of loss of earnings in a bitter retrospective bet against the future. We see commercial divisions working in secret with tech firms to build news products.In the past three months, we’ve had three such projects. Appleannounced its revamped News appat a developer conference last week. Replacing the ineffectual Newsstand app, the service presents articles from multiple publishers on one front page, personalising content according to the behaviour of the reader. It looks and feels likeFlipboard(a news service for those who have the time to spend curating news) but will allow publishers to claim all revenue from related advertising in the app. Facebook introduced“instant articles”in May, which gave media organisations a way to publish some showcase articles directly in the newsfeed, rather than as selective “shared” articles with a summary. And in April, Google announced a“digital news initiative”to invest €150m in product development, training and funding independent innovation projects.Related:Google must be more open on 'right to be forgotten', academics warn in letterWhy the scepticism? Well, Google’s initiative comes amid growing pressure from European regulators over its monopoly status, including its cack-handed treatment of the “right to be forgotten” issue, in which it selectively represented people’s requests to have a say in how its search results represent them. In addition, while the €150m might not go straight to publishers, it’s a hefty sweetener for an industry struggling with the dominance of new tools and its own revenue battles. For Google’s hierarchy of engineers and executives, however, any project with low engineering status is unlikely to find an enthusiastic sponsor, hence the small but devoted audience for Google Reader being let down when the company could find no one to run it andshut it down in July 2013.Facebook? Perhaps more than the others, it has now acknowledged the difference between content and journalism. Saturated with clickbait headlines and cheap quizzes, viral news has become a parody and even Facebook has realised the game is up. It is trying to correct its weird presentation of news articles in its newsfeed, where readers are rewarded for continuing to scroll, a like-and-share reward system that doesn’t reward reading the article and an in-app browser that meant stories would sometimes take 20 seconds to load.And for Apple, news is just more grist for its mill, another product to crank out. Thankfully there were no social features in the first version, given its failures previously. Yet what is personalised news without social recommendation?Related:Reuters launches 'Netflix for news' appIt is critical publishers reach new audiences on these platforms – recent research byPew Research Centre found 60% of generation Yin the US get their political news from Facebook. “Off platform” publishing is now a priority for news organisations, nurturing new audiences with reporting published exclusively on these new platforms. So, in a world where these platforms are so important, publishers also need to be talking to tech firms about how platforms are developed. In what feels like a sign of these companies maturing, there has been a mini-renaissance in the appreciation of journalism over content, recognising the importance of funding reporting that scrutinises those with power.Technology isn’t neutral, but created by teams with their own goals and prejudices and that technology changes our behaviour, which is true of Facebook, Apple and Google. And so publishers need to be part of that process.But the pervasiveness of those platforms is also what presents publishers with their biggest challenge; that while working with these firms on one hand they are responsible for scrutinising them. Regulators are only beginning to grapple with the legal and regulatory challenge and governments still aren’t tech literate. So in an age of unprecedented power, who will hold technological power to account if not the press? And that’s harder to do when you’re helping build the power.
The “front page of the internet” now has less hate. Social news site Reddit announced on Wednesday that the company would be banning subreddits – areas of the site dedicated to a single topic – “that allow their communities to use the subreddit as a platform to harass individuals when moderators don’t take action.”“We’re banning behavior, not ideas,” the post said. Five subreddits were removed: r/fatpeoplehate and r/hamplanethatred, both of which are about hating overweight people; r/transfags and r/neofag, which target the gaming community; and r/shitniggerssay. Most of the subreddits being banned are fairly small, Reddit leadership said: the only subreddit being banned with more than 5,000 subscribers was r/fatpeoplehate.The statement, posted to the r/announcements subreddit, shared the bylines of Jessica Moreno, head of community and support, interim CEO Ellen Pao (who is seen asspearheadingReddit’s evolving strategy around harassment), and founder Alexis Ohanian.Implicit in the announcement was the notion that subreddits of whatever stripe would be allowed to continue to exist so long as they did not actively harass or bully people participating in the discussions on the boards. Subreddits are notoriously insular communities, rife with in-jokes and miniature histories, but many of them are filled with content that test the limits of free speech and some have been banned in the past for organizing illegal activity or distributing illegal material. Racism, misogyny, and other kinds of hate speech will still find space on the site, so long as they don’t involve direct harassment of individual.The move frustrated some commenters on the initial post. “Why is /r/fatpeoplehate banned, but /r/coontown get to exist?” asked redditor CrackheadControl. “That’s bullshit.”“Because the admins are fat, not black,” replied The_Wizard_of_Wang.Reddit brass aren’t banning subreddits devoted to making fun of them personally, either: Pao’s pursuit of legal action against former employers at Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers (a suit she lost), coupled with her recent ascendancy at Reddit, has made her the direct target of a great deal of criticism including on subreddits devoted to maligning her such as r/chairmanpao.Pao and others remain unintimidated. “While we do not always agree with the content and views expressed on the site,”she, Ohanian and Moreno wrote, “we do protect the right of people to express their views and encourage actual conversations according to therules of reddit.”
“This might be one of the worst decisions I’ve ever made in my life,” said Thomas So. On the other hand, it could be a risk that pays off big time, the 24-year-old calculates. Last month, So walked away from a programming job at a Silicon Valley startup paying him a six-figure salary, leaving behind stock options worth (he calculates) millions more, to join a startup that at that point was being funded with cash from its founders’ credit cards.Nor was he alone. Mike Eidlin, one of the four co-founders ofbookmarq, a fledgling social networking site whose goal is to link booklovers worldwide, abandoned his fledgling career as an investment banker with Citigroup in Tokyo to return to the San Francisco Bay area, and re-start his career from scratch.“I decided I didn’t want to be a small cog in a big wheel,” said Eidlin, who launched his new life by taking a coding boot camp. “All of us who joined together to launch this company would have had to wonder, if we hadn’t done it, what might have happened – the ‘what if?’ This is what we’re passionate about.”This kind of passion and risk-taking is precisely what we’re not supposed to be seeing within the ranks of millennials, if the surveys are to be believed. Financially-speaking, they’re themost risk-averse generation since the Great Depression, emphasizing saving (cash in the mattress is better than trusting the stock market, they seem to believe) over spending. They’re encumbered by greater levels of student debt when they finish college, making them warier still about taking big risks with their careers that might not pay off financially or that – worst of all – might result in them losing what they’ve already managed to set aside.That’s spilling over into their approach to the workplace. Many are too wary to evennegotiate a starting salarywith potential employers – a big mistake. Millennials seem toshun sales jobs, viewing them as not offering a clear enough career path or stable compensation.And then there are thebookmarq guys, all of whom defy these stereotypes. Igor Chebotarev, the team’s 20-year-old designer, didn’t even attend college at all; the Sacramento teen took his first full-time design job while still in high school.“I had actually assumed I’d go on to college and was researching different design schools and programs,” he says. Then he took two college courses as part of his high school home-schooling curriculum, one on typography and the other on 3D design. “I realized that they did teach me quite a bit, but by then I was pursuing a career, and learning on the job was actually the best way I learned, about both design and business, as I went after my own clients” at the agency he joined as its first employee,Creative Dash.By the time Chebotarev left in April to devote his time to bookmarq, he was one of a dozen employees, if still its youngest – and his views on the risk he had taken on not attending college hadn’t changed. “If I’d decided to become a surgeon, it would have been different – I couldn’t get away with saying I’d decided to learn in my bedroom by myself,” he quips. Design, however, is different, he argues. “The value is more in the passion and the talent than the degree – at Creative Dash, we looked at what work they could do, not at where they went to school.”All of bookmarq’s founders acknowledge that they’re taking risks with their future – but all emphasize that they are taking informed risks and prudent ones.Thomas So, for instance, used the signing bonus he received at his last job to pay off virtually all his remaining student debt from his years at UC Davis (which is where he met Eidlin and bookmarq’s other co-founder, Raymond Lau). “Before doing something like this, you have to wipe your plate clean; get rid of loans and any baggage and have some savings,” he says. “It also helps to make sure your parents aren’t so crazy traditional that they’ll get depressed about you coming back home to live.” (All the founders are back at home, living with their families.)All are well aware that their venture – which will be going up against well-funded and established rivals like Goodreads – may well flounder and fail.Already, it has been a rollercoaster ride. Late last month, bookmarq was selected as one of four finalists at the Startup Challenge at the BookExpo trade show in New York and given the opportunity to make an elevator pitch to a group of judges that included venture capitalists. The laurels – and the $10,000 grand prize – went to one of the other finalists.Two days later, however, Eidlin was triumphant: bookmarq had landed financing through 500 Startups, an accelerator program in San Francisco, valuing the company at $500m. “We now have access to a bunch of mentors and adviser we couldn’t reach any other way,” he said exultantly.The real risk, the founders argue, is not trying at all.“In the worst case, if bookmarq can’t secure long-term funding, I can look for new jobs with this experience, pointing to this app that I built, mostly on a part-time basis,” says So. “That’s only going to increase my value to an employer, because it speaks to who I am as a software engineer.”Eidlin is even more visionary. Silicon Valley, he says, “is a place where they reward failure. I can walk into a job interview and say, ‘I tried to start three companies and they failed and this is what I learned.’ If ever there was a time in life to take risks, this is it.”Even if bookmarq collapses, Cherbotarev still isn’t convinced that college would be his next destination. “Either way, I’ll spend the next four years learning; it’s just about where I think I could make the most of my time, and where I think I can accomplish the most. I think everyone should ask themselves that question.”The surveys and gloomy pundits may focus on one set of lessons that millennials have learned, coming of age during and after the financial crisis of 2008, watching their parents struggle financially and facing a grim employment market. Clearly, for some strategic-minded and driven individuals – even those without an Ivy League diploma or a big trust fund behind them – willing to think strategically and prepared to take outsize risks, there is an option B.
Virtual reality headset company Oculus has responded to the accidental leaking of what looked likeimages of the final version of its Rift headseton its website on Tuesday, with Palmer Luckey, chief executive of the Facebook-owned firm, explaining the images were actually “placeholder concepts”.Luckey spoke out to the Reddit communityon the same day as the images were leaked, confirming that they were official Oculus images but adding that some design details wouldn’t “carry through”.Oculus had updated its website on 9 June, offering viewers a countdown timer to a special live event on 11 June at 10am. But hidden beneath the timer, and accessible by examining the source code of the website, were a series of images of what appeared to be the latest version of Oculus’ Rift headset, currently in its second developer preview.The 12 images show a 360 degree view of the headset, revealing an audio-integrated head strap and a sleek and ergonomic black and green design. A caption reveals that the box contains a “Rift headset, the Rift tracker, the SID (simple input device), a gamepad and cables”.The Rift tracker, the headset’s positional tracker, is a simple one-foot high base with a microphone-like tube on the top, and a cable running off it that neatly attaches using a wire organiser.The Oculus and its positional tracker.Photograph: Oculus.comThe small “SID” looks similar to Valve’s recently-revealed Steam Controller cut in half, with a circular touch trackpad at the top. In the middle of the controller handset are defined plus, minus and return buttons.The Oculus SID (R).Photograph: Oculus.comBut the images may not be as revealing as they look, with Luckey dismissing the leak as an “old placeholder concept image”. Even so, he hinted that some of the design features would appear in the event on Thursday:“This is an old placeholder concept image that we accidentally leaked. Everything in it is ancient, certainly nowhere close to final (as evidenced by the GPU specs and the game named “war”). Enjoy checking it out, at this point, but don’t expect everything to carry through to the stream on the 11th.”Oculus is expected to feature the new Oculus Rift headset at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) conference between 16 - 18 June.
Barring big announcements about virtual or augmented reality headsets at this year’s vast E3 games conference in Los Angeles, hardware is unlikely to be the big story.The Xbox One and PlayStation 4 are now more than a year old and the focus has shifted to games. Meanwhile, Nintendo says it is far too early to talk about its NX console,revealed in Marchand rumoured to be based on Google’s Android technology.Yet that has not prevented hardware manufacturers from jostling for column inches ahead of the big event.On Tuesday, Microsoft announced the launch of a new Xbox One with one terabyte of storage, providing twice the space as the original version for downloaded games and other digital content. The updated console, priced at £349, will be sold exclusively by the Game retail chain in the UK until 20 June.Microsoft has also refreshed the Xbox One controller, adding a standard headset jack to the pad – a feature already provided by the PlayStation 4’s DualShock 4 controller. The tweaked wireless joypad will be bundled with the new 1TB console, but will also be sold separately.A wireless USB connector for using the controller with a Windows PC will also be available. The existing 500GB Xbox One will now start at £299, although has already been available for as little as £275.Microsoft is, of course, locked in another round of the console hardware war with Sony and its PlayStation 4, which is alsorumoured to be getting a 1TB storage upgrade. The PS4 has reportedly shipped more than 22m units compared with the Xbox One’s 14m by the end of April, despite some deep discounting by Microsoft.“Microsoft decision to release a bigger storage SKU of the Xbox One is a chance to differentiate itself from PlayStation offering, although we expect Sony to offer a 1TB SKU as well in the future,” says analyst Piers Harding-Rolls, head of games at IHS Technology.“It also reinforces Microsoft’s Xbox strategy to focus more directly on the gamer, a strategy change brought in when Phil Spencer took charge of the division. The new controller announced is also a welcome change, allowing users to plug their headsets directly into it, rather than mess about with proprietary adaptors.”A skirmish over hard drive sizes is perhaps not the most thrilling battleground for the games industry, but it is a vital one in an age where consumers are relying more heavily on storage space.Harding-Rolls says: “I think the user experience around managing storage – the need to download games to the hard drive to deliver usable performance even when you buy a disk, the inevitability of large patches straight out of the box and the frequency and size of patches – is one aspect of the current PS4 and Xbox One consoles that lets the consumer down significantly.”“A significant amount of early adopters will have already filled their 500GB, so offering bigger storage is a sensible move from Microsoft,” he adds. “However, additional storage does not solve the user experience around instant access to content bought at retail or the large day-one patches that are routine these days.“The console company that refines its user experience around these issues will be more robustly positioned in the future.”•PlayStation 4 v Xbox One – where do they really stand?
Baidu – the search engine and technology company often called China’s Google –plans to release a self-driving car with BMW by the end of the year.The Chinese firm has been working on autonomous vehicles for the past couple of years, recently partnering with car makers including BMW.The two companies announced a self-driving research project in April 2014, driving test cars around the complex highways of Beijing and Shanghai.Wang Jin, Baidu’s senior vice president, told the China cloud computing services summit that the company would launch a new self-driving car with BMW in China before the year is out.The prototype car will be used to test road-readiness of Baidu’s technology, which will involve the car driving itself but still have human controls.The race for the roadsGoogle recently unveiled anew series of prototype vehiclesbuilt from the ground up to be self-driving cars, having previously modified Lexus sport utility vehicles and Toyota hybrid cars for testing purposes.Its new car aims to completely replace human control with artificial intelligence, reducing controls to a destination selector and a start/stop button. A versionwith a human driverwill be tested on public roads in the near future.Baidu is taking a more traditional route to the self-driving car. Its head of deep learning, Kai Yu, said last year that the technology it was developing was designed to assist drivers rather than replace them.The Chinese firm has its own data-mapping service, which is a prerequisite to any automotive robotics project, and invested $10m in a Finnish mapping startup IndoorAtlas in September last year.It also has undertaken extensive artificial intelligence research, including machine learning and the technologies needed for computer vision for cars and other robotics, rivalling those of Google.But Baidu has one major advantage over its US rivals. Many of the driving-assisted vehicles on the road today, including the Tesla Model S, are technically capable of driving themselves.Legislative hurdlesTesla’s chief executive predicted that self-driving vehicles would be available to buy within three years during the unveiling of an “autopilot mode” for his Model S electric car, which will be capable of driving itself to a parking and charging spot.While the technology has yet to be proven, the major hurdle to autonomous vehicles on public roads is legislation.Several US states have allowed autonomous test vehicles on to public roads, which has allowed Google to test its cars for the last couple of years, but drivers must always be present and capable of taking over at any time.While the UK has a series ofgovernment-funded studieson the use of autonomous vehicles is underway, legislation lags technology in both the UK and US.A series of complex issues about who is to blame if something goes wrong, what an autonomous car should do in an emergency and extensive safety requirements have yet to be solved.China and Baidu could steal a march on the West through flexible legislation. The Chinese government has more power to rapidly mandate the kind of wholesale changes that would be required to unleash self-driving cars.Pods, cars or self-driving taxisThere is still some debate over in what form self-driving cars will emerge. Automotive manufacturers are working on their own technology with the clear ambition of selling a traditional car that can drive itself - something Baidu seems to agree with.Others are working on autonomous vehicles that could be seen as pool cars or a form of public transport, with driverless vehicles operating as shuttles or bus replacements.While Google’s self-driving pods resemble the latter, Uber, for instance, is working on autonomous vehicles with the aim of running a taxi service that do not require human drivers.•Google acknowledges its self-driving cars had 11 minor accidents•Volvo to test autonomous cars with ordinary drivers on public roads by 2017
Both Apple and the White House have announced new policies aimed at boosting the use of encrypted connections on the internet, suggesting that the days of insecure internet connections could be numbered.On Monday, Apple revealed the latest version of its mobile operating system, iOS 9, at the company’s Worldwide Developer Conference.Hidden among the changes in the update is a confirmation that the company will encouraging developers to “exclusively” use HTTPS, the secure way of connecting to web addresses, over the older and insecure HTTP.The same day, the White House published a memo requiring all federal websites and web services to provide service only through a secure connection.Like Apple, it recommends that that connection be through the HTTPS standard, which it calls “the strongest privacy and integrity protection currently available for public web connections”.The rationale for both changes is the same: over recent years, the understanding of where encryption is necessary has shifted. It used to be that HTTPS was only expected for websites where “sensitive information” was exchanged, such as usernames, passwords, or credit card details.But increasingly, wider use of encrypted connections has become popular. Sites such as Google, Facebook and Twitter now offer HTTPS connection as default, and the Electronic Frontier Foundation’sHTTPS Everywheretool lets users connect through the most secure channel wherever possible.In its note mandating the use of secure connections, the White House explains that “all browsing activity should be considered private and sensitive”.“Federal websites that do not convert to HTTPS will not keep pace with privacy and security practices used by commercial organisations, and with current and upcoming internet standards. This leaves Americans vulnerable to known threats, and may reduce their confidence in their government.”Apple’s advice to developers is similar. Encryption,it writes, “prevents accidental disclosure, provides secure default behaviour, and is easy to adopt”.“If you’re developing a new app, you should use HTTPS exclusively. If you have an existing app, you should use HTTPS as much as you can right now, and create a plan for migrating the rest of your app as soon as possible.”Compared to unsecured connections, HTTPS offers a number of benefits. The service encrypts information sent between the user and the website at the other end, ensuring that no third party can intercept the communications.That means, for example, a third-party intercepting an e-commerce order cannot steal credit card details, which is why encrypted connections have been the norm for online shopping and banking for more than a decade.But encryption also provides security against other sorts of online attacks: malware that injects advertisements into webpages cannot do so if the sites are encrypted; phishing sites which attempt to trick a user into giving up personal details cannot forge a security certificate; and attempts to hijack domains will fail if the security certificate is wrong.As well as the security benefits, encrypted connections also offer users privacy benefits. While the protocol cannot protect the identity of the specific site being browsed, it can hide what specific page is being viewed from simple attacks.The EFF explains that “ideally, this provides some protection against an attacker learning the content of the information flowing in each direction — for instance, the text of email messages you send or receive through a webmail site, the products you browse or purchase on an e-commerce site, or the particular articles you read on a reference site”.Ironically, given the support of the White House, part of the impetus for wider use of HTTPS for internet security was the revelations of state surveillance contained in the files leaked by Edward Snowden.In September 2013,the Guardian revealedthat the NSA has capabilities against HTTPS encryption, but the service is not believed to be able to perform “dragnet”-style surveillance against encrypted connections.
Music streaming service Spotify has upped its public numbers, announcing that it now has 75 million active users, with 20 million of them paying for its premium subscription tier.That’s a rise from the previous figures – 60 million active users and 15 million subscribers –announced by the company in January. The announcement’s timing is no coincidence, coming days after Apple unveiled its rival Apple Music service.“What a difference a year makes! At the end of May 2014, we reached 10 million paying subscribers and 40 million active users. Today, we have reached more than 20 million subscribers and more than 75 million active users,”claimed a post on Spotify’s blog.Related:Daniel Ek: Spotify and free music will save the industry, not kill it“10 million subscribers in our first five and a half years – and another 10 million subscribers in just a single year! That’s an average of one new subscriber every three seconds over the last year.”The blog post highlighted Spotify’s $3bn of royalties paid out to music industry rightsholders, including $300m in the first quarter of 2015, and published some new claims of the payouts that artists of different sizes can expect to earn in a year from the streaming service.According to Spotify, with 20 million subscribers, a “niche/indie artist” could expect to generate $1.2m a year in Spotify payouts, while a “heritage artist” would generate $2.6m. It also claimed that an artist in the company’s top 100 chart could get $3.3m, while a “global superstar” could generate $13.9m.These claims will be picked over in the coming days especially the “niche/indie” figure, with a number of independent artists having publicly complained about much smaller payouts from their streams on Spotify and other services.Spotify claims artists will be earning more now it has 20m subscribers.Photograph: PRNote, these figures refer to the royalties paid to labels and music publishers, rather than the final sums actually paid to musicians and songwriters – how the former compares to the latter is a can of worms that is being enthusiastically opened and shaken out in public within the music industry in 2015.Spotify’s announcement reveals that it has increased its conversion rate from free to paid. In January, 25% of its users were paying for the service, but that percentage now stands at 26.7%.Related:Apple Music interview: 'Algorithms can't do it alone – you need a human touch'The company has faced growing scrutiny of its “freemium” model, with musicians like Taylor Swift unhappy that they cannot withhold music from Spotify’s free tier, and some labels agitating for Spotify to do more to convert free users into paying subscribers, in order to increase its royalty payouts.“If we build the revenue model around ‘freemium’, the music industry will be much larger than it’s ever been before, more artists will be able to make a living by being artists and more people will listen in turn,”Spotify’s chief executive, Daniel Ek, told the Guardianin a recent interview.Spotify’s announcement also came as the company raised $526m in new funding, which valued it at $8.5bn. The investors included telco TeliaSonera and Goldman Sachs, among others.Other new investors in Spotify include UK asset managers Baillie Gifford, Landsdowne Partners and Rinkelberg Capital; Canadian hedge funds Senvest Capital and Discovery Capital Management, according to the Journal.TeliaSonera chief executive Johan Dennelind said the investment was part of a strategy to solve what he called “the industry puzzle” – seeking new ways to grow as the core business of telecom operators slows.Like many European rivals, TeliaSonera has found it difficult to increase revenues in the face of fierce competition. Dennelind said Telia could decide to take further steps with companies operating in what he called the border area between the telecom, media and internet industries.Spotify is under pressure from theApple Music service announced on Monday, as well as rivals such as Pandora, Deezer and Tidal.The Swedish company does not disclose details about its ownership but co-foundersDaniel Ekand Martin Lorentzon have sold stakes in the business and no longer own a majority.
In March, when Austrian architects announced they were going to build an 84-metreskyscraper out of wood, there were mutterings about whether this was the right material for the job. The reservations were not about its strength, but that the material doesn’t embody modernity, and so these wooden skyscrapers might seem anachronistic. Wood suffered this biasthroughout the 20th centuryas new materials such as metal alloys and carbon fibre composites offered not just better properties but something even more alluring: newness itself. The story of how wood regained its edge encompasses the development of aircraft, modernist furniture and digital fabrication.Wood is a porous material comprised of cellulose fibres that give it strength and stiffness, and lignin polymer that effectively glues these fibres together. The density and arrangement of the fibres gives wood its grain, which is determined not just by the biology of trees but also by their growth environment. Thus the grain varies from species to species and from tree to tree. The upshot is that, like us, each piece of wood has an individual character, which is one of the reasons we love it so much. Wood is strong across the grain but has a tendency to crack along it. This is useful if you are splitting logs for a fire, but if you are building a house, a chair, a violin or pretty much anything out of wood it presents a design problem. The thinner the piece, the more cracking is an issue, which is why solid wooden furniture can be quite bulky and heavy. Counter-intuitively, the answer to this problem is to make very thin wafers of wood called veneer.Veneer has been used for centuries to cover furniture to give it an attractive surface. In the 19th century, furniture-makers developed an ancient idea of rebuilding a piece of wood by sticking veneer together, so each layer was perpendicular to the next. This allowed them to make an artificial piece of wood without a weak direction; it was called plywood.An artist’s impression of the 84-metre-high wooden skyscraper, to be built in Vienna.Photograph: Rüdiger Lainer and PartnerPlywood was a great idea but it was ahead of its time. The first problem was the glues, which needed to be able to accommodate the expansion of the wood when temperature and humidity changed. At first the glues were inadequate and so early plywood was unreliable and fell apart. Secondly, while the great potential of this artificial wood was to create curved shapes and thin structures that couldn’t be carved from a single piece of timber, this would need to wait for machines and moulding techniques that could apply high pressure to hold the ply in place while the glue set. Finally, a cheap way to produce veneer was needed. This had to wait for the invention of the powered rotary lathe, a truly marvellous machine that takes a whole tree trunk and peels it in one continuous cut to produce sheets of veneer tens of metres long.It took a while for all these requirements to fall into place and they needed to be driven by some strong market pull. The development of the aircraft industry in the early 20th century provided just this. It needed a material that was light, stiff, strong and mouldable into complex shapes – plywood made from balsa and birch fits the bill. The most famous plywood plane was the de Havilland Mosquito bomber. When it was introduced in the second world war it was the fastest aircraft in the sky and was not fitted with defensive guns as it could outrun any other plane. It remains to this day a design classic and is perhaps the most beautiful plywood object ever made.In the end, plywood lost out in the aircraft industry to the new wonder metal, aluminium, but its potential lived on in the minds of designers, particularly Charles and Ray Eames, who used plywood to reimagine wooden furniture and create classic designs such as theEames chair. Their chairs are still made and imitated today; go into any cafe or classroom and you are likely to see them because, although fashions in furniture have come and gone, plywood has retained its appeal, as a reliable and tough, mouldable, elegant and sensuous material.The popularity of plywood led to standardisation in the size and thickness of sheets of the material suitable for cutting and joining together. Although dull, this turned out to have important consequences. With the birth of affordable programmable cutting machines, the confluence of two technologies has made possible a new type of model for furniture making, called re-distributed manufacture. The information to make a table can be coded digitally and sent anywhere in the world where digital fabrication facilities and standard plywood can be found.The table can then be made locally to suit individual needsbecause the designs can be easily modified digitally.This approach promises to change not just how furniture, but also houses, are designed and made. TheWikiHouse projectis one example that seeks to make the plans available for anyone to build their own house, once they have access to a source of plywood, digital fabrication facilities and time to learn a few skills.The new generation of wooden skyscrapers are also designed on this premise, which is that the economies of scale of the production of plywood and ease of customisation due to digital technologies make wooden structural design attractive. Whether or not such plyscrapers, WikiHouses or digitally customised furniture come to a city near you, one thing is clear: plywood is the very epitome of a modern material.
Huawei has rejected accusations of “paranoia and secrecy” after a PR staffer told a group of journalists on a government-organised tour in Shanghai that they could not mention the Chinese electronics company in their reporting from the day.The group,which included the Australian Financial Review’s Angus Grigg, had been invited to Huawei’s Shanghai development campus as part of a tour of Chinese science and technology firms arranged by the government for foreign and local journalists.The tour should have been an opportunity for Huawei to win round sometimes-hostile technology journalists, who have spent many years interrogating the company overreportsthat its close ties with the Chinese government pose a security threat to other nations.Huawei has always denied these reports, withthe company’s deputy chairman writing in October 2013that it has “never received any instructions or requests from any government or their agencies to change our positions, policies, procedures, hardware, software or employment practices or anything else, other than suggestions to improve our end-to-end cybersecurity capability”.And in March, the UK government gave Huawei its seal of approval, after the firm launched a cybersecurity centre in Banbury, Oxfordshire. The Huawei Cyber Security Evaluation Centre “fulfilled its obligations to provide assurance that any risks to UK national security from Huawei’s involvement in the UK’s critical networks have been sufficiently mitigated”,the government’s oversight board reported.However, in last week’s tour around the research campus, Grigg reported that attempts to press Huawei on the issue were met with resistance. “As soon as the question was asked a PR person swooped in and said there would be no comment on this issue.Then the 30-odd foreign and local reporters were told “Huawei’s name and that of our technology-savvy tour guide, Mr Hu, could not be mentioned in any reporting from the day”, Grigg wrote.Grigg added that the reporters were ordered to “not write anything about Huawei in your reports”. When it was pointed out that Huawei had invited the media, they were told “we didn’t invite you … it was the government that invited you and now you should leave”.For its part, Huawei told the Guardian that it is happy to discuss issues of cybersecurity, and that the responses by the member of the PR team did not reflect the company’s position.A spokesman said: “Huawei strives to be open and transparent on all aspects of our business, including our position on cyber-security.“Huawei is happy to answer any questions on cybersecurity and has actively published two white papers, launched the industry’s first list of cybersecurity requirements for selecting ICT vendors, and spoken on this topic at multiple events in the last two years alone.”
Apple is taking a leaf out of Google’s book by putting a fleet of vehicles on the streets of the UK and Ireland to photograph streets for its Maps application.The news follows speculation in February that Apple was working on a rival to Google’s Street View service, after a car leased to Apple and covered in cameras and scanning equipmentwas spotted on the streets of San Francisco.Applehas launched a page on its websitelisting driving locations for the cars in the UK and Ireland, initially covering the period of 9-30 June.“Apple is driving vehicles around the world to collect data which will be used to improve Apple Maps. Some of this data will be published in future Apple Maps updates,” the site explains.“We are committed to protecting your privacy while collecting this data. For example, we will blur faces and license plates on collected images prior to publication.”The reference to faces and licence plates is an admission that Apple’s vehicles will be taking photographs rather than simply gathering road data – which in turn signifies work on a rival to Google Street View.For now, the vehicles will be travelling around London and Birmingham in the UK, and Dublin and Cork in Ireland. Apple has also confirmed that they will be operating in various US cities including districts in New York, Los Angeles, Detroit and Dallas.Apple’s Maps app got off to a rocky startafter its launch in 2012, with critics pointing to inaccurate data – including lost train stations, a shrunken Sears Tower in Chicago, and an entirely new airport appearing in Dublin.Related:Google Maps: a decade of transforming the mapping landscapeThe company has improved the service since then with features including place cards for locations; reviews, photos and ratings from services like TripAdvisor; and a way for small businesses to add and edit their information.During its WWDC keynote on Monday, Apple announced new features due to debut in the Autumn as part of its iOS 9 software, including public-transport directions for several cities including London.Google’s Street View was introduced in 2006 in the US, before expanding to the UK and Europe two years later. It played a key role in improving the company’s Google Maps service.Apple will be hoping to avoid some of the controversies around Google’s Street View vehicles, includinga privacy blunder in 2012when the company admitted it had had not deleted private data, including emails and passwords, that it secretly collected from internet users around the UK.
As more connected products come to market, fromsmart thermostats on our wallsto connectedwearableson our wrists, how will we pay for it?Will we sign contracts as we do with mobile phones, getting hardware for “free” and paying for services? Or will we get discounts or free devices by handing over our personal data, as we do with Google and Facebook?Smart home services are likely to be paid for the same way as mobile phones, predicted Stephen Pattison, vice president of public affairs at British chip designer ARM, speaking at theHyperCat internet of things Summitin London on 8 June.“What we’ll be looking at in the future is a big company ... coming to your door saying they could give you all your white goods – your television, your phone, your tablet, they can do security around your house – and they will charge you rent for that,” he said.Trading our data for servicesAn alternative, especially for apps based on hardware we already have, is trading our data for free services – think of how Google or Facebook get their revenue without charging people to use their platforms. “It’s a fantastic free service, but they monetise [your] data,” noted Brian Robertson, networking firm Broadcam’s business development director for EMEA. “The freemium model has created a monster that we’re all quite happy to use.”However, research suggests we’re no longer happy to pay for services with our private data, so the IoT industry may be smart to find a different way. Symantec’s CTO, Darren Thomson, said company research suggested a “marked change” in consumer behaviour towards privacy of late, with arecent reportrevealing personal privacy was viewed as more important than quality of service. “That’s the first time that’s ever happened,” he said.Perhaps because of that, people are starting to lie to such services, giving false information to access them while keeping their personal information safe, Thomson said – and that’s a problem for companies that rely on our data to power their business.“I would suggest that that fundamental idea starts to fall to pieces if we find that a high percentage of people that are contributing that data are actually lying in order to get access to that service,” he said.Tackling the growing aversion to handing over personal data, IBM fellow Andy Stanford-Clark suggested, would need companies to act more ethically and stop trying to “catch us out” with complicated terms and conditions.Instead, firms should help users actively and intelligently opt in to data collection where they are happy with it.Lord Erroll, chairman of IoT standards group HyperCat, suggested that there should be a “basic minimum level which you can’t sign away” to protect users from unknowingly handing over too much data, while helping to rebuild trust in such companies.Another solution is to hand all our data to one company, and let it act as a broker – similar to how PayPal holds your payment card data and only passes it on to retailers at your request.John Davies, chief researcher at BT, pointed tostartups that will do just thatfor data, helping give control of data back to consumers. “Their whole business model is predicated on the notion that they will own your data for you, [and] will sell it,” Davies said.IoT services – and websites and apps, for that matter – could also offer discounts to users who share their data. “This can be a way in which individuals can realise the benefit of their data,” Pattison said.“But one of the problems with that is it has to be a real choice. You can’t have a world where you’ve got companies saying ... if you don’t hand over all your data you don’t get this service at all. It has to be a world where there’s this phased, staged approach.”Users prefer to pay upfront?Rather than hand over data, perhaps we should start paying upfront for such hardware and services – a pointmade by Apple CEO Tim Cook last week, who argued his firm believes it’s better to base the bottom line on cash than to sell customers’ personal data to advertisers.Robertson said he’d happily pay for otherwise free applications or services if it meant he could keep his data safe. “As a consumer, I would definitely consider it, especially for my kids,” he said, explaining that adults are better equipped to make careful privacy decisions than children, who may agree to any data handover to keep playing their game.That could be done with micropayments, with consumers doling out a small payment to get access to an application or service when they use it, which could help reduce our dependency on selling our data, Robertson added.Regardless of which business model dominates the IoT, ARM’s Pattison said protecting privacy and handing data ownership back to people is the key.“If we don’t get this right, this data protection right, we will not liberate data to drive the smart world that we’re all trying to create,” Pattison said, adding later: “The main principle is we must all accept that consumers own their own data. I think this whole experiment will fail if we don’t get that right.”
It’s Wednesday everybody. Today’s screenshot comes from adventure game Broken Sword 5, which was successfully Kickstarted in 2012 for smartphone release and is coming to Xbox One and PlayStation 4 this summer.
Our dear dad, John Horlock, who has died aged 87, was a highly respected man of great intellect, whose main academic interests were in aerodynamics, fluid dynamics and energy. He loved all kinds of music, cricket, football (Spurs) and the radio. He was a kind and generous man who, along with our mum, Sheila, was always there to discreetly support us (and indeed many other people along the way).Born in Edmonton, north London, John grew up in Winchmore Hill with his much-loved parents, Harold and Olive, and older sister, Beryl. He attended Latymer school, where he first met Sheila Stutely, a talented singer who later became a music teacher and a JP. They married in 1953.Graduating from St John’s College, Cambridge, in 1949, John then joined Rolls-Royce and worked on aero-engine design. After his doctorate he went to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the US, and in 1958 as a professor to Liverpool University’s engineering department before returning to Cambridge, where he later founded the innovative and influential Whittle Laboratory. In 1967 he became its first director. Between 1974 and 1990 he was vice-chancellor first of Salford University and then of the Open University.John was an adviser to government and industry for 50 years. This included work with the National Grid, on the safety of nuclear installations and at the Aeronautical Research Council, as well as numerous other important contributions. He became a fellow of the Royal Society in 1976 and was knighted in 1996 for services to science, engineering and education.As a family we spent several summers in the US with Dad on lecture and research trips. Later, often accompanied by Mum, he travelled widely in pursuit of his work, latterly supporting the establishment of new “open universities” in many countries. And until only a few weeks ago, thanks to email, he continued his academic work with colleagues and friends worldwide.Our parents enjoyed almost 62 years of happy marriage and a life full of interesting experiences. Dad is survived by us and by his grandchildren: Matt, Alex, Guy, Lorna, Patrick, Joe, Martha and Charlie.
US tech industry groups have urged Barack Obama not to pursue policies which might weaken encryption as a new report suggests that fear of government surveillance costs the economy by more than $35bn in revenue each year.Related:If the FBI has a 'backdoor' to Facebook or Apple encryption we are less safe | Trevor TimmThe request was made in anopen lettersent jointly on Tuesday by the Information Technology Industry Council and the Software and Information Industry Association, industry groups which represent companies including Apple, Microsoft, Facebook and Google.“We are opposed to any policy actions or measures that would undermine encryption as an available and effective tool,” the letter reads, adding that “consumer trust in digital products and services is an essential component enabling continued economic growth of the online marketplace.”Their statement was bolstered by astudyalso released on Tuesday by the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, which found that the US government’s failure to reform many of the NSA’s surveillance programs had damaged the competitiveness of the US tech sector and cost it a portion of the global market share that would “likely far exceed” $35bn.“In the short term, US companies lose out on contracts, and over the long term, other countries create protectionist policies that lock US businesses out of foreign markets. This not only hurts US technology companies, but costs American jobs and weakens the US trade balance,” the study found.Since the publication of the documents leaked byformer defence contractor Edward Snowdenin 2013, the Obama administration has been struggling to justify its bulk collection programs to an increasingly sceptical public.In May, a crucial senate vote to extend the program – which was authorised under Section 215 of the Patriot Act – failed, followed by thepassing last weekof the USA Freedom Act, effectively ending bulk data collection,at least for the time being.“We appreciate that, where appropriate, law enforcement has the legitimate need for certain information to combat crime and threats,” reads the ITIC letter. “However, mandating the weakening of encryption or encryption ‘work-arounds’ is not the way to address this need.”The letter was copied to US secretary of state John Kerry, attorney general Loretta Lynch and homeland security secretary Jeh Johnson, as well as the secretary of commerce, the director of the FBI, and the director of the National Economic Council.In a press briefing on 4 June, White House press secretary Josh Earnest addressed the problem obliquely when asked a question about the now-defunct Section 215 of the Patriot Act, which allowed the federal government’s bulk collection of data.Describing what he saw as the “tough challenge of balancing the privacy and civil liberties of law-abiding American citizens with the need for us to try to detect and apprehend terrorists before they commit an act of violence”, Earnest said the president saw an opportunity to work with the tech sector.“As much as they value and champion the privacy and civil liberties rights of American citizens, we also know that those individuals do not want to be in a situation where their technology is responsible for allowing somebody who is seeking to carry out an act of violence to evade detection from the federal government,” he added.
Apple Pay is coming to Britain in July in its first expansion outside of North America, Apple confirmed at its annual worldwide developer conference.Sometime in July, users of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, as well as Apple Watch owners, will be able to start making payments in shops around the country using their mobile phones.Which banks are supported?Just having a compatible device isn’t enough – you also need to have a credit or debit card and an account at a supporting bank. The first wave of banks to support the payment system include First Direct, HSBC, NatWest, Nationwide Building Society, Royal Bank of Scotland, Santander and Ulster Bank. Apple promises a second wave by the autumn, including Bank of Scotland, Coutts, Halifax, Lloyds Bank, MBNA, M&amp;S Bank and TSB Bank.Notably absent from that list is Barclays, whichtweeted after the announcementto tell customers that “we’ve been talking with Apple about how our customers could use Apple Pay in addition to our existing mobile and payment services, and that [sic] these talks remain constructive”.Where can you use it?The technology Apple Pay is built on is fundamentally backwards compatible with the existing infrastructure for contactless payments, says Mastercard’s Mike Cowen, head of emerging payment products. That means there’s more than a quarter of a million establishments that will support the payment service from day one, including the entirety of Transport for London’s network, and major chains such as Pret a Manger, McDonald’s UK, Wagamama and Nando’s.The majority of locations that take Apple Pay will be subject to the same limits that exist for conventional contactless payments, Cowen explains, because those limitations are hard-coded into the reader. That includes a limit of £20 per transaction, which will rise to £30 per transaction in September, because currently anything higher must be bought with a chip-and-pin card for the added security.But a few chains have installed newer hardware that supports high value contactless payments, such as by Apple Pay, which are secured using biometric information such as fingerprints.As well as a physical payment service, Apple Pay also lets users make in-app payments without having to re-enter their credit card information or share sensitive personal details with the company. The in-app payments also work on Apple’s two newest iPads, the iPad Air 2 and iPad Mini 3. Amongst the launch partners for that aspect of the service are: Addison Lee, Airbnb, Argos, Booking.com, British Airways, Domino’s, easyJet, Hailo, HotelTonight, hungryhouse, JD Sports, Just Eat, lastminute.com, Miss Selfridge, Ocado, Stubhub, thetrainline.com, Top10, Topshop, Uncover, Vueling, YPlan, Zalando and Zara.How is it secured?On most devices, Apple Pay requires authentication through Apple’s TouchID fingerprint scanners before it will authorise a payment. The only exception is the Apple Watch, which remains permanently unlocked and authenticated while on its owner’s wrist, but needs a passcode if it is taken off before it can be used to make a payment.The actual transactions are secured using the new “digital secure remote payment” standard, which ensures that the actual credit card data is never transferred over to a merchant. Instead, a single-use “cryptogram” is sent to the merchant, which authorises one transaction of a specified amount – unlike normal credit card information, which can be reused again and again to authorise transactions.
New privacy features available in Google’s forthcomingAndroid M software updatewill give users of Android mobile phones and tablets more control over how their personal data is used.Yet while Android M will finally give users the same privacy protections against rogue apps that Apple’s iOS has had for three years, Google has admitted that earlier attempts to improve these controls had failed.M, which is expected to be released in or soon after July 2015, will allow users to pick and choose which data and services apps have access to on a case-by-case basis, when the app requests it.Until now, the norm for Android apps has been that users either accept all the app’s permission requests at the moment of install or simply don’t install the app. The requests range from access to the internet, the microphone, camera or storage to monitoring call states or location.‘App ops’ - built, but hidden from viewHowever, in 2013 Google added the ability to deny apps access to certain data and services within its Android 4.3 “Jelly Bean” operating system.The feature, dubbed “App ops”, was hidden within Android and only accessible using third-party tools, but laid the basis for per-app permissions and was praised as a big step forward for user privacy by Electronic Frontier Foundation.“App ops was launched somewhat out of context; we really needed to solve the whole story, not just launch App ops without moving apps from install time to run time permission requests,” said Google’s Hiroshi Lockheimer, head of Android and Chrome OS development.App ops was short lived, seemingly only seeing the light of daydue to developer in-fighting, before being removed in the Android 4.4.2 update some weeks later.“Applications on Android, starting in 2008, were not built with the notion that certain functionality could be turned off behind their backs – that was just never the assumption for developers because that was not how the APIs were designed.”Cyanogen OS’s App ops control panel allows users to set access to user data on an app-by-app basis.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe worry was that denying an application access to a location or microphone without telling it would cause it to break or crash. Despite this, modified versions of Android, such as Cyanogen OS, found ways of making the individual permission system similar to App ops work. Google took over two years to work out a scheme.‘Getting things aligned took a while’“There are a lot of players involved, from Google to developers and consumers – getting it all into alignment took a while to get right,” Lockheimer said. “We’re starting in M, because every time we have a major release we can change these things, and we were able to modify and create new application programming interfaces (API) to handle it.”Developers do not have to use the new run-time permissions system, unless they want to use the new Android M developer tools and any further improvements going forward. Google thinks that the changes made in the capabilities in Android M will be a big enough incentive to drag all developers over to the new APIs, and therefore the permissions system.The new permissions system also applies to Google’s own apps, which means users could block Google from knowing their location, prevent access to their address book or personal information.“The way Android works is that there is no advantage we can give to Google’s applications, everyone operates on a level playing field,” said Lockheimer. “Android is an operating system, which Google is a third-party developer to – the Gmail app, for instance, is an app, and as such is subject to the exact same rules.”Google’s new implementation of app permissions is very similar to that seen in App ops in 2013.Photograph: GoogleOne of the problems with permissions requests is that users do not understand what they are being asked for and invariably just end up saying yes to any dialogue box that pops up.Contextual decisions make people think more about privacy“Doing permissions in context helps prevent the ‘yes’ muscle memory,” explained Lockheimer. “It helps to break down the decisions on the access that apps are asking for, such as the microphone when the user has tried to send a voice message.”Google has also ramped up its screening of apps. Each app submitted to the Play Store is run on a virtualisation screening system, while people review some of them for things like hate speech. It’s not quite to the same degree as Apple’s app store review policy, but helps keep users safe, said Lockheimer.The Silicon Valley firm is currently being investigated by the European Commission into its alleged abuse of its smartphone market share and the incentives it offers to bundle apps and services on Android.Any moves to help protect user privacy, however unrelated to app bundling, will be seen as a positive step, even if it is seen as several years late by many.•Google unveils Android ‘M’ software with focus on security and battery life
SpotifyRun to the beatSpotify Runningis a new feature and part of Spotify’s “now experience” that detects the rhythm of your run and matches it to a song with a similar tempo. This means that in theory you’ll always be running in time with your music. To get started, go to your settings (three white bars, top left), select Running and choose one of the playlists available. Spotify will then instruct you to begin running so that it can detect your tempo. For example, if you run at 150 steps a minute Spotify will play only songs that have been recorded at 150 beats per minute. You can manually adjust the steps/min by increments of five if you feel the detection is off or if you want to use the feature but your smartphone does not have an accelerometer.Watch and listen to showsYou can now watch and listen to both video and audio shows on Spotify. Tap Shows to check them out. At the top you’ll see a few featured suggestions as well as the option to browse video or audio shows individually. Scroll further down and you’ll find some useful categories to help you refine your search such as Lifestyle, Tech &amp; Gaming, News, etc. Spotify has teamed up with a lot of entertainment bigwigs such as ABC, Comedy Central, NBC, and Vice Media, to name a few, so you can probably expect to find a lot of high quality content here in the near future.Hide your guilty pleasuresSpotify keeps a log of every song you play, which is a great feature for keeping track of what you’re listening to and for sharing your music with friends through social media. However, it’s not such a great feature if you have some questionable music taste that you’d rather other people weren’t aware of. Fortunately this is easy enough to fix. On Spotify’s desktop app click File &gt; Private Session. If you’d like even more privacy, click Edit &gt; Preferences and turn off “Automatically make new playlists public” as well as “Publish my activity on Spotify”.UseBBC Playlisterto create playlistsBBC Playlister is one of the more interesting music curation services for people in the UK. It allows you to create your own playlists within Spotify based on songs that have been featured across the BBC TV and radio. Go tobbc.co.uk/music/playlister, sign up for a free account and link your curated playlist by clicking the Spotify icon (other streaming services are also compatible). So let’s say you just heard a great track on Radio 2 and you want to listen to it again: go to Playlister, click Tracks, sort them by most recent, find the song you just heard and add it to your playlist. The same process would apply if you heard something on any other channel across the BBC.View lyrics as your music playsSpotify now has a lyrics button, which is currently available only on the desktop app, so if you mainly use Spotify on your mobile device, this one may have passed you by. You can find the button on the bottom right of the window, to the left of the Queue button. There are even a few settings you can play around with at the bottom of the window. From here you can remove the album art from the background, alter the size of the text, and edit or report inaccurate lyrics. You can also display the lyrics all at once or have them appear on the screen in time with the song, karaoke style.Manage your notificationsSpotify has a lot of notifications (27, to be precise) that you can take control of. You can access these in the Spotify app by going to Settings &gt; Notifications. You’ll immediately see a few that you’ll probably want to turn off straight away. For instance, I turned off “New user tutorial”, “Music recommendations”, “Radio station suggestions”, “New album release”, “Friends from Facebook join Spotify”. That information can stay in the app – I really don’t need it pushed to my phone’s lock screen. Things like Inbox and New follower are more important to me, however, so I left those on. If you hate any and all push notifications then you’ll be pleased to know there’s a option to disable all notifications.Use Spotify Premium (and any other streaming service in this list) for freeWould you like five months of ad-free, high quality, streaming music without paying a penny? Of course you would. The great thing about all of the streaming services listed in this article (Spotify, Tidal, Google Play Music, Deezer and Rdio) is that they all offer a free trial of their premium service for 30 days. So go ahead and sign up for Spotify’s premium service to get your first 30-day free trial and then immediately cancel your subscription. You’ll want to cancel immediately because Spotify will automatically renew your subscription after the free trial, which will set you back £10. The beauty of this is that if you cancel straight away, you get to continue using free premium content for the full 30 days before your premium privileges are removed. This method works for all the streaming services in this article, so after one trial is over, simply hop on to another and daisy chain them together to get five months of ad-free music streaming.TidalAdjust your stream qualityTidal prides itself on being the first music streaming service with hi-fi sound quality, so it’s important you’re taking full advantage of all it has to offer. From either the web or mobile interface click Settings on the bottom left and then click Streaming. From here you can choose from three quality settings: AAC +96 (Normal); AAC 320 (High); Flac 1411 (hi-fi). The mobile app streaming settings are more extensive, allowing you to change the Wi-Fi, Mobile and Download streaming settings individually. There’s also an optimised playback button, which will adjust the streaming quality based on how strong your Wi-Fi or data connection is. Although one of Tidal’s biggest selling points is its high streaming quality, you’ll want to make sure you don’t use Flac (hi-fi) when roaming, as this could end up costing you a lot of money if you don’t have unlimited data.Share the loveUnfortunately Tidal offers very little by way of sharing capabilities. However, fans of Last.fm will be pleased to know that you can at least scrobble your songs (for those not in the know, scrobbling is a form of automatic archiving provided by Last.fm) by heading to Settings &gt; Sharing &gt; Connect to Last.fm and selecting the scrobble checkbox. From here you can also connect your Facebook account, allowing you easily to share favourite tracks with friends.Search by audioHere’s a fun little feature that seems to be available only on Tidal’s mobile app. Click the three white bars in the top left to open the configuration sidebar and select Audio Search at the bottom. Now tap the microphone in the middle of your screen and hold your phone or tablet up to a music source. After a few seconds of listening, Tidal will find you the song that’s being played, provided it’s in Tidal’s library. We’ve seen this before and it’s by no means a new idea, but it’s always a nice little feature to have and if you don’t regularly use the mobile app, it’s one of those things that can be easily missed.Manage your offline devicesThere are two ways to manage your offline devices. From Tidal’s mobile app go to Settings &gt; Offline &gt; Authorised Devices. You’ll see a list of devices you have authorised, tap one and it gives you the exact date it was registered and when that device last logged into your account. Unfortunately you’re limited to three devices at any one time, but you can deauthorise and reauthorise as many devices as you like. Simply head tohttps://my.tidal.com/gb/account/offlineif you wish to adjust these settings on your browser. This is something you’ll want to be familiar with if you listen to music across multiple devices or you intend to share your account.Google Play MusicEqualise your musicBizarrely, equalisation controls are available only for the Android version of Google Play Music. You cannot access this setting in your browser or in the iOS app. That said, if you have an Android device go to Settings &gt; General &gt; Equaliser. You can fiddle with the settings manually, or you can use some of the presets provided by Google, such as bass punch, brilliant treble, balanced, vocaliser or extreme bass.Use the mini playerWhile using the browser-based music player, there’s a small greyed out square with an arrow in it next to the timestamp on the right of the screen. Click this and you’ll activate the mini player – a separate window with minimal Google Play Music controls. This is great if you’ve loaded up a playlist or two and don’t need much control over your music. Additionally, keeping your playback outside your main browser window can be a good way to declutter your workspace and keep things organised. While control is limited in this view, you can still thumbs up songs and play the I’m Feeling Lucky radio station in addition to viewing album art.Desktop notificationsWith Google Play Music’s desktop notification you can find out which track is playing without having to switch back and forth between tabs or your mini player. This is one of Google’s “lab” features, which means it’s still a bit experimental and potentially buggy, but I’ve been using it with no problems. To turn it on, go to Settings &gt; Labs &gt; Desktop Notifications. With this activated, a small window will appear at the bottom right of your screen every time a new track starts. The window will display the song title, artist name, album title and album cover and will disappear after a few seconds. Alternatively, you can close the window manually.Chromecast Fireplace VisualiserWhile you’re still in Labs, you might also want to check out Chromecast Fireplace Visualiser. Once activated, this will display a video of a fire on your TV via Chromecast while casting music. This is a bit of a weird feature and I’m not sure why it exists. It could perhaps be good fun while hosting house parties or maybe an interesting way to inject a bit of festive glow in December if you bung on some Chistmassy songs at the same time. Others have suggested this could be used romantically. An evening by the fire with your significant other and some sexy music, that sort of thing. The only thing is, it’s not a real fire, is it? So you’re probably just going to feel a bit silly. I would not recommend the romantic option.DeezerCull Deezer spamDeezer will send you a lot of unnecessary emails by default, which can be annoying. For instance, I really don’t want my email clogged up with Deezer’s music recommendations or news about the latest Deezer Sessions and other events. On the rare occasion I want that information, I’ll look for it myself. Fortunately, it’s possible to unsubscribe from all of its mailing lists. To do this from the browser, click the small cog next to your name then click Settings &gt; Alerts &amp; Sharing. Scroll down to the bottom and uncheck the promotional emails.Go with the flowDeezer calls its flow feature your “instant and personalised radio channel”. Basically, if you can’t be bothered to create a playlist or you don’t know what you want to listen to, you can activate flow, which will start streaming music to you based on what you have listened to in the past. If you don’t like one of the suggestions, you can tell Deezer never to play it again; likewise, if you really enjoy a track, you can add it to your favourites while at the same time giving Deezer a better idea of what kind of music you like. Click Hear This and select Start Flow.Adjust your smart cacheSmart cache is a clever feature that stores your most played tracks locally so that they reload faster if you’re in areas with poor Wi-Fi or data connectivity. It’s like offline mode, but without the hassle of having to specify which tracks you want to make available offline or having manually to download new tracks as your library expands/tastes change. To increase or decrease your cache size go to Settings &gt; App &gt; Smart Cache. Now adjust to slider depending on how large or small you wish your cache to be. The larger the cache size, the more songs you can store locally, and vice versa. You can also empty your cache from here and set the slider to zero if you don’t want any songs taking up space.Track your listening habits withStateezticsDeezer has lots of great apps. A good one to get started with is Stateeztics. This will track your listening habits, provide information about the songs and artists you listen to, keep you up to date with what your friends have been listening to (provided they also use Stateeztics) and even tell you what the soundtrack to your life is. It’s good fun and a great way to get into using third party apps in conjunction with Deezer. To find Stateeztics just go to the App Studio, search for Stateeztics, select it and tap ‘Add to my apps’. Once installed, why not head back to the App Studio and see what else is on offer now that you’re more familiar with them.RdioChange your playlist imagesChanging your playlist images is a doddle with Rdio. From your web-browser select a playlist, click the three dots to the right of the play button and select Edit Playlist. A new window will pop up. From here you can change the title, description, privacy and the image associated with your playlist. Next to Artwork click the button that says Upload new image and select any picture you have saved. If you don’t like your new image, click Remove directly below Upload new image and Rdio will replace it with the original picture. This works for any playlist, regardless as to whether to not you created it.Use your phone or tablet as a remote and moreThis is such a simple yet incredibly useful feature. Let’s say you’re playing Rdio on your computer at home. If you open up the Rdio app on your phone at the same time and you’re on the same network, a blue bar will appear at the bottom of the app stating “Rdio is playing elsewhere”. Tap the blue bar. A new window will pop up, giving you full control over the song playing. Not only can you play, pause, skip, like or dislike the song, but you can also look at the album’s artwork at the same time. If you want to listen to Rdio on your phone rather than use the app as a remote, just tap the button that says “Tap to play here instead”.Sleep timer (app only)Here’s another simple but great feature. Go to Settings &gt; Additional &gt; Sleep Timer. Now you can tell Rdio to play for a specific time – ranging from 15 to 120 minutes – before it shuts off. This is fantastic for people who like to fall asleep to music. Even better, if you’ve created a soothing playlist to help you drift off. Just set it to your desired time, put it to one side and forget about it, safe in the knowledge you won’t be wasting data or having to get out of bed later to switch your device off. Unfortunately this is available only in Rdio’s app and not in its browser interface.Drag and drop album covers to quickly share or add songs to your playlistsIf you’re listening to Rdio in your browser and you want to quickly add the song currently playing to a playlist, just click the song’s artwork and begin to drag. A little sidebar will pop up on the right, giving you the option to share the song with fellow Rdio users, Facebook friends, Twitter followers or to add to a playlist. Drag the image on to the playlist button and you can then either add it to an existing playlist or create a new one.
