The number of extremist websites espousing violent or racist views has grown by more than a quarter since January, according to a global study of "hate" sites.The unprecedented 26% increase in the first four months of this year was almost as much as the growth in extremist sites during the whole of 2003, according to SurfControl, a British-based web filtering company.Religious hatred appears to be flourishing on the web, with an increase in American religious sites advocating extremist views and a growing number of militant Islamist sites.The number of violent and extremist sites monitored by the company's researchers in 15 countries, including the UK, has risen by almost 300% in the past four years. They detected just 2,756 hate sites in 2000, compared with 10,926 recorded in April 2004. Researchers also noted a convergence between sites advocating hate and those directly promoting violence.Steve Purdham, the chief executive of SurfControl, said most of the extremist sites were created by American groups."There are two basic reasons for the growth. One is the relative growth of the internet. The other is the impact of headline news, in particular with regard to Afghanistan and now Iraq. In times of unease you tend to get extremist views forming and the internet is a global forum for this."Offensive sites that have flourished in recent months include those bearing anti-American messages, as well as sites promoting the idea of Jewish conspiracies, pictures of mutilated people, revisionist versions of the September 11 terrorist attacks and dating and scholarship services for white supremacists.Other news events that appear to have triggered the recent sharp increase in hate sites include the controversy over gay marriages and the release of Mel Gibson's The Passion of the Christ, which has been used by some extremists as a platform to express hatred of non-Christians.US extremists, including anti-abortionists, have published home addresses and phone numbers of officials and doctors on the internet with thinly veiled incitements to violence.In Britain, an animal rights website was recently removed from the internet after activists posted the names, home addresses and phone numbers of more than 100 famous people deemed to be pro-hunt under the headline "Celebrity Bloodsports Scum".A spokesperson for the Internet Watch Foundation, the UK's monitoring body, said it had seen a 101% increase on the previous year in complaints of racial abuse made through its hotline."We would fully support any initiatives from the government on how to deal with such content more effectively," the spokesperson said. "We would also like to see some successful international consensus on how to deal with illegal content which is hosted overseas, but available to internet users in the UK."If a site is deemed criminally racist under UK law and hosted by a UK-based internet service provider, the IWF can order the service provider to close the site. If the service provider does not close the site, they can be prosecuted for "publishing" it. Websites can also be prosecuted under public order legislation if they are deemed to stir up racial hatred against a group of people in Britain.But UK regulators have no power to remove hate sites hosted in other countries. In 2003, 55% of all illegal images detected by the IWF came from America, with 23% from Russia, a growth area for violent internet pornography.John Carr, the internet adviser to children's charity NCH, recommended that people buy filtering software for their computers to minimise their contact with such material."You can't make the internet subject to the same sort of censorship as in British cinema and you can't make net publishing subject to the same kind of controls as printed publications," he said."In the absence of that, you need mechanisms to protect the young and the innocent from exposure to this complete garbage."Mr Carr called on the government to insist that companies sell home computers with filtering software already fitted.As well as using filters, Mr Carr said, young people should be taught to look critically at information on the internet and not take sources at face value.
Travel agent ebookers yesterday cut 15% of its workforce, closing 10 shops across Europe and reducing back office staff in India as part of its drive to move more operations on to the internet.The company, which yesterday announced its second consecutive quarterly profit, is cutting 270 jobs including 70 positions in New Delhi. It hopes the move, which will affect its ebookers, Travelbag and Bridge The World stores, will save &#163;2.5m this year.Chairman and chief executive Dinesh Dhamija said closures would include a store in Tottenham Court Road, London, that he set up with his wife in 1992.As for the fate of the remaining dozen or so stores in the ebookers portfolio, he said: "If they make profits they will never be closed down. I would like to be a pure online play but ... I am not going to throw away profit."The company, which has websites in 13 European countries, yesterday reported a pretax profit of &#163;1.3m for the   three months to end March, up from &#163;405,000 in the previous three months and a loss of &#163;4.86m in the first quarter of 2003.Turnover almost doubled to &#163;160m while an increase in sales of products such as holidays, hotel rooms, car rentals and insurance helped the group maintain margins at 13.2% despite tougher pricing on airline tickets, especially for short-haul routes.The first three months of the year are traditionally a strong period for travel agents and there was a fierce marketing battle, with high profile campaigns from Travelocity and Expedia to grab market share.To bolster its position, ebookers spent &#163;5m but Mr Dhamija insisted that the company more than held its own.Ebookers said the second quarter of the year started well with passenger numbers up almost 60% in April compared with last year. House broker Evolution Beeson Gregory raised its pre-tax profit forecast for the year to &#163;12.5m from &#163;10m.
"IBM plans to announce today a software strategy for corporate desktop personal computers and hand-held devices - one that is firmly anchored in the company's strength in data centers. The IBM offerings include new Lotus Workplace software for PC's and hand-held devices, but most of the critical software resides on server computers in corporate data centers. Workers can tap into their e-mail messages, calendar, work group and other software using a Web browser. The approach harks back to a low-cost model of computing - known as "thin client" computing - promoted in the late 1990's by Sun Microsystems and Oracle as an alternative to Microsoft's hefty desktop programs," reportsThe New York Times[free reg req'd]."A worker using the Workplace software by IBM can still run Microsoft Office programs. But IBM also offers alternatives, built on free software from the open source project OpenOffice.org, including a word processor, spreadsheet and presentation software."Comment: It sounds rather like something Citrix, Microsoft and others have been doing for years (Citrix MetaFrame, Windows Terminal Services etc), but the price may make it interesting. Also, if IBM is re-using the Workplace name, does that mean it thinks everyone has forgotten how OS/2 crashed and burned?
"Lufthansa plans to unveil Wi-Fi on May 17 on non-stop flights between Munich and Los Angeles. It becomes the first commercial user of a Boeing broadband system that's been four years in the making," reportsUSA Today."The satellite-based system will be installed on the airline's entire 74-plane wide-body fleet over the next year. Passengers with Wi-Fi-enabled laptops will be able to buy access with credit cards. Cost to passengers: $30 for the full flight, or $10 for 30 minutes."
The MacFaithful's favourite analyst, Rob Enderle, has penned an opinion piece, Should Apple Get Out of the PC Business?, ineWeek. This can be read as a response to an eWeek column published on May 7, Jim Louderback'sOpinion: Apple: Get Out of Desktops.
It has been a big week for music downloads over the internet in the US, with Sony unveiling its Connect service and Apple tweaking the remarkably successful iTunes.Yet disappointingly for us Europeans, Apple hasn't set a date for their services to launch in the UK and Connect's arrival is still over a month away. The two companies' reticence has created a space that might not necessarily be filled by legitimate sites like Wippit and My Coke Music, but by a download service from Russia.All Of MP3 is a site that was originally aimed at the Russian market. Now it has an English language mirror site, an extensive library of tunes on its servers and some rather unique features.Most impressive of all is its pricing structure. While Sony and Apple both charge 99 cents for each track downloaded (or 79p for Connect in the UK), on All Of MP3 users can fill their hard drives with up to one gigabyte's worth of music for just $10. If they chose the lowest quality settings, with tracks encoded at 128kbps, that's at least 20 albums for not much more than six quid.The question that is furrowing a few brows at Apple and Sony, to say nothing of the world's copyright agencies, revolves around whether the site is legal or not. Certainly the music on the site isn't licensed by any labels. Yet it seems it can operate in Russia courtesy of a legal loophole that allows music to be performed publicly without the authorisation of the copyright owner if it is broadcast on radio or transmitted over the internet.Naturally, there are moves afoot to untangle the nation's archaic copyright laws, but with CD piracy rife (over 50 per cent of CDs sold in Russia are bootleg copies), the question of resolving issues over music downloads is a long way down the agenda.To complicate things further, there are similar sites such as Weblisten, which operates out of Spain and is surviving in spite of the EU's much-tighter copyright laws.So is it worth giving All Of MP3 a spin? The answer is: if you can square it with your conscience, a most definite yes. The site has plenty going for it and in an ideal world might even provide a template for future legitimate European music download services.Signing up involves wading through an overly long registration process, but once you've finished you get an email from the company and you're away.Actually buying music involves becoming what is known as a VIP member and putting some money into All Of MP3's account. There was no way on earth I was ever going to give my credit card details to the site, so I went for the more secure option of paying via PayPal.Finding the music you want to download is the trickiest part. The site is not easy to navigate and features a search engine best described as temperamental. Fortunately, there are easy ways in, such as clicking on the list of the top 75 UK and US albums. The site also splits bands into an incredibly comprehensive array of sub-genres, which helps if you are only really interested in certain types of music.Once you've found your album, you need to choose which format you want to download the music in. While iTunes offers AAC and Napster uses Windows Media, here you can download in either of those formats or plump for MP3, or the open-source system Ogg Vorbis (if only legit sites were as flexible). There are also music video files that can be downloaded in the MPEG 4 format.Another significant advantage All Of MP3 has over its high-profile rivals is that users can determine the sound quality of the music by choosing between three different bit rates. There's the standard 128kbps, which is probably best for porting music on to portable devices, the mid range 192kbps and a top-end, near-CD standard of 320kbps.We plumped for a couple of albums in 192kbps in MP3 and pressed download. Here things started getting a little complicated. All Of MP3 claims it can offer the different speeds due to its online encoding system. In reality, the tracks were available at such speeds that I'd wager that many of the albums in the most popular formats/speeds are off the peg and ready to go. Interestingly some albums can also be encoded with LossLess encoding systems like Monkey's Audio and FLAC that use the data of the original audio CD as the source.Once the process has begun, you can set it up so it sends an email when each track is ready for transfer. If you are downloading a few albums, your inbox will clog up pretty quickly.After an album has been downloaded to the server you then have to port it to your hard drive. Again things went a little awry and after three attempts at following the guidelines set out on the site I gave up and downloaded the All Of MP3 software, which does the transfers automatically. Unsurprisingly it isn't the quickest of downloads. Even with a fast - for the UK anyway -connection of 2Mbps it took ten minutes for the music to appear on my hard disk. The sound quality of the music was excellent and it seemed incredible to think that I could download at least another 15 or so albums before replenishing my original outlay of $10.Overall, I'd say that All Of MP3 offers a satisfactory download experience. Its interface isn't the most intuitive, the search engine is unreliable and some of the instructions are written in very stilted English. Yet it is a world away from peer-to-peer systems like KaZaa with their flaky interfaces and files that purport to contain music but offer nothing more than bleeps.I am sure that the site won't be around for long given that the big guns from the various record companies, copyright agencies and music download services are sure to be trained on it. And for most users too the iTunes, Connect and Napster services, when they finally launch in the UK, will more than suffice. But in the meantime All Of MP3 has found a niche.
Religious edicts are only a click away after Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei launched his own website.The site (www.khamenei.ir)posts religious decrees, speeches and the latest anecdotes from the man who has the last word on all state matters in the Islamic republic.The ayatollah gives advice on ritual ablution and tells readers they should cleanse themselves before touching any official paperwork with letterheads including the name of God.The site, launched on Friday, is run by the supreme leader's office dedicated to preserving his sayings.In the biography section, the Ayatollah tells how he returned home from his seminary studies to tend to his ailing father."If I have been successful in life, I believe that it stems from this good deed I did for my father," he said on the website, which is written in Persian, Arabic and English.The website also carries Ayatollah Khamenei's prediction that US forces will be driven from Iraq in disgrace.
No one else knew that the steps Sailu Kandhi made through his parched two-acre plot of cotton last August were to be his last. The 45-year-old farmer should have been celebrating the birthday of his granddaughter, but instead he took a rope and hanged himself from a tree.The cause of his despair was the 150,000 rupee (&#163;2,000) loan he had taken out to pay for his daughter's dowry. When the rains failed to arrive, the interest payments - at the usurious rates of local money lenders - became too much to bear."Father had sold half our land to pay for my sister's marriage. Now he is gone and we have nothing left but empty land and a big debt," said Padma, Kandhi's younger daughter, outside the family's mud-and-thatch home in the village of Ragammagudem, nestling deep in central India's cotton belt.Her father's plight is not unusual - farmer suicides register once a fortnight in this south-western slice of India. But the simmering rural discontent is having large repercussions in the country's general elections, a month-long process which ends this week.The reason, say political pundits, is that India's villages have been left behind as the country's urban centres - built on information technology exports - march ahead. The digital divide between rich and poor is fast becoming a chasm, and nowhere is this more evident than in Mr Kandhi's home state of Andhra Pradesh.Opinion polls indicate that the state's chief minister, Chandrababu Naidu, will be ejected from office tomorrow after nine years in power. Although Mr Naidu leads a regional party, the Telugu Desam, he is also a force on the national stage.His 29 MPs provide vital support to the ruling Hindu nationalist government.But more importantly, Mr Naidu has attracted the "three Bills" that middle-class India reveres: Bill Gates, Bill Clinton, and the dollar bill. The gleaming concrete and glass towers that dominate the state's capital, Hyderabad, are a testament to business's love affair with Mr Naidu.Multinationals such as Dell and Microsoft have set up here - helped by a 20,000 rupee government subsidy for every job created. A 20 square-mile plot of the city has been renamed Cyberabad, replete with 24-hour electricity and its own gun-toting SUV-driving police force.Mr Clinton has publicly lauded the chief minister for his modernising tendencies. 
 There is public disquiet that a change of government would be bad for business."There are concerns that we will have a new government," said Rohit Kumar, the head of Wipro, one of India's biggest software companies in the state. "Mr Naidu gets things done. If this process slows down then it will be a big worry."In the sprawling shopping malls that line the highways of Hyderabad, there appears unanimous support for the chief minister from young, newly moneyed voters."Mr Naidu has done so much for the city. Just look at all the shops. We did not have this until a few years ago," said Clotilda D'Cruze, a 19-year-old business studies student who is working in a call centre from 3am to 7.30am during the summer holidays for some "extra spending money".But it is Mr Naidu's agricultural policies that have drawn the most flak from political opponents.His plan to change farming in Andhra Pradesh saw subsidies slashed for rice, a staple for India's farmers, and GM crops 
 introduced. He also raised prices for electricity, which the Congress party suggests should be given to farmers for free - something Mr Naidu says leads to wastage.The World Bank backed Mr Naidu's programme with cheap loans to the value of &#163;1.2bn, as did Britain's Department for International Development, which made a grant of &#163;67m.GM cropsThe reality of such changes can be seen just a few hours drive from Hyderabad. Under tamarind trees in the village of Wanaparthi, Somakka Kavide explains that promises of a bumper crop from Monsanto's GM Bt Cotton proved to be empty."It was an OK crop. But I have not made any profits, because I had to use more pesticides for this Bt cotton," said Mrs Kavide, who supports her husband and three children on two and a half hectares (six acres) of land. "Now I am 50,000 rupees in debt. I feel angry with the government 
 because they have done nothing to help us. We get only a few hours' electricity and there is no water. These new crops have not helped."Political commentators say that the agrarian crisis has been silently developing for years."The defeat of Chandrababu Naidu will be because he neglected farmers," says P Haragopal, a professor of political science at the University of Hyderabad."Two thirds of the state's population of 80 million depends on agriculture, and you cannot come to power without doing something for these people."The lack of jobs in the countryside has also provided a pool of talent for far-left Naxalite guerrillas, who came close to blowing Mr Naidu up last year."The Naxalite problem is definitely getting worse, and Mr Naidu's solution to try to crush them does not appear to be working," said Prof Haragopal.Mr Naidu remains unrepentant. "We have to make the leap from a rural-based society to a service-sector one," he said."We have to educate people so that they understand the benefits of GM crops and use technology so that farming becomes more efficient."Mr Naidu acknowledges that farmers have suffered, but says that if he is re-elected, the administration will focus on the agricultural economy."My next five years will be about irrigation and power. But people will have to pay for these. If you can afford cable television then you can afford to pay for electricity."However, Mr Naidu's opponents say that although he is loved by foreign companies and lionised by the World Bank, he will be rejected by the voters.The Congress party has garnered support from populist measures such as free electricity for farmers, and by backing moves to divide the state into two."Mr Naidu was only interested in creating hype," said Y S R Reddy, the Congress party leader in Andhra Pradesh. "We want to do something tangible in the interests of the people."
If you've ever wondered how it is that so many magazines (8,337 at the last count) manage to survive in this country, recent research from the Henley Centre may help. It's all about trust, status and guidance (of which more later) and, like most worthwhile research, it raises as many questions as it answers.Commissioned by the Periodical Publishers Association (PPA), and revealed last week at their annual conference, the point of the exercise was to attempt to work out what it is that magazines do well and where we're missing tricks.Given that 20 years ago many people were predicting the end of the magazine industry (why would anyone want to buy anything as archaic and cumbersome as a magazine when they could find everything they wanted on their computer screens?) the proliferation of titles is reassuring. But do publishers really understand this success and, more importantly, how to capitalise on it?According to the Henley Centre, the power of magazines lies in their ability to penetrate the personal worlds of their readers. Good titles engender a 'network of trust', (so if you pick up a title and enjoy it you are likely to pass on that enjoyment to others). In a society rife with cynicism, trust is an invaluable marketing tool and one that publishers ignore at their peril.Generating that trust relies on recognising that people are increasingly self-obsessed. A publisher must identify major 'life events' (moving home, having first   child, changing job, joining a gym) and focus their content accordingly.Most experienced publishers would confirm that none of this is particularly earth-shattering. But in an era of information overload, how are magazines to make best use of their trust tool to snare readers' attention? And how do magazines convert that attention into engagement - because it is the 'engaged' readers that advertisers really want to reach.Interestingly, the answer lies in using magazines as a bridge to that old enemy, the internet, says the research. It makes complete sense, of course, but it's something many publishers haven't yet got their heads around. Having spent the Eighties being told that the internet would kill magazines and the Nineties trying to hang on to its coat tails without going bust, it's no wonder the concept of using interactivity as a financial tool has been slow to dawn.However, as the research reveals, core magazine enthusiasts are a techno-savvy bunch, and what better way to increase your chances of 'engagement' than to offer readers extra tried and trusted information online?A lot of magazines have websites, but most are more like poor relations of the paper products than businesses in their own right. Notable exceptions lie mainly in the business-to-business sector, where strong magazines are beginning to reap rewards from offering online users content they couldn't   find in the magazine itself.One excellent example is personneltoday.com, which was voted interactive business magazine of the year at last week's PPA Awards. The paper product,  Personnel Today,  published by Reed Business, has a controlled circulation of 50,000, but the website gives access to many who don't receive the magazine as well as offering additional material to those who do. So in April, for instance, they had 59,000 unique users on the main site and 36,000 on their jobs site.The editor, Andrew Rogers, puts success down to the fact that the website uses   clever ideas to increase interactivity. 'We run competitions, quizzes, questionnaires, surveys - anything that will get people to use the site, so that they glean valuable information and have a bit of fun at the same time.'Launched in October 2000, the site turned over &#163;500,000 last year and is expecting a 25 per cent rise year on year. All revenue streams, Rogers says, are on the up. 'Our initial boom came from recruitment advertising, but now our biggest growth is in classified, up 64 per cent. We've also seen growth in display advertising and sponsorship revenues of about 25 per cent.   We're beginning to attract consumer advertisers at last.'The growth in banner advertising is exciting publishers right across the board as agencies become increasingly confident about advising their clients on to the web. Consumer titles, traditionally reliant on display advertising, will particularly benefit if they get it right online but, as in everything, it depends on the strength of the brand.Procycling,  considered the number one magazine by aficionados, has had a website, procycling.com, since its launch in 1998, but it is relaunching in June, in time for this year's Tour de France. 'The site has always made money,' explains publishing director Alun Williams, 'but we anticipate being over 200 per cent up on revenues this year, so it is time to take the site to the next level.'As a specialist publication,  Procycling  has a dedicated audience hungry for news. There are 15,000 subscribers to the daily newsletter, and traffic shoots up during the Tour de France to over a million hits a day.But can more general con sumer titles which don't have a fanatical audience hope to capitalise online?Absolutely, if the story of hellomagazine.com is anything to go by. It reports a phenomenal 677 per cent growth in advertising in the past year. When it launched in 2001, the site attracted 1.5 million page views per month; now it gets that in two-and-a-half days. Editor Tree Elven says: 'We work closely with &#91;advertising&#93; clients telling them what special stories we're going to be covering, and then come up with ideas and visuals that integrate them into the piece. The editorial and sales teams work very closely together.'For  Hello!'s dedicated celebrity fans, the idea of all those glorious picture exclusives online, updated daily, is irresistible and there's even a Diamond Club for subscribers (&#163;4.99 per month) which offers even more pictures plus video and photo gallery exclusives. But Elven stresses that a quality environment is all-important: 'Advertisers want to reach the "online elite".'&#183;Sally O'Sullivan is editorial director of Highbury House.
"The most-read webloggers aren't necessarily the ones with the most original ideas, say researchers at Hewlett-Packard Labs. Using newly developed techniques for graphing the flow of information between blogs, the researchers have discovered that authors of popular blog sites regularly borrow topics from lesser-known bloggers -- and they often do so without attribution," reportsWired News."The researchers have incorporated their techniques into a search algorithm they call iRank. Unlike Google's PageRank algorithm, which ranks websites based on overall popularity, the iRank algorithm ranks sites based on how good they are at injecting ideas into the mainstream."
"Adidas, the 83-year-old German sporting-goods maker, is about to turn that fantasy into biomechanical reality in the form of a running shoe for men and women. Sleek and lightweight despite its battery-powered sensor, microprocessor and electric motor, the shoe, named 1, is expected to be in stores by December and will cost $250," reportsThe New York Times[free reg req'd]."Adidas executives say the shoe is no gadget-dependent gimmick. Instead, its designers say it represents a leap forward in wearable technology. Each second, a sensor in the heel can take up to 20,000 readings and the embedded electronic brain can make 10,000 calculations, directing a tiny electric motor to change the shoe. The goal is to make the shoe adjust to changing conditions and the runner's particular style while in use."
Reutersreports that: "The chips being canceled include the fourth-generation Pentium 4 chip, code-named Tejas, which was to be sold next year. Also being dropped is a new Xeon processor for low-end computer servers, code-named Jayhawk and believed to be based on a similar architecture to Tejas. Intel plans to introduce dual-core chips for desktop computers in 2005 and plans to start shipments of dual-core chips for notebook computers the same year, spokeswoman Laura Anderson said."Dual-core was originally a feature to be introduced in Intel's Itanium chips for powerful data-serving business computers, she said. 'It's kind of a matter of reprioritizing our resources and accelerating development of dual core,' she said.
"New York University students plan to stage a "live" Pac-Man game on Saturday in the streets of Greenwich Village, as part of a project exploring how computer games work when transplanted into real-world settings," saysReuters."This weekend a man in a yellow costume will weave through the streets collecting dots while being pursued by people dressed in ghost outfits whose aim is to stop him before he gathers all the dots. The characters' movements will be controlled by five telecommunications students, who will instruct them via cell phones from a room with a game map. They will use the map to update the latest position of the players and to see where to send them next."
"Music fans may have to start shelling out more to download some of the most popular songs on Apple's iTunes digital music service," according to theNew York Post. "Under the terms of some of the deals, the prices for some of the most popular singles could rise to $1.25, according to sources familiar with the negotiations. Songs have previously been priced at 99 cents across the board."The Register has picked up the story under the headline:Major labels 'force 70% price hike' on Apple. This is based on a para that says: "Album prices are going up to. Many are likely to continue to be offered for $9.99, but some are appearing in the ITMS for $16.99, a rise of 70 per cent."Update"Apple Computer Inc on Friday flatly denied a report that the computer maker was planning to raise prices for songs bought on its popular iTunes online music store," reportsReuters. "These rumors aren't true," said Apple spokeswoman Natalie Sequeira. "We have multiyear agreements with the labels and our prices remain 99 cents a track."
"Intel is canceling work on its next chip for desktop computers, the latest sign of technical difficulties at the semiconductor company," according to the Wall Street Journal [paid sub req'd]."People familiar with the situation said that the company will announce Friday that it is scrapping Tejas, Intel's code name for a forthcoming microprocessor, because of problems that are believed to include the chip's power consumption. Tejas was expected to be introduced in late 2004 or early 2005 and succeed Prescott, another internal name for a version of the Pentium 4 chip introduced in February. Engineers working on the Tejas design will be shifted to other chip projects, these people said."Reutersis also running the story.
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premier online current affairs forum!       &gt;connecting to server . . .Current host:Chris2Current topic:Construction delays, security issues and now bombs have increased concerns about this summer's Olympic Games in Athens. Should they go ahead?Pashmina:wot virusLadeezMan:sasserPashmina:like leslie ash got?LadeezMan:its a computer virusPashmina:tell her thatHost_Chris2:Should the Olympics be cancelled Pashmina?LadeezMan:she gotta superbugHost_Chris2:I meant in light of recent security concerns in AthensPashmina:who cares I aint gonna b thereOsama_bin_Laden:i willPashmina:Osama how long u been lurkin in here!Osama_bin_Laden:4 daysLadeezMan:u got broadband?Osama_bin_Laden:oh yesPashmina:were u here when my cat kept steppin on the keyboardOsama_bin_Laden:yes v uncleanPashmina:no it was cute!!!Host_Chris2:Of course, there are more basic concerns. The Olympic stadium still isn't finished yetOsama_bin_Laden:I wouldn't bother going it will just be blown upPashmina:I'd be typin &amp; he woud just come up and go A&lt;IUSXb'dyfpnhvg;LMcn!!Host_Chris2:Some chatters might find your comments offensive OsamaLadeezMan:u shoud of blown up stamford bridge mateOsama_bin_Laden:no way infidel I had 50 quid on monaco going thruLadeezMan:you really are evilHost_Chris2:We're meant to be talking about whether the Olympics should go ahead.Pashmina:I allready said noHost_Chris2:What about moving the games to Sydney?Osama_bin_Laden:fine just let me knowPashmina:altho I do like the skatingLadeezMan:thats only winterOsama_bin_Laden:skating is blasphemousPashmina:no it aintLadeezMan:which bit?Osama_bin_Laden:the icePashmina:hes makin it up as he goes alongLadeezMan:so rollerskates is OKOsama_bin_Laden:no also blasphemousHost_Chris2:The Olympics, people!Pashmina:we shoudnt be talkin abt the olympics when leslie ash is illOsama_bin_Laden:she is v blasphemousPashmina:that was last week - keep up!&gt;connection to server has been terminated . . .
First thing this morning I deposited a film at the local chemist to be developed: 24 exposures of the bank holiday outing to Lille. I am told they will be ready at the end of the day. That's fine by me. Some six hours to wait, in mild anticipation, wondering whether that neat shot of the war memorial will have come out, or whether the faces will be in focus. In the coming days the shiny prints will be organised, dated and stacked away in old shoe boxes to join others on the shelves of events and people in my life. Once I might have had to wait several days to get them back, or if I had posted the film off to one of those cut price setups, I would be wondering whether I would ever see them back. In the past significant family records have gone totally astray. No redress. All this was part of the hazard of the way things were.I have also been looking at a photograph, taken by Roger Mayne in 1958 of that year's Aldermaston march. I am making an audio tape to accompany the Tate's "Art and the 60s" show commenting on what the photograph reveals of the mood and events of the times. When in Lille I visited an exhibition of photographs taken in China in the late 19th century by the French consul, Ernest Frandon, in what is now Chang-chou, opposite Taiwan, which was then Formosa. Here is his record of individual Chinese - artisans, and peasants, with their travelling kitchens and merchandise - meticulously posed, leaving a complete but formal record of what he saw at first hand.The technology has changed and with it the nature of photography. Not better or worse, merely different. People are queuing up to teach me how to use a digital camera. They preach its merits: you get to see the picture to assess whether it is what you want. You feed what you have chosen straight into the computer then send off copies, prints, (I'm not sure these are even the appropriate words) to all and sundry who have immediate access to shared holidays and family jaunts. Immediacy seems to be what it's about. Pictures, chosen on the instant, available instantly, distributed instantly. Am I wrong in thinking that without the anticipated waiting time something could be lost? Would Mayne have wiped his Aldermaston march because of a moment's impatience with its simple ordinariness?   Would Frandon's eye for rather staged detail have survived the rush to capture the moment?A digital camera confronts me with that bugbear of being old: having to learn something new. There is no doubt the ageing brain finds this ever harder to do. Old domestic routines - how to cream butter and sugar to make a sponge cake, how to iron the cuffs and collars on starched shirts, how to shorten a hemline - remain clear and practical. But who does any of this any more? Who knows how to thread a sewing machine or patch a loose cover? And who cares? Today's answer is to throw out anything that develops a fault, and buy the latest, most-up-to date model.So I have developed one or two tricks that help me remember the instructions others give me. First: I only learn a very little at a time. "Stop right there" I insist when they have scarcely begun, "that's enough to be going on with." Then I scuttle away and repeat it to   myself, often speaking what they have said out loud. Second: I write things down. There are yellow Post-Its scattered throughout the house reminding me of such matters as details of batteries or ingredients, the odd but promising website. Third, I repeat a new skill and keep on repeating it until it becomes second nature. Thus, I spent days copying things I didn't want on to floppies I wouldn't keep, trying to get the routine to stick. Children, of course, only need to be shown once. And I take a daily dose of ginkgo biloba: a herb that is rumoured to help the memory. As far as I know - or can remember - there's no hard evidence yet. But I am told doctors take it. That is good enough for me.Back to the photographs then. I lift my eyes from the keyboard and there are my school teachers seated in two neat rows, a sepia picture including many I once thought of as very aged indeed. I realise with alarm I am now much older than any of them were when they posed so long ago. Funny thing, time.joan.bakewell@virgin.net
"A federal judge has fined a Connecticut woman $6,000 for allegedly downloading copyright-protected music from the Internet. Jennifer Brothers of Andover was among thousands of people named in lawsuits filed by the recording industry last year," reportsAP."Court documents indicate Brothers never accepted a copy of the suit and never filed a response with the court. The fine came when she failed to appear for a hearing last week and US District Judge Janet C Hall found Brothers to be in default."
This week, the annual Windows Hardware Engineering Conference conference has been taking place in Seattle.CNethas done a round-up of its coverage.
Question 1:  List the titles of all the books written by Piers Morgan, editor of the Daily MirrorGoogleRos Taylor2min 2sec (2nd)To Dream a Dream: Amazing Life of Phillip Schofield; Take That: On the Road/Our Story/Under My Pillow/In Hardback (4); Va Va Voom: the Arsenal Year; Private Files of the Stars; Medway Towns from the Air. "Piers Morgan" + Amazon on the UK version of Google points me to an old Have I Got News for You video on which Piers makes an appearance. That link takes me straight to Amazon's searchbox and nine results.Verdict:The Arsenal book isn't published yet - and is the author of Medway Towns from the Air really the same Piers Morgan?PhoneOliver Burkeman19min 14sec (3rd)Morgan's popstar works aren't in print, so they're not listed on the database at Borders in central London. Nor are they on the tip of the tongue of the press officer at Trinity Mirror. I solicit Morgan's mobile from a colleague, but get his voicemail. Eventually, I'm called back by the Mirror press office, which gives me the full list: Private Lives of the Stars; Secret Lives of the Stars; Philip Schofield: To Dream a Dream; Take That: Our Story, and Take That: On The Road.Verdict:Oddly, not the most comprehensive sourceLibraryStephen Moss20sec (1st)This is too easy. Who's Who gives the great man's entire oeuvre. Private Lives of the Stars, 1990; Secret Lives of the Stars, 1991; Phillip Schofield: To Dream a Dream, 1992; Take That: Our Story, 1993; Take That: On the Road, 1994; Dostoevsky: A Reappraisal, 1997. Sorry, feeble joke. Age 39, middle name Stefan, recreations cricket and Arsenal FC. What else do you want to know? Next.Verdict:Likely to be the most accurate list, as long as he used the latest edition of Who's Who (and Morgan told them the truth).Question 2:  Where and when did Margaret Thatcher say: "There's no such thing as society"?Google59sec (1st)September 23 1987, to Woman's Own. It was published on October 31 1987. If you want Google to find an exact phrase, enclose it in quotation marks. Putting it together with "Thatcher", Google finds a long list of outraged rants. But what I need is a date, and I have a hunch that the Margaret Thatcher Foundation's archive of the lady's speeches will supply it. Bingo.Verdict:Faster and more detailed than the other searchesPhone7min 10sec (3rd)"I know this!" says my friend James (whose number is on my mobile) but the details momentarily evade him. So I ring two all-knowing colleagues on the newspaper. One is in a Westminster committee; one is in Australia. (Thanks, guys.) At this point, James texts to say he's found the answer: Thatcher made the comment in Woman's Own magazine in 1987. I didn't ask him where he found this information: maybe a leading internet search engine was involved; maybe it wasn't.Verdict:CorrectLibrary1min 45sec (2nd)A mildly disappointing result. I assume the papers will be the best way to find out, full as they have been this week of celebratory guff about Mrs T's 25th anniversary. But there is no sign of collected Thatcherisms, so I do what I should have done in the first place and look in a dictionary of quotations. "There is no such thing as society. There are individual men and women, and there are families." Woman's Own, October 31 1987.Verdict:CorrectQuestion 3:  Who is the vice chairman of the all-party parliamentary group on back care?Google6min 27sec (3rd)This should be easy - I usually know exactly where to find the answer - the UK parliament website. Unfortunately, "back" is rather a common word, and is turning up in all sorts of irrelevant documents, most of them in PDF. I am very nearly taken by Lib-Dem MP Vince Cable in the results. He has created a page listing all his chairmanships, and Google has found all my keywords on it - just not together. Thank heavens I check. Back to the PDFs, where I discover the answer is Janet Dean MP.Verdict:Much slower than the relevant reference bookPhone3min 21sec (2nd)Answer: It's Janet Dean, Labour MP for Burton. I spent a bit too much time on hold between the main Westminster switchboard (number via 118 500) and their information line, otherwise I might conceivably have beaten my book-consulting rival. Janet Dean. Remember her name: one day, it could save you three minutes and 21 seconds.Verdict:Impressively speedy work by the parliamentary researchersLibrary1min 16sec (1st)Frankly, I think this is a result. Vice-chairman of the APPG on back care is not, let's be honest, up there with lord privy seal or secretary of state for defence. But there it is, in between the Friends of the Baha'is (chairman Lembit Opik) and Bar (the all-party drinking group) on page 242 of the excellent Vacher's Quarterly. I find the chairman (Paul Burstow, Lib Dem) in 56 seconds, but then realise I was supposed to find the vice-chairman (Janet Dean, Lab).Verdict:CorrectQuestion 4:  What proportion of the Slovenian railway system is electrified?Google1min 17sec (1st)1,201 km (499 km of which is electrified). I type "percentage" as well as "Slovenian railway system" and "electrified". Google isn't playing with that combination at all, so I take out "percentage" and separate "Slovenia". Scanning the results, I choose a site I've visited before: the CIA World Factbook, Washington's greatest gift to the web. I am prepared to trust the CIA on Slovenia. For the time being, anyway.Verdict:The higher figure attained over the phone may be more up to datePhone1hr 4min 5sec (2nd, after disqualification of Stephen Moss)It's 5pm in Slovenia by the time I begin and according to Bo, at the embassy in London, Slovenians go home at 5pm. Sure enough, when I call Bo's number for Slovenian Rail, the phone rings unanswered. So I call him again. He puts in a few calls. I wait. Then he calls back: it's 60-65%, equivalent to 1,200km of track. He stresses that this information is provisional, but I owe Bo a beer.Verdict:Slow, but perhaps likely to be the latest and most accurate informationLibrary8min 18sec (disqualified)I find a diverting tome called Regional Surveys of the World: Central and South-Eastern Europe. It details passenger journeys, freight carried, freight ton-kilometres: everything, in fact, except this wretched statistic. I look in Everyman's Factfinder, the International Geographic Encyclopedia, The A-Z of Everything. "Try Whitaker's Almanack," suggests a colleague. And there, on page 975, it is: "There is 1,201 km of rail track, of which 499km is electrified."Verdict:Disqualified on account of outside assistance. Plus figures may have datedQuestion 5:  What did Sophie and Edward Wessex do on Tuesday?Google25sec (1st)Opened the John Henry Newman Church of England Primary School, the hydrotherapy pool at Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre, and the John Radcliffe Hospital, all in Oxford. Clearly, typing in "Tuesday" wasn't going to narrow the search, and I suspected that formal announcements would use titles rather than surnames. '"Countess of Wessex" + engagements' immediately brought up royal.gov, and their most recent engagement was right at the top.Verdict:Missed the detail that the John Radcliffe opening was its A&amp;E departmentPhone5min 45sec (3rd)Answer: "If you have been asked to call this number urgently, it is a hoax message," says a voice on Buckingham Palace's main switchboard, wasting my time. Eventually I reach the press officer for the Wessexes, who promises to email their schedule; it arrives a couple of minutes later. Opening the John Henry Newman primary school in Oxford at 11.15am, visiting the hydrotherapy pool at the Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre at 12.30pm, then opening the A&amp;E department of the John Radcliffe hospital at 2pm.Verdict:Correct, and very authoritativeLibrary1min 25sec (2nd)This one is easy. The Times may have changed catastrophically for the worse - ads inside rather than on the front page, etc - but of course it will have this in its Court Circular. "The Earl and Countess of Wessex this morning opened the John Henry Newman Church of England Primary School, Grange Road, Littlemore, Oxford." In the afternoon, they opened a hydrotherapy pool and the John Radcliffe hospital's new A&amp;E department, about which it is quite hard to make a biting joke.Verdict:CorrectQuestion 6:  What was unusual about the British gold medal victory in the 400m in the 1908 Olympics in London?Google1min 45sec (2nd)Answer: One of the three Americans also running cut in front of the Briton and were disqualified - but the Yanks refused to have a re-run, so the gold medal went to Wyndham Halswelle. Leaving out "400m" from the first search meant I was momentarily fooled into reading about another race in the same year, involving a British fireman. Who would have guessed that Google would find a fact like this on an Indian website dedicated to the 2000 Games in Sydney? Thanks, Chennai Online.Verdict:CorrectPhone26min 30sec (3rd)Call me a sore loser, but this is a badly phrased question for phone inquiries: it's annoyingly vague, which means I need someone with an encyclopaedic knowledge of the sport. That person is Bob Adcocks, the information officer at UK Athletics. He's away from his desk. Other inquiries reach dead ends. Eventually, Bob comes back and reveals that the race was run twice: the first time, the winner was disqualified; the second time, only Brit Wyndham Halswelle agreed to take part. Accordingly, he won.Verdict:CorrectLibrary1min 20sec (1st)Pretty straightforward, this. A 20-year-old history of the Olympics is my salvation, with its tale of alleged American cheating and unbending Brit indignation at the London Games. Halswelle ran against three Americans, who supposedly colluded to block him; one was disqualified; the other two refused to take part in the re-run; and Halswelle ran alone. Not a bad time, too, considering he could have taken a day and a half and still got the gold.Verdict:Correct
iSearch meI am running Windows XP and IE6 with all current security patches and all critical security updates installed, Norton Internet Security and Anti-Virus both up to date, and I have run SpyBot and CWShredder. But I still have a toolbar appearing beneath the address bar with the iSearch logo.Henry AarvoldJack Schofield replies:If SpyBot and CWShredder don't work, the first thing to do is re-run them after restarting your computer in Safe Mode. But when all else fails, there isHijack This. HJT lists the software on your PC, so if you are reasonably expert, you can identify and remove the parasites. There is a helpful tutorial athttp://www.spywareinfo.com/~merijn.If you are not so expert, you can post your HJT log at one of the forums where experts will try to help. The obvious one ishttp://forums.tomcoyote.com(seehere).Alternatives includewww.spywareinfo.com/forums,www.wilderssecurity.com, andwww.techsupportforums.com. Searching Google for &#91;isearch hjt&#93; will reveal logs from many people who have already gone through this process. In this case, however, I also think it would be worth trying iSearch's removal instructions athttp://toolbar.isearch.com/uninstall.Not SpyBotI misread last week's column and went to thewww.safernetworking.orgsite rather than the hyphen ated one! I downloaded its "spyware" but am now worried that I have let someone in who isn't recommended.Lynn HorsordJS:As you say, the correct site for the free SpyBot Search &amp; Destroy iswww.safer-networking.org, with a hyphen. I hadn't noticed that Enigma Software was selling its SpyHunter program from such a deceitfully similar address. Try to uninstall it using Add/Remove Programs, then run SpyBot and Lavasoft's Ad-aware to ensure it has been deleted. Don't pay for it.UnreadableThe company I work for has recently upgraded its office computers so we are all on the same standard: Windows 2000 Professional. In the old days, with Windows 98, I used the Compression Agent utility to create back-up disks but, astonishingly, W2K does not have any means of reading or retrieving these compressed files!Paul CatlowJS:The Microsoft Knowledge Base article 305381 says "This behavior is by design" and its solution is: "restore the data from the tape or file by using MSbackup on a computer that is running Windows 95, Windows 98, or Windows Me." Your best bet is to buy or borrow an old Windows 98 PC to retrieve the files. An alternative might be to run a "virtual Windows 98" machine under a software emulator such as VMware or Microsoft (formerly Connectix) Virtual PC 2004 - there's a free trial version atwww.microsoft.com/windowsxp/virtualpc.Picture thisIs there a freeware/shareware or even commercial program that will display digital photographs stored on a CD, and which can be installed on a CD so it can be used on other computers without having to install any software?Jim McAllisterJS:Everyone's first thought is going to beIrfanView, but there's a wide range of freeware programs that will do the job for Windows PCs.Visualizer IBlooks a good bet, orAutoPics. Also seeNoel's Digital Image CD Primer..ConvertingMany websites now don't work properly under Netscape - even v7 - and I am very reluctantly about to change to Internet Explorer as my default browser. Can I convert my bookmarks to IE format?Brian O'SheaJS:Go to the File menu in Internet Explorer and select Import and Export to run the Import/Export wizard. Click the Next button, select Import, click Next, and import the default Netscape file, bookmark.htm (browse to find it if necessary). For earlier versions of IE, see Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 152681: How to Use Netscape Navigator Bookmarks in Internet Explorer. (Search Google for Q152681.) An alternative would be to store your bookmarks/favourites on the web, where you could use them with any browser. For further information, search Google for &#91;online bookmark manager&#93;.Backchat&#183;Re Surfing blind, Jonathan White says: "Further to your earlier answers, there is a free touch typing program, designed for use with the visually impaired, available for download from the University of Birmingham." The Visual Impairment Centre for Teaching And Research (Victar) is atwww.education.bham.ac.uk.
The prospect of making video calls through your television is about to move a step nearer. Sony - the world's second-biggest consumer electronics company - is to announce it is to start offering free video calls to owners of its PlayStation 2 console by allowing them to chat over the internet, send video mail and receive targeted advertising through their TV sets.PlayStation customers who already have a broadband connection will be able to turn their games consoles into a "TV-based broadband communicator" later this summer. Customers will need to purchase a Sony EyeToy - the company's version of the webcam - as well as a Sony network adapter and special software that will be sold through retail outlets. The video call service, which will operate at 12.5 frames per second, is like a mix of video conferencing and the Voice over IP (VoIP) services that enable users to effectively make free telephone calls over the internet.EyeToy Chat, developed by the electronics giant's London studio, will be unveiled next week at the E3 computer games fair in Los Angeles. To be released initially in the Pal regions, covering the UK, Europe and Australia, the software will cost less than a standard PS2 game, somewhere below &#163;39.99."This product will enable broadband communications between people who know each other," says Phil Harrison, senior vice president at Sony's computer entertainment division. "The key is that people who normally would exchange an email can now have a richer broadband communication experience."Users will also be able to send 30-second video messages, up to five of which can be stored at a time, but will not be able to send group messages, forward mail, store messages on another device or download them to a disc.The company hopes to capture a large share of the VoIP market by stressing the ubiquity of its devices. Last Tuesday, the company's annual financial report said it had sold more than 71m units of PS2 since its launch in 2002. It has also sold more   than 3.1m EyeToys - which have been used for children's games - and that sales of the network adaptors that allow PS2 players to play online has passed 300,000 in Europe.Sony says it is also planning targeted "elective communication" services - including advertising - that will allow pre-prepared content to be delivered to the PS2.As with Microsoft's Xbox, Sony allows players a form of audio communication over the internet through the audio channels that players use in games such as Socom (US Navy Seals). EyeToy Chat is the first time gamers will be able to communicate outside a game arena."I think EyeToy Chat will enrich the online gaming experience immeasurably," says Harrison. "We will be able to offer multiple sensory communication - voice, video and text combined."Jamie Macdonald, development director of Sony's London studio, says EyeToy Chat will offer a safer environment than current internet services. "We regard VoIP on the PC as the wild west," he says. "We see the PS2 as a place that is safe and secure and the EyeToy as a consumer product fit for family entertainment. It's also about being able to chat in the living room. Most people who use VoIP are stuck on their PC in the study.""We are confident the product has such built-in parental guidance and personal choice options that we can eliminate 99.99% of anything dodgy. This is not the internet," adds Harrison. "It is   not an open format product that anyone can gain access to. Nobody will be able to send you a live video feed unless you have specifically accepted them as a friend into your buddy list."Sony says that EyeToy Chat will be far less open than email. Users will have to request access to another user's address book before being able to make a video call or send video mail, for example."It works the same way as the address book in a mobile phone," says Luis Fernandez, the chief technical architect of EyeToy Chat. "If you decide to add someone to the address book, the person gets a message asking permission. If you delete a contact from your address book, your name gets deleted from their contact book." The address book is "live", meaning that you can see your buddies as they come online. There is also a call-waiting function, so you can see who is waiting to chat."In many ways, this is safer than the internet," explains Fernandez. "When you are using a PC, you can say you are a 13-year-old kid and be a 60-year-old man. With EyeToy Chat, I am going to see you. If I don't like it, I can say bye."
Police yesterday arrested 12 eastern Europeans suspected of duping British bank account holders out of hundreds of thousands of pounds.The six men and six women from Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia and Ukraine are alleged to have tricked dozens of people into revealing their online account details in a scam known as "phishing".Officers raided addresses in London and Kent, seizing computers, passports, cheque books, bank cards, money and crack cocaine.The FBI and US secret service were involved in catching the alleged fraudsters, thought to have been obtaining and laundering funds for Russian organised crime syndicates.The top criminals behind "phishing" scams use Britain-based intermediaries to transfer money out of victims' accounts. The intermediaries open up bank accounts to lodge the stolen money and then send it abroad, typically charging around 7% commission.
Ninja GaidenXbox, &#163;39.99 Tecmo/Microsoft,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Although loosely based on a venerable, 2D side-scroller, Ninja Gaiden makes use of all the videogame technology the 21st century can bring to bear, and is arguably the best-looking Xbox game yet. Thankfully, there is a lot more to it than mere eye-candy. You play Ryu, a ninja naturally, who must swordfight his way through a string of beautifully realised stages, taking on waves of ninjas and fearsome bosses, solving mini-puzzles, finding objects and acquiring ever more impressive powers.Endowed with a set of moves that would not be out of place in the film Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Ryu can run along walls as well as up them, and leap from wall to wall to climb seemingly impassable cliffs -you soon realise that unfocused button-bashing will get you nowhere.Ninja Gaiden is a seriously hard game and the bosses, in particular, require tactical approaches that will see you dying often, even if you backtrack to find all possible life-restoring potions before taking them on. The speed of Ryu's movements, and those of the baddies, is breathtaking. Even the cut-scenes are so glorious that you feel inclined to watch rather than fast-forward them. The game's only detectable flaw is occasionally unhelpful camera work.Ninja Gaiden will rob those who play it of any semblance of a social life. It is quite simply, an essential purchase if you own an Xbox.Steve BoxerProject Zero 2: Crimson ButterflyPS2, &#163;39.99 Tecmo/Ubi Soft,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;In the fine tradition of games such as Silent Hill, Clock Tower and, more recently, Forbidden Siren, Project Zero 2 occupies a genre that gives you that sleep-with-the-light-on feeling.The game follows the story of twin sisters Mio and Mayu, who discover an abandoned village deep in woods that supposedly vanished on the night of an ancient ritual known as the Crimson Sacrifice. With nowhere to go, the twins are forced to find a way through the village, and discover that it is anything but deserted.Gleaning influences from Japanese horror films, the action revolves around the discovery of a camera with the ability to photograph the dead. With it, the girls can reveal secrets and defend themselves against the spirits that haunt the houses as a result of the ritual. Taking the most damaging pictures requires precision timing and nerves of steel.Crimson Butterfly is thankfully easier than the previous Project Zero game. However, your photographic skills are not helped by constantly shifting camera angles. But as far as scariness goes, it pushes all the right buttons.Rhianna PratchettHitman: ContractsPC, PS2, Xbox, &#163;39.99 IO/Eidos,&#42;&#42;&#42;We're still awaiting a Kojak or Harry Hill-based videogame, so Agent 47 remains the man when it comes to follicularly challenged game heroes.The titular star of Hitman is back in his third adventure. As before, it looks great, with a similar mix of sneaky thrills and violent kills.Newcomers will soon pick up the thrust of the action. Agent 47 finds himself at a seedy location - Russia, England, Hong Kong - armed only with his wits, spy gear and basic objectives. It's up to the player to decide which way to play.Do you sneak through, grabbing disguises before dispatching the main target? Or are you more thorough, scouring the environment for secrets. You could shoot the guards rather than garrotting them, but this is less satisfying, as Contracts comes into its own when played stealthily.Graphically, this is at the higher end of the PS2 spectrum, with the dingy locales excellently depicted. And the sound is decent, with atmospheric Euro electronica accompanying you. However, it adds little to the series. Fans of previous games will enjoy the ride, but the bald hero needs a face-lift before he's welcome back.Greg Howson
I thought having a camera phone would be a lot more fun than it actually is. I took a few snaps when I first got it, but doubt I have taken more than a couple of pictures a month overall.And I don't send them to anyone when I do. I load them up to my PowerBook when I need them because on my network, for reasons never fully explained, you can't use MMS (multimedia messaging) and GPRS (general packet radio service) data. You have to choose one or the other.Since I check email on my phone 10 times every day (my T610 has a built-in IMap client), I can't do without GPRS. So it was goodbye to MMS after less than a month.I am curious as to whether people actually want to use still or moving pictures to talk to each   other, rather than just takes snaps of their mates down the pub. Consumers don't seem to have stormed the shops to get their 3G videophones, and even people who love having new gadgets (eg, me) don't seem motivated to go and get one. This is nothing new.Picture phones have been around for a long time: they seem to resurface with gusto alongside new communications technologies. I remember being shown an ISDN video phone in the early 1980s and being told it would be a major drive for people to shift from analogue to digital phone lines.Fast forward 20 years and people still don't have picture phones (or ISDN) at home.Similarly, when I got broadband, I got a webcam. I love that sort of toy but, in fact, rarely use video conferencing other than to hook my kids up with their cousins now and then.Would I get broadband just to use videoconferencing? Of course not.Across many technology cycles, it seems, we see the same pattern: people like picture phones and think they are cool, but don't actually use them nearly as often as they thought they would.This may not be simple conservatism but a reflection of a deeper concern: that we have no "social infrastructure" for picture phones.I am told that when the AT&amp;T PicturePhone was launched with a "privacy button" (calls connected with video on, but you could press the button to cut the video off), no one ever pressed it, no matter how much they wanted privacy.There was a strange social dislo cation: if you pressed the privacy button, then the person at the other end would assume you were doing something unpleasant, like picking your nose or reading the paper while pretending to listen... or worse.I'm not being negative. My feeling is that the use of picture phones will be stimulated by the provision of new services targeted at the average consumer, such as retail kiosks for printing or sending home pictures and video.It is just that seeing who you are talking to (either still or video) is not one of them. In the longer term, though, if the operators are going to drive up revenue by stimulating videoconferencing and picture messaging, they are going to have to find a way to make it work socially, not technically: a much more complicated problem.
A host of companies now offer smartphones featuring pocket versions of Microsoft applications such as Internet Explorer, Word and Outlook. AnexTEK's &#163;500 SP230, distributed in the UK by Sword Services, is one of the more interesting.Its form factor is similar to that of its major competitor, the XDA 2 from O2, except it has a flip-open number pad. This speeds up dialling and protects the screen.The SP230 also rivals the XDA 2's basic specification. It runs Microsoft's Pocket PC Phone 2003 Edition and features a 400MHz Intel PXA255 processor. The XDA 2, however, has a better screen and includes a camera and Bluetooth.But the SP230 has a unique application called DVR, which enables a user to see almost-live pictures (images refresh every three seconds) from a series of webcams on their device. But Sword has to supply extra hardware.We still prefer the XDA 2. Yet, at &#163;100 cheaper without contract, the SP230 is worth considering.www.swordservices.com
Unhealthy solutionAfter reading the reviews (Games watch, April 29), I wondered if you may wish not to include shoot-'em-up titles that depict the level of violence that still excites Steve Boxer, Mike Anderiesz and Greg Howson.Such games have at their core only one solution: killing. The almost uniform depiction of random violence and negative images of race and gender is unhealthy, and seems at odds with the editorials and writing elsewhere in the paper on terrorism, the war in Iraq, the situation in Israel and gun control.All three refer to people as "hardcore types" and describing a game as "not for the faint-hearted". This makes me think the reviewers' audience is not reading this paper.I'm always surprised that this mix of violence and tragedy of conflict, packaged as fun, isn't offensive to more people. Perhaps it has something to do with the gap that has widened between the users and non-users of this material. Unfortunately, these two camps are easily identified as children &#91;users&#93; and adults &#91;not&#93; or, perhaps more telling, as young men versus everyone else.The description by your reviewers of a title full of shooting and death as "a game that will help you de-stress" adds to the acceptance of these experiences as OK. If we were talking about a violent simulated pornographic "game", it would be unacceptable.I'm not asking you to ban mention of computer games with a hint of violence, but maybe there should be a line drawn where a "game" is not worthy of a review. Why, as violence and death becomes a daily reality for   so many people around the world, do those privileged enough to live without it desire a daily dose of unreal violence? Are the two things related?Raphael WhittleEast SussexTake a walkInFeedback (April 29), Colin Shaw writes: "BT's email service is fast becoming a joke. Does it care?"In March, I wrote a letter to BT: "Prior to being forced to upgrade to BT Yahoo broadband we could check our email on the web with an excellent interface. Now we have to pay &#91;&#163;30 a month&#93; for the privilege of reading ads as we check our email. This is the final straw. We will not renew our service when we move."I received this response: "All companies have advertising but BT Yahoo! is committed to keeping this to a minimum. Although some users find advertising an invasion, others appreciate special offers. Our aim is to make it as non-intrusive as possible, which is why we provide a pop-up advertising blocker."I recently changed towww.plus.netafter your recommendation. For &#163;6 a month less, I have an excellent service and have my own domain name. Come on everyone, make BT care. If we all walk, surely they will.Tom CorcoranLondonGet a balanceOnce again, we read a disparaging remark regarding the quality of the sound obtainable from the MP3 format, betraying ignorance of what this format is about (Talk time, April 29).The fact that it can allow hundreds of narrow-bandwidth, low quality music files to be downloaded from the internet at very low bit rates seems to have obscured the point that it is a useful and versatile method of compression for audio. It is analogous to using MPeg for pictures, and allows the user to choose the balance between file size and resolution.I have recently finished transcribing high quality, reel-to-reel music tapes to   digital format for archiving on CD-Rs as 320kbps MP3 files, giving just over four times compression in file size. This produces quality and bandwidth far in excess of that put out by FM radio. I would defy your contributors to detect the slightest difference in sound between 320kbps MP3 and the original 1440kbps WAV files.Brian HorsfallMacclesfieldMissing a mentionMary Branscombe could not mention every portable email solution (Data in hand, April 29) but the Sony Ericsson P900 is worth a plug. It is compact, provides a choice of input methods for emails and can be set to just download email headers  a la BlackBerry. Mine also links up to my Mac via Bluetooth to coordinate diary and address books at the touch of a button. It's a great phone, too.Grahame J MorrisonCheck the specsI was sorry to read about Matthew Wilkinson's problems (Hard to miss? Feedback, April 22) with Norton Internet Security 2004 anti-virus software - a Best Buy recommendation by Which? magazine in January.I was equally sorry that Wilkinson concludes that his experiences expose holes in our testing methods. To the contrary. The Norton software underwent stringent tests against 13 products. Testing included checking installation and de-installation procedures. Our experience was that, though it required a sizeable download, the software could be installed and used, or removed, without hitches. This - together with excellent results in our other tests - made the Norton package an obvious selection. Our testing can't replicate every PC user's set-up. But making sure your PC meets the software's minimum specifications should be a good starting point.Malcolm ColesEditor, Which?
Make a dateI've always liked "on this day" sites, especially Scope Systems' Anyday, which has been around since 1995. Now it looks like being superseded by DateDex, which is organised as a Yahoo-style directory rather than long lists. For example, you can drill down through Birthdays and Music to Classical, Jazz, Pop and other options. There are lots of useful features, including dates for cultural, sporting and national events around the world: yesterday was Kodomo no Hi (Children's Day) in Japan. You can search the database, and when you find a date you want, download an iCalendar file that will load into Microsoft Outlook and other programs compatible with the standard. You can also display DateDex data on your website. The coverage is thin in places - there are only eight ice hockey players, for example, and no entries under opera - but it could grow into an indispensable resource.www.scopesys.com/anydaywww.datedex.com/results.aspPanoramic viewsMarch 20 was worldwide panorama day. More than 180 photographers in 40 countries celebrated the equinox by taking virtual reality panoramic snaps, with the sponsorship of the Geography Computing Facility at the University of California, Berkeley. The pictures are now online as part of Berkeley's Geo-Images Project.http://geoimages.berkeley.edu/wwp304/wwp.htmlhttp://geoimages.berkeley.eduEbook timesNick Hampshire reckons that after 30 years of talking about ebooks, they are about to become a reality. In December, he helped form the E-book Society, "aimed at helping authors, publishers and users understand some of the potential of the e-book, and help develop creative ways of using the technology". The society has a growing website, a newsletter, has published its first ebook and is looking for new members.www.ebooksociety.orgOld but onlineMost electronic books are not contemporary: they are typed or scanned versions of books old enough to be out of copyright. There's a good selection at the Read Print online library, with the added advantage that you   can search inside the books. Recent additions include Peter Pan, Pride and Prejudice, The Wealth of Nations, and The Origin of Species.www.readprint.comThingamablogSome people have more than one web log (blog), and they probably use different blogging software. Thingamablog is a Blogger-like open source program that will maintain multiple blogs, and let you create entries off-line. It requires FTP access to a web server but, cunningly, you can make that server a local or networked hard drive. It is written in Java, so while there's obviously a Windows installer, it also runs on Linux PCs and Macs.http://thingamablog.sourceforge.netFlash funNocircles is just the thing if you have two minutes to waste. After the first few levels, of course, two minutes isn't enough...www.nocircles.comRandy jokesRandy Cassingham, who writes This Is True and Heroic Stories, shut down his humorous Randy's Random newsletter because it was one more thing to handle. Now he has converted it to a blog, JumboJoke.com. But don't send him jokes: "I've a huge backlog and don't need more."www.JumboJoke.comwww.thisistrue.comwww.heroicstories.comwww.thisistrue.comPotter 3According to the latest issue of the Daily Prophet, Warner Bros has released the first trailer for Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, which opens in the US and UK on June 4. The very flash (and Flash) new website features the usual free screensavers and wallpapers, plus a downloadable desktop owl "to bring you daily news of the magical world of Harry Potter!" There are also three games, including Quidditch Tryouts.By the way, the Owl is a Skinkers receiver, just like Arsenal's Desktop Wenger and MTV's Desktop Ozzy. According to the Skinkers website, Warner says: "We have used it to gather information on our users and the results are extremely valuable to Warner Bros... It's like having your own WB mercenary marketing army."http://harrypotter.warnerbros.co.ukwww.skinkers.com/clients.htmlNew &amp; notedGiving/getting directionswww.meetmemap.comBetter than the games?www.superbowl-ads.comWho owns whatwww.memetank.net/wow.htmSix of the best:EnlargementEU25www.eu25.orgEuropean Commissionhttp://europa.eu.int/comm/ enlargement/index_en.htmlEurope Day: May 9www.cec.org.uk/whatsnew/may9.htmVectorial Elevationwww.dublinelevation.netEU25 trivia quizwww.funtrivia.com/dir/776.htmlWizwww.worldinfozone.org
What is Google worth? It looks as though the IPO (initial public share offering) will value the company at something between $25bn and $50bn, which compares with General Motors' market capitalisation of $27bn. Whether or not this is silly depends on your point of view.In the short term, of course, shares are worth whatever people are willing to pay for them. This applies to tulip bulbs, too. In this sense, it may be worth buying Google shares on the "bigger fool" theory. Although you may be paying more than they are worth, you are confident someone else will pay even more for them.In the long term, however, capitalists believe that a company's   share price reflects the market's view of its prospects: the total value of its future earnings, discounted for risk. Since Google is currently making $0.1bn a year, we might be pretty confident that it will make $0.2bn next year and $0.5bn in 2006, and so on. But to get a cumulative value of $25bn means making some very large assumptions about Google's ability to increase its profits, or supreme confidence in its ability to make profits for a very long time.This is important because, as Google's staffers keep saying, the competition is only a click away. Users can change to a different search engine in seconds, at zero cost. Many people switched from AltaVista to Google, and they can easily move on to something else. From 2011, this could include rivals using the same PageRank technology, which Google licenses from Stanford University.At the moment, Google does not have the same "stickiness" as, say, Amazon or Yahoo. Nor does it benefit from increasing the size of its user base the way that, for example, eBay does. Google is making strenuous efforts to increase its stickiness - its Windows toolbar, Blogger, the Orkut social networking service and Gmail all have this effect. But it is not locking users in to its search engine, and it's the search engine that makes money.Nor has Google created a network of third-party suppliers and supporters of the sort that often sustains long-term success in technology. Unlike Cisco, IBM, Intel, Microsoft and others, it does not have a platform business: it is a media company. Google has advertisers and affiliates, of course, but   they could defect just as quickly as its users.None of this implies that Google will fail. Google can do everything right and be a brilliant success. Nor is it a problem for users, who stand to lose little or nothing. However, it underlines the risk to investors, and this may impact on Google's public profile.Google's co-founder, Larry Page, says: "By investing in Google, you are placing an unusual long-term bet on the team, especially Sergey and me, and on our innovative approach."True.Either way, being a great company is not necessarily the same as being a great investment opportunity. And at perhaps 25 times sales and 250 times current profits, the IPO looks like a way for Google insiders to get rich, not investors.
Are you feeling lucky? Google certainly was this week. After much speculation and anticipation, the internet company finally confirmed last Thursday that it is to float on the US stock market. But the news was received cautiously by both the US and British business pages."With Googlemania in full swing, we are bound to hear a lot about how the doomsters just don't get it," said theWall Street Journal. The paper doubted Google was worth the $25bn-$50bn (&#163;15bn-&#163;30bn) forecast and that its growth could be exponential. "For every Microsoft, there are many Netscapes that flop," it noted. "And, of course, Microsoft is gunning for Google."Much of the US press was as preoccupied with the way that the shares are to go on sale as with the wisdom of buying the shares themselves. True to its maverick reputation, Google plans to sell its stock in an unorthodox way - by putting its shares up for auction to determine the final price of the offering."Google is trying to bring some transparency to the insider game of Wall Street IPOs &#91;initial public offerings&#93;," explained the Wall Street Journal, because "IPO allocations won't be reserved for investment bankers and their favoured clients". The paper felt that the auction "is the perfect IPO expression of Google's own business model. The company's success has derived from its ability to democratise access to information via the internet, and its auction will likewise open its shares to a wide spectrum of investors."This wasn't necessarily a reason to bid, arguedTime's Wall Street editor, Daniel Kadlec. "In their attempt to create a corporate utopia, the founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, are creating two stock classes - one for themselves and one for the rest of us, who must bid," said Kadlec. "Two classes of stock will allow the pair to sell most of the company if they chose to, yet retain voting control." For most commentators this did not sound like democracy at all.Writing in theWashington Post, Newsweek's Wall Street editor, Allan Sloan, thought the float was "Google's first bad move". Whatever the prin  ciples behind the decision, "taking Google public will set the snake of greed loose in their corporate Eden". Google employees all have stock options, which could mean that, once trading begins, they "will find themselves using the latest price to calculate their up-to-the-minute net worth. That won't inspire long-term thinking."The idealistic talk was too "embarrassingly naive" for theNew York Times, which recalled that "investors should not be carried away by their nostalgia for the halcyon bubble days" of the internet boom because "slim technological leads can be lost ... with devastating results".This side of the Atlantic, theIndependent's City editor, Jeremy Warner, reckoned "it's just as well that British investors cannot subscribe". Google could very well succumb to the same fate as Netscape. If "Microsoft's next-generation PC opera-ting system &#91;has&#93; its own, proprietary search engine embedded in the software", he warned, then Google's search technology could be forced out of the market.Even though the auction is closed to UK bidders, they could still benefit from the precedent it will set, said theFinancial Times's Lex column. "One of the less anticipated consequences &#91;of the auction&#93; could be the view that retail investors are desirable shareholders." But this was all to idealistic for theDaily Telegraph. "Mr Page and Mr Brin reinvented the way we use the internet and now they want to reinvent the way companies use the stock market," said the paper, but their optimism was misplaced: "Mission statements that want to save the whale or the world serve to confuse and distract the workforce."Anthony Hilton, in the LondonEvening Standard, advised investors to "keep their hands in their pockets", as technological innovations traditionally deliver "huge benefits to society and equally huge losses to shareholders".TheDetroit Free Press's Susan Tompor concurred with that view. "Before putting your money in Google, you must research the risks and all the quirks of this sale," she warned. "Google them, if you like."
The &#163;6bn programme to revolutionise the NHS's IT is under fire for failing to communicate with doctors and clinical staff who will have to work with the new systems.The row erupted last week after the surprise resignation of one of Britain's top doctors, Professor Peter Hutton, chairman of the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges, from the programme's advisory board.Hutton said he offered his resignation "to enable a completely new look to be taken at the way clinical engagement would be managed".Managers of the programme, which is working on installing airline-style electronic booking systems and electronic health records across England, insist they are involving staff in the design. Richard Granger, the programme's head, says that more than 2,000 doctors have been consulted.Two weeks ago, the Guardian was invited to sit in at a workshop held in Swindon to ask staff what they want from the new systems. It was the culmination of a week-long session, one of a series dubbed "doctors' lock-ins". More than 50 NHS employees attended.The specific question tackled at the event was what doctors want from the new electronic care records system, which will make information about every patient available across England.Although popularly known as the "spine", the system - a world first - might more appropriately be called a can of worms. When conceived, the spine was billed as containing only basic facts about each patient, such as name, NHS number, allergies and information about current health problems.However, if the wish-list emerging   from the workshop becomes reality, the spine will be a vastly more complex affair, containing information about patients' social background and details about their medical histories and current treatment.The idea is that different professionals will see a different "view" of this information. However, the workshop suggested that many questions about who gets access to which view, and about how information should be coded and stored, remain to be answered.Even something as simple as listing what drugs a patient is taking turns out to be complex, said Dr Mike Bainbridge, one of the spine design team. In an electronic record, the process of giving a patient a pill breaks down into at least seven stages, from recommending a drug to dispensing, to a prescription being discontinued."All medication events will be stored on the spine. Full stop," Bainbridge told the workshop. However, if the spine is to capture all information about all patients, new codes will have to be developed for special cases of drugs, such as medicines going through clinical trials and special formulations.Creating electronic warnings of when drugs should not be prescribed is also more complex than it may first appear, Bainbridge said.There was a lively discussion about how the system should record drugs that patients buy themselves. Everyone agreed that this is vital for a complete electronic record - one doctor recalled a patient who had suffered kidney failure after taking a Chinese herbal remedy - but disagreed about who should be responsible.Another hot issue is that calling up a patient's current medication often gives away the patient's medical   condition. How can that information be protected?These issues may be insignificant compared with the questions raised by storing each patient's "social context and family history" electronically. Among the questions that need to be answered is how the record will handle information about adoption and education. Sensitive information about domestic violence will also need to be stored on the system, said Dr Steve Bentley, who is leading the clinical design of the spine.Another minefield is when a medical record contains information about a third party, such as a relative. When releasing paper medical records, to an insurance company for example, doctors are supposed to strip out references to third parties: the electronic system will need a similar ability.One special problem with moving to electronic records is that doctors will assume they are more accurate than envelopes stuffed with paper. "We assume that paper is incomplete," Bainbridge said. "But there's a risk that we will assume the electronic record is much more complete than it really is." The national team pledged that, apart from administrative basics, no clinical information would be put on the spine until a "responsible clinician" has vouched for its accuracy.A few years ago, most of the questions raised at the workshop would have been a show-stopper to most IT projects. One effect of the &#163;6bn programme is to create an atmosphere that they will be solved. However, the extent to which the outcomes of such consultations will guide the direction of the world's largest civil IT project remains to be seen.
Horrendous bills for using a mobile abroad have prompted travelling executives and others to look for a cheaper way of making calls on the move. Making voice calls over the net, known as Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), could be the answer. It is free or far cheaper than making ordinary phone calls, and you can use the system for national or international calls from the UK, too.The most seductive way of using VoIP is to carry a wireless handset that works over Wi-Fi networks. This looks just like a mobile, and is lighter than some.All you have to do is take the phone to a Wi-Fi hotspot, select a few options and wait until it finds the nearest server. For example, once the $249.95 (&#163;141) Wisip phone from Pulver Innovations of the US tells you the name of the server it is connected to, you can start to make calls. These might be to special VoIP numbers or, if you are using a VoIP service that lets you dial standard telephone numbers, it could be to ordinary phones.So what's the catch?The handset should work when you are in the vicinity of a free Wi-Fi hotspot, such as some hotels and companies provide to their guests. It will also work with a home Wi-Fi network linked to a digital subscriber line (ADSL) service like BT's. But if you go into Cafe Nero in Clapham Junction in London, as I did, you find that though the Wisip phone detects the Surf and Sip Wi-Fi server, its little screen says "Not registered".Why? The problem is that the telephone handset can't display the big internet form needed to pay the &#163;5 a day charge for using the hotspot.Jeff Pulver, founder of Pulver Innovations and a VoIP pundit, says: "It is possible to use &#91;the Wisip phone&#93; at a free hotspot like the one at the US Federal Communications Commission and there are people in the UK using it. We're also planning on talking to hotspot providers in the UK about configuring their servers to recognise the phone."The other drawback is that since there aren't Wi-Fi hotspots everywhere, you will probably end up   carrying a mobile phone, too. However, cell-phones with built-in Wi-Fi are on the way. Nokia has announced its first Wi-Fi mobile, the new version of its Communicator mobile-cum-personal organiser, but this won't have VoIP client software.Today, a more predictable way of making voice calls over a Wi-Fi network is to take your laptop computer with you, complete with Wi-Fi card, PC headset with built-in microphone (costing &#163;9.99-14.99) and VoIP software downloaded from the internet. There are several free programs to choose from, including Skype and Free World Dialup, though you can mainly talk to others registered for the same service.Using Free World Dialup, I found it fairly easy to talk to people in Long Island from Clapham. The voice quality was fine, and the earphones cut out some of the background noise.Voice over Wi-Fi has its fans. Richard Piasentin, president of wireless networks for Europe, Middle East and Africa at Nortel Networks, says: "When I am in Moscow, I stay at a hotel that has a wireless local area network. I have a 'softphone' &#91;VoIP software&#93; on my laptop and can bypass the public switched telephone network. I use it to call my office and family, which saves me a lot of money on my mobile bill."Ian Phillips, a UK-based product manager at US-based Cisco, says: "We use Voice over IP for internal company calls, and staff can easily call colleagues' office extension numbers from a laptop equipped with softphone software from home, or from a Wi-Fi network in a cafe."Staff can also call out from the company network via a laptop, so when making a US call from the UK, it travels part of the way over Cisco's in-house network, and is cheaper for us."A growing number of VoIP services also allow you to call out to the standard telephone network. For example, Vonage, which offers a service in the US, is planning to enter the UK market before the end of the year. And BT begins a trial of a retail voice over broadband service this summer.Getting free VoIP software to work is relatively easy. I found Free World Dialup a little more difficult than   Skype, but it does have a helpline manned by volunteers, so once you have got it working, you have someone to chat to and can test out the service straightaway.But lugging a laptop around to make phone calls is not ideal unless you are in transit and have it with you anyway, or are using it from your hotel room. More tempting is VoIP using a personal organiser such as Hewlett-Packard's iPaq. There is a version of Skype that can be downloaded for this, provided that you have Wi-Fi on the device, or a plug-in Wi-Fi card.If you are at home or in someone else's home or office, then VoIP is much simpler. Pulver sells a matt black Grandstream net-phone for $65, or a $105 adaptor that enables two ordinary phones to be plugged into an Ethernet network, one of   which can be used as an IP phone.At present, VoIP is still a bit geeky, but is becoming more mainstream, especially in the US, and the savings are compelling. Michael Kende, principal consultant at Analysys Consulting in Washington DC, says that "during 2003, VoIP broke simultaneously into the market consciousness of the US consumer, major industry telecoms players and regulators, with its promise of huge cost savings. Major service providers such as AT&amp;T, MCI, Time Warner Cable, Verizon and others, made startling announcements to roll out and expand VoIP services and network deployment."AT&amp;T launched its CallVantage IP telephony service at the Voice On the Net (VON) show in the US, and new product launches are also expected at the VON 2004 Europe show at the   Olympia Conference Centre in London from June 7-10.Some argue that competition from VoIP will simply drive down standard phone charges. But Analysys forecasts that there will be 13.5m US VoIP subscriptions in 2008, generating $5.7bn in annual service revenues.Pulver predicts that VoIP will take 40% of global telephony markets in five years, and Wi-Fi VoIP will take 7% of mobile phone revenues.
The first Service Pack for Office 2003 is currently planned for "late June". It should be out before the much discussed, but long delayed, Service Pack 2 for Windows XP, which Microsoft is now promising "some time in the third quarter" - July at the earliest.Both service packs are unusual in that they combine bug fixes and security updates with new product features, something Microsoft usually avoids. Also unusual is the fact that you will be able to try them before they are released. Beta (test) versions of Windows XP SP2 are already available to developers, because the changes it makes to protect PCs could mean applications will need updating to carry on working: Microsoft is trading backwards compatibility for better security. And everyone can try out the Office changes, at least for a few of the programs.In the past, only the programs that are actually in the Microsoft Office box have had co-ordinated updates: those for Office-branded tools such as Visio and Project have come later. Now that all the new versions come out at the same time, so do the service packs, so Office 2003 Service Pack 1 will cover InfoPath 2003, OneNote 2003, Project 2003, Publisher 2003, Visio 2003, SharePoint Portal Server and Windows SharePoint Services as well as Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook.The updates for OneNote and InfoPath are out now as preview versions fromwww.microsoft.com/downloads. They both have security improvements. For example, you can password protect and encrypt OneNote files, and digitally sign a   form in InfoPath. But there are some significant new features, too.Microsoft is keen to get away from the idea that OneNote is only for Tablet PCs and only works with handwriting, although there are improvements to the ink tools so you can now delete words by scribbling them out. OneNote already helps users organise standard typing and audio recordings; the service pack will let you record video of a meeting on your PC, synchronised to your written or typed notes, so when you click on what you wrote down you can see what was going on as you wrote it. Like the audio recording feature, it is very handy for making sense of cryptic (or illegible) notes.You can take handwritten notes on a Pocket PC or audio notes on a Windows smart phone and add them   to OneNote automatically when you dock the device. You can also get information from other applications without copying and pasting. The screen capture tool lets you grab what is on screen as a graphic - handy if you want just part of an image on a web page. You can import any file format as an image that you can annotate - convenient for taking notes on PowerPoint presentations. You can add external documents to a note page, either as a link to the original or a link to a local copy - handy for keeping everything in one place.Once you have taken your notes, you often want to share them, and OneNote gets a new wizard to help users email, publish or share notes in real time. This fits the ways meetings actually work. You can either use OneNote as a whiteboard for working   on a shared note with several other users, or let other people see your notes as you take them and get a copy at the end without them being able to make any changes. If you draw the short straw and have to take the minutes at a meeting, everyone can see what you are writing and gets the chance to point out things you have missed as you go along.OneNote and InfoPath both get new features for developers. For OneNote, it is a basic application programming interface for creating add-ons. InfoPath developers can work on forms in Visual Studio and BizTalk, which makes it easier to create forms that match the business tasks you want people to do.Handwriting support means you can fill in an InfoPath form on a Tablet PC as if you were writing on   paper, but because plenty of people still need to work on paper, there are new controls to make it easier to print an InfoPath form the way it looks on screen.Another unusual thing about the InfoPath and OneNote service packs is that you don't get the usual all-or-nothing choice. You can have the new features and the bug fixes, or just the bug fixes. This is useful if you are running a locked-down software environment where any new application has to be tested before roll-out.But there are no betas for other programs from the Office family. Most probably, this indicates that there won't be any major new features in the more mature programs, such as Word and Excel, just bug fixes and security enhancements. Microsoft doesn't feel it needs the same amount of feedback as it does on the newer products. But this could be a mistake if the service pack creates as many problems as the recent Service Pack 3 for Office XP.Changes to the security model in Outlook and Word - to match the better security in Office 2003 - should mean fewer email worms and macro viruses. However, users will need some extra updates to avoid incessant warnings about legitimate programs and macros, including anti-spam utilities. You can get updates for SpamNet, Norton AntiSpam, NewsGator and IHateSpam and you can digitally sign your macros with the SelfCert program - details fromhttp://support.microsoft.com.It's always better to know you are going to have this kind of problem before you install an update, rather than after.
PDAsNo-frills modelPalmOne is hoping to breathe life into the low-end PDA market, with the release of a pair of budget handhelds. Finished in blue, the &#163;210 Zire 72 pairs Palm's 5.2.8 operating system and its personal information management software with multimedia facilities such as a 1.2 megapixel camera and an MP3 player. It sports a 65k colour 320 x 320 pixel screen and features a 312 MHz Intel ARM-compatible processor.Palm has also revamped its no-frills cheapo, Zire 21, by introducing a successor, the &#163;130 Zire 31. Unlike its predecessor, this boasts a colour screen, photo viewer and MP3 player. Both models are on sale now.www.palmone.com/ukHardwareDrive combinedToshiba is hoping to up the ante in the home video market with a pair of models that combine hard disk and DVD-based recorders. Due later this month is the &#163;549 RD-XS32 model, which couples an 80GB hard disk with a DVD-RAM/-RW/-R compatible DVD recorder. Users can record in one of 36 quality levels on the hard disk and then transfer footage at up to 12x speed to a disc for archiving. Other features include picture-in-picture, a DVD input for hooking up a camcorder and live TV pause. The XS32 will be followed in September by the RD-XS33, which offers double the hard disk capacity for between &#163;650 and &#163;750.www.home-entertainment.toshiba.co.ukVideo on the moveIf you want to download your favourite TV programmes or films, or music from your PC to play back elsewhere, then   the Creative Zen Portable Media Centre may be what you are looking for. Available for &#163;399 in the second half of the year, this hand-held gadget is based on Microsoft software and aims to make a mark in the uncharted waters of video on the move. Content providers such as EMI and Napster have been signed up to provide downloadable music and music videos. It remains to be seen whether people want to watch up to 75 hours of video or up to 50,000 photos away from their living rooms.MP3Simply swimmingFancy listening to music while you swim? US company H2O Audio has just released a range of waterproof cases for a selection of Flash memory-based MP3 players manufactured, appropriately enough, by iRiver. The series also feature a pair of earphones, speakers and integrated voice recorder. As the players   will work at depths of up to 200 feet, H2O Audio expects the models to be bought by both scuba divers and lane swimmers. Prices range from $400 for a 64MB player to $600 for a device with 512MB of storage.http://www.desworldwide.com/Products/DV64.cfm"&gt;http://www.desworldwide.com/Products/DV64.cfmCamera phonesLook sharpSharp, whose GX10/20/30 clamshell camera phones have been among the year's best-selling handsets, has just delivered a new mobile to the UK. Available exclusively through T-Mobile, the TM100 looks fairly similar to Sony Ericsson's popular T610 camera phone, but has a pull-down number pad like the one on the Siemens   SL-55. The phone's key feature is a large 240 x 320 pixel screen with 256K colours - the current standard is 64K. Also included is a VGA still and video camera, 40 polyphonic ringtones, Java, infrared and POP3 email. The phone is available free on some tariffs.www.tmobile.co.ukInternetBullish connectionsThe cost of broadband internet connections is set to become even lower, with price cuts at both ends of the market. PlusNet has set a new price low for 512kbps series, with the launch of its broadband Home Lite for &#163;14.99 per month. At the top end, Bulldog Communications is offering its 4Mbps service for &#163;39.99 per month. Cable subscribers are also set to benefit from faster connections, as both Telewest and NTL will increase the speeds of their broadband services later this month. Subscribers to Telewest's flagship 2Mbps service will now access   the web at speeds of up to 3Mbps for the same cost (&#163;50 per month).www.plusnet.co.ukwww.bulldogdsl.comwww.ntl.comwww.telewest.co.ukWhat women wantWomen aged 30 to 39 are disproportionately likely to view shopping websites, but tax returns and DIY also get a look-in, according to web research firm Nielsen/NetRatings. By ranking sites on their relative popularity among this group against the likings of the general public, retailer Next came top, followed by Littlewoods Index and Superbreak, a holiday site. The Inland Revenue, however, came sixth and B&amp;Q 10th.The equivalent list for men aged 30 to 39 is dominated by financial and IT sites. It is led by a domain registration service, unusual only for its use of a woman in a swimsuit on its homepage.Stat of the week:How e-ready are we?Britain has climbed to second place in this year's ranking of the most "e-ready" countries. The chart, right, is based on the business, residential and government environments in each country, as assessed by IBM and the Economist Intelligence Unit.
Red Hat DesktopRed Hat, the leading supplier of Linux for corporate servers, is now going for desktops, too. Red Hat Desktop is aimed at "the enterprise, the government and academic marketplaces", not at consumers. The package price will be 50 desktop subscriptions for $3,500 a year ($70 per PC per year), though a less powerful 10-user starter pack will also be available for $2,500 a year ($250 per PC per year). Novell has a desktop offering for $90, based on its purchase of Germany's SuSE, a Linux distributor. Another rival is Sun's SuSE-based Linux desktop, which it calls Java Desktop: this costs $100 per user per year, but is currently available for $50. Red Hat is working with VMware, which offers "virtual PC" software, and Citrix, t o ensure that Red Hat Desktop adopters can continue to run their Windows programs.www.redhat.com/software/rhel/desktopTea breakGreen tea is proving to be a healthy alternative to the slurries normally used to polish disk drive heads. Ventana Research is claiming the tea is more effective and cheaper in removing nanometre-sized imperfections, and will not harm the environment. Polishing the read/write heads is an important part of the disk drive manufacturing process to ensure the disk surface is not scratched in normal use. Tannin contained in the green tea compound under development attracts and binds with ceramics.www.nsf.gov/od/lpa/newsroomPDA tieWorldwide PDA shipments fell by 4.6% in the first quarter of this year, according to Gartner research, leaving PalmSource and Microsoft "in a virtual tie" w it h 1.1m units each. Palm OS shipments took 40.7% of the market as its sales tumbled by 20.7% compared with the same period last year, while the Windows CE market grew by 4.6% to 40.2%. PDA shipments increased by 24% in western Europe but fell by 13% in the US and by 21% in Japan. The totals do not include smartphones.Virtual embraceA pre-release version of IBM's storage virtualisation engine will offer support for disk arrays from EMC, its main competitor. EMC's Symmetrix and Clarion systems are included with Hitachi Thunder, Hitachi Lightning, and some Hewlett-Packard EVA arrays. The San Volume Controller (SVC) virtualisation software is a key element of IBM's Storage Tank project. This enables disks to be used more efficiently by making disparate storage appear as a large, single array. EMC is also planning a virtualised environment - it is due for release next year - and says that IBM's SVC degrades performance. IBM rejects this claim.www.storage.ibm.comBusiness servicesBT Openworld and Microsoft are planning to offer a bundle of online business services for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). During a trial in Scotland, customers will be charged &#163;50 a month per user to access Microsoft's Hosted Ex change email server, Office Small Business Edition 2003, and Business Contact Manager. The BT Connected &amp; Complete service will be supplied over a 512kbps broadband connection with firewall and anti-virus protection. Customers also get the ir own domain names and BT tools to help build a website. The pilot project will run from June to September.www.microsoft.com/presspassOn demandIBM is opening its second Deep Computing Capacity On Demand Centre in France. The centre in Montpellier will offer online access to a supercomputing environment, similar to the existing facility in New York State. Organisations that only need occasional access to massive computing power, or cannot afford their own supercomputer, will be able to share access. The new centre will contain clustered IBM pSeries computers running AIX or Linux and xSeries PC servers running Linux or Windows Server. Typical customers include the petroleum industry, life sciences, digital imaging, computer-aided engineering and financial services.www.ibm.com/servers/deepcomputing/cod.htmlData on callThe EU last week moved further on the retention of communications data a cross the continent, when the UK, France, Ireland and Sweden published a draft directive on the subject. Telecoms and internet service providers may be obliged to store communications data such as telephone billing data, mobile phone location information and email headers, but not contents, for one to three years, although nations could opt out. Countries would be able to access data stored in other EU states. The UK has a voluntary code on retaining communications data, for either six or 12 months, depending on the type of data.http://register.consilium.eu.int
Monday evening, Alston Moor, the north Pennines. In the gloaming of the setting sun, a broken turbine is whirring in the     wind. Daniel Heery, a wiry, quietly spoken, Wirral-born project manager, is out on the moor to examine the machine. It     powers the antenna connecting the tiny Cumbrian town of Alston with the neighboring village of Garrigill and, with it     down, the connection is lost and the village is denied vital access to the internet. Heery is keen to get it fixed.Alston Moor used to be one of the remotest corners of England. In winter, just a single bus a day will take you off the     moor, and the train station closed in 1974. There is no supermarket and the nearest local paper is published 20 miles     away. Isolation can have its plus points, mind. When foot and mouth and BSE ravaged the English countryside, Alston     was so isolated that not a single case of either was reported on the moor.But today, Alston is a leading light in the community broadband movement. The tiny town (population 2,200) has been     dubbed the broadband capital of Britain and one of the most wired places in the country. According to data published     by Leeds University, Alston came second after Kensington and Chelsea with the highest rate of broadband take-up in     the UK. Moreover, Alston enjoys a PC ownership rate of 88%, even higher than the internet hotspots of Sweden, Silicon     Valley or South Korea.Last week, BT announced that it is to wire the vast majority of rural exchanges by 2005. Soon, the kind of network     connectivity enjoyed in Alston could be repeated across rural Britain. So what, then, does the wired countryside look     like?Back up on the moor, Heery is joined by Paul Crabtree, the local copper, who patrols the moors in his Nissan Terrano.     The highest point in the Pennines is only a few miles from Alston and it can snow on the moor as late as April. PC     Crabtree keeps the town informed by SMS, using the network to send out text message alerts when the roads are     impassable.Then there is Ray Cummins, the local Methodist preacher. Later this year, his church will lose the last of its four chapels     on the moor and superintendent Cummins will be reduced to renting rooms for worship. The internet helps him keep his     flock together: "it becomes a daily point of contact," he says.Not to be outdone, the parish council is about to begin streaming its meetings on the internet, jokingly titled I'm a Parish     Councillor, Get Me Out of Here. In a nearby village, Dave Liquorice, a sound engineer, runs an amateur meteorology     centre to report on weather conditions. Others use the network to share lifts to Penrith or Newcastle or to book the     community minibus.Heery came to this remote corner of Cumbria in June 1997 to help promote IT training centres in schools. He soon     began to see IT and the development of the internet as a key to unlocking the town's isolation. He helped establish a     pioneering scheme that would give every household in the town its own free PC. Heery then helped form a co-operative     to furnish the town with a high-speed, wireless internet network. The concept of Cybermoor was born."We wanted some sort of democratic structure," says Heery over lunch in the Angel pub in the centre of Alston, "where     people could have the chance to participate in managing the company and have their say. There was a dilemma that we     had spent all this public money on a broadband network, but it didn't feel right to give it to a private sector company that     could potentially profit from it without passing the profits back to the community. A co-operative model allows us to     mutualise the public investment that has gone into Cybermoor."Initially, the recipients of free computers made do with a dial-up connection but, within a year, the Cybermoor project     had established the wireless network offering broadband speeds. Nearly 32% of the community have now signed up for     broadband, paying the co-operative 15 per month (5 for those on benefits) and, two years later, Cybermoor enjoys the     second-highest rating for PC ownership in the UK, just behind a similar scheme in Suffolk.The cost of buying computers for practically every house in Alston and keeping the network running for three years is     1.9m, or roughly 860 per person, although the wireless network cost just 450,000, or 104 per person. The bulk of the     money came from the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) with additional funds from the Department for Trade     and Industry and regional development agencies.In February, the co-operative published Cybermoor: Measuring the Benefits. It found that the project brought in an     additional 300,000 to the local community every year. It also reported that 77% of the town had improved its IT skills     and that 81% of single-parent families had broadband at home. The network has brought other, unexpected, benefits.   The local estate agent thinks house prices have increased by 25% since the launch of Cybermoor.Last week, BT announced it was about to convert the bulk of the remaining local exchanges left out of the broadband     revolution. BT says this will enable 99.5% of local exchanges by 2005, although this still means that roughly 100,000     households will be excluded.Moreover, a forthcoming report by the organisation for economic co-operation and development (OECD), states that the     BT scheme will give the UK the highest broadband availability rates of any G7 country. The report, to be published next     month, shows that no other G7 country is close to the UK's figures - the US is aiming for 2007, while France wants 95%     by the end of 2005.BT says there is still an important role for community networks such as Cybermoor. "It will come down to customer     choice," says a spokesman. "Many &#91;of the community networks&#93; only set up because no commercial company - and it is     not just BT - could see a viable business case. We now think there is one as the market has moved on dramatically,     thanks to the work of companies such as BT and thousands of campaigners. We would certainly be interested to hear     from any of them if their services might complement our own."Community networks are not just confined to rural outposts such as Alston. Deptford, in south London, is about as far     from the north Pennines as you can get and still be in England. The plan is to enable local council officers in Lewisham     to be able to work from home or while mobile in the community. Enabling such a wireless network also hits a number of     community and small business objectives, so what might suit the local council can be shared with the wider community.   The roll out is expected to begin later this month, with the whole of Deptford covered by October."The strength of community enterprise is that it really does engage people in local communities," explains Malcolm     Corbett, manager of Community Broadband Network (CBN). "The process of aggregation has been very successful     before, not least in the case of American telephone services in the 1920s where, in rural areas, people aggregated the     demand in order to get telephone services provided. It proved highly successful, and community enterprises for     broadband have the same potential."Corbett helped found the Community Broadband Network in February last year. The scheme had the backing of     Stephen Timms, the e-commerce minister, and a number of rural charities. In a little over a year, CBN has grown to     include 215 community groups connected to the site's intranet. Approximately 75 have launched their own broadband     networks.Corbett sees the community broadband movement as beginning to move beyond simply campaigning for access. Now,     the campaigners are beginning to organise in a way that can provide economic benefits out of the service itself. In     Alston they are developing Voice over IP (VoIP) to provide the town with free telephone calls.In Deptford, the emphasis is not just on providing a network for council workers, but also providing a high bandwidth     wireless service that can be used for a range of multimedia applications, which in turn can be used for regeneration. All     the artists being priced out of Shoreditch have to be able to set up studio somewhere."This stuff is moving very fast," says Corbett. "I think there is a great opportunity for communities to get involved and     end up with a situation where you get not just high levels of take-up of broadband, but much more interesting uses and     acompletely different way in which people talk about it."Others seem to be moving the debate on, too. Next month, the Access to Broadband Campaign will host a conference     devoted to content and services. The focus will be less on access and more on what to do now that many community     networks are up and running."We've used public intervention to improve local conditions," says Heery back in the pub. "No one's going to build a     dual carriageway into the middle of Alston Moor, but we've built a digital dual carriageway here and it can have the same     effect."
In an emergency situation, it can be difficult for a mobile phone caller to explain where he is and where an accident has occurred. Callers can panic and fail to supply the information the emergency service urgently requires."The quicker we are able to get to the patient, the quicker we are able to treat them," explains Quentin Armitage, deputy director of technology for the London Ambulance Service (LAS). For things such as cardiac arrest, the sooner treatment starts, the better the chances of a patient's survival. The target is to get to the patient within eight minutes."However, in London, it is no longer necessary for ambulances to rely solely on a mobile caller's local knowledge. The LAS has become the first emergency service in the UK to be able to pinpoint the location of 999 calls from a mobile phone. It can now deploy vehicles far more quickly. Armitage says that up to two minutes is being shaved off response times.A geographic information system is being used in the control room to plot the location of all mobile callers and identify the best vehicle to respond. Each of the LAS's 450 emergency response vehicles are being fitted with a mobile data terminal, which has a mapping system that shows the crew exactly where it is in relation to where the caller is. The mapping solution is linked to a satellite navigation system that gives the crew directions to the destination. Before the data terminals were installed, ambulance crews had to rely on maps to find the best routes."The system gives a description of the circle that defines the area of coverage of the cell the caller is in," Armitage explains. "We display that circle on an electronic map. That circle might be a kilometre in diameter. Previously, if we got a call from a mobile phone, we had no indication where the caller was other than what the caller told us."Once the circle is on the electronic map, it is easier to work with the caller to establish what part of London he is in. "I have stood in a control room for minutes when a child was trying to tell us where it was."Armitage says this is only the starting point and, with the support of the mobile networks, the service hopes the circle on the maps will shrink in size and information on the location of mobile callers will become even more precise.In the meantime, he expects more emergency services to look at adopting the technology. He says the LAS is the first emergency service to use the new application because it has been able to develop and tailor the software to meet its requirements. "We have developed our computer system for our control room. We can make changes when we like."Chris Jackson, public sector account manager for ESRI, the company that supplied the service with the geographic information system,   says there is a growing appetite in the public sector for applications that enable resources to be allocated more efficiently. "There is a need for all of the emergency services to be able to make sure they have good distribution. They need to understand where events are happening and where their resources are being deployed."With so many of the public owning mobiles, the service has also looked into receiving text messages. But Armitage says that they are impractical for interacting with a caller in emergency situations as so many detailed medical questions need to be asked quickly. Using photo messaging to relay photographs from the scene of an accident direct to a hospital has been explored. However, it is thought a trained paramedic on the scene is sufficient.Jason Chapman, principal mobile analyst for Gartner, says the new service could have major repercussions for the public sector. "It could make a big difference to the overall efficiency of the service. If it works successfully for London, it is a great case study that other emergency services can look to at a time when they are all trying to be more efficient."As government agencies latch on to the potential of these applications, however, they could run into more contentious areas. Chapman says there could be situations where citizens might be less willing to let public sector organisations know exactly where they are using their mobiles. A person, for example, could be at work when they are officially meant to be off sick.While the potential benefits for emergency services of tailored mobile location technologies are not in dispute, such applications could raise complex civil liberty issues.
Ever wanted to start all over again, with a new identity in a new country? Well, Christian Aid is giving internet users a chance to be reborn, with its new websitewww.lifeswitch.org.Launched to coincide with Christian Aid Week - the longest running and most successful door-to-door fundraising week in the UK - which begins on Sunday, the website allows you to transform your life within seconds.After answering a few simple questions, you will be transported to your new life. But beware, the results can be unexpected. You may find yourself as Miss Dominican Republic living a life of luxury on golden beaches or, as I did, as Beatrice, a widow raising seven children, earning money growing pumpkins and breeding puppies, living in a house with no electricity or water. But there was a happy ending. Christian Aid's partner in Zambia, Chep, taught me how to make school uniforms and suits.Christian Aid's web manager, Sara Chamberlain, says the project is a unique use of the internet to reach potential supporters who can't be reached through traditional means. "We wanted to reach new, younger urban audiences via a medium that might appeal to them more than direct mail or house-to-house collections."A big untapped market, to which the site is primarily directed, is the 30 to 50-year-old office worker, with access to broadband (although it is not necessary), who is generally sympathetic to the cause."It was inspired by the wish-you-were-here postcard concept, which has been done before, but also the 'chance birth' theory - what if you had been born somewhere else in the world," says Chamberlain."With the travel brochure concept, you are removed from the real life experiences of people. We wanted to   grab people's attention with something entertaining, and educative, but not make them feel guilty."The images on the site starkly illustrate the harsh realities of living in developing countries, where issues of poverty, HIV/Aids, civil war, famine and torture are all too prevalent. But, says Chamberlain, "we show with our case studies that there is hope, and that with a little time and energy, we can really change people's lives".The charity is also hoping the surprise element and humorous angle of the site will appeal to a wider audience. Says Chamberlain: "You often hear tragic stories about poor people in developing countries. We think it's important to show that there is hope. A humorous approach can help us break through people's charity fatigue - with so much bad news around, being a bit lighthearted can be more effective."Vik Sharma, Christian Aid's senior web producer, who project-managed the site's design, said: "We were looking for innovative ways to attract the attention of people who are daily bombarded by a multiplicity of images and messages. We wanted to develop a web gimmick that people would want to forward to friends, spreading the word about Christian Aid's work.Sharma said the idea was also inspired by the growing trend in lifestyle gurus, "who often tell people that changing their world is as easy as buying a CD box set of 'lifestyle meditations'"."We wanted to satirise this by offering people the opportunity to change their lives via a patented online process. We employed the language used by corporates, afternoon insurance company ads, getaway websites and lifestyle shows. Similarly we used a visual language to communicate a sense that anything is possible - turning countries struggling with poverty and conflict into gorgeous lifestyle destinations."
BT is teaming up with computer maker Hewlett Packard in a seven-year deal worth &#163;840m and aimed at the global market in corporate telecommunications and technology spending.The telecoms company will manage the American firm's voice and data networks and call centres in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, while Hewlett Packard will manage BT's information technology infrastructure in Britain.Corporate spending on IT and communications is thought to run at about &#163;220bn in Europe alone.BT is hoping that the al liance will boost revenues at its Global Services business while Hewlett Packard is seeking to sharpen its competitive capacity in its battle with IBM.Yesterday one of BT's domestic rivals in the corporate telecoms market, Thus, said it remained on course to make an operating profit in the second half of the current financial year. "We remain comfortable with market expectations for that," chief executive William Allan said.In the year to the end of March, Thus - which was spun out of ScottishPower in 1999 - said that turnover was up by 14% to &#163;332m, while the loss before tax had been cut by more than 50% to &#163;25m.Although the market remained tough, Mr Allan said that Thus had demonstrated its ability to continue to grow and to win big contracts.Thus said its chairman, Roy Brown, had indicated that he wanted to stand down and that the search was starting for a replacement.Elsewhere, Tesco Mobile said it had signed up 250,000 customers since the launch of the business in September last year. Tesco Mobile is a 50-50 joint venture between the supermarket group and mobile telephone service provider O2.Meanwhile competition between Vodafone and Deutsche Telekom - two of Europe's top mobile phone companies - has intensified. Vodafone is rolling out its third-generation mobile phone services in Germany and Portugal this week, allowing customers new services such as news and sports video downloads.T-Mobile, Deutsche Telekom's mobile telephone division, immediately responded to the news, saying it would have third-generation handsets in the shops immediately - a week ahead of the planned launch date.Mobile telephone operators spent more than &#163;66bn on 3G licences at the height of the dotcom boom.The roll-out of 3G networks, however, has been dogged by technical problems.
"Eight Japanese audio manufacturers will launch a music distribution service directly to audio devices starting on May 20," reportsEE Times."Sony Corp, Kenwood Corp, Pioneer Corp and Sharp Corp formed a company in January 2003 to prepare a common platform for the distribution service. The platform is based on Sony's OpenMG X copyright management technology and ATRAC3 audio compression technology, which is used for MD disks."The four companies and four supporters -- Onkyo Corp, D&amp;M Holdings Inc (Marantz and Denon), Victor Company of Japan Ltd (JVC) and Yamaha Corp -- expanded the preparatory company to establish Any Music Inc in February with a capital investment of Y600 million (about $5.6 million)."Comment:There's an obvious temptation to think that Sony's music service is like Apple's, and Sony has encouraged this by talking of Apple as the enemy to be defeated. But there is a fundamental difference, in that right from the start, Sony has been interested in delivering directly to non-PC devices, including PlayStation games consoles, consumer electronics products and mobile phones. Thus it has the potential to create a large installed base very quickly, especially if something like the PSP takes off. Thanks to sales of Memory Stick and Net MD devices, there must already be more devices compatible with the Sony Connect music service than there are iPods. (Sony's number is 2.5 million.)And while it would be nice to write off Sony's proprietary OpenMGX (MagicGate) DRM system, it's likely to be supported by Sony, Kenwood, Pioneer, Sharp, Onkyo, Marantz, Denon, JVC, and Yamaha, which are all part of the Any Music Inc consortium.That leaves us with at least six serious contenders in the DRM stakes: Microsoft, Sony, Apple (FairPlay), RealNetworks (HelixDRM) and IBM, plus the Open Mobile Alliance DRM proposed by mobile phone makers. Historically, these things almost always reduce to two options, a winner and a loser, with the rest nowhere. RealNetworks and IBM are most likely doomed (which is no doubt why Real wanted to join Apple's party), and Microsoft is a safe bet to be one of the survivors. That leaves Sony and Apple fighting to be the non-Microsoft option. In that context, not licensing FairPlay still looks a bad idea to me.
A computer virus was spreading rapidly across the internet last night, causing disruption in homes and businesses from London to Sydney.The internet worm, called Sasser, was discovered on the internet on Friday night and has already caused disruption in railways and coastguard operations as well as computer reservation systems and bank networks. A computerised mapping system at Britain's Maritime and Coastguard Agency was brought down by the worm, forcing the organisation to continue its work using pen and paper.In Taiwan, the postal service reported that around a third of its branch offices' computer systems had been knocked out by Sasser, while government departments and hospitals in Hong Kong were also affected. Reuters reported that, in Germany, the virus struck 300,000 post office computers, preventing staff from issuing   cash. In Australia, the worm was thought to be behind computer problems which left 300,000 train passengers stranded at the weekend after radio communications were cut between train drivers and signal boxes in Sydney.Virus experts say a Russian programming team calling itself the Skynet Anti-virus Group has claimed responsibility for the worm. The group is thought to have been behind a number of online attacks.Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at anti-virus company Sophos, said the Skynet group was taking advantage of the confusion created by Sasser by circulating emails claiming to offer an antidote to the worm. When users open a file attached to the email, they are being infected with another virus, called Netsky."These are not attacking any kind of vulnerability in the computer," said Mr Cluley. "They are attacking the vulnerability of people's brains."He added that a message to anti-virus firms was contained in the code of the latest version of the Netsky virus, reading: "Hey av &#91;anti-virus&#93; firms, do you know we've programmed the Sasser virus?!? Yeah thats true!"Sasser is the latest in a long line of viruses that exploit vulnerabilities in the Microsoft Windows operating system. It attacks Windows NT, Windows 2000 and the latest version of the operating system, Windows XP. Unlike many previous internet worms, it does not require users to open an email attachment or read an email to pass the infection from computer to computer.Instead, the worm searches for computers connected to the internet which do not have the latest security updates loaded and downloads itself to the machine's hard drive. It forces the computer to restart, and uses the compromised machine to scan for its next target - dramatically slowing internet access for its owner.While the side effects of the virus are inconvenient for computer users, current versions of the worm do not attempt to delete or damage files on the computer. Users who have firewall software installed and switched on, or who have chosen to receive automatic security updates from Microsoft, are unlikely to be affected by the scare.It is not thought that the worm will cause as much damage as last year's Blaster worm, which was thought to have infected more than 8m computers around the world.Microsoft said yesterday it first raised the alarm about the flaw in its software on April 13, and is urging its customers to install a software patch to halt the worm's spread. Free software to remove the worm from infected computers is available from microsoft.com.The company said it was working with the FBI and other law enforcement agencies in an attempt to track down the programmers responsible.
"The launch of Sony Connect was held in conjunction with United Airlines, which is letting travelers exchange frequent-flyer miles for digital music. Singer Sheryl Crow -- who also endorsed Apple's iTunes -- staged an in-air concert for the launch party during a flight from Chicago to Los Angeles. Like most rivals, Sony is offering downloads for 99 cents and albums largely for $9.99, with access provided through a piece of software that can be downloaded through the site," reportsCNet."As part of the store launch, Sony has been heavily promoting its newest MiniDisc player, the MiniDisc Hi-MD Walkman, which reads small discs that can hold about 45 hours of music each. Earlier Sony devices, including the Net MDWalkman recorders, ATRAC CD Walkman players and Network Walkman players, will also be able to play music from the Connect store."The launch is also being discussed atSlashdot.Comment: As expected, it's got Sony Music in Sony Atrac format with a Sony DRM piped to a Sony MiniDisc player or a Sony device with a Sony MagicGate Memory Stick (Vaio, Clie etc) that you might have bought in a Sony store. Sheesh, it's enough to make evenSteve Jobsjealous. ("We love Sony, we admire Sony, we aspire to be like them.")
Update: The post below linked to a piece that rapidly disappeared. However, you can read the original speech,The On-Demand World is Finally Coming, given by Ashley Highfield, the BBC's Director of New Media &amp; Technology, at the FT New Media &amp; Broadcasting Conference 2004, thanks to the BBC Press Office. It doesn't have all the detail but it gives you the gist of the idea."The three-week pilot -- called iMP (Internet Media Player) -- will allow a privileged band of 500 of the corporation's staff to step into this new world of viewing," reportsThe Independent."They will be given PDAs and access to a range of BBC programmes that will include the soap EastEnders and the hospital drama Holby City. Also available are the factual series One Life, the dramas Cutting It and Grease Monkeys, the motoring show Top Gear and news bulletins."Later: "The iMP project is driven by research that shows that people increasingly find it difficult to align their highly-valued free-time with the fixed TV schedules. Homes with personal video recorders (PVRs) like Sky Plus already 'time-shift' 70 per cent of the programmes they watch to more convenient viewing times."
Britain has for the first time dropped behind France in the world rankings of how well governments are using the internet.The e-government league table put the UK in joint ninth place in Europe with the Netherlands, and behind France and the Nordic countries.Canada, the US, Singapore and Australia were ahead of it in the rest of the world.Britain was previously in eighth place. The peak was in 2002, when the UK was ranked sixth.Accenture, the business services and consultancy company that ranks the governments, blamed the slower growth of the British government's online offerings compared with those of its competitors.It noted that only a few websites had the degree of interactivity that would allow citizens to use them to carry out transactions.It suggested that the government made its websites easier to use, integrated services across agencies and better marketed its online presence.The research found that only four in 10 people had visited government websites - a significantly lower figure than in France, Sweden, Spain and Italy - but three-quarters would use them more if it saved them time and money.The most popular use for government websites was to obtain tourism information (62%) and health advice (39%).Other areas included jobs (19%), reporting a minor crime (12%) and determining eligibility for benefits (11%).Fewer than 5% had applied for a birth certificate, changed their address with a government agency or renewed a driving licence.Accenture found the biggest barrier to UK take-up of e-government was the inability of users to find the correct website for what they wanted to do.Vivienne Jupp, managing partner of Accenture's e-government division, said online services had the potential to save governments money."By extracting maximum value from every resource expanded, they transform service delivery. That is why e-government is such an important lever for delivering value," she said.The latest e-government initiative was the launch earlier this year of the Directgov portal, which sends UK citizens to services such as booking a driving test, checking the weather or reporting suspicious activity to MI5.Andrew Pindar, Tony Blair's e-envoy in the Cabinet Office, last week announced it would be rolled out to digital television.His office today said the period covered by the report had seen a number of improvements, including Directgov and a 28% increase in the number of people looking at a government website."Directgov aims to drive take-up by transforming the way government interacts with the citizen," a statement said."It builds services around their needs, not the needs of government."In defence of its internet strategy, the government points to independent research indicating that four out of five users believe Directgov gives convenient access to public services and information.Nine out of ten users said they were likely to use the service in the future.The government hopes Directgov will eventually allow at least half the nation to book a hospital appointment, check benefit rights or do tax returns online.Local authorities are also developing their own platforms within the site with the aim of helping people find out about schools, dustbins and other services by keying in their postcode.
"LA is the world's cultural capital.Defameris the gossip rag it deserves."
I seem to have a lot of emails in my inbox with the same subject heading. What's going on?It sounds as if you have a virus or a worm. There are thousands of viruses out there, but a handful account for most of the problems. There are usually one or two that are the most prominent at any one time. A recent virus - called beagle or bagle - uses a familiar email address in an attempt to trick you into clicking on its attachment. If you do it goes into your address book and hunts out new addresses to send itself to. You can identify it by emails with the subject "hi" and the word "test".What is a virus?Viruses are programs that self-replicate, and they are written by people who want them spread as widely as possible. Some viruses, such as Anna Kournikova, love bug or beagle, require user interaction to self-replicate - usually this means clicking on an attachment - while others, such as Code Red, can trawl networks looking for computers with a specific vulnerability to exploit.All viruses clog up networks and slow down the performance of your PC, but many also have payloads, or code that triggers an action on the infected machine. These payloads can do anything from wiping your hard drive to emailing confidential documents to public newsgroups to installing a "Trojan horse" on your computer that allows hackers to access your data.What is the difference between a virus and a worm?A virus is parasitic code that attaches to another program, such as an executable (.exe), whereas a worm does not attach itself to other programs and spreads to computers via the internet without any user interaction. They both produce the same result: disruption and, in some cases, damage to computer systems. The distinction is largely technical, and does not really matter to the average computer user. The computer security industry's catch-all term for viruses and worms is "malware", which is short for "malicious software". The latest worm to hit the headlines is Sasser, which came to light in late April and spreads by scanning the internet for unprotected computers using the Microsoft Windows operating system, especially Windows 2000 and XP.I think I have a piece of malware on my computer. Now what?If you receive an email that you suspect is infected with a virus, do not open it. Some viruses will activate simply by opening the email, whether you double click on the attachment or not. Others require no user interaction and will already have infected your computer, simply by virtue of having been sent to you.If you are at work, ask your IT service desk what to do about the virus. If you are at home, you can look on the website of your anti-virus software company, or call their help desk. Your internet service provider may also be able to help.Do not send a universal email warning everyone in your company about the virus, as that will only clog networks already suffering from the virus attack. Send one email to your IT support desk, and let them take it from there.How can I avoid getting viruses?Anti-virus software is a good place to start, but it is by no means a guarantee.Most email viruses will appear to be sent to you by someone you know. Beware of emails with "double-barrelled" attachments, such as filename.txt.vbs, and do not double click on them. Do not open executable (.exe) files or documents (.doc) without putting them through a virus scan first. If you need the information in the document, tell the sender to resend it as part of the email body text.If you run Microsoft software, you should keep a look out for security alerts that the company posts on its website. Often the company discovers a hole in its software, posts a fix for it, and then weeks later a virus exploiting that very flaw infects thousands of users. This happened with the Code Red worm, which exploited a flaw in Microsoft's IIS software, and the SQL Slammer worm, which took advantage of a hole in Microsoft SQL 2000 server. Installing a firewall - a system that defends your computer and its contents from unwanted intrusions by hackers or malware - will help, and is particularly advisable if you are using a broadband connection to the internet.My elderly aunt Agatha just forwarded me a virus warning. What should I do?Assuming Agatha is not a computer expert, she has probably just sent you one of the numerous virus hoaxes that endlessly do the email rounds. Tell her to stop forwarding on any information if she has not checked it out.Vmythsis a good first stop to check the veracity of an emailed virus alert.
It was Denton vs. Calacanis last night in New York, in a panel on blog publishing at the city's Apple Store.EverythingNY.comblogged the event.
Schoolchildren as young as five are being sent hundreds of pornographic emails every week and the problem is getting worse, according to a company brought in to filter out unwanted spam from school email accounts.Eight out of 10 of the thousands of emails received every day to school email addresses are unwanted spam, and over half of those contain pornographic content, according to figures released today by filtering company Email Systems.The company, which has just signed a deal with the London Grid for Learning in an effort to stem the flow, said that local authorities and schools were not paying enough attention to the problem."It's concerning. A lot of parents and teachers don't recognise the problems. The schools often don't have the technical know-how or the skills in place to deal with this, and it's affecting children as young as five and six," said Neil Hammerton, the managing director of Email Systems."The London Grid for Learning has recognised that and we are delighted to be working with them, " he added.The deal will cover up 2,700 schools within London.Mr Hammerton added that schools were particularly easy target for unscrupulous spam marketers, most of which originate from the US and offshore accounts, because their email addresses are usually easy to guess and are available on the internet.The company conducted an in-depth study at Hartsdown Technology College to discover the depth of the problem. The school, which has 1,100 students and 70 staff, receives 2,135 emails a day.Filtering statistics show that of this total, 84.9% of the email traffic is spam and 52% of it is of a pornographic nature. In addition, the school receives 50 viruses via email every day.MPs and internet users have warned the spam epidemic is threatening to bring email to a standstill, with recent surveys estimating that at least seven out of every 10 emails are unwanted spam, compared with 8% three years ago.Internet service providers have begun to put more resources into spam blocking software with the likes of BT Yahoo!, AOL and Freeserve promoting it as a key feature of their connection offerings.But several companies who supply software to block spam have said new rules introduced last year by the European parliament are unlikely to provide much protection against the kind of mass email campaigns sent from the US and other countries that clog up inboxes on a daily basis.Educational ICT consultants have warned that the problem will get worse as schools race to meet government targets of one computer to every three pupils and broadband access for all schools by 2006.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Frank Quattrone, one of the most high-flying investment bankers on Wall Street during the dotcom boom, came crashing to earth yesterday when he was found guilty of obstruction of justice.The verdict was reached after seven hours of jury deliberations. Quattrone could face up to 25 years in prison but is likely to receive a sentence of up to two years.Quattrone, 48, who ran the technology division of Credit Suisse First Boston, showed little emotion as the verdict was read but, according to reporters in the courtroom in lower Manhattan, members of his family were in tears. A sentencing date was set for September 8.He was found guilty on three charges: obstruction of justice, witness tampering and obstruction of agency proceedings. The trial was the United States government's second tilt at Quattrone after the first trial ended in a hung jury in October last year.Quattrone's lawyer, John Keker, said an appeal would be lodged against the verdict. "We are obviously grossly disappointed. I feel like we failed Frank. He's innocent."The most prominent former banker so far to be prosecuted for the reckless behaviour that has come to characterise the tech stock boomearned $120m in 2000, the peak year of the bubble. He presided over the   stock market debuts of companies that became household names, including Amazon and Netscape. He also holds a stake in soon to be floated search engine Google.Rarely seen without a grin on his face, he was once in such demand that he employed his own press team.The banker was accused of interfering with a government investigation into the allocation of shares in hotly demanded stock market flotations in late 2000.The charges hinged on an email sent by Quattrone on December 5 2000 in which he instructed colleagues to "clean up those files". A lawyer for CSFB, David Brodsky, had notified Quattrone of an investigation into the allocation of shares two days earlier.Closing arguments had focused closely on the incriminating email.David Anders, an assistant US attorney, had asked: "What was Frank Quattrone thinking? He knew about the ongoing investigation, and he told his employees to destroy documents anyway. He did it to   obstruct justice and he did it to protect his lucrative business and livelihood."Quattrone insisted he was simply adhering to routine company policy on document retention and destruction.He contended, as he did during the first trial, that he believed the investigations involved a different part of CSFB and so never thought he was interfering by telling staff to destroy old records.Mr Keker told the jury: "This case is about this itty-bitty email and whether it amounts to three crimes."This is not a man who intended to obstruct justice. The government is asking you to connect a lot of dots that weren't connected in Frank Quattrone's mind."The conviction marks a second significant victory for the government's attempt to clean up corporate America following   the successful prosecution of businesswoman and "domestic goddess" Martha Stewart.CSFB paid $100m (&#163;56.5m) in late 2001 to settle allegations that it had taken kickbacks, charging inflated commissions to some clients in exchange for access to shares in initial public offerings.During the dotcom boom, IPOs commonly showed huge first day gains, allowing holders of the shares to turn a quick profit.Quattrone was fired from CSFB in March last year after refusing to appear at a hearing of the National Association of Securities Dealers.The trial did little to enhance the reputation of Wall Street in the outside world. Numerous emails were brought into evidence referring to clients as "pigs" and "oxygen pirates" demanding access to shares in "hot" IPOs.
The European Commission yesterday warned the UK's Performing Rights Society, which collects and distributes royalties for musicians, that it may be breaking EU competition rules.The PRS is among 16 "collecting societies" which the EU said may be breaching competition rules by extending national monopolies on to the internet.The commission is investigating the Santiago agreement, a pan-European pact that allows national collecting societies, which also include France's Sacem and Germany's Gema, to collect the copyright proceeds of online music sales on behalf of authors."The structure put in place by the parties to the Santiago agreement results in commercial users being limited in their choice to the monopolistic collecting society established in their own member state," the commission said in a statement.The Santiago agreement was designed as a one-stop shop for music copyright licensing, sparing users - companies selling downloads - the need for a collecting agreement in each EU state.The commission said there should be competition between the societies, which would benefit music download providers and users.Collecting societies would compete with each other to offer pan-European licences and   companies could shop around for where to obtain the right to sell downloads across the 25-nation bloc.Record companies have long been angry about the power of the collecting societies in Europe. They insist that they are more than willing to sell downloads on a pan-European basis but that the societies insist on continuing on a country by country basis.Two years ago, Universal Music complained to the commission that the societies acted as a de facto cartel and that their unfair terms were to the detriment of record companies and consumers, who end up paying more for music.The societies have two months to respond to the commission's inquiry.
