The language of job ads can make any role, no matter how mundane, sound like a nine-to-five day full of non-stop excitement. But for those looking for a position outside the normal routine, ads promising to "redefine job roles", offering a chance to "build a young, dynamic team", assuring you that "enthusiasm and the ability to work under pressure" could land you in the thick of a new company launch, could hardly be more tempting.And it is the new dot.com companies that often seem to promise the most. Small company, big prospects is the subtext, and plenty of workers have been persuaded to take the risk of working for an internet start-up. And it can be risky. Only those marooned on a desert island could have missed coverage of the collapse of boo.com, and reports this week on dot.com funding have also cast a shadow over the industry. Venture capitalists, once so eager to toss money into the dot.com well, have retreated with their bags of cash, stung by the death of boo and the plummeting prices of internet shares. Now that every twentysomething with half an idea dreams of e-millions, investors have twigged that some ventures are more upstart than start-up.So is it time to get out? Not so fast. The dot.com industry is still young,   and reports of its death are rather premature. Job losses do happen - just last week 226 staff were laid off when Somerfield's online shopping site 24-7 closed its virtual doors - but in the same week, clothing giant C&amp;A announced the end of its stores and 4,800 jobs. When boo.com finally shut up shop, there were headhunters waiting in the pub to console the newly unemployed with champagne and career opportunities.Lucy Simmons, 24, has been working in customer support for a business-to-business (B2B) financial site for six months and is unperturbed by the scare stories: "I don't think job security exists in any sector any more, so it's no more risky to go into this than any other job. I don't know if it's a good long-term career choice, but it suits me fine at the moment."While the rate of investment in internet start-ups may be slowing,   there's still an awful lot of money sloshing around out there. A report from accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers last week confirmed that investment in European internet companies rose last year by an astonishing 70%, of which the UK won a third. Over three-quarters of these investments went on younger start-up companies. But Robert Conway, PwC's global technology industry group leader, cautioned at the time that "venture capitalists will become far more selective. Start-ups will find it difficult to raise finance without good ideas and great management."Working for a dot.com, especially one that's barely up and running, requires a certain amount of trust. Yes, the boss has a great idea and a whole lot of enthusiasm, but he or she might be new to management and could have less experience than those they are now employing to make the coffee.Share options in the firm might make you a fortune if the company soars, but you could just as easily end up with nothing if it goes under before any profits materialise (as boo.com's unlucky employees discovered - some did not even receive their wages). Salaries and perks could well be at the skimpier end of the scale: Anders Bergtoft, managing director of ShopSmart.com, which   took over boo's Stockholm offices, recently warned employees to expect "buses, beer and burgers", rather than the Concorde, champagne and caviar their predecessors reputedly enjoyed.Simmons confirms this: "Pay is probably less good than in other sectors. Depending on when you join the company, you might not get shares or options, so the idea that everyone who works for dot.com companies will become millionaires is a bit of a myth. And people do seem to think that the work is more glamorous than it actually is. I work long hours just like my friends."The first flurry of excitement about internet shares has died down, and workers should approach a job at an internet start-up with a degree of scepticism. One estimate from Merrill Lynch predicted that three-quarters of European internet companies would disappear in the next few years. For the wary, a job with a B2B site, rather than the riskier retail sites, is probably a safer bet, relying less on the whims of the consumer.But who really wants a job with a lifetime guarantee? Simmons, for the moment, is enjoying the uncertainty: "I wasn't actually looking for a job at a dot.com, but when I was offered it I was tempted because it was something new and different. And I'm still young enough to get a different job if it doesn't work out."
Citigroup, the US financial conglomerate, is to unite all its corporate and investment banking e-commerce operations into a new e-business unit.While an announcement about the operation, which could boost the group's share price, is not expected for several weeks, it is being put together by one of the bank's vice presidents, Jorge Bermudez.The unit is being known internally as e-Business and early details suggest the operation will also include Citigroup's worldwide e-commerce businesses.The news follows a flurry of announcements from the group about internet-style deals. Among the recent initiatives was the creation of a global corporate smart card programme using Sun's Java   Card technology.The idea behind this plan is to irradicate the need for multiple credit and payment cards and authentication of customers' identity over the internet. Other projects have also involved tie-ups with other technology firms, such as SAP in a deal which will allow Citibank's payment systems for its business customers to be accessed via the on-line ordering service - known as business to business procurement - included in SAP's software.The decision to group all e-commerce business into one unit is designed to make it easier for Citigroup's corporate and institutional clients to access all its e-business technology and applications.Citigroup last night confirmed the plan. "It is evolving," a spokesperson said.
First, lastminute.com saw millions wiped off its share value. Then, boo.com flopped. Now the great e-slump has hit the biggest net name on the planet - Amazon.The crash, late on Friday, sent a chill through the internet chatrooms yesterday. Anxious cyber-investors, who have become rich quick backing the internet bubble, logged on and asked each other one question: how much worse will it get?Amazon, the online bookseller which started life in a Washington garage in 1994, became the internet's most visible star worth $30 billion (&#163;19bn). After Friday's feverish Wall Street trading it is worth barely half that.Its crash comes in the wake of a number of high-profile dotcom failures. The sector, which spawned waves of charismatic young entrepreneurs, is now eating its young alive.On Friday Amazon's share price plunged by 20 per cent as analysts took a closer look at the company's finances. Ravi Suria, a bond analyst with the Wall Street firm Lehman Brothers, issued a damning report which said: 'Amazon must be able to generate the cash-operating profile of a successful retailer. It is essentially this yardstick that we use to analyse the company, and as the rest of this report shows, we find it woefully lacking.'Suria concluded that the company's weak balance sheet showed the 'financial characteristics that have driven innumerable retailers to disaster throughout history'.Investors were quick to draw their own conclusions. Wall Street's most powerful analyst, Mary Meeker of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, a champion of Amazon's stock last month, forecasted that the company's prospects now   held 'little upside' over the coming months. Meeker said that the fourth quarter of this year would determine whether Amazon was a 'survivor' - hardly the description usually attached to a company whose share value was double that of British Airways.The influential internet investment team at Goldman Sachs has also expressed concern that the company will find the crucial months in the run up to Christmas difficult.Even Jeff Bezos, who founded the company and   owns nearly 40 per cent of it, may have gone a little cold. He recently sold nearly 400,000 Amazon shares to buy a $7.5m (&#163;4.7m) apartment.Amazon's financial foundations look precarious. The company has raised more than $2.1bn (&#163;1.3bn) in convertible junk bonds through five separate placings. These   pay little in the way of interest but, because they allow their holders to convert them into shares, they can prove attractive if the company's prospects look good.But Amazon, which last year made losses of $700m, has been running a 'burn rate' of more than $100m a month. Analysts now fear Amazon will run out of money.And, as its share price crashes, Amazon's ability to issue more convertible bonds is undermined, threatening its ability to bankroll its expansion plans.Amazon argues that much of the money it has raised through bond issues has been spent building the business's distribution network and will thus produce returns in the long run. But a recent investigation by the influential  New York Observer newspaper concluded that barely half a billion dollars has been spent on   investing in the company's distribution network.The rest of the cash raised has been spent simply on mopping up the company's cumulative losses - some $1.2bn since Amazon launched. As of March this year Amazon had just $84m in cash, a 30 per cent drop on the amount it had three months earlier. The  New York Observer said the company's finances as 'simply appalling'.Analysts have had their fingers burnt by other recent dotcom disasters on both sides of the Atlantic. They look with horror at online music retailer CDNow.The US and London-based firm which has a similar business model to Amazon, was worth more than $2bn two years ago. The company is worth less than $100m now and needs a buyer.Since its launch in 1994 the company has lost more than $200m (&#163;125m). Last Thursday CDNow's founder, Jason Olin, 31, closed the company's large London office.Similarly eToys, which was worth &#163;8bn two years ago, is now worth just $8bn. Reel.com, the online video retailer, closed down earlier this month with the loss of 200 jobs and Petstore.com had to shut down and sell off its assets to a fellow retailer.The slump is so bad that investment house Barron's has started to compile a death row of e-commerce firms. Joining CDNow on the critical list are nine other high profile US start ups.Among Britain's home-grown start-ups the highly public demise of online sportswear retailer boo reinforces the argument that e-tailing is not a quick route to cash. Formed by two Swedes, Ernst Malmsten and ex-Vogue model Kajsa Leander, boo managed to spend $135m in under a year. After it crashed, the technology used to run boo's site was sold off for just &#163;250,000.This weekend investors must be trying to weigh up whether Amazon - and ultimately all other e-commerce start ups - will go the same way. Certainly Wall Street and the City have turned against them.As the manager of one US broking firm commented when asked if he would invest in the e-commerce sector . 'We have a word for these companies. We call them radioactive.'The internet's best (and worst) sellersBOOKS AND MUSICBoth sell well on the net. Amazon, for instance has 20 million customers. The problem is, margins are low meaning online retailers have to sell huge volumes if they are to stay in business. And as less than 5 per cent of visitors to Amazon's site buy anything this is a major concern.CLOTHINGMounting evidence shows that consumers will always want to touch and try on clothing before buying. Somewhat difficult in cyberspace.TICKETSThe likes of Easyjet now sell nearly half of their tickets over the internet and offer discounts for those who buy online rather than over the phone.PROPERTYWill Smith might have bought his Malibu condo over the net without ever having seen it but this is the exception not the norm. No UK estate agent currently sells homes online, although some are thinking about it.FINANCIAL PRODUCTSThe huge success of online banks like the Prudential's egg suggest that one day taking out pensions and mortgages and buying stocks and shares will all be done online. Certainly the banks are trying to migrate us online with competitive interest rates and promotional offers such as free WAP phones.WINENearly a third of people interviewed in a survey for Virgin Wines said they would buy wine over the net.
YesType a few words into a web search-engine and you can find information on any subject in seconds. What happens next depends what one is thinking about and one's reaction to that information. RIP's proponents say the internet is like a public space, and just as the police don't need a judge's warrant merely to keep any eye on someone in the street, they must be allowed to track any person's movements as they click from website to website.As drafted, RIP gives the police and other government bodies authority to access a person's 'clickstream' - the virtual record of his or her train of thought; no formal investigation need be underway, no warrant is required. Last Monday the Government asked the House of Lords to believe that this was some kind of drafting mistake, but when pressed would not deny that their intention all along was for Big Browser to be Watching You.RIP can require internet service providers to install 'black boxes' which see every scrap of data traversing their networks, all under the control of a monitoring centre in the MI5 building. There is obviously a problem of oversight here, but the director of the National Criminal Intelligence Service (who will operate it) last week knocked down the straw man that they 'would or could monitor all emails'. The issue is that nobody will know for sure what the boxes are doing, and RIP is drafted so that their operation is lawful without even serving warrants on the ISP.The real trouble with RIP is that it won't work - and the reason is encryption. On an open system like the internet, the only way to keep data safe is to scramble it, so if a fraudster or industrial spy hacks into your system, the data is unintelligible without the right password or 'key'. Encryption will be ubiquitous - it's already built into the fabric of the next technical   standard for the internet, and serious e-commerce applications will never be trusted without it.RIP proposes to deal with the problem of criminal use of encryption by giving any public authority power to demand any key or password to any data there is some lawful authority to obtain - whether intercepted under warrant, seized in a search, or held by an innocent party. People forget passwords and lose keys all the time, but if you find yourself in this situation you could go to jail for two years. Serious criminals will obviously plead a bad memory, so NCIS wants the sentence to be as long as whatever crime someone is suspected of.There is also a secrecy condition that can prohibit someone from disclosing that a key has been divulged - on pain of a further five years. But RIP can be evaded by taking elementary countermeasures, and will plainly be impotent against serious criminals.There is an alternative, but the Government refuses to discuss it. Interception is useless if the data is encrypted, but even the strongest code is useless if the key is stolen. All computers have bugs in the software that allow hackers to break in, and developing a battery of such techniques would allow keys to be stolen covertly (under warrant) when required. The police say this is too difficult and unfortunately for us all, it probably is too difficult for the current management.The Government's case reduces to a plea without evidence their assurances that the powers are 'necessary' and 'the innocent will not suffer', and Ministers increasingly resort to caricaturing opponents as libertarian absolutists. But RIP won't work, and the danger is that after the 'black boxes' go in and interception has been stymied by encryption, the police will look to compensate through automated mass surveillance of online behaviour. Instead it is time for law enforcement to develop alternatives to interception, and to stop pretending that sweeping executive discretion is a credible way to regulate internet surveillance.Meanwhile other countries look on in horrified fascination. In any democracy with a written constitution, a law that locked people up for failing to prove they had forgotten something   would not get very far. A leading investment bank, fearful that master-keys could be secretly suborned for economic intelligence gathering, has already moved security operations to Zurich, and Britain can expect to be treated as a pariah once company lawyers savour the possibilities. RIP is both a cock-up and a conspiracy - some intelligence agencies understand the internet well, but Ministers and most senior policy officials don't use the internet, don't understand its technology or economics, and don't think that that matters.Caspar Bowden is director of the Foundation for Information Policy Researchwww.fipr.orgNo:The regulation of Investigatory Powers Bill is attacked by some as a 'snooper's charter'. Such epithets may make for snappy headlines. But they do not reflect the reality.One of the primary drivers behind this Bill is the protection of an individual's privacy. This Government passed the Human Rights Act 1998, which will shortly incorporate the European Convention on Human Rights into UK law. This includes a right to privacy. But this, in any democratic society, is not an absolute right. The ECHR permits interference with an individual's privacy but only where it is in accordance with the law and necessary, for example, to prevent crime. These are precisely the sort of strictures the Bill puts in place. We recognise that some of the powers in the Bill are particularly intrusive. That is precisely why they should, as the Bill proposes, be closely regulated.Criminals have always been quick to seize on new technologies. We are seeing this now. The internet offers huge legitimate benefits. It is rewriting the rules about how we communicate, how businesses operate and how governments function. But alongside these opportunities come powerful opportunities for criminals to abuse new technologies. So there is a delicate balance to be struck. We need to give due weight to all the interests involved - individual privacy, business expedience and law enforcement. We would be justifiably criticised if we did nothing to prevent the new media becoming tools of drug smugglers, paedophiles or people traffickers.Contrary to its critics, the Bill does not usher in an era of mass email interception. There is no intention to routinely monitor communications or fit 'black boxes' to all internet service providers. Some may be required to maintain a capability. Interception now and in the future is reserved for   use only in the most serious cases - a threat to national security, the nation's economic well-being, or in pursuit of serious crime - and every warrant must be authorised personally by the Secretary of State. There are, we know, crucial cost and technical issues here for industry and we are discussing these now with the relevant players. We have no intention of imposing unreasonable burdens on anyone - we have every intention of ensuring we can fight crime in the twenty-first century.There have been suggestions that the Bill would allow unfettered access to communications data (eg, itemised billing records). In fact, the Bill introduces comprehensive statutory controls for the first time, strictly governing access to such information. Access must be properly authorised, for specified purposes, and subject to independent oversight. Some have suggested that as many as 28 different public authorities will be authorised to access communications data. Not so. The Bill lists six authorities and police forces. And, as we announced last week, we are looking again at whether we have got the definition of communications data in the Bill quite right.There is also much hyperbole about the provisions relating to the use of encryption. This technology is vital to the e-commerce revolution, but also a boon to criminals eager to hide their activities. These measures do not give law enforcement agencies any new powers to obtain material - just the ability to understand the contents of material that they can lawfully obtain.Again, we are looking to see whether changes can be made which provide reassurance while maintaining the balance we seek.The RIP Bill has been described as 'Orwellian' and 'Kafka-esque'. Instead of reaching for the clich&eacute;d literary descriptors, some critics may do better to look at what the Bill actually says, and consider the reality. This is an important Bill - and not just for those who know their symmetric from their asymmetric encryption keys. The powers in the Bill, simply put, are essential to help keep the UK a safe place for everyone to live and work.Charles Clarke MP is a Minister of State at the Home Office.
There he  was, at all Hollywood's best tables: a clever billionaire in the prime of his life, wheeling and dealing Seagram into one of the world's most 'fun' companies - a booze, music and movie empire, his stock heading up as gambles started to pay off.But in February Edgar Bronfman Junior faced up to the digitally altered music: a movie studio, cable TV networks and even the biggest music business in the world were no longer enough to compete in the new digital media landscape heralded by America Online's $125 billion takeover of traditional media goliath Time Warner.The Seagram CEO - who has spent the past five years defying those who dismissed him as a dilettante rich kid messing with the family fortune by tripling it - suddenly started casting around for buyers and a deal that would allow the former record producer and songwriter to pursue his musical passion: setting the standards for selling tunes in the digital age.'World's Largest Wireless Footprint', read one of the headlines of Tuesday's news release announcing Bronfman's $34 bn (&#163;22.5 bn) sale of Seagram to Vivendi, the French utilities-turned-entertainment and telecommunications combine. The deal not only creates the world's second-largest media group behind AOL-Time Warner, it also lets Bronfman keep playing the tune for his Universal Music Group - and what he sees as its digital, subscription-driven future. Why else sell the family heirloom to an entity largely unknown in Hollywood and unquoted on Wall Street?The lure of the stock-swap sale hinges on Vizzavi, the European internet portal launched last Monday by Vivendi and Vodafone, itself the world's number one wireless telephone provider. Viz zavi will be 'the default home page for 80 million potential mobile and interactive TV customers', insist the corporate newlyweds, a powerful tool for delivering music and, eventually, video to millions of people using handheld wireless devices.'You'll be able to get connected to your own personal music library,' enthused Bronfman at the Paris news conference. 'I'm a great   believer in the future of wireless opportunities.'So too is Jean-Marie Messier, newly minted chairman of Vivendi Universal, who now possesses money-spinning content to pump down his European digital pipelines - pay TV, the internet and mobile phones all at his disposal. A week before the deal, he could barely contain his enthusiasm for Seagram's assets, labelling music 'the   master missing piece' in his drive for interactive supremacy, and adding that 'music was born for the internet'.But the market was less enthusiastic. Shares in Vivendi lost 8.7 per cent on the Paris bourse; Seagram stock plunged 9 per cent on Wall Street. Messier blamed it all on greedy arbitrageurs, and he had a point, though the digital road ahead will certainly be bumpy.'There are a lot of scepticism out there, sure,' says Porter Bibb, media pundit and managing partner at Manhattan merchant bank Technology Partners. 'Vivendi Universal is very much a work in progress, but the whole industry is in flux. After the billion-dollar party, the arbitrageurs had driving down AOL-Time Warner - despite its obvious fundamentals - they're not about to   miss this opportunity, even though it's a brilliant deal that makes great sense for Vivendi and makes Seagram shareholders a bunch of happy campers.'Bibb says all the big 'ifs' should come clear in a few months. 'It might be pie in the sky, but if Edgar does have the digital answer to music retailing, if he is creating the secure standard by which record labels and their artists   can still make money, not to mention TV and movie studios, it will be worth billions.'The ink barely dry on the Vivendi deal, Universal Music Group starts selling online this Wednesday, offering its first ever pay-for downloads. Codenamed the 'Blue Matter Project', the secure digital-subscription service will test between 20 and 30 artists.'We'll know in the next three to four months if this is the new paradigm for music and video retailing,' says Bibb. 'CDs and videocassettes will soon be a thing of the past - and online subscription offers bigger margins.'Pervading investor cynicism this week revolved around other issues. Wall Street focused on the culture clash and the French company's likely difficulties running a Hollywood studio, given Matsushita's woes with MCA-Universal and Sony's troubles with Columbia.Bronfman and Messier are   pinning their hopes for growth on Vizzavi, but just how fast can its wireless distribution network grow? 'We will be able to distribute wireless music within months,' insists Bronfman. Met with scepticism, he adds: 'I didn't say we'd be able to do it to 80 million people, did I?'Any expansion into Amer ican wireless internet may also be a long time coming: neither Vivendi nor Seagram has a virtual presence in the US, and the merger won't necessarily help them strike deals with American wireless providers, all building portals of their own or wooing the likes of Yahoo! AOL already brings 23 million US subscribers to Time Warner.But Messier sees potential in Vodafone's partnership with Bell Atlantic and GTE in the new Verizon wireless carrier. 'As part of our agreement with Vodafone, we have an agreement to be considered as a premier content provider in the US, as we have in Vizzavi,' he says. But Verizon launches in the next couple of weeks   without any such link-up - just 'compatibility' with Vodafone's European service.And then there's the content issue: 'We're not exactly talking about Looney Tunes or Disney,' says Bibb. 'USA Networks, Universal and its association with DreamWorks is a big deal, but it isn't quite in the same league as Time Warner or Disney.'But Seagram's film business accounts for just 22 per cent of turnover, compared with 40 per cent for music.Late in the week, all eyes were focused on the intentions of Barry Diller, whose USA Networks is 45 per cent owned by Seagram. Made $300m richer by the Vivendi-Seagram deal, Diller is said to be considering whether to buy himself out. Frustrated in the past by Bronfman's refusal to let him pursue an aggressive growth strategy - he foiled his attempts two years ago to buy the NBC television network - Diller will test Messier to see if Vivendi will be more amenable.Relinquishing control of the business his father built cannot have been easy for Bronfman. But if he betrayed any anxiousness on the dais in Paris, it was because he couldn't understand a word his new boss was saying: 'He doesn't speak French,' one hack whispered loudly.VivendiHeadquatersParisChairman and CEOJean-Marie Messier1999 revenue&#163;27.9 billionNet income&#163;933 millionSectorsEnvironmental services (includes Vivendi Water, Dalkia); telecommunications (SFR mobile telephone); internet (Vizzavi, multi-access portal with an 80 million customer base and VivendiNet, internet aggregation); publishing and multimedia (Havas and Havas Interactive) and audiovisual activities (a 49 per cent stake in Canal Plus, Europe's leader in pay television)SeagramHeadquatersMontrealChairman, president and co-CEOEdgar Bronfman Jr.Co-CEOCharles Bronfman1999 revenue&#163;8.2 billion1999 Net income&#163;457 millionSectorsEntertainment (includes Universal Studios, Universal Music Group, Spencer Gifts); spirits and wines (to be sold off in merger). Several popular media brands: Music - A&amp;M Records, Dekka Record Company, Deutsche Grammophon, Geffen Records, MCA Records, Mercury Records, Mowtown Record Company; Artists - Andrea Bocelli, The Cranberries, Elton John, Shania Twain, U2; Recent films: American Pie, The Mummy, Erin Brokovich, The Green Mile, Jurassic Park 3, U-571, Gladiator
As pop music aficionados will tell you, a band is far more than the sum of its members. Big pop group names still tour the clubs and pubs of Britain well after the last original musician has left. Fights between managers and musicians over who really owns a band's identity continue in courtrooms all over the world.And if CEOs were asked which one corporate asset they would take with them when leaving an organisation, chances are that the majority would choose their company's brand. The value of brands such as Virgin, Microsoft and Coca-Cola cannot be over-estimated.In the e-business age, brand value has once again come under the spotlight. Companies that have long led the world in terms of brand strength are struggling to transfer that value to the virtual world. You can be a top ten global player in the traditional business paradigm but you need to work very hard to ensure that you build a cyber-presence that is not diluted in the eyes of customers and shareholders.Yet that's exactly what is happening, according to a study by research group Forrester. It says that favourite brands such as Nike and Levi's are not registering enough traffic to show up on internet audience ratings.But it's not just traditional companies that are struggling. A hefty slice of capital investment funds is devoted to making everybody aware of the latest new dot.com on the block, via public relations and mass media advertising.The challenge is that customers shopping on the internet are driven not by brand loyalty but low prices and excellent customer service. According to Forrester, 73% of satisfied online book purchasers will buy their   next book from another internet vendor. And even when organisations do manage to build a relationship with on-line customers, it can be wrecked in a moment by poor service and missed delivery dates.The rules of marketing and brand management have changed because of e-commerce. The customer is in the driving seat. It won't be too long before customers routinely publish a requirement on the web and invite suppliers to bid for the business.Will brands still be important in this new paradigm? The answer is yes, for two reasons. The psychological response to a brand will always be driven by more than just a low price. Given three options for a mortgage, all at the same price and with the same conditions, how will a customer choose?The second reason is that despite the massive impact of e-commerce, there are more communications channels than the   internet. Customers are unlikely to commit to large purchases like a house or car without a visit or test drive.History has proven that the brands that survive long-term are those which build recognition early. This is why Amazon and Yahoo are investing massive sums today, so they can reap the benefits of brand leadership for years into the future.There are two main challenges associated with communicating a brand globally. The first is that no single company can manage a global sales and distribution network on its own. A company that sells "physical" rather than "digital" products will work with partners who specialise in a niche vertical or geographical marketplace. It is vital that those partners are seen as an extension of the core company, and that sales materials follow corporate standards and "look and feel".Partners focused on niche markets will understandably want to ensure that marketing materials are relevant to their prospective customers. When it comes to brand management, organisations such as car manufacturers and electronics companies need to "think global", but allow their partners to "act local".With new software tools, companies can now build electronic libraries of company materials on a central   website. Partners can access templates using a browser and produce customised versions to be printed locally. This means they have a bespoke range of materials that still conform to agreed standards and designs.Companies taking this approach have identified a number of further benefits. First, they can avoid going through the laborious process of approving designs for leaflets, brochures and advertisements for each country. Instead, they can get broad agreement on options that can be used to meet local requirements.The second benefit is that companies save time and money by simplifying the logistics process. Ordering, printing and delivering documentation is transformed from a time-consuming central function to a quick and simple local routine. Organisations can also support highly targeted, short-run marketing campaigns.But the key benefit is that while customers can deal with a large organisation almost on a personal basis, the organisation itself strengthens its brand and image.While there isn't a sales director in the land who doesn't recognise the commercial potential of the web, the marketing director is still struggling to ensure that the web does not dilute the brand he or she has fought so hard to build.Marrying these two propositions will be the aim of every company that hopes to achieve success in the internet age.Richard Watney is CEO of leading edge technology company ElateralChallenge: Net shoppers are driven not by loyalty but price
Just2Clicks, the business to business trading platform provider, said yesterday that it was considering acquisitions and spin-offs to boost its flagging share price.Chief executive Karl Watkins said it remained interested in acquiring Global Internet Billing, which it almost bought for £350m in April."If they agreed a £200m all-share offer we'd do a deal tomorrow," he said. It is understood that GIB shareholders would look for a higher offer.A separate listing for e-procurement unit Tradezone, bought for £6m in March, was being considered. "When you consider our entire market capitalisation is about £100m, and a US company almost identical to Tradezone was valued at $1.7bn less than a month ago, then there must be better ways of realising the value in it," he said.Just2Clicks operates at the "mucky" end of net commerce including a system for the power, cement, pulp and paper and cargo sectors.In the nine weeks to March 31, Just2Clicks recorded revenues of £340,000 and a £1.94m loss. But, Mr Watkins said, the figures were distorted by exceptional costs of £134,000 and amortisation of £1.65m."Our cash burn is very low. As of the end of May we had £48.5m in the bank so we only spent £1.5m since we raised £50 at the float in February."Mr Watkins admitted disappointment that the share price has more than halved from the post-flotation high of 240p in February. Last night the shares were unchanged at 103p.
In PC hell with KakwormI appear to have picked up Kakworm, or a variant of it, this all despite having PC-cillin virus-scan on my PC and updating it every week. It would seem that the virus is responsible for some of my outgoing emails being mysteriously blocked and/or "firewalled due to presence of Kakworm virus" - whatever that means, and also for weird error messages that keep on appearing at boot phase like "driver memory error", "Windows cannot access   kak.registry" and "Kagou-Anti-Kro$oft says not today!". So, help please! I'm desperate to get rid of this virus and get on with my life, and I have no idea what to do next.David Kidmandave@kidman.fsnet.co.ukJack Schofield:The appropriately named PC Hell website has a good explanation of how to remove the virus atwww.pchell.com/internet/kakworm.shtml. If you scroll down the site, it provides a program to do the job for you.The manual removal involves finding a file called   Autoexec.bat (it's in C:\) and deleting it, then renaming AE.KAK back to Autoexec.bat (the virus renamed it). You must also find and delete the KAK.HTA file in your StartUp directory and any other files with the same extension (use Start|Find|Files or Folders and search for *.HTA).The virus also makes changes to the Windows Registry. Note that the virus, written in JavaScript, works when you view an HTML message in Outlook or Outlook Express, so you need to find and delete the original message to avoid reinfection.More floppies, vicar?I work from home (as a vicar) and I have lots of floppies with different stuff on them. Please, is there any way of printing the list of files that I have on each floppy. Even my children can't do this!Martin Leighm.leigh@btinternet.comJS:The simple answer is to open a Dos session (Start|Programs|MS-DOS Prompt) and switch to the drive you want to catalogue (A:). Then type dir /o /a&gt;sermons.txt and press Enter. This will create an alphabetical list of files and save it as a text file (ie sermons.txt). You can then print it out and/or load it into a spreadsheet to add comments, sort and store it.However, there are dozens of much better ways to catalogue disks, and many of them are free. For example, NoNags offers numerous free alternatives atwww.nonags.com/nonags/disku32.html.  Both MeowCAT 1.2 (330KB) and Disk Catalog 2.0 (350KB) look as though they will do what you need.Alternatively, why not buy a secondhand hard drive? Prices start at about &#163;5.More closure, pleaseMy Windows 98 PC keeps giving me a message during the shutdown process. After using Wordpad, Wordstar and Paint, I often get a box headed "Ebrr" that says "This program has performed an illegal operation and will be shut down".Peter Steadsteadies@talk21.comJS:"Fast shutdown" is enabled by default in Microsoft Windows 98 and perhaps your problem will be cured by disabling it. To do this, go to Start| Programs|Accessories| System tools and select System Information. On the Tools menu, click System Configuration Utility. On the General tab, click Advanced. Then click on the Disable Fast Shutdown box to select it. Finally, click OK twice, and restart your computer as prompted.If you are using Windows 98 Second Edition (you don't say), this has known shut-down problems. There is a trouble-shooting guide and a bug-fix to download on the Microsoft Web site atwww.microsoft.com/windows98/downloads/contents/WURecommended/S_WUFeatured/Win98SE.Yahoo! You've got mailI changed my internet account to NTL and do receive their email in the Inbox of Outlook Express.   I also have an email address with Yahoo, but I cannot see the email on this address in the Inbox. How does one manage to do that? I have read and tried various ways without much luck.Suresh Dhingrasureshdhingra@yahoo.co.ukJS:You can get Yahoo mail in Outlook Express, but first you have to change the settings at Yahoo. Log on to your Yahoo mailbox, click the Options link and choose POP Access &amp; Forwarding (the bottom of the middle column) to set up a POP3 mailbox. Do this and log off.Next run Outlook Express and choose Tools|Accounts. On the resulting tabbed dialogue box choose Add|Mail and go through the Internet Connection Wizard. When you come to the page called Email Server Names, enter the following:Incoming Mail (POP3) Server: pop.mail.yahoo.comOutgoing Mail (SMTP) Server: smtp.mail.yahoo.comYou should now be able to pick up Yahoo mail.You can use the same Wizard to set up a Hotmail account with Outlook Express 5, but you don't need to change Hotmail.Music to your Mini-DiscWhat kind of equipment would I need to download files from Napster to my portable Mini-Disc recorder?Jon Suttonjonsut@bps.org.ukJS:I haven't done this myself but I'm told it's easy ;-)Most MiniDisc recorders have a digital optical input port so ideally you need a PC or Mac with an optical digital output port, such as the MIDIman Delta DiO or a SoundBlaster Live card with an optional Digital Optical daughter card. You'll also need a TOSlink cable to connect the two devices.Set the MiniDisc player to sync record and useSoritongor a similar MP3 player to play your 74 minute playlist. (Alternatively, you should be able to make recordings by connecting the line out on your sound card with a line in port on the MiniDisc recorder, if fitted, though you'll have to set the record level.)Why Soritong? It lets you put gaps between tracks.Xitel, an American company, is about to launch an MD-Port DG1 add-on that connects a PC's USB port to a MiniDisc player or other digital device, seewww.xitel.com/f_DG1.htmwhich may make it even easier.&#183;Send your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity. Jack Schofield regrets he may not be able to answer questions personally
When the next list of net pioneers graces the pages of an influential, glossy magazine, one name might stand out as rather odd, because 73-year-old Desmond Sargent is no pony-tailed dot.com billionaire, nor is he a tech-talking academic.But Mr Sargent can, according to US patent 4,873,662, claim to have invented one of the world wide web's building blocks. His work for the Post Office in 1976 led to a crucial breakthrough by creating "hyperlinks" - the technology that allows web users to move from one page to another by clicking on text or pictures.The patent is now the property of BT, which analysts say will reap hundreds of millions of pounds from Mr Sargent's work."I can't see me making much money out of it - I was an employee of BT at the time," he says. "American law says the chap who writes the patent actually has to have a dollar. So all you get is a dollar."Mr Sargent got his money - and still has the two postal orders he was sent to prove it. But Mr Sargent, who worked for the Post Office and then British Telecom for 42 years, is philosophical about his lack of reward, even in the face of the multi-billion dollar economy his creation may have helped to create and the windfall it could hand his former employers. "At the time I was a bit fed up. I felt the inventions definitely had more value."His advances were strikingly prescient. Mr Sargent's hyperlinks underlie the web, which is regarded as having been invented by academic Tim Berners-Lee. He built the first web server and browser in 1990 while working at European Particle Physics Laboratory in Geneva.Mr Sargent says he recognises many of the functions of the web. "We were limited by the fact we had a telephone keypad to give answers back to the system, and so were limited to 0-9, rather than words used on the net today. It's a bit more polished now."Although Mr Sargent's work was completed in the 1970s, BT was not granted a patent until 1989. But the company's move to capitalise on his research has been in the pipeline for two years."BT got in touch with me some time ago just to sort of tell me they were considering doing it, so it has not come as a complete surprise. I think they were just checking I was still alive," he said.He admits that it feels strange that his technology is creating such a fuss a quarter of a century after its development, and years after Prestel - the British online information service launched in the 1980s - was closed. "It is rather nice that it is being followed up, because I've always been a bit disappointed with Prestel - it never really took off properly."Mr Sargent, who was in charge of the then precious resource of computers used for experimentation, became involved with Prestel after a discussion over lunch with his boss at the Post Office's Martelsham research site. "My boss had written out the sort of thing he wanted to do with this information service, but he couldn't actually get it implemented. Over lunch one day I said 'why don't we call it an experiment and share it among everyone else', and that is how I got involved."It went on from there and we demonstrated it all over the world. Every nation pretty well knew about it &#91;Prestel&#93;. We'd demonstrated it all over the world. The Canadians and the Americans didn't really want to use our system - they wanted to use their own, and so did the French. They used the same system, but with a minor quirk, just so they could call it French."The idea from the research department's point of view was simply to get people to use more telephone time. Here was a method by which we could do it."Mr Sargent sees the irony in the fact, even now, he uses his telephone more for talking than hooking up his PC, although this week's furore may begin to change that. "I don't use the web very much, really, although all this has prompted me to do a bit more and learn what it is all about."
Peter Wilkinson is Yorkshire to the core. He likes watching Leeds United, visiting his weekend place on the moors and values his privacy - so he will not have his picture published.He would rather not face travelling to London and you would probably have to put a gun to his head to persuade him to visit Silicon Valley. But despite all this, the Harrogate based 46-year-old has become one of Britain's most successful internet entrepreneurs.In 1998 he sold Planet Online, the internet service provider he and colleague Philip Taysom founded three years earlier with backing from Yorkshire property tycoon Paul Sykes, to Energis for &#163;75m.He then engineered Dixons' hugely successful Freeserve internet access provider, from which he still receives substantial royalties. Last month he agreed to sell Sports Internet, in which he is a 44% shareholder, to BSkyB for &#163;301m.Now Mr Wilkinson and Mr Taysom are back with another business. They are planning to roll the former's computer company Storm in with their remote data storage business VData and possibly float the combined group.VBak is an online back-up service for large companies in case disaster strikes their systems. Mr Taysom points out that big firms do not adequately back up their data. "Businesses are relying on computer technology and information more and more but when did you last back up your computer?" he asks.More than 300 people work for Mr Wilkinson's various businesses in Harrogate and VData is expanding so fast he has taken over National Power's former central computing site next door to house all its data security units.Nearly all his employees are from Yorkshire and very few leave once they arrive. Many of them worked for Systime with Mr Wilkinson back in the 1970s when it was based in Leeds and was one of Britain's largest computer firms."Up here it's a different mindset to London," says Mr Wilkinson. "We're not all ee, bah gum. Wages aren't that much lower and good technology people may be becoming thin on the ground but the quality of life is much higher. You're minutes from some of the most beautiful countryside in the country. It doesn't take you two hours to crawl home through the traffic."There's a culture of loyalty. You never see people reading the job pages of the technology press in their lunch hour. They don't feel they have to move south to further their careers. If anything we're taking on people moving north. As long as the dust we keep sprinkling continues to turn to gold I'm hopeful our staff will stay with us."Sure there are disadvantages of being up here. If you're running a public company you don't get as much time to schmooze with the analysts and brokers as you would like."Planet started out in Leeds and Mr Wilkinson is confident the city will continue to go from strength to strength. "Leeds is a go-ahead city. It's a well regarded commercial centre and technology companies grow up around centres like that."
Vocalis, a developer of speech recognition technology, has formed a joint venture with BT to produce software for people to talk over the internet and listen to emails.Charles Halle, Vocalis' chief executive, said the development of a software speech recognition product, targeting call centres, could deliver the industry big cost savings and improve staff efficiency.The Vocalis product range includes SpeecHTML that enables companies to offer a phone number which people can call to find information on a website where they can access email messages and reply and delete using voice commands.SpeechMail is being used by more than 70 internet service providers in the UK, including BT Internet. Vocalis has primarily marketed this product to the consumer market and is now about to target business customers.However, Vocalis's investment in what is next generation software, and its attempts to build a market leading position, have taken a severe toll on the company's earnings.The group yesterday reported that its pre-tax loss for the year had grown from &#163;1.1m to &#163;4.5m as Vocalis more than doubled its research and development budget to &#163;2.2m in the year.Mr Halle added that further investment in staff, systems and infrastructure had also led to the deterioration in earnings. "Following the steps we have taken, we are now well positioned to capitalise on the expected rapid expansion of these markets to create volume businesses," he said.Even so, the company said it had not received as many equipment orders for its SPEECHtel product in the year, resulting in sales falling 44% to &#163;2.7m.Shares in Vocalis shed 30p to 240p.
Five years ago, Jerry Yang, a Stanford University student six months away from finishing his PhD, lounged around in an open-necked shirt, swigging Coke straight from the can while enthusing about his website.Today he still wears "California casual" clothes, swigs Coke straight from the can, and enthuses about his website, the invisible difference being that he's now a multibillionaire. Because what started as Jerry's Guide to the World-Wide Web - actually a pooling of links between Jerry and his friend David Filo - is calledYahoo!, and it's the most popular site on the net, with 145m users.Obviously some things have changed. Yahoo! has become a profitable multi-national corporation with subsidiaries in more than 20 countries and more than 2,000 staff. But the atmos phere in the UK offices, at least, can't be that far from the university trailer where the operation started. For example, there are gold stars stuck on the meeting room wall, and there's a bar-football table only a couple of feet from where we're talking.Yahoo!'s success has also made the softly-spoken Yang an icon for a net generation that believes that, with a bit of luck, anybody can make it. He was born in Taiwan in 1968, after his parents fled China, and his father died when he was two. His mother moved the family to San Jose when he was 10, and he had to learn the language from scratch. But he worked his way to the top of his high-school class and won a place at Stanford, one of the world's leading universities, and the heart of the Silicon Valley revolution.Unlike Bill Gates or Steve Jobs or even Jeff Bezos, who started Amazon, Yang didn't set out to become rich. Even   after they'd started their web directory, Yang and Filo were still trying to think of a way to make money on the internet, rather than look for jobs in their field, computer-aided design. Yahoo! took off because it provided what users wanted, and the two young men were swept along in an adoring rush. Yang had started with nothing, and knew he could end up with nothing, but it promised to be an exhilarating ride.However, turning Yahoo! from a hobby into a company with venture capital backing, which Yang and Filo did in 1995, didn't mean they wanted to run it. They hired a professional chief executive, TK (Tim Koogle, interviewed in Online, September 30, 1999.) and a chief operating officer, Jeff Mallett. Yang became Chief Yahoo!, a mixture of business strategist, media spokesman and figurehead, while Filo, who sometimes styles himself   Cheap Yahoo!, continued to work on the technical side.Since he's not motivated by money, Yang wasn't fazed by the collapse in dot.com share prices. "We pay surprisingly little attention to the ups and downs of the stock market," he says, "and I honestly think    what's happened in the past six months has been extremely healthy, because it's separated the better companies from the bad companies, which don't deserve to be valued at high premiums. The separation of good and bad is always good for the leaders, and I   think we're in that pack. It's made it easier for us to hire people, and from a partnering standpoint, people say: 'Do I want to partner with a dot.com I've never heard of or do I want to partner with Yahoo!, who'll still be around to yell at in two years time?' "In the past five years, Yahoo! has hugely expanded its range of offerings, either by buying companies -GeoCitiesfor its free home pages,Broadcast.comfor streaming media - or by partnering with them, as withReuters, for its news feed.   Yang points out that the directory and content services are now only one leg of the company's tripod, the others being communications (email, chatrooms, instant messaging etc) and e-commerce (shopping, classifieds, auctions etc). But the Yahoo! interface has stayed much the same: plain and fast.Reminding him of the Boo disaster, I ask if the secret is to stay behind the cutting edge."We say we don't like to be at the bleeding edge, because we don't like to bleed," he grins, swinging round in his chair. "But we like to be at the leading edge, introducing services using technologies that can be exposed to millions of our users, rather than a smaller subset."The internet is a very rough environment, as you know, so unless something's pretty battle-tested, we tend not to put it out there. I think we're solving a different technology problem. In our world, just because something can be done, it doesn't mean it can be done for 10 million people. That's our principle."You don't want to be Boo! Whatever you end up promoting, you'd better make sure that it works and that it's simple to use. You only get one chance on the internet. If the first day doesn't go well, you're not going to get a second one."However, Yahoo! is starting to offer streaming video feeds where it sees a market,    and a service calledFinanceVisionis the first example. Yang says it's aimed at the 60 million Americans who access Yahoo! from workplaces where they have fast internet connections."We're combining Yahoo Finance and Broadcast.com," he says, "and during the time the US markets are open, we have our own anchors doing a live web-based show. It's quite interesting because you have a live video stream from our Dallas operation plus a data stream of market information. It's not bad for our first try, I think. And already it's viewed around the world. The other nice thing is that we archive it, so you get video-on-demand. This is the first internet-delivered broadcast, which should get people like CNN and CNBC pretty interested."Yang calls the idea x-vision, because there may be more services to come. "You can imagine FinanceVision, NewsVision, SportsVision..." he says. "Just go round the verticals."But the move to high-bandwidth multimedia services is only one of the trends Yang is tracking. The other is the move to mobile internet access, where Yahoo! was one of the first to market. The problem is either the lack of standards or the fact that there are too many of them,   including Wap (wireless application protocol) and NTT DoCoMo's i-mode phones."We have this vision of being device agnostic and platform and bandwidth agnostic - so we can deliver our content over any distribution platform to any device," he says. "We're neutral: we don't care which standards you use, we don't care what the phone looks like, or whether it's GSM or CDMA or UMTS or whatever. Because of the Japanese market we have to develop something for i-mode, and if you believe that we at Yahoo! have to be in the wireless information provider business, then i-mode is by far the biggest competition for us in Japan, either on or off the web."But our strategy is to have one code base for email, and we can display that on PC screens, on set-top boxes, on Wap phones or on i-mode, so the interface layer is relatively quickly written. I'm not saying it's trivial - it's still tough - but it's relatively less effort than writing a whole new mail system for each platform."Our time is up but there's just time for a demo of FinanceVision on Yang's notebook PC, and the man who is impervious to stock prices spots the red number next to Yahoo! straight away.Oh, we're down," he says. "But that's all right:everybody's down."
Festival timeThe Glastonbury Festival starts tomorrow. While there is no handy Wap-enabled site to guide you through its many delights, some of the chaos can be avoided by visiting the web (see Six of the best, below). Glastonbury's mix of mud-drenched nakedness and the Hare Krishna chorus is not everybody's cup of camomile, so festival portalsVirtual-festival.comandBigfestival.comcan suggest alternative destinations.Other festival sites of note include: Reading and Leeds Festivals atwww.readingfestival.com, Glasgow's T in the Park atwww.tinthepark.com; the Enchanted Garden atwww.bigchill.co.uk, and Creamfields atwww.cream.co.uk.There is a scratch service for free festivals atwww.woodpecker.demon.co.ukwith links to most of the bigger events, and a quick word withCyberfaeryshould point you in the right direction.Prize fighterThe Turner Prize shortlistincludes Tomoko Takahashi. She is a Japanese artist who courts notoriety with installations made up of the leftover junk of a marketing company - then got more notoriety than she perhaps wanted this week when she broke a promise to give poor children the sports gear from an outdoor installation in Hackney, north London. (Once shortlisted, for the Turner prize Takahashi decided to keep the work.) Her recent online work, Word Perhect, can be viewed at the website of theChisenhale Galleryin London, which also suggests that the best place for online artwork might be an online gallery.E-libraryThe attempt to revive the ancient Library of Alexandria on the site of one of the seven wonders of the world is now online atwww.unesco.org/ webworld/alexandria_new. The Bibliotheca Alexandrina opens next spring, and the new site has some neat virtual displays of the new building. While bookstores are thriving on the net, no great online library exists. The latest addition,www.Illustratedlibrary.comis well-designed and loads quickly, yet I couldn't find more than one author that I had heard of. It does allow you to browse the texts, but at the moment it is little more than a coffee-table serving bookshop. The much betterwww.ebrary.comcharges for admission but does offer a 30-day trial.Those interested in contributing to another noble project should visitNupedia, an "open content" web-based encyclopaedia. It is currently looking for volunteers.Spread the wordTech_Nicks, a summer-long project promoting digital culture in the UK, kicked off at the Lux in London last week, and will move on to Sheffield, Hull and Dorset later this summer. The project includes workshops, talks and exhibitions, as well as bringing a number of notable net artists such asJODI,Vuk Cosic; andRTMarkto Britain. The details can be found atwww.noaltgirls.org/tech_nicks.Lars ordersPity poor Lars Ullrich. Not only is his band, Metallica, being castigated as the Spinal Tap of the digital age, new file-sharing programs are cropping up quicker than he can say "sue the bastards". Have a look atwww.Spinfrenzy.com, which joins wannabe NapstersScour.comandGnutella.Still, reconciliation might be in the air, with Napster cutting deals with independent labels and sites such asOrangealley.comproposing to pay bands when fans download one of their songs. Fans seeking a quicker settlement with their former hero should visitwww.paylars.com, which is asking fans to hand over what they owe to the writ-serving drummer; the total has been stuck on $511 dollars for over a week now. See alsowww.suelars.cometc.MTV2The new website for MTV's new digital channel is really a navigation tool that allows you to become a VJ and programme your favourite tunes for an hour of broadcast. Without access to    the station,www.MTV2.co.ukis still an example of sleek web design, and its Flashtastic eye-candy seems functional, too. But make sure you avoid the cybersquatter occupyingMTV2.com.Virtually backAfter 25 years, New York's Alternative Museum has to shut its doors, only for an online version to pop up in its place. You can visit it atwww.alternativemuseum.org.New and notedFunkytv.comis a new interactive television portal on the web, whileEasier.co.ukis a new property service for the south east; Style biblesDazed &amp; ConfusedandSleaze Nationare now online.Icons.comis a football site that creates official home pages of the stars.Handbag.comis going live at Wimbledon with Annabel Croft, andVirginwines.comhas popped up just in time to order the Champagne.QM4.comis delivering quotes for services from gardening to insurance, and expertgardner.com is a design tool for... gardens.Six of the bestGlastonbury sitesGlastonbury official sitewww.glastonburyfestivals.co.ukWebcastswww.playlouder.comSurvival kitwww.glasto2000.co.ukWhat the locals thinkwww.glastonbury.internetradio.co.ukCamping gearwww.outdoor2go.co.ukNeed a ride?www.liftshare.com
Josephine Monroe and Geraldine Billam, founders ofthe-bullet.com, are sitting dejectedly in their half-deserted, twin-roomed office in London's East End. It is the middle of the afternoon, and although they moved into the premises only four months ago, the phones are weirdly silent.Three abandoned iMacs sit at empty desks in the room next door. Last Tuesday, the bullet suspended day-to-day maintenance of its three media websites to pursue   what they call "new business opportunities". Three recently recruited staff were, very reluctantly, made redundant.Only six months ago, Monroe and Billam were mentioned in Online as one of the bright prospects in dot.coms. They were riding high on the back of a valuation that priced their small internet company at &#163;2m. It might sound a lot, but the pair had quickly cottoned on to what was then a virgin market of a daily news site catering for the TV industry. Pitching themselves as a "guerrilla   force in UK media", they quickly developed an audience of key media executives that made them extremely lucrative to online advertisers.But the last six months have proved a very, very long time for the e-conomy. They are learning the hard lesson that fortunes can fall just as quickly as they rise. Monroe says: "It really wasn't nice and it wasn't clever and I am ashamed of the fact that I have given people jobs and literally within months, I've had to take them away."A month ago it was looking so good. The-bullet had just celebrated the launch of its third website. They had also hosted a handful of networking parties and ad revenue had increased significantly.The pair insist that this is not anotherBoo.com; they haven't run out of money and are not about to file for   bankcruptcy. Rather, they decided to take some very tough decisions about how to make a profit in the future. They say enough remains in the bank to operate until the end of the year and there are no immediate plans to vacate the offices in Old Street.Since February, they had attracted an undisclosed amount of seed capital from a private investor, Tom Singh, of First Choice clothing group. This allowed The-bullet to expand and, for the first time, begin paying themselves a wage. They recruited quickly, poaching staff from Media Week and UK Press Gazette.Monroe says: "Seed financing lets you get used to spending pretty large sums - ie five salaries, office costs, phone bills and other people's expenses. But it also forces you to be cautious. Now we've learnt how to spend money I don't think we'd be overawed by paying 20, or 50 salaries because we understand what you get for your money."Whereas if we'd been given &#163;1m straight off I think   it would have all been too much like playing Monopoly."They are tight-lipped about their plans, although they stress that the website will only be one of many revenue streams.What advice would they give to other dot.coms? Billam says: "The main thing is don't expect too much from other people and expect everything to take twice as long as you planned. Keep a close eye on what everyone is doing, and if you do trustpeople to do things for you, make sure you have got goals, and assess their progress. Also don't be afraid to question the experts.""Yes," says Monroe, "because if we'd been clued up about business and finance at the launch, I think we'd be in a very strong position by now. But the upside is that it gave us a long time to get to know our product and our market - and I think that counted for a lot of our success. We lost a lot of 'first mover advantage' because we couldn't move quickly enough. It was also very, very hard being that skint for that long."So The-bullet will definitely be having another shot at it. Next time a little   tougher and a lot wiser. The websites are still live, and they will be adding new content.The statement on their website simply reads more like a declaration that an epitaph: "We have not been shot dead, run out of ammo or bitten the bullet, but thanks for the headlines anyway."But a message on aChinwag talkboardread: "I really must say that The-bullet was second string in many ways (sorry guys) so again, it is far from a 'death knell for the industry'. Rather, it is a warning to all those who would try and profit from a poorly realised and/or shabbily executed concept."While, Kris Jones, head of public affairs at Pact, a leading trade association for UK independent television, film and new media companies said: "It didn't always have a good enough grasp of the issues and I didn't find it a useful service. I guess its problem is that it is competing against sites that have much greater resources, and although it is a bold venture, I think it launched in a very difficult marketplace."
The first year of Britain's internet start-up explosion has seen a frenzy of activity with dot.com companies springing up all over the place. Parts of the country suddenly seem ablaze with entrepreneurial activity on a scale we haven't seen before.Yet the surprising thing is not what has happened but what has not happened. And the biggest thing that hasn't happened is what British people are supposed to be good at. Innovation.For years we have consoled ourselves that we are the world's greatest inventors, even if most of those   inventions are subsequently exploited abroad due to a lack of money or dearth of entrepreneurial talent.Neither of those excuses hold any more. Money is more freely available than it has been for decades even after the "correction" of recent months. What is lacking is innovative ideas.Virtually all of the dot.com start-ups in Britain have been copy-cat sites based on American models. Whether it is online retailing, banking, incubating, gaming, auctions or "aggregating" news from around the world in order to re-package it to your requirements, it's the same story.   Anything you can do we can do European versions of.This doesn't mean they aren't good or that they won't succeed. TheBBC'swebsite is, arguably, the best of its kind in the world.QXL, the online auction house, is providing competition for its US role model,eBay.Tesco, unlike US counterparts, claims to be making money out of home delivery of food sold online. But, like almost every other start-up, they are either selling traditional goods from a website instead of a shop or they are recycling US ideas. Or, more likely, both. No wonder Red Herring, the US internet entrepreneurial   magazine, commented recently on the sense of gloom and lack of inspiration among UK start-ups.When pressed to name the most innovative British web site of the year I usually fall back on another British talent - and change the subject pretty quickly. There are of course some strong candidates.Lastminute.com, despite the reaction to the way it was oversold, remains one of the few novel ways of selling old economy goods over the internet that wasn't invented in the US.If I was forced to name the cutest internet idea of the past year, it would have to beFlutter.com(reviewed in Online, April 6). It is novel in that it is doing something that wasn't possible in pre-web   days: any one in any country who wants to bet with anyone else anywhere in the world on anything (like the result of a cricket or baseball game) can do so on this site. The cute bit is the business model that underpins it.Both sides vest their money in an escrow account with Flutter until the event, thereby giving the company a potential cashflow that most other online retailers (relying on tiny commissions from discounted goods with small profit margins) can only dream about. Flutter is based in Clerkenwell, London. There's only one catch. It was set up by ex-pat Americans escaping from the tough betting laws in the US so it's not really British at all.UK venture capitalists   claim that ideas are less important than good management and that these days they always look at the skills and management experience of the people behind the business plan rather than the idea itself.But that's just because they aren't getting original ideas. If the business idea is derivative then strong management will be the only thing that can make it stand out in the crowd. But if the idea is a killer then   brilliant management, while always important, is less vital. Perhaps what Britain needs is less networking among entrepreneurs and venture capitalists and more barnstorming think-tanks to develop innovative products.Will it be any different with products arising from Wap (wireless application protocol) phones? Unlike the internet, Europe claims first mover advantage with the wireless revolution (even though the software behind the Wap standards is American).The trouble is that first mover advantage is not necessarily what it is all about. The Americans didn't dominate the internet just because they were first movers but because they went about it in a ruth lessly determined American way. They have missed out on wireless usage so far but they genuinely believe that when it comes to the "third generation" of broadband video phones they will have second mover advantage through having learned from their mistakes.Meanwhile, applications for Wap have been distinctly underwhelming. There have been hardly any innovative applications and the way the phones access the wireless internet is unreliable and very slow. And when you get there the information on tap is all too often mundane (like advertising future services) or available anyway on ordinary mobile phones.Sure, it is quite convenient for some people to get an up-  to-date share price or breaking news, or live football statistics or even your bank balance, but it's hardly a reason to rush out and buy a more expensive phone.Whenever I use a Wap phone, all I see is the huge potential for the future when we will have continuous broadband internet access with two-way video. When that happens, let's hope that thousands of young British programmers with innovative skills will creep out from wherever it is they are hiding.
Nogo GeoJapanese games company SNK has stopped distributing its Neo Geo handheld console in Europe and the USA, where Nintendo's 100 million-selling Game Boy has a monopoly   market share. The Neo Geo wasn't a bad machine and had a brighter colour screen. However, it didn't have strong enough games support - and, of course, it didn't have any Pok&eacute;mon games. The rationalisation follows SNK's takeover by Aruze (pronounced Aruzay), which makes Pachinko pinball machines, earlier this year.Pok&eacute;mon PCNintendo doesn't produce software for personal computers, but that doesn't mean PC owners are guaranteed a Pikachu-free life. Next month Mattel Interactive, the toy   company, is due to launch Project Studio in two versions, Pok&eacute;mon Red and Blue. Each has 81 of the 151 assorted critters, but these aren't Game Boy-style games. They are far more creative. They enable users to produce a wide range of Pok&eacute;mon goodies such as greetings cards, banners, calendars, stationery, masks, badges and even paper aeroplanes . . . though you can't print your own rare trading cards. Project Studio is expected to ship on July 7 at &#163;19.99.The next Pok&eacute;mon titles from Nintendo will be the Tetris-like Pok&eacute;mon Attack for the Game Boy (August),   Pok&eacute;mon Snap for the Nintendo 64 (September), and Pok&eacute;mon Pinball for the Game Boy (October).Rare datedNintendo 64 owners can finally make a date with the lovely Joanna Dark. Rare's long-delayed 18-rated Perfect Dark, modestly billed as "the best video game ever - yes ever", is now due to appear in the UK on June 30.The cartridge will cost &#163;49.99, with the expansion pack adding   another &#163;19.99, unless you got one with Donkey Kong.Perfect Dark sold 250,000 copies in its first week on sale in the US. PC owners also have something to look forward to, because Hasbro Interactive expects Geoff Crammond's Grand Prix 3 to be released on July 28. New features include wet weather effects,   collision damage, and support for "force feedback" steering wheels. Codemasters is also motoring on the follow-up to its hugely successful TOCA driving games for the Sony PlayStation.The company hopes to launch the third game in the series, TOCA World Touring Cars, on August 25.
Fins ain't what they used to beEcco the Dolphin: Defender of the FutureSega Dreamcast 	&#163;39.99  Appaloosa/SegaAccording to Douglas Adams, the dolphins sensibly abandoned Earth just before it was due to be demolished, pausing only to thank us for all the fish.But in this game's introduction, splendidly narrated by Tom Baker, dolphins and humans are fighting together against a race of belligerent aliens called the Foe, and it's up to a young dolphin called Ecco to save the world.This really is a beautiful-looking game. Ecco himself splashes, swims, turns and rolls in gorgeously smooth animations, and his watery 3D environments range from crystalline coral bays to Egyptian-techno-themed   subaquatic buildings in Atlantis and breathtaking, shimmering tunnels of water looping in mid-air above a lush green atoll. There is even a 2D level, providing a nostalgic throwback to Ecco's heyday on Sega's MegaDrive.The first half an hour with the game is spent pleasurably learning Ecco's simple controls, and happily speeding around and somersaulting out of the sea. But the game quickly becomes very difficult, and its deliberate trickiness is   exacerbated by two serious design flaws.First, while it is "realistic" to use a short draw distance underwater, so that you cannot see very far into the murky depths, this means that every new level requires lots of aimless swimming around until you have learned its topography by heart (there is no map). Second, the 3D camera fails to give you enough information to avoid the sharks that swim up behind Ecco, causing him to   emit an extremely annoying yelp every time.What is more, the puzzles are abstruse, there are too many Tomb Raider-style sections requiring you to drown for lack of air several times before finding the correct way through, and some serious glitches mean Ecco gets stuck in seabed polygons. Visually delicious though Ecco the Dolphin is, as a game, it just won't float.  (SP)Fun with giant killer robotsMetal FatigueZono/Psygnosis/ Take 2 Interactive&#163;34.99 PC CD-romIt would not be entirely fair to call Metal Fatigue a slavish copy of Command &amp; Conquer. No, Metal Fatigue is more like the result of a man wearing earmuffs overhearing a drunken conversation about Command &amp; Conquer in a particularly noisy pub.The similarities are there for all to see. It's a real-time strategy game with an isometric view which involves base building, resource management, and churning out increasingly powerful military units. There's fog of war, waypoint movement, patrolling, CGI and cinematic cut sequences... even the hotkeys for grouping units and bookmarking camera views are virtually identical.The differences become   more apparent the longer you play. First, instead of two warring factions, there are three; and instead of managing the action in one field of play, you have to keep track of three battle zones simultaneously (surface, upper atmosphere, underground). The view is rather more flexible, too; you can rotate, change the angle of inclination, and to a limited extent zoom in and out.Metal Fatigue's trump card, though, is its armoury. While the basic units are the same -tanks, gun turrets,   fighters, bombers, slow but devastating artillery - the key forces here are giant killer robots with customisable body parts (Combots). Thus, you can equip your tin Titans with missile legs and jetpack torso, or go for the howitzer torso and the blade fist arm.Watching these behemoths stomp around the landscape is really quite a gas. Forget C&amp;C's mammoth tank - a couple of Combots can take out an entire base by themselves (assuming the enemy doesn't have any, that is). And   they look pretty nifty doing it, too.The Combots have only one drawback: they can't go underground. So while you're rampaging over the surface level and making it your own, Mr Computer is busy fortifying himself down below, where only puny tanks can go. Add to this the fact that the enemy AI can set up a new base at the drop of a hat, and seems able to churn out tanks faster than Carol Vorderman can count, and the total victory that is necessary to complete most missions suddenly looks a long way off.One of the complaints about the earlier Command &amp; Conquer games was that too many of the missions ended up being a mindless slog. That's as may be, but I bet no C&amp;C player had to destroy more than 1,000 enemy troops to complete a single mission early in the game.Even if the snort of gunfire and the crunch of exploding hardware are music to your ears, they'll sound like Barry Manilow by the time you're done with this.  (AB)The genteel side of gamingOpen Tennis 2000Cryo Interactive  &#163; 34.99  PC CD-romIn among all the Euro 2000 coverage you could be forgiven for forgetting that Wimbledon is almost upon us.This annual two-week flirtation with tennis is undoubtedly the optimum time to release a racket sim and Open Tennis 2000 is the first on court. The French developer Cryo is better known for point 'n' click adventures but Open Tennis 2000 is a surprisingly playable sports title.This is mainly down to the intuitive control method that allows you to whip the ball around while the PC takes care of most of your player movement. The emphasis on placing shots means the game is incredibly easy to pick up though longevity doubts   persist with even the hardest skill levels conquered quite quickly. You do get more characters when you win but it looks like multiplayer is the main reason you'll be playing after Wimbledon fortnight.Unfortunately you won't be able to recreate any games from the tournament as Agassi and co are absent. However, you get 64 fictional characters to choose from, each with their own strengths and weaknesses, with the British players typically inconsistent. They also look the part with crisp animation that shows the players stroking the ball and racing to the net in a very convincing manner.The use of French umpires for all the games, including Wimbledon and the US Open, does partially spoil the otherwise authentic atmosphere, but on the whole the game captures the genteel mood perfectly.Bar Henman triumphing at Wimbledon, Open Tennis 2000 is set to be the biggest surprise of the tournament.  (GH)
Ian Cullimore, founder and chief executive of Informal, thinks a palmtop organiser provides a much better way of interacting with a personal computer than a mouse.For centuries, people have communicated their ideas by doodling on bits of paper, he says. Now Informal's software, Enotate, lets people to do the same thing with a PC by doodling with a stylus on the screen of a Palm or Windows CE machine. The marks made on the Palm's screen appear instantaneously as an overlay on whatever's on the PC's screen.Until now, if you wanted to comment on and annotate, say, an image or a Microsoft Word document, it was easiest to print it out and do it with a pen. With Enotate, you can do the same things on screen, save the document in ldf (layered file) format and email it to someone else.But wait, couldn't people make annotations with a   graphics tablet and stylus attached to a computer? Cullimore agrees, but with a graphics tablet you're looking at the big screen, not the same image on a palmtop organiser. "It's so much more natural to look down and annotate what you can see," he says. "And it's mobile!"So is Cullimore, an Englishman who has spent almost 20 years working with pocket computers. He started at Psion, founded DIP (which designed the successful Atari Portfolio pocket computer in the 1980s), and went to the US to launch a rival, Poqet, which failed. He foundedInformalin Santa Clara, California, in   1998, but "the bulk of the work was done in Herefordshire, dangerously close to Wales," he jokes."With my experience of DIP and Poqet, I was convinced I'd never raise the money over here," he says. "I was completely wrong."Hanson Internet Partners, a new $25m investment fund set up in London and Los Angeles, has just put up &#163;2m to fund Enotate's global expansion. HIP's 39-year-old chairman Robert Hanson, who left Hanson PLC to start Hanson Capital, describes it as "our first European investment," adding: "we particularly want to invest in things that are not just here or just based in the States."Palmtop computers and electronic organisers certainly have international appeal, and most Palms, PocketPCs and CE machines are regularly connected to desktop PCs to synchronise address books, appointments, to-do lists and so on.   Because Enotate allows the mouse to be emulated using the handheld's stylus and buttons, palmtops could certainly become the "fourth peripheral", as Cullimore says, after screens, keyboards and mice. But you'd get very long odds on that happening.Either way, Enotate should still prove popular with people who make presentations, including teachers and sales staff.In the days of foils and overhead projectors, many presenters annotated their slides while talking, to emphasise their points. Microsoft PowerPoint and similar programs took that facility away: Enotate has brought it back.Informal still has work to do because its initial $49.99 product works only with Palm handhelds and PC serial ports, and a limited range of software. It doesn't yet work with the Handspring (which uses a USB connection) or Windows CE machines, but it will.
Guardian Online has 500 pairs of tickets - worth up to &#163;23 - to give away for the UK's hottest showcase for science, technology and innovation -BBC Tomorrow's World Live event. The exhibition, held in association with the Department for Education and Employment (DfEE), takes place at Earls Court 2 between June 28-July 2 where a show within a show called Planet Internet With Yell.com will be unveiled.Conceived as an interactive   theme park, this is the first major national event to provide consumers with the opportunity to meet internet brands, learn internet facts and witness the web's full potential in one experience.For example, visitors can see how an intelligent house can change their lives with Dreamcast games against friends in Japan, fridges ordering weekly groceries and temperature controls on the bath. Its digital TV and webcams enable the home environment to be controlled   from afar, linking with a mobile phone or PDA to monitor the house. Cisco has brought all these technologies together in an interactive show for visitors to see for themselves.Giveaways and prizes to   be won at Planet Internet include a VW Beetle from Yell.com and a Ford KA3 from Totalise.net.Other main features at the Tomorrow's World Live event include: Making Music, created by Roland UK with live sets from top bands; James Bond - 007's secret   gadgets revealed, including the new BMW Z8; Gadget Shop - all the latest must-have gizmos; Directions - The UK's largest recruitment fair; and Inventor's Fair - a hotbed of 150 budding Dysons.&#149;  To request a pair of free tickets, readers should call the ticket hotline on 0870 739 9333, quoting the reference TG101. The offer is open to the first 500 callers and subject to capacity restrictions.
The other week I went to London to visit Tate Modern. Two days later my head was reeling with the innovative juxtaposition of art, such as Brontosaurus (naked man filmed by a woman dancing to house, redubbed with Adagio For Strings) next to Bust of a Woman (naked woman painted by well-known male artist). The scale of some pieces, such as Louise Bourgeois's steel spider, and her towers of doing and undoing, is overwhelming, as is the sheer volume of art. By the end of day two I still hadn't seen everything in the art gallery much less chilled out in the chill corners.As I don't get to London all that often, I wondered if it would be possible to view the rest of the Tate's collection from my PC, drinking suitably strong expressos in lieu of the ones they weren't selling in the Tate.The Tate's websiteis nicely laid out and gives you a guide to what is on in each gallery and one image of one work of art in that section.There is a search facility for all the Tates combined: there are 48 Picassos for instance, 19 of which have digital images; 12 of them (including Bust Of A Woman) are on display. But it's not quite the same as walking round the gallery and seeing what else is in the Naked/Nude gallery.Like the Tate, theUffiziin Florence    is a bit of a list as to what is on and where. Also you have to squint at the few pictures they do show as they are tiny.Rather more forthcoming was theMuseo del Pradowhich does allow you to browse a number of its works of art online. The quality of the images is also excellent: one in particular struck me, a painting by Joaqu&iacute;n Sorolla Y Bastida called Children At The Beach. It was from the school of Luminism and the children glowed with late afternoon Mediterranean light as if lit from within.The Metropolitan Museum of Artallows you to search for paintings by artist. When I looked for Pierre Bonnard, The Terrace at Vernonnet came up. In the centre of a small group of people a woman stands at a table clutching a peach in silent contemplation, the scene painted in surreal lilacs, mauves and burnt orange.The Americans seem to do this kind of thing better than us: theNational Gallery of Art in Washington DChas virtual tours of artists' lives and works as well as an extensive on-line search facility. I peered voyeuristically into the smoky drunkenness of the life of Jackson Pollock,   described as a "bearded shock trooper of art".The best site for viewing art from modern to ancient, from sculpture to photography, is theArt Encyclopediawhich has works by more than 7,000 artists; the image size itself can be manipulated to fit your screen.A good combination of pictures and words is in theWebMuseum, which says of Paul Klee that, "his work is impossible to clarify, except to say that it is hardly ever wholly abstract, but equally never truly realistic". The Golden Fish "is a magical fish with runic signs upon his body, scarlet fins, and a great pink flower of an eye". The fish drifts through crayon scribbles of seaweed, glowing like topaz in the midst of my now dark, blue underwater screen.The most comprehensive website devoted to a single artist must be David Brook's homage toVan Gogh. Brook's interest stemmed from reading Dune by Frank Herbert. In the sci-fi epic, Van Gogh's painting, Thatched Cottages At Coredeville, is the only object to have survived from earth. "Those marvellous colours!" exclaims one of the characters, Odrade, looking at a holograph of the painting. I could do little but   echo him as I looked at the madman of Old Terra's Four Cut Sunflowers, which is stunningly beautiful: thick swathes of blue and russet paint. "My pictures are after all almost a cry of anguish, although in the rustic sunflower they may symbolise gratitude," wrote Van Gogh in 1890.Less mad and a whole lot wealthier in his lifetime, Claude Monet has a website devoted to his works which, until you nail them on the page, have a habit of twinkling between various lilies and Japanese bridgeshttp://giverny.org/monet.Not Suitable For Vegetariansis Nathan Edward's site dedicated to Damien Hirst. At  you can examine photographs of sliced cows in "some comfort gained in the acceptance of the inherent lies in everything". And for those artists whose work has not been Saatchied, there isArt on the Net, created by artists so that you can stroll round their virtual studios, read their biogs and perhaps even purchase a painting.For the fortunate few, nothing can beat having a work of art in the living room, or being able to see a painting hung beautifully in a dedicated space. But for those who have neither time, nor the money to visit the world's art galleries, there is plenty on the net to feed the soul.As Van Gogh said: "How rich art is; if one can only remember what one has seen, one is never without food for thought or truly lonely."
Delivery. this is Absolutely the bugbear of e-commerce, if the horror stories told by would-be customers are anything to go by. Six months after the UK's first e-Christmas, many retailers are still struggling to cope with the surge in online shopping that it brought and the promises of fast and convenient delivery.Relying on traditional delivery firms and their 20th century approach to an essentially 21st century phenomenon, retailers and customers, are regularly disappointed, as goods still take unacceptable lengths of time to be delivered - if at all.Retailers are not as clued up on the art of customer service as they could be, as they often fail to give punters the feedback they need about their transactions. But now that gap of expectation is about to be filled by a combination of "old" and "new" economy players, competing and co-operating to, literally, bring home the goods.Express Dairies with its network of 2,500 milk floats and 250 depots has just invested &#163;3m inM-box, a UK start-up.Express, whose milkmen pass 10m homes six mornings a week, will increase morning delivery slots and introduce evening deliveries on behalf of retailers,to fulfil the promise of delivery at the customer's convenience.Domino's Pizza, with 205 stores across the UK and Ireland, is in on the act, following a successful trial delivering Pok&eacute;mon games to homes for online games retailerGameplay, that ended last week. Now, the pizza vendor will expand to include CDs, videos, DVDs, and according to marketing director Chris Moore: "It is credible to suggest that your local Domino's delivery driver could be dropping round to your house with anything from MP3 players to flight tickets."Jet petrol stations, along with late-night convenience stores Londis and Spar, have joined start-up Dropzone1, to serve as depots for those not averse to picking up their online purchases en route.Exploiting the logic that most online buyers in the UK are less likely to be at home during the day,Dropzone1will take delivery of e-shopping from the retailer on behalf of the customers. They simply choose a local pickup point or "dropzone" from its website, to which the company dispatches the goods, ready for the customer to pick up at &#163;1 a package.Trials begin in the Reading, Berkshire area next month and the company hopes to expand partnerships to 5,000 depots by the autumn, to include video rental stores and off-licences.The Online Research Agency predicts that the value of the UK home delivery business will be around &#163;120m this year. "Ironically, with e-commerce, all sorts of long-forgotten institutions like the corner shop are being revived," observes Nick Rosen, a director at the agency.The main driver of change has been the unique difficulties big transport companies face when delivering to households with any degree of flexibility, after hauling the goods over long distances. This is known as the "last mile" delivery problem."People's delivery requirements tend to be skewed towards the end of the day or week," explains Simon Pollard, vice president and service director at AMR Research. "At normal retail prices, margins of between 1% and 4% and high petrol costs, it is not profitable for traditional delivery companies to work the last mile."Exploiting this to the full, Dropzone1 and other e-fulfilment start-ups such asZipRound, and M-box are also seeking direct partnerships with on and off-line retailers as well as customers, in a bid to cut the traditional delivery firms out altogether. ZipRound, described by   founder Peter Wright as "part web portal, part courier network," has gone one step further and is negotiating with two overnight delivery firms to run their last mile operations.M-box, through partnerships with others, proposes to offer some or all of the elements required by retailers to operate efficiently on the web, from running their collection and returns operation, to outsourcing the entire e-fulfilment process.The scramble among nimbler start-ups for last mile business has attracted a number of niche and "end-to-end" service providers. They offer anything from one-hour delivery to management of a retailer's e-fulfilment operations.In the last 10 days alone,   two companies have launched into the UK: US-based UrbanFetch and M-box, with many more imminent, from both sides of the Atlantic.Which model will win - the home delivery or pickup service? And which goods are suited to different forms of fulfilment?"There is definitely a marketplace for niche delivery specialists from the US and UK,"says Pollard at AMR Research. "But the secret is to remove the undesirable constraint of having to be home and give the customer the choice of where to receive goods."He predicts the birth of a "lifestyle collection service", where customers will be willing to pay a premium to have goods brought to the most unlikely pick-up and delivery   points. Stadiums and hospitals, for instance.Rosen at the Online Research Agency also sees the costs of widespread delivery services as prohibitive. "It's too much of an investment. Tesco, for one, has first mover disadvantage, with the cost of maintaining each vehicle at about &#163;1,000 a week. It's the delivery hubs that will work in this country. The village shops, the petrol stations."But at the very least, between the old tried, tested and trusted milkman, the corner shop and the new delivery whippersnappers, there appears to be the promise of more flexibility for the customer than ever before.Can one now, finally, expect one's e-shopping to arrive in internet time?
Colour callIf you like surprises, you're sure to be charmed by the latest mobile phone in Motorola's Timeport series. The T250's unique feature is that it glows one of three different colours depending on who's calling. It can be programmed so that for example a business call can cause the screen to glow yellow, a friend on the line will turn it a shade of blue while anonymous callers will send the screen green. The phone also features a Wap browser, an apparently improved user interface   and a couple of new games.Motorola has also been giving sneak previews of products it may or may not bring to the UK next year.Among its latest prototypes is the Accompli A6188, or the Tai Chai, to give its slightly funkier title. It's essentially a touch-screen personal organiser that's been paired with a Wap phone. So in addition to sending emails and finding out the latest football news you can store addresses, make appointments and generally keep yourself up to speed. If it does make it to the UK it will retail for around &#163;250.Small viewCanon has launched what it is billing as "the smallest and lightest digital camera in the world".  The Digital Ixus is a 2.1 Megapixel model that you can virtually hide behind your credit card.Among its facilities are a 4x zoom, a range of intelligent focusing features and a mode that helps the user shoot seamless panoramic pictures. The Ixus uses CompactFlash memory cards.Screen gemEven manufacturers as innovative as Sony understand that sometimes "if you can't beat 'em, join 'em". For the Japanese giant has unveiled the first of its Pocket Cinema products, a personal DVD player complete with LCD screen that's not unlike one of last year's most coveted   gadgets - Panasonic's DVD-L50.Sony's version, the &#163;1,200 DVP-FX1, pairs a very sleek DVD player with a 7in wide LCD screen. It has the usual DVD widgets - trick play, on-screen prompts - but also features an option that apparently delivers surround sound via its accompanying headphones.Not to be outdone, Panasonic has released its latest portable DVD player, the DVD-LV75, which it claims is the smallest and lightest of its kind. In spite of its size, the player features a 7in widescreen LCD monitor and Dolby Digital and DTS (Digital Theater Sound) surround sound decoders. Just like the Sony, it too sports a &#163;1200 price tag.Extra high fiHi-fi fans who feel short-changed by the CD format - it apparently has a rather limited bandwidth and is missing little chunks at either end of the frequency spectrum - will be cheered this week by news from Philips and Marantz. Both companies have decided to join Sony in championing the SACD (Super Audio CD) format. SACD offers significantly higher frequency capability and wider dynamic range than standard audio CDs. It also delivers multi-channel music, and has much in common with the   DVD-audio format soon to be launched by Panasonic, JVC and others. The SACD group claims to deliver superior sound reproduction to DVD-Audio through the use of DSD (Direct Stream Digital) technology.The Marantz model, the SA-1, is a stereo-only player due to go on sale later in the year. It will be followed by the Philips SACD1000 which will also play back DVD-video discs in addition to the 200 or so audio SACD discs now on sale.Philips is also hoping to cement its position as number one in the hi-fi CD-recorder with a trio of new models. Top billing goes to the CDR-785 which sports a three-disc playback changer designed to speed up the process of   making compilation CDs.  (AN)New WindowsThis afternoon, UK time, Microsoft will make its biggest strategic announcement since Bill Gates's famous Pearl Harbor speech that aligned the company with the internet in 1995.  This time he is expected to describe the Next Generation Windows Services strategy that will mark the shift from a PC-based to a net-based world. In essence, NGWS is Microsoft's design for delivering on its company slogan to work with any type of computing device in any place at any time. The announcement may well be short on products and long on strategy. However, it is expected to highlight    Microsoft's commitment to XML, the industry standard Extensible Markup Language, and SOAP (simple object access protocol), which is also supported by IBM.NGWS should also enable Microsoft to rent software by use, not just sell it in packages. Microsoft's plans to support all devices, from giant corporate servers to smart cards and mobile phones, account in part for its alarm at the US Justice Department's intention - based, the company thinks, on a view of the market that is already obsolete - to break up the company Separately, Microsoft has just announced a new version of Windows CE 3 for handheld and mobile computers. It has also delivered the next version of Microsoft Windows 95/98 for home users - Windows ME or Millennium Edition - to manufacturing. (JS)
Sony Memory Stick Walkman NW-MS7Digital music player 	&#163;300Sony's Memory Stick Walkman was the star turn at last year's celebration of the 20th anniversary of the personal   stereo, and gizmo lovers have been saving up ever since. Now this ne plus ultra of MP3 music players has finally arrived, however, buyers may want to think again.The MS7 is very small, very light (69g) and certainly looks the part: it has a more stylish design and a much better quality of finish than the average naff-looking MP3 player.It's also very easy to set up and use. The problem is the sound quality, which is very much on a par with the average naff-sounding MP3 player.The MS7's brief visit prompted something of a Sonyfest at home. We compared it with a Sony FM Stereo Radio Walkman (SRF-46), a Sony Walkman (WM-FX473) cassette player, and a Sony Discman (D-E885) with six different types of Sony headphone, including the   cool blue back-of-headphones (MDR-G56) and my prized MDR-NC20 noise-cancelling phones.The Memory Stick Walkman, though by far the most expensive device, sounded the worst of the lot. The acid test was the thumping bass groove in Good Stuff by Kelis (which Virgin released as a single on June 5 to follow Caught Out There, or "I hate you so much right now!"). The MP3 file sounded great on a PC with a subwoofer, but when it was transferred to the MS7, most of the bass and much of the excitement disappeared. This might have been partly the automatic translation from a 5.45 megabyte 192kbps MP3 file to a 3.66MB 132kbps Sony Atrac3 file - the highest quality allowed. It was also the effect of the in-ear headphones supplied: the WM7   sounded much better with ultraslim Sony MDR-W20 Turbo headphones, purchased separately.At this level, the 64MB WM7 can hold about an hour of music - 14 or 15 tracks - though you can double that by dropping the bit rate to 66kbps. Frankly, I didn't have the heart.Getting music aboard is very easy thanks to the MagicGate connector and USB   cable supplied, and the OpenMG Jukebox software which runs under Microsoft Windows 98. The Jukebox software will rip the tracks from an audio CD and will also play and convert WAV and MP3 files. However, it took about half an hour to load the machine.Removing files also takes time,   because you can't simply delete them. The SDMI copyright protection system means you have to check every file out and then check it back in to the same PC. Indeed, you're only allowed to check each music file in three times ... and you can't back up the MagicGate folders on your PC, because that would be copying too.If you think music sounds OK when played from an MP3 file that's a tenth of the size it was on CD, then the Memory Stick Walkman will not disappoint. It's very small, very stylish, and will make your friends coo with envy (assuming they haven't read this review). But if you want to listen to something more like hi-fi on the move, there are better and cheaper ways to do it, at least until memory chip capacities go up and prices come down.
Tell us aboutKelkoo.comWe class ourselves as Europe's biggest online retail directory and price comparison service. We're pretty much seen as an intermediary which we feel is the next stage of e-commerce. We can find people the best deals right across Europe.Is e-commerce capturing the imagination as much as expected?I think a lot of people are seeing it as very up and down. It's certainly caught on quicker than a lot of things in history ... such as television. I think there's still a big security issue, but people are now looking towards big brands for protection.Are we living in the age of the gadget?We certainly are and I think it's great! I'm sitting with my Palm Pilot and I can call up any appointments or link it to my phone and email if I need to. I think Wap (wireless application protocol) is going to be very important. You could go into a shop and actually touch and feel something but then go onto the internet and check the best price. Not quite sure how the shop owners will respond, though.Are some of the new platforms more suited to e-commerce?I don't know if it's that they're more suited but I think they complement each other more. You still may want to go on your computer and find out more details or look at it on a bigger screen. But when you're out and about, you may well want to access the website directly or remotely link into your computer.Any thoughts on the proposed RIP (regulation of investigatory powers) Bill?Well, there are certainly some issues over privacy with the encryption key. I always think that you should respect another person's privacy. If someone puts a credit card into someone's website then that should be kept strictly confidential.I suppose the government do it with all other forms of communication - although we're not very aware of that.Do you think such measures will promote or stifle e-commerce?I think it could be dangerous. It could start to stifle it if people feel that the details they're putting into the internet are being monitored or communicated elsewhere.Where do you see the net going from here?There's going to be a lot more integration into your everyday life. With the advent of digital TV and Wap phones you'll soon be accessing the net at anytime from anywhere. You may well be able to email your house and find out if you've left the heating on.Any favourite places on the web?I likeMotley Foolas it's fun following the stocks and shares.Registerkeeps me up to date with the news as does theFinancial Times site. For relaxation I go toGames Spotand find out what's coming out. I don't really use newsgroups as I get enough email everyday. To me, the business is a newsgroup.
Pre-paidI use Napster/Scour type services (Online, June 15) almost exclusively for finding tracks I already have on vinyl albums, but which have become so scratched, warped or cracked over the years that no amount of audio cleaning software is going to render them worth listening to.I see nothing wrong with downloading music I have already paid for (in the case of some "classic" albums, many times over).  Why should I have to buy it again on CD just to have a snap, crackle and pop version? My conscience is clear.Simon Pearcesiborg@bigfoot.comLive musicI have read with interest the debate about the MP3 format.Bearing in mind that it will be all but impossible to control the free distribution of recorded material, musicians will simply have to earn their living giving live performances, just like they did in "the good old days".This can only be a good thing; live performances of music will be more frequent and more highly appreciated events, and musical performance as a social activity will once again become an important part of people's lives.The only problem I can see is that musicians who rely on the recorded media to produce their music, such as hip-hop artists, may find it difficult to survive.Richard Walleyrichard@orpheo.co.ukWhy worry?Re: Japanese craze that could wipe out Wap (Online, June 15), why exactly is this "frightening news for European telecommunications companies"?I think your correspondent is confusing his mobile technologies. Easily done, I admit.I-mode is based on PDC-P (personal digital cellular-packet), the packet version of PDC in the same way that GPRS is the packet version of GSM. They use the same basic technology and both offer always-on internet. A major supplier of PDC is actually Ericsson who, last time I checked, were based in Europe.PDC is used only in Japan, while GSM had half a billion users at last count in more than 100 countries. PDC operates at frequency bands that aren't available anywhere else. Like any standard, the fewer involved, the faster you can go, especially if you don't want to roam.In contrast to PDC, GSM has an upgrade path - GPRS and EDGE - delivering bandwidths up to 170 kbps and 384kbps respectively. That means that GSM operators can evolve their networks to offer high bandwidth data, avoiding the more expensive leap faced by Japan's operators.The alliances mentioned are standard practice in the telecoms industry. DoCoMo is actually partnering with a Hong Kong GSM operator to run an i-mode originated game, but over Wap.The unscary reality is that Japan is a fascinating, if slightly isolated, laboratory for the future of mobile internet. The fact that they got there first in delivering content and services doesn't mean i-mode technology will take over here.Alun Lewisalunlewis@compuserve.comBad designFor a splendid example of the medium obscuring the message, check out the redesigned Coeliac Society website atwww.coeliac.co.uk. It carries updates to the Food List - a list of gluten-free products which can be eaten by sufferers of this very painful condition. I have been accustomed with the help of Netmind notification to download these updates within a few hours of their release. The entire site has now been updated to use Macromedia Flash, with no alternative for those who don't want to download the plugin.I can't Netmind the page, and what used to take seconds now takes minutes, even on an ISDN connection. It is very poor design not to offer a straight HTML alternative.Steve Annellsannells@annells.worldonline.co.ukLost chanceOne of the important events on the internet in the last few months was Amazon getting a patent on One-Click ordering. Because of the ramifications of this action, a large number of people have been boycotting Amazon (seewww.nowebpatents.orgorwww.noamazon.comfor details).Ashley Norris's interview with Jeff Bezos would have been a good opportunity to challenge Amazon on this action and to hear their response. It's a shame, therefore, that all we got was a corporate puff piece on what a nice bloke Bezos is and how successful Amazon is.Dave Crossdave@dave.org.ukBreak freeYes, Microsoft does have an effective monopoly on operating systems. We know the problems this brings, and the (current) limitations of the alternatives. But MS does not have a monopoly on word-processing, spreadsheets, databases, desktop publishing programs (DTP) and the like.Why do so many people complain about Microsoft's stranglehold and then hand their monopoly to them on a plate? It is possible to live/run a business without MS Office.Bill Blackledge(address supplied)Bounce backOf course my PC crashes... but I discovered that by pressing Ctrl-Alt-Delete and selecting RNAAPP (it is always there when my pc crashes) in the list of programs my PC springs back to life. I don't know whether this is a panacea but believe me when I say it has changed my life: I haven't lost a day's work since.Simon Hardingsales@theatrebreaks.comJack Schofield replies:RNAAPP is the Remote Network Access Application (part of Windows' Dial Up Networking). It sometimes sticks in memory from an earlier connection, and may cause a later connection to fail. Whenever you get the message to say that "Dial-up Networking could not establish a compatible set of network protocols" or something similar, press Ctrl-Alt-Delete, find RNAAPP in the task list, select it, and then click on the End Task button.
Speculation that the European commission will block the &#163;80bn mega-merger between MCI Worldcom and Sprint reached fever pitch yesterday ahead of a meeting of competition law experts in Brussels today, which is expected to reject the deal.The EC is known to have serious reservations about the tie-up and is adamant that the merged entity would have a virtual stranglehold on the crucial internet infrastructure market. Would-be competitors would not, it says, have a chance against the merged group.Mario Monti, the EC's most senior anti-monopoly official, yesterday flew to Washington to discuss the deal and other pressing issues with his American counterparts.He was due to meet America's top telecoms regulator William Kennard, who heads the federal communications commission, and it is likely the two men will discuss the controversial merger.The US justice department is expected to decide itself in the next few days whether to approve the deal or not and the EC is likely to be heavily influenced by US thinking on this issue.The EC has already indicated that it is not happy with the deal as it stands and in February extended an investigation into the matter on the grounds that it had "serious concerns" about the impact the merger would have on internet services and long distance telephone calls.An EC spokeswoman yesterday confirmed that problems still lingered but declined to speculate on whether they prevent the marriage going   ahead. The two firms have already offered to sell Sprint's internet business to appease Brussels but Mr Monti has made no secret of the fact that he wants Worldcom to part with its highly successful UUNet subsidiary.Industry observers believe, however, that Worldcom would rather dump Sprint at the altar rather than give up UUNet.Hopes that the deal will be approved by the EC are, according to several US papers, fading fast.Although the result of today's meeting of experts is not final it is thought that the EC will endorse its opinion when it meets on July 5. The deadline for a final decision is July 12.It is thought that the career of Bernie Ebbers, the charismatic chairman of MCI Worldcom, hangs in the balance. As someone who has built up a reputation for deal brokering, a failure now would be a serious setback.The EC does not usually block deals outright though it has enjoyed some success in recent years in squeezing concessions out of merger partners. But there is a feeling in Brussels that Mr Monti is keen to play the tough guy and flex the EC's muscles in the only sphere of policy where it wields immediate and immense power.If the EC does rule against the merger the two companies could try to appeal against the decision at the European court of justice. That would be slow, however, and wildly unpredictable. The EC warned in February that the merged company would carry 45% of the world's internet traffic which, it argued at the time, was far too much.
Letsbuyit.com, the London-based online retailer, is to make a second attempt at listing on the Neuer Markt in Frankfurt.Stock market volatility forced the company to pull its planned flotation a fortnight ago but yesterday executives said that the mini-recovery in the value of technology stocks had persuaded it to try again. The shares are due to start trading on July 12, following a seven-day subscription period starting on July 3."We have had incredibly strong support from our institutional investor base and as retail rebounds we are convinced that our listing on the stock exchange will be a huge success done now," said chief executive Martin Coles.Letsbuyit refused to say how much money it was looking to raise or what its market value is likely to be. However, analysts believe advisers Robertson Stephens may have to revise a previously mooted valuation of around 750m-1bn euros (&#163;473m-&#163;631m) and come up with a more conservative figure in a market still sensitive to online retail new issues.The new funds will be spent on European marketing and continuing a high-profile marketing campaign. When it first postponed its float Letsbuyit signalled it would have to cut back on its expensive television advertising campaign which runs regularly during peak viewing hours.Letsbuyit.com's business model is based around consumers pooling their buying power to bring down the price of goods like TVs, personal stereos and electronic gizmos. The more people who agree to buy, the lower prices become.It has around 700,000 registered members, following a 30% increase in May. During the month it took 30,000 orders totalling 4.3m euros. Average order valued increased from 120 euros in April to 148 euros."Our performance clearly demonstrates that we've earned our position among the select group of quality companies which will form the platform for e-commerce activities over the next several years," Mr Coles said.Letsbuyit now operates in 13 countries and employs 350 staff. It was founded in Sweden in January and went live in April.
Last month it won e-challenge 2000 to be named Best  Internet & Wireless Company in Europe, beating over  1,000 companies from 19 countries. The judges'  attention was drawn to Norkom's software - Alchemist -  which uses sophisticated data mining techniques to  help firms understand customers needs, how to retain  them and how to extract maximum value from them.For example a high-street bank could use Alchemist to  determine how much its account holders are likely to  net the bank, how likely they are to move on and what  supplementary financial products they are most likely  to buy. Norkom says the reduction in customer churn  and customer acquisition costs can be dramatic.Norkom was set up in March 1998. It employs 210  people in Dublin, London, Ghent and Boston and is  forecast to generate annual revenues of ?20m by the  end of its third year.The local business establishment, never keen to miss  an opportunity, has already started to climb aboard the  bandwagon. Celebrated local tech entrepreneur Denis  O'Brien, chairman of Esat Telecom, and Gavin O'Reilly,  son of Heinz boss Tony O'Reilly and managing director  of Independent Newspapers, recently became  non-executive directors and will provide strategic  advice.They also invested as part of a fundraising round that  valued Norkom at £66m. Advisers at Lehman Brothers  in London are keen to take the company public later  this year.At Norkom's helm is chief executive Paul Kerley, a  36-year-old Dubliner, who has spent the past 18 years  working in software and consulting roles. He and four  founding members own around 58% of Norkom. He  believes that, in five years, Norkom can become the  global leader in a field estimated to be worth £4.5bn.Although committed to his home city and impressed  by its transformation over the past few years, he  realises that Norkom's location could be a key  challenge to growth.Recruitment and office space are two of the biggest  issues. Norkom has already recruited in China and  India but Mr Kerley hopes more Irish people can be  taken on now that many are coming home from  overseas. "Speed to market is everything in this  business. We cannot lose velocity, but I'm confident  we won't get left behind. The Irish are like salmon.  Come spawning time they move back upstream."Norkom uses three offices to house its 120  Dublin-based staff but it is looking for 60,000sq ft of  floor space to bring them all together."Space is at a premium and finding the right location is  very difficult. Many of our staff are young and don't  particularly want to work at a technology park  somewhere outside town. It could affect our ability to  retain staff if we were forced to move outside Dublin."Mr Kerley has sympathy with the locals who are not  riding the technology boom. "It's causing a lot of upset.  Teachers, police and medical staff have lived the past  100 years in parity, working in nice safe jobs. Now  they find they can earn four times as much working for  a technology company."However, he believes that the social consensus that  has emerged between employers and unions is likely  to remain as long as the economy stays buoyant.  "Some very enlightened decisions have been made in  terms of education, telecoms and infrastructure."However he cannot see an easy solution to Dublin's  road and public transport problem. "There's going to be  another 10 years of hell but it will be sorted. The  government and EU have invested heavily in things like  telecoms and education. So we still have  Mediterranean roads, but if that's our problem I'll take  it."Useful linksNorkom Technologies
Bankers' riskThe FSA has warned that  institutions going online may be putting security  at risk. The regulator's comments come days after  Abbey National's new net bank Cahoot's website  crashed. Mr Davies revealed that while banks  tended to be protected against hackers, evidence  of "poor" internal security had been found at  some.&#149;Medical floatFormer Sheffield United chief Ian  Townsend is set to make a paper fortune of more  than £10m by floating The Medical House , which  provides online data for doctors. Mr Townsend  and his partner, Gerry Kemp, each own 50% of the  firm, which is likely to be valued at £25m on Aim.Useful linksAbbey National
What do you drive?A Seat Ibiza Cupra Sport, orange and bronze.What do you like or dislike about it?I hate the colour - and the white wheels. When I first saw it, I refused to get in. Then I was told no one in their right mind would pinch an Orange Seat with white wheels!Why did you buy it?I needed a car quick. I looked at a Subaru, but the salesman didn't know how to handle me. I was asking the right questions - but I was a  girl . He wondered if I could handle the power. So I gave the car a real white-knuckle test drive. The poor guy was hanging on to his seat.What kind of driver are you?Fairly normal on the road. But track driving is different. Then it's OK to be aggressive because everyone is travelling in the same direction.Any bad habits?Getting irritated by people who dither at traffic lights and junctions. And I really ought to leave more time for my trips.Any driving test tales?I passed my test within days of my 17th birthday. My driving was fine   but I got the Highway Code wrong. A motorcyclist came off his bike in front of me and, as well as avoiding running him over, I didn't hit anyone else. My instructor was impressed.Ever crashed, got a ticket, or points?My only crash on the road was the first time I drove abroad, in my father's Jaguar C-type. I have three points for speeding, and am about to get a shed-load more.What do you use your car for?I drive to most of the circuits, so do a fair bit of motorway driving. I loathe public transport, so often drive when I go out at night. It stops me drinking.What state is your car in?Normally it's a mess and full of mud. I use it so much I never get round to cleaning it.What's in the glove compartment and the boot?The glove compartment is full of music. The boot has baseball hats, a coat and a pen.Ever had sex in a car?Yes.Expand.No.What do you listen to?If I'm going racing, something loud and dancey. If I am going somewhere grown-up, opera. When I drive home late at night, Radio 4 keeps me awake.Name your dream car?Road car: a Honda S2000 or an Audi TT Quattro because it looks so good. Racing car: a GT40 (best-looking car ever), a Lotus 49 or a Grand Prix Mercedes because then I could sell it and buy all the road and racing cars I wanted.      &amp;#149: Amanda Stretton presents Rally Sprint on Channel 4.
If a nice young man wants to drive something really stylish with a naughty edge, he acquires an old Jaguar XJ6 for a couple of grand (or less if it needs work). With its gorgeous swooping lines and stately road presence, he recognises it as being a bit flash in a late-60s, early-70s sort of way. Although his brushes with the law probably amount to a parking fine or two, or a ticking-off from a policeman for stopping on a double yellow line by the cashpoint, when he cruises along with his radio turned up he can imagine that he has a bit of a shady past."Gangster chic" - in which completely law-abiding men can indulge in mobster fantasies - has become all the rage since Guy Ritchie's hugely successful Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels. This inspired a rash of lame British gangster films such as Love, Honour and Obey, Honest, and the re-release of The Long Good Friday, as well as the much-panned small screen spin-off of Lock, Stock. The British mobster style has not only taken over the fashion pages of men's magazines - with crombies, well-cut shirts, sharp suits and silk socks - it has also spilled over on to the road, too.Although the driver of an old Jag may well look like Arthur Daley or EastEnder Phil Mitchell (both XJ6 drivers) to the rest of the world, in his mind's eye it is more likely he is imagining himself as Michael Caine in Get Carter, or any of the 60s criminals in the excellent Gangster Number One, which has extra verisimilitude because of the input of special adviser Bruce Reynolds, mastermind of the Great Train Robbery.John Wetherhall, who runs a Jaguar restoration garage near Bristol, admits that some of his customers fall in love with the car because it has associations of diamond dealing or multiple night-club owning: "It is a perfectly harmless, though deeply risible game of celluloid British gangster nostalgia, although there are an awful lot of respectable classic Jag owners who simply love the aesthetic of the car. There is very little chance of this 'gangster fashion' kind of driver - who usually seems to work in the media -   ever being mistaken for the real thing and pulled over as a suspect for the latest bank heist. If the truth be known, gangsters don't really drive Jags or Daimlers any more."He's right. Today's gangster is much more likely to drive an SUV (sports utility vehicle) for his loathsome trade of drug-dealing, extortion and general racketeering. Although in the 80s, the gangsters of London, Manchester and Glasgow emulated the company cars of City boys by driving BMWs or Mercedes - giving the spoilt financial and services sector some welcome street cred - the 21st-century gangster seems to have more practical considerations on his mind.Now Mitsubishi Shoguns, Range Rover Vogues and Discoveries are the cars of choice for the successful criminal. Just as well-heeled mothers like a four-wheel drive so they can protect their hordes of kids from the dangers of city traffic while showing off their wealth, status and procreative ambitions, so the gangster wants a rottweiler of the road to both intimidate and impress his rivals and victims.Kenneth Noye - who was connected with the money-laundering of   the Brinks Mat robbery, the murder of a policeman and was finally arrested for a road rage killing - was the proud owner of an L-reg Land Rover Discovery. In Brent, north London, last February, various SUVs were involved in a terrifying shoot-out in the car park of a leisure complex with hundreds of people caught inside. It all started because the girlfriends of rival criminal gangs got into an argument about parking places. It seems you need at lot of room for an SUV, which gives the driver a feeling of power and strength. You can look down on fellow drivers from patrician heights and feel distanced from the hoi polloi.The difference in the vehicles driven by the wealthy mum and the gangland leader are in the all- important details. "Bobby", who used to be involved with a notorious north London gang, says: "The glass must be blacked out, the sound system powerful enough to permanently change the rhythm of your heartbeat, and the spare wheel cover has to come from a dealer in Park Lane or Knightsbridge - to show you have the money to go to the best places and pay up front and in full. Basically, it is like a very comfortable tank in a very dirty war: a real fuck-off set of wheels."Although the SUV offers protection and security, gangsters - be they Yardies, East End boys or Triads - still like a flash car for the evening, or "non-work" assignations. And some people aspire to this gangster fashion. In the estate opposite my house, which is so full of drug dealers there are plans to pull it down, there is one man who owns a four-wheel drive and a BMW Z3 which, unlike my tatty old Peugeot 309, never seems to get vandalised or broken into.It is obviously much more important for someone in such a world to display their success by the expense and quality of their wheels than to have a comfortable and salubrious home. Pat Goldman, a criminologist undertaking a study of British gangsters, says: "The whole point of being a criminal involved in drugs or prostitution is that it affords you status you otherwise would not have had. The gangster cares less about attracting the attention of the police who, if Jack Straw   gets his way, may be given the power to seize cars which they believe to have been bought by ill-gotten gains, than gaining the respect and envy of the local villains."Dave Courtney - the former gangster who describes himself as a reformed criminal, and who wrote Stop the Ride I Want to Get Off - now drives a white Rolls-Royce with a small England flag down the side: "You only get caught," he says, "if you   are making mistakes and drawing attention to yourself."This is certainly the case with the late playboy robber and gangster Valerio Viccei, who masterminded the Knightsbridge safety deposit job which at &#163;62m is the biggest bank robbery Britain has ever known. The haul was so enormous that Viccei, also known as "the Wolf", filled his bath with banknotes and covered the floor of his flat in north London with   jewels. He could have fled, having transferred much of his fortune to safety deposits around the world, but delayed his departure because he was waiting to get his beloved red Ferrari exported. He was arrested at his favourite London hotel, Whites, after his fingerprint was found on one of the safety deposit boxes, and still attempted to escape in his shiny car which he called "the love of his life".
MI5 and the police faced embarrassment last night when electronics experts revealed that the new 'Big Brother' internet surveillance system - designed to enable them to monitor every internet user in the country - will not function properly.The Government Technical Assistance Centre (GTAC) will be introduced to the internet by the middle of next year. As a part of this facility, every Internet Service Provider in the UK will have to allow the police to fit a 'black box' to their computer systems. The black boxes will monitor emails sent and web pages accessed on that ISP. But experts fear the technology does not exist to monitor the enormous amounts of data that pass through ISPs.Keith Williams, executive chairman of the London Internet Exchange, Europe's largest internet exchange, said: 'It is highly unlikely that any black box the Government will install shall attain the desired effectiveness. The public sector are not renowned for their use of the most up-to-date technology.'The surveillance powers that the GTAC system will give the Government will be introduced under changes to the law made by the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Bill, now being debated in the Lords. The internet is developing at such a pace that any black box will most probably become obsolete in the estimated six months between when it is designed and built, and when it is introduced to the internet.'Traffic on the internet has doubled every 100 days for several years, regardless of advances in technology' said Mitchell. 'For this reason, whatever technology they introduce will be much less effective within six months and the majority of it obsolete within a year.'The system will cost an   estimated &#163;30m in the first year alone. As advances in technology make the internet faster, these machines will have even more data to process. Next year new ADSL internet connections are expected to be introduced, giving people internet access at 100 times the present speed through a telephone line. This will mean that the black boxes will have to be updated.'It is clear that this year's box will not be next year's box' says Mitchell. 'The &#163;30m is a recurring cost, payable each year.'The Home Office has yet to give the specifications of these boxes and is discussing whether the taxpayer or internet users will pay for them. Campaigners fear that, however GTAC is funded, the eventual loser will be e-commerce in the UK as companies are forced to raise their prices to meet the costs of introducing such a system.Tim Pearson, of the Internet Service Providers Association council, said: 'Mitchell is right in his diagnosis. What is more worrying is that the Government have yet to tell us exactly how they intend to implement this surveillance system. After several years of discussion, this is ridiculous. This is going to cost a lot more than the Government are currently saying.'The Home Office last night responded: 'There will be no technical problems with this system. The appropriate technology will be employed and kept up-to-date.'A Home Office spokesperson emphasised that GTAC will be primarily a centre for cracking the codes used to encrypt some internet traffic, and not directly connected to the black boxes.He did concede, however, that information obtained by these boxes would be passed on to the GTAC centre.
'This is a rotten argument, but it should be good enough for their Lordships on a hot summer afternoon.' This note to a ministerial brief was once inadvertently read out by a government spokesman in the House of Lords.The story comes irresistibly to mind as the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Bill winds its grisly way through the Upper House. The Bill is being shepherded through by a chap called Lord Bassam of Brighton, aided and abetted by a cove named Bach. Neither of them appears to know anything about the technology of the internet, though M'lord Bach seems to rely heavily on the advice of a Baroness Thornton, who in real life is Mrs John Carr, and thus the spouse of a well-known campaigner against child pornography on the internet.The atmosphere is a cross between Gilbert and Sullivan and Kafka. There is, for example, a lot of ho-ho-hoing whenever a technical term is mentioned. When challenged by Viscount Goschen on the subject of cookies at one point last week, Bassam looked nonplussed. 'We are getting more and yet more pieces of technological verbiage,' he puffed. 'They grow by the hour. Cookies is one of them - and HTTP is another.' Another peer asked about the   possibility that an internet user might access a non-government-approved website by mistake. 'As to whether I would wander into a website other than where I might want to be,' joked Bassam, 'I am not sure I have the competence. But perhaps that is an admission too far.'Snigger, snigger.Watching this booby mess with our freedoms is like seeing a monkey casually dismantling a clock. One of the points at issue last week was   whether the Government is entitled to snoop without a warrant on our use of the web. The Home Office position is that whereas a warrant is required for the interception and reading of online messages, no such warrant is needed for the monitoring of what the Bill calls 'communications data'.What does 'communications data' mean in this context? Answer: the logs of an individual's 'clickstream' - the complete record of sites he or she visits while browsing the web, and the URLs of   all the files delivered by web servers in response to clicks.The Home Office rationale for this is that while a warrant is required to tap an individual's telephone, the authorities already have the power to demand - without a warrant - that telecoms operators provide logs of telephone numbers dialled by an individual, and that logs of a clickstream amount to the same thing. In other words, the RIP Bill is simply extending current practice in the   monitoring of telephony to the monitoring of the net.The cynicism implicit in this is breathtaking. A record of a person's clickstream is not analogous to a log of telephone numbers dialled - for the simple reason that web pages are, for the most part, public documents. Knowing the numbers dialled by an individual may yield useful information to the authorities but does not, by itself, reveal the content of the conversations which took place.However, if you have access to the clickstream, you can ascertain the content of everything that the target has read, viewed or downloaded. And because everything is in digital form, the whole process can be automated. The algorithm goes like this: read the URL; fetch the page; parse the content; decide whether content matches certain criteria; store decision; read next URL. A five-year-old could write the code to do it.Despite the blustering of Jack Straw and his ermined monkey, the essence of the RIP Bill remains unchanged. A Labour government proposes to give MI5 unfettered access to everything British subjects do on the web. It's a lousy argument, even for their Lordships. They should throw it out.John.Naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
Michael Dell  is talking football. English football. In London's Lanesborough hotel the 35-year-old Texan billionaire is holding court over lunch. Someone tells him that the country is in mourning thanks to England's desultory performance against Portugal. Dell looks curious. 'Do you think it wouldn't have been so bad if you'd lost to a bigger team?' he asks with genuine interest.It is a revealing moment. For Michael Dell, who started flogging upgraded IBM PCs to his college mates at Austin University in Texas at the age of 18, winning is everything. You don't turn your company into the world's largest direct computer systems supplier with a market value of $120 billion and sales for the last four quarters of $27bn by being anything other than abnormally focused on reaching the number one slot.But Dell is relaxed over lunch, making goofy jokes about his competitors and, at   the same time, he is drumming home the Dell message. He seems more reachable than most of his fellow computer billionaires. There is none of the remoteness of Microsoft's Bill Gates or the flamboyance of Oracle's Larry Ellison.And yet although he seems unassuming, Dell clearly knows how to play hard ball. As a teenager he made money organising stamp auctions before moving on to sell newspapers. He started Dell in 1985 with $1,000, dropping out of his biology course to focus on building his company from the bottom up.The company's success has been based on what looks now to be an obvious premise. Sell to the customer direct and strip out the cumbersome middleman who takes a cut for selling your product. Back in the Eighties this was a revolutionary decision. Initially the PCs were sold over the phone. The emergence of the internet   gave the company the ability to go global.Dell's competitors, chiefly arch rival Compaq, the world's largest supplier of PCs, have been worrying what to do about its sales methods ever since. Compaq wants to increase its direct sales volumes, but this will antagonise its salesmen. Compaq is still attempting to resolve this tension, a task which has already cost it a CEO and several other executives. In the interim Dell is making hay while the sun shines.Or at least it has been. Dell might exude bonhomie, but he knows his company can't stay still. Fears about a bottoming out of the PC market have taken their toll on the company's share price. Last month Dell unveiled its worst set of results since 1994. Back then its share price slid 54 per cent. Last month it gave up more than 20 per cent as Wall Street tried to second-guess what Dell, who owns more than 14 per cent of the company, will do next.Dell's pay packet took a hammering as a result. In the financial year to 28 January, his salary, complete with share options and bonuses, came to a paltry $14 million. Paltry that is if compared to the $109m he made the previous year.Dell believes all the hype about the PC being dead is overdone. Well he would, wouldn't he?But there is logic in his argument, which is, to   summarise: soon we won't have to access the internet through phone lines. New developments in wireless technology provide new opportunities. But we will still need servers - the bits of equipment that guide traffic around the internet and direct us to web sites - to handle all of this. This is good news for Dell which wants to corner the server market.More than 40 per cent of the growth in the global server market came from Dell. And Dell adds: 'Handsets are not going to need all that extra bandwidth. But 3lb   Dell notebooks that you can use anywhere are made for that sort of thing. That's a very exciting prospect. We don't plan on going into the phone business.'Nevertheless, Dell Ventures, the company's venture capital arm set up with a $6bn war chest, is on the prowl in wireless-wise Europe, looking to buy into some of the emerging companies which will shape the mobile world of tomorrow.'If there are any companies out there that want to be considered, they should submit their business plans now,' Dell says wryly.He might be a keen advocate of the PC but,   significantly, Dell hints that the company is looking at the personal digital assistant (PDA) market. 'It's interesting,' are two words which might make the likes of 3Com shudder. Dell is already working with Psion on developing a range of Bluetooth technologies that allow different devices to connect to each other without wires.Dell Ventures, which Dell is adamant won't be floated off ('it's fundamental to our business'), is only one example of the way the company is trying to diversify. It is also developing a network of   e-business partnerships with the likes of Arthur Andersen so that it can offer its clients services rather than just hardware.The underlying point, however, is not hard to grasp. Apart from the fact that selling services is a huge growth area, by creating a network of alliances Dell also cleverly opens up a new sales channel. The partners sell the clients some services and, while they are about it, how about some Dell hardware with it?Dell likens the internet to electricity in terms of its importance. And, as with electricity, too much intervention, he believes is   dangerous. On Tuesday Dell met Tony Blair for a discussion on the internet. Dell used the meeting to protest against suggestions that the internet should be subject to new forms of taxation, obviously a key concern for a company which makes the majority of its money by selling online. 'There shouldn't be a discriminatory tax system. We're not asking for subsidies, but we're just saying there shouldn't be new taxes.'Taxing the internet is a remote threat to Dell. More worrying is the position Dell will be left in if Microsoft is broken up. Perhaps more than any other company in the world, Dell owes a thank- you to Microsoft for creating an established set of industry standards and allowing the world's PCs to talk to each other, thus ensuring their proliferation.Dell is sanguine about a break-up. 'The key issue for us is this - is it going to change the demand for our products? Customers who like Microsoft are going to buy from it if it is two companies rather than one.'And, in an obvious rebuke to the US government for meddling in the business affairs of successful companies, Dell says: 'If we were looking for an organisation to design software for us, the Justice Department would be pretty low on our list.' His support for Microsoft is understandable given Dell's psychology. Michael Dell likes winners.
Billionaire financier George Soros, reeling from his funds' losses in technology stocks, said yesterday that new economy stocks remained overvalued and the market chaotic.The comments were a further blow to the hi-tech sector which has weathered the sharp falls and, recently, dramatic rises in indices like Nasdaq."I think that the markets have become somewhat chaotic and very few people have been able to make money," Mr Soros said on the BBC's Radio 4 Today programme. "In my opinion, they &#91;technology stocks&#93; are overvalued. There has been a fantastic boom followed by an initial crash. I think there is a long period of drying out to come."Mr Soros, an elder statesman of the investment world and chairman of Soros Fund Management, recently restructured his firm's flagship Quantum Fund to pursue a less risky investment strategy, stating that he would prefer returns of about 15% rather than 31% if it meant stability.Additionally $4.5bn of Soros funds are expected to invested in real estate and private equity, where Mr Soros's son Robert has a keen interest. Robert Soros is to take a bigger management role in the family business.Mr Soros, 70, said his conservative stance towards technology shares was also prompted by his desire to have an organisation that outlived him.
Where New Labour has most cruelly disappointed is the speed and completeness with which it became "executive-minded". That especially marks Jack Straw and his Home Office colleagues. They slip too easily into the world view of security service directors-general and senior police officers. The state is under siege. Crime, disorder and libertinism are rife. Unless "the authorities" (a satisfying Home Office term, that) are given vast new powers to eavesdrop, discipline and investigate, chaos will ensue.It is a fundamentally conservative attitude and so by no means new - the only surprise is the shamelessness of Labour politicians who made so much capital out of opposing it when out of office. A novelty is the tone adopted this week by Mr Straw and his henchman Charles Clarke in rebutting criticism of their regulation of investigatory powers (RIP) bill. It is not far short of hysterical. Unless the UK acts swiftly drug runners and international crime syndicates will flood the country, or at least its communications media with encoded messages which common carriers must now be compelled to decipher.Mr Clarke has every right to dispute estimates of the cost to internet service   providers of compliance with his bill, but his blustering misses the point. Why does the UK government need to rush this fence at all? Internet technology is changing fast, content faster. The United States, to which we are entitled to look for example, is in the throes of a debate about giving government a right to decode. There, would-be intelligence-gatherers are matched by passionate defenders of privacy in communications.The RIP bill does rationalise the safeguards surrounding interception of communications by the state - though it would be a lot more convincing if there were any lay and external element in the supervision. But it also extends the state's reach. And "the state" we know not just to be Mr Straw or Mr Clarke, who might in theory be hauled before fellow MPs to account for themselves, but a legion of unnameable executive functionaries. The Home Office is saying: trust us . Why should we? Look at the disposition to coerce shown by its pursuit of the press, this newspaper included, in the Shayler affair. On display there is the same mind-set which we are being asked to prize and privilege in this repugnant bid to extend government power over the internet.
Shares in financial services website Interactive Investor International yesterday plummeted to a new low of 56.5p - a seventh of what they were worth three months ago - after the company issued a profits warning.While subscribers to the site flocked to its bulletin boards to vent their anger and speculate on the company's future, chief executive Tomas Carruthers insisted there was no need to panic.Yesterday's 17.5% fall in the share price followed a trading statement from the company which warned that revenue during the second half of this year would show only modest growth over the first six months.Interactive Investor, which floated on the stock market in February, is reaping the fall-out from the plunge in tech stock values in March and April.Many small investors use the site to swap tips and information on hi-tech shares, and the recent volatility will have left many nervous about dabbling in this sector."Since March, there has been a significant decline in equity market activity worldwide from record levels earlier in the year. This has depressed transaction volumes and related revenues," said the statement. "Increased emphasis will now be placed on strengthening the company's presence in the UK market."Yesterday's events were a far cry from February 17, when shares in the company began trading at 150p and finished the day at 335p. The share offer was 26 times oversubscribed, with 82,000 small investors - a record for a British internet flotation - applying for shares. As a result, allocations were scaled back to a flat 145 shares, worth just over &#163;81 at yesterday's closing price.Mr Carruthers said there was no reason to worry, pointing out that the company had &#163;65m on the balance sheet, recently saw the number of registered account users reach 1.1m and was working on a number of new initiatives.The slide has left many of its small investors feeling bruised and angry. The company was the talk of its own bulletin boards yesterday, with dozens of users logging on to vent their spleen.Some contributors speculated that the company might be ripe for a takeover bid, while one claimed he had pinpointed the company's problem - "They don't really sell anything. I think most of their users are like us. If we see a 'You must pay for this message' we back out of there, quick sharp."
Millions of Britons could be in line for a refund if it is proved that they paid inflated prices for Microsoft's all-pervasive software, ready installed in most computers on sale.Next Monday 16 leading US law firms will file the billion pound suit on behalf of hundreds of millions of people who bought Microsoft Windows and programs outside the US.The case, at the US district court in Maryland, will be the first big test of provisions in American law allowing non-US citizens to claim damages as victims of monopolies. Last week a district court in Washington ruled that Microsoft abused its monopoly status, and ordered the company to split into two.The lawyers are members of the newly formed Global Anti-Cartel Network, an alliance of 29 law firms from six continents with plans to target other monopolies and price fixing conspiracies in courts throughout the world, to seek compensation for their victims. The price fixing has been dubbed the world's "new piracy".The network says Microsoft has overcharged every Windows user by at least &#163;20. It expects to recover up to half the purchase price of each of the several hundred million copies of Windows sold outside the US.The European arm of the network is spearheaded by Michael Cover of Mishcon de Reya, the London law firm that handled the divorce of Diana, Princess of Wales and, after her death, the initial legal work for the trust set up in her memory.The American contingent includes the nation's top anti-  trust lawyer, David Boies, who led the US justice department's case against Microsoft.Because he acts for the government in that case, Mr Boies cannot take part in the damages claim against Microsoft. Nor can Mishcon de Reya, because of certain client conflicts.However, both firms are expected to play key roles in another network action: a lawsuit seeking several hundred million pounds from vitamin manufacturers.In the US, Mr Boies's firm and others have already recovered $1.1bn (&#163;733m) for American victims of a vitamin price fixing conspiracy.Last year, the Swiss pharmaceutical giant Hoffman-LaRoche pleaded guilty to criminal charges of leading a ring of companies secretly increasing the price of vitamins E and C worldwide.Victims include not only consumers who buy a month's supply of vitamin pills, but huge food companies that use vitamins to enrich their products.US firms plan to cooperate with lawyers in other network countries to launch claims in courts outside the US. The network has held meetings in London in the past year, including one on genetically modified seeds with scientists and environmental organisations.Michael Hausfeld, a Washington DC lawyer and one of the network's leaders, said it planned to file an action over vitamins in Britain. If it succeeds, the claim will be the first to win damages in the British courts for consumers overcharged as a result of an illegal cartel.Such claims are possible in British courts under European Union anti-trust law, but none has yet resulted in a damages   award, according to Christopher Bright, a competition law specialist at Clifford Chance, Britain's biggest law firm.The Competition Act, which came into force in March, will allow compensation claims to be brought under English law, but the act is not retrospective.The network is planning other actions in the US, Britain and elsewhere, including China, seeking recovery from record companies for allegedly overcharging for compact discs, and from makers of pigfeed additives for alleged price fixing.Tonight the BBC's Newsnight programme will reveal how the network plans to take on global cartels. It will show footage obtained from the FBI of a meeting of manufacturers of a pigfeed additive conspiring to fix prices, secretly filmed by undercover agents. Three of the conspirators have been jailed.Mr Hausfeld's firm is best known for its creative use of US and international law to force Volkswagen and other German companies to pay billions of dollars to settle claims by victims of Nazi slave labour and concentration camps."It's the flip side to globalisation," he said. "If you're going to have globalised industry and globalised impact on industry, then you have to have a global means of uniformly responding to abuses of that globalisation."He described price fixing conspiracies as the new piracy.He estimates that cases on which he has worked have returned over $10bn (&#163;6.6bn) to people harmed by multinational corporate misconduct.
Next week, 16 leading US law firms will file a billion pound suit on behalf of hundreds of millions of people who bought Microsoft Windows and programmes outside the US, alleging that the software giant charged inflated prices.The case at the US district court in Maryland, will be the first big test of provisions in American law allowing non-US citizens to claim damages as victims of monopolies after a judge ruled that Microsoft abused its monopoly power and ordered the company to be split into two. The lawyers pursuing the case are members of a new coalition, the Global Anti-Cartel Network, an alliance of 29 law firms from six continents that plant to target other monopolies and price fixing conspiracies in courts throughout the world.The anti-cartel group reflects the renewed attention on cartels - informal associations of companies that collude to maintain high prices - among private law firms and government officials. The US department of justice has taken the lead in the fight against cartels as they make a comeback. In 1999, its antitrust division secured $1.1bn in criminal fines - almost all of them in international cartel cases - including $500m from a single firm, Hoffman-LaRoche, the Swiss pharmaceuticals firm, in a vitamin price fixing conspiracy.Cartels have regained the attention of US antitrust officials only recently. There were numerous cases during and just after the second world war, but few after the early 1950s. Prosecutions increased exponentially in 1995 and included a $100m fine on Archer Daniels Midland (ADM), the US agribusiness giant, in 1997. Fines have increased steadily, culminating in last year's record total.The reason cartels are making a comeback is because of globalisation. Economic globalisation and the lowering of government trade barriers as part of worldwide trade liberalisation have created strong incentives among some firms to collude rather than compete - something that Marx anticipated many years ago. As an ADM executive told his international co-conspirators: "Our competitors are our friends. Our customers are the enemy."Joel Klein, the head of the justice department's antitrust division (the man who brought the case against Microsoft) recently described cartels as the equivalent of "theft by well-dressed thieves", which deserve "unequivocal public condemnation". In the case concerning ADM and lysine, an amino acid, the US found that prices went up by 70% in the first three months of the conspiracy alone. In a conspiracy relating to citric acid, prices were raised more than 30% to US customers.Mr Klein says the recent cartel cases point to the need for law enforcement agencies to work together. "Antitrust agencies truly have a shared interest in working together to obliterate this blight on our economies. After all, they don't just hurt consumers in the US or any other single country. Almost by definition, they hurt consumers worldwide." It is difficult to argue with Mr Klein's assertion that international cartels are "a true scourge of the world economy".Useful linksMillions may be eligible for Microsoft refund: Guardian storyAntitrust division, US department of justice.The war against cartels: Speech by Joel Klein
Yahoo!, the internet portal and world's most visited website, is looking to expand in Europe after a series of high profile deals by its rivals.The Californian group is feeling the pressure to expand outside its home market after Lycos, a rival internet search engine, was bought by Terra Networks of Spain.Fresh from entering takeover talks with Myplay, the internet music service, Yahoo! indicated yesterday that it was planning an aggressive series of takeovers in the burgeoning European marketplace.In an interview with the Reuters news agency, Jerry Yang, founder of Yahoo!, made it clear that his attention had turned to Europe from the US."We will see similar consolidation opportunities in Europe as we did in the United States and you will see us being very opportunistic and aggressive," Mr Yang said.Yahoo! is striving to become known for more than just its search engine and has aspirations to expand into the wider media industry around the world.One of the best-known search engines on the net, it wants to provide a medium by which consumers can buy products in cyberspace as well as communicating with other users.Mr Yang aims to make the group's services accessible to customers not just through personal computers but also through mobile phones."In Europe PCs will continue to do well and the deregulation of the telecoms industry will drive down internet access fees. But personally I think everyone is going to be talking about the wireless arena, where especially western Europe has a significant lead over the US and other countries around the world," Mr Yang said.Useful linksYahooLycos
The home secretary, Jack Straw, has defended police attempts to force the Guardian and Observer newspapers to hand over any emails or notes they may have relating to the former MI5 officer, David Shayler.He also says the courts must balance journalistic freedom with other interests recognised by the European human rights convention. However, he makes no mention of the special importance attached to freedom of expression in the data protection and human rights acts.It is unusual for a home secretary to comment on a case while it is before the courts. Mr Straw has done so in a letter to Richard Burden, Labour MP for Birmingham Northfield, who raised the case in response to concern expressed by a constituent, a member of the National Union of Journalists.Mr Burden drew the home secretary's attention to a Commons motion signed by over 40 MPs of all parties expressing concern at "the assault on independent journalism represented by the attempt to intimidate the Guardian, the Observer, and the reporter Martin Bright, by obtaining orders under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 to force them to surrender information relating to contacts with David Shayler, which was either in the public domain or has been supplied to ministers by Mr Shayler himself".The two newspapers have been given leave by the high court to challenge an order by an Old Bailey judge forcing them to hand over any emails or notes they may have relating to Mr Shayler.Mr Straw says in his letter that he cannot comment on particulars surrounding the case. However, he goes on to describe powers under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act which enable the courts to issue production orders."Failure to comply with a   production order will leave it open for the judge to punish the person concerned for contempt," adds Mr Straw.He refers to article 10 of the European convention covering freedom of expression but stresses that this principle can be subject to restrictions "necessary in a democratic society".Concern that these restrictions could be interpreted too broadly by English judges led the government to agree to amendments in the Human Rights Act - which comes into force on October 2 - and the new Data Protection Act.The first states that courts "must have particular regard to the importance of the convention right to freedom of expression" as well as to "journalistic material". The second refers to "the special importance of the public interest in freedom of expression".The Commons motion calls on ministers to "restrain proceedings against journalists and ensure that the orders against the Guardian, the Observer and Mr Bright are withdrawn and that no charges are laid against them ... under the official secrets act."Signatories to the motion, drafted by the Labour MP Austin Mitchell, include the Tory MP Nicholas Winterton, the Liberal Democrat MPs Malcolm Bruce and Mike Hancock, the Plaid Cymru leader Dafydd Wigley, and the Labour chairman of the Commons public administration committee, Tony Wright.The motion also refers to Julie Ann Davies, a student at Kingston university, west London, arrested under the secrets act and now on police bail. All these actions, it says, were taken to "suppress legitimate inquiries in the public interest".The Guardian and Observer argue that the police have no need to see any material the newspapers may have, not least because Mr Shayler has himself repeatedly and openly admitted disclosing information about the activities of MI5 and MI6.
Troubled supermarket operator Somerfield yesterday confirmed it would halt its internet shopping division, 24-7, which has fallen victim to tough online competition from Tesco and Iceland.Somerfield said customers would no longer be able to order groceries by telephone, fax, email or interactive television. However, home delivery would continue for shoppers at Somerfield and Kwik Save stores.Analysts said the move would damage Somerfield's future sales growth. Mike Godliman of retail analyst Verdict Research predicted 5% of supermarket food sales- &#163;4.96bn - would be done online by 2005. "That's a big chunk of the market to ignore."Sainsbury recently announced it would invest more in developing internet shopping and Asda is concentrating on improving its market share in this area.Somerfield's 24-7 is understood to have been accumulating losses since it began operating last September and last month estimated annual turnover at &#163;4m.Somerfield did not deny speculation that two of its three 24-7 fulfilment centres received as few as 15 orders a week.The division employs 226 people but Somerfield said it hoped to redeploy some of them. The unit was established under former chief executive David Simons, who was recently replaced by executive chairman John von Spreckelsen, who said yesterday: "The decision will clearly come as a disappointment to the staff of 24-7."We may well have a fresh look at the role of e-commerce food retailing within Somerfield in the future. But the hard fact is that 24-7 has not been growing and represents a significant distraction to management at a time when its focus has to be on the core Somerfield and Kwik Save business."Somerfield is expected to report full year results on July 5. Analysts still expect the company's profitability to be suffering from its poor investment in Kwik Save. Some have speculated that the group will be split up or sold within the next year and underlined this by pointing to weakness in the company's brand names.Useful linksSomerfieldTescoIcelandSainsburysAsda
The first thing everyone notices about Jeff Bezos is the loud, infectious laugh that punctuates virtually his every sentence. The chief executive officer of Amazon.com, the world's largest e-tailer laughs at my jokes, laughs at his own jokes and even breaks into a hearty guffaw when his coffee turns up.But he has good reason to have a smile on his face. He might not yet have made any profit - which e-tailer has? - yet his internet business, started with a $300,000 loan from his parents, is now worth over $1bn. He literally is laughing all the way to the bank.He even manages to find a chuckle when I remind him that Amazon's shares were trading for twice as much at the end of 1999 as they are now.Bezos is on a short trip to London to speak at the Digital World conference and, in many respects, his visit couldn't have come at a more opportune time.The unbounded optimism surrounding the e-commerce industry that was so prevalent at the start of the year has now evaporated. And in some quarters Bezos' trip is seen as not just a short stopover for a leading businessman, but the arrival of the US Cavalry.Although it's clear that he has no truck with any notions of being perceived as the elder spokesperson of the e-commerce industry, he's quite happy to rally the troops. "I am very confident about the future of e-commerce and especially Amazon," he exclaims. "E-commerce is going to be a much bigger deal than people expected, even at the peak of the optimism in 1999."Quizzed about the current pessimism of the markets, and although he doesn't name names, Bezos has sharp words for some of his rival e-commerce ventures."It's clear now that there were certain companies that were over-hyped. They were focusing not on building a great business but on building stock, that never works."I think now US investors are more discriminating - they are looking more closely on how a business is likely to develop rather than how its stocks will fare."I wondered what Bezos thought of the UK's own e-commerce industry and in particular its flagship, Lastminute.com, but he's keeping his opinions to himself. "If you say positive things about other websites they use it against you, while saying nasty things just isn't very nice."Predictably Bezos moves the conversation back to his own British website Amazon.co.uk.
"You know we have the biggest website in the UK don't you! Well do you know who our biggest competitor is?"Before I have time to answer he's informed me that "Amazon.co.uk's biggest rival is none other than its US parent site Amazon.com" - cue the morning's heartiest chuckle so far.Bezos has, in the past, been portrayed as a bit of a nerd with a passion for books and sleep.
He certainly has a quirky side to his personality. Until the recent birth of his first child he lived in a small two-bedroom apartment in Seattle. He's also notorious in America for being the boss who encourages his employees to make their own desks. And yes he's famous for insisting that he gets eight hours sleep a night.However, anyone expecting Amazon's CEO to be a hippiesque Ben and Jerry style businessman is way off the mark.Strip away Bezos' comfortable shoes and casual shirt and you'll uncover a surprisingly old school entrepreneur clearly driven by a desire to make money.Asked what advice he would give to college graduates keen to start their own e-business, he answers with a statement that seems completely at odds with the get-rich quick schemes that prevail in the UK's own Silicon Alley in Brick Lane, east London."I'd say to anyone who wants to run a successful e-commerce company - go out and get an education. Spend 5-10 years in a decent company and learn using someone else's dollars - only then will you be ready to go for it on you own."And while he admits to being "completely passionate about books", Bezos argues that when setting up Amazon he chose his product category systematically."I had a list of around 10 products that I thought Amazon could sell. I chose books as there are so many different types of books available. I thought I would have an advantage over bookshops purely by the range of books I was able to offer. If it made sense to sell kayaks rather than books I would have sold kayaks."Ironically, kayaks could soon be on the Amazon agenda. Although perceived largely as a book e-tailer in the UK, Amazon.co.uk mirrors its US counterpart in also offering CDs, DVDs and videos.At the end of last year it added the Z stores to its portfolio offering Britons cheap cut-price deals on electronic hardware, toys and kitchen appliances. Bezos dreams of turning Amazon into the world's largest electronic shopping mall with a massive range of virtual shops selling everything from gadgets to dishwashers. In the US, the Amazon website regularly ships enormous TVs and massive tool kits - and, in spite of my cynicism, Bezos can't see any reason why he can't repeat that formula here."When people buy an enormous TV they don't just put it in the car at the shop and drive home, it has to be delivered. So I can't see why Britons won't buy large items from Amazon," he says.
Very soon Amazon will move into same-day delivery of books and possibly other items in the UK. It has experiments up and running in London and hopes to expand the service to most major UK conurbations within a year. Bezos is a firm believer in the right of people in central locations to be able to order and receive smaller packages within two hours.Of course, delivery costs will be a little more than a couple of his beloved Royal Mail stamps (he loves our postal service), but Bezos is confident that whether it be financial analysts requiring books for research, or simply forgetful businessmen ordering a last minute anniversary present for their wives, Britons will pay.It's ironic that it's his consumers' insatiable demand for instant access to his products that could pose the biggest threat to Bezos's business.In the future, online delivery of music via MP3 or video via broadband services could seriously eat into Amazon's future profit-margin. Then there's the growth of downloading books into personal organiser devices like the Palm.Bezos doesn't seem overly concerned. His strategy involves embracing new technology - Amazon is one of the key players in the book download sector - while continuing with core businesses. Or as he puts it: "I'd like to see the day when they can email big power tools!"
Another key element of Amazon's UK strategy centres around Wap phones. Bezos  is no stranger to Wap phones and, while he fingers my model, admits to being a little jealous of the "fantastic phones you have in the UK which are far superior to the US ones".Amazon was in on the Wap revolution from day one and is available on most internet phone services. Bezos believes that service will come into its own when phones are delivered with large screens.He is also excited by the opportunities afforded by interactive TV."I see interactive TV as delivering to Amazon to the kind of customers who'd never buy a PC," he explains. "The key, though, is to offer the consumer what they want:  full internet access. I have no time for these limited walled garden systems."With Bezos about to tuck into his breakfast (he goes to work on an egg), I fired the two questions that I'd been itching to ask him from the start of the interview.If you had to recommend one book to all Amazon's customers, what would it be?Without hesitation Bezos names Kazuo Ishiguro's Remains Of The Day and seems genuinely disappointed when I reveal I haven't read it but have only seen the film. "Go back home and order a copy," he instructs. "You can get it from Amazon.co.uk!" Once again Bezos explodes into fits of laughter.Finally I wondered if Bezos has any plans to do something special on the day Amazon finally makes a profit?For a second the CEO of the world's biggest on-line retailer looks bemused. It's clearly something he's never really thought about, which does worry me slightly.Just as I'm about to suggest that I think the big day should be celebrated by illuminating Seattle's famous Space Needle building, he gets called away. I'm gutted, because I reckon that line would have kept him chuckling all the way home.
The regulation of investigatory powers bill continues to be branded as a "massive extension of the state's power to spy on citizens" (Leader, June 12). This bill does not introduce new powers. It does, however, update the law enforcement agencies existing and highly regulated powers to fight organised criminals exploiting developing communications technology. A warrant, signed by the home secretary, will be needed to monitor emails in the same way one is needed now to monitor communications.Conspiracy theorists must not be allowed to get away with the ridiculous notion that law enforcement would or even could monitor all emails. The intelligence agencies have neither the inclination nor the resources, nor the legal ability to monitor the massive amounts of electronic communications that flow through the UK every day. It does not happen with letters or telephones and it will not with emails.The bill will increase accountability in accordance with the European Conven tion of Human Rights and the principles underpinning our own judicial procedures. Organised criminals, not the law enforcement agencies, infringe civil liberties - the civil liberties of victims of crime.John AbbottDirector general, National Criminal Intelligence ServiceYour leader could do far more to drive e-commerce overseas than you allege the regulation of investigatory powers (RIP) bill would. Its conclusions are based on myths pedalled by those who know they are untrue but believe in a world where criminals do not use the internet.RIP does not usher in an era of unfettered mass surveillance. It ensures that vital law enforcement powers such as interception - which are not new - are more comprehensively regulated than before.Not all Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in the UK will be asked to provide an intercept capability. This requirement applies to all telephone companies now and only a small number have a standing capability. Similarly, only a small proportion of ISPs may be required to have such a capability in the future. We want a level playing field across the communications industry and we're examining closely the question of costs. Parliament will have a closer look at our detailed intentions in scrutinising the secondary legislation under this bill.On encryption keys, we expect the disclosure of plain text to be sufficient in most cases. This is especially true of legitimate businesses. But in the event that key confidentiality is breached, an individual may sue, as you would expect. The bill does not threaten e-commerce in the UK - we are ensuring that UK cyberspace provides the best and the safest environment in which to conduct e-commerce.You call for "citizens' safeguards" to be built into the legislation - they are, and this is what RIP is all about. You ask if we pledge to make the UK the best environment for e-commerce - we have, and this bill will ensure UK cyberspace is also the safest.Charles Clarke MPMinister of state, Home Office
Have we gone from dot.com to dot.bomb, or is the internet market finally starting to grow up? Consider the evidence: collapsed internet clothes retailerBoo.comreportedly ended up going for just &#163;250,000 in a fire sale this month. Initial public offerings, once the glitzy debutante balls of the net business world, are being pulled. Even launches of high profile web brands like search siteAltaVistahave been postponed.With a PriceWaterhouseCoopers report predicting that up to a quarter of British dot.coms may fail in coming months due to poor management structures, investors are spooked in the technology and internet sector. Since the April 14 market fall, Britain's Techmark index of technology companies has dipped up to 50% below March levels, the Nasdaq has dropped to 40% below peak, and the German Neuermarkt has been up to 35% off.Lastminute.comwhich opened with such high hopes when it floated in March at an issue price of 380p, was hovering around 160p-170p this week.Many analysts feel it's a case of the market finally realising net companies need to put some business into the business plan."It may be a new economy, but you can't buck certain basic business tenets," says John Soder, co-author of the PriceWaterhouseCoopers report. The problem isn't just the vast amount of cash the typical internet company seems to need. "Start-ups are   about spending money," he says. "The important thing is that they clearly know what they're spending it on."For many dot.coms, the cash seems primarily to have gone towards lavish and often unjustifiable advertising budgets, particularly in the US. The ads fueled the hype, which accelerated the speed at which a dot.com could go public and investors cash in.Britain was only just beginning to get a taste of this IPO fever before the crash. In Silicon Valley, the IPO has been a fetish event for years, a rite of passage into the macho land of shares, dividends and Nasdaq nomenclature. Dot.com mania encouraged quick IPOs by companies that had been in existence less than a year; companies were even announcing the probable timetable for their IPO at their launch parties.So now, many pre-IPO companies actually say the downturn is a relief. "The IPO was starting to be an event that was far out of proportion to a company's history," says Jamie Rapperport, CEO of Silicon Valley office administrator portal Officeclick.com. "I wouldn't want to go public now. But I think, that's fine. You continue to grow your business. In a way, this helps more than it hurts. Things were getting a little frothy, to say the least.""If you're seriously building a business, the IPO is just a marker, not the summit," says Mike Feenwick, director of British communications portal Yac.com. In March, he indicated that Yac.com might go public later this year. Now, he says, such a move would be extremely ambitious. "I think a lot of companies are going to IPO too early," he says. "New companies with young management can be led into it - the public always likes an IPO."Such public sentiment can be valuable for a new company, says Mike Newlands, CEO of California online pioneer Wine.com. "A successful IPO certainly gives a lot of momentum, not just on the finance side, but on the whole event side," he says. "There's a lot of energy, and it can be very strong as a branding element. But the hype about it had gotten out of control."Newlands claims that the market drop "is very good for a company like ours" because it lets them shine against companies with weak management and no vision. "Before, companies without long term, viable business models were getting funded," he says. Now, those will die off, leaving a leaner, more realistic net business landscape.Or, they won't get funded in the first place. Since the market drop, venture capital firms have grown insistent upon solid business plans, according to many media reports. But one Silicon Valley entrepreneur says the money men and women have never cared much about the standard three-page business plan that all Valley net mil lionaire hopefuls cart around the VC offices. "It's just a little test that proves you're serious," he says, so you have to have it.Having gone through the search for funding himself - and failed, only to see a group with the same idea receive $25m - he says VCs place more value on who makes up the management team, which he didn't realise at the time. After all, truly new ideas are rare.So when will the pre-IPO crowd go to market? Steve Cole, founder and director of UK retail site Streetsonline. co.uk, reflects the CEO consensus: "We'll go to the market when the time is right and it can really give us value for what we have to offer. It won't do that right now."After 14 years in the software business, Cole is philosophical. "The present-day corrections are indicative of a bit of overheating," he says. "During that overheating process there were funding mistakes. It's no different from the hardware market of the 80s. But out of this will come the Logicas, the Ciscos, the Apples, the IBMs of this sector. The good companies always win through."Newlands agrees. "Companies with good models will always be able to go to market." Even the still-  effervescent dot.coms?"Both consumers and business have spoken - the internet is an important part of the future of industry."
Last week's deal between the recording industry giants Warner Music and BMG and the online music upstartMP3.comis the first signal of a rapprochement between the old and new models of distributing music. The deal permits MP3.com to store consumers' digital record libraries and provide access to them. In return, MP3.com will pay roughly $20m to each company, along with a licensing fee for use of the music online.Although the agreement hardly settles the music industry's pressing concerns about digital music piracy, it does at least show that both sides of the digital divide have recognised that they will be better off working with each other, rather than in opposition.The settlement means consumers will be able to listen only to music they have already purchased and posted on the site. It does not give them carte blanche to download or swap music they do not own - an issue that many believe will threaten the very survival of the industry unless it changes fundamentally.Two recent reports have shown that digital music   piracy is a real threat to revenue. According to a study from Reciprocal, a digital rights management company, sales of recorded music near US university campuses were down 4% percent last year compared to a 12% rise in music sales nationally.According to Soundscan, a company that provides sales data to the music industry, this disparity is a clear indication that wildly popular online services likeNapster,GnutellaandScour.netthat allow consumers to locate and download music files for free are having an impact. Most worrying for the industry, of course, is that today's students are tomorrow's earners and the habit of free music may be hard to break.Worse, a second study showed the practice of mass piracy is not restricted to students. According to the Pew Internet Project, an estimated 13 million Americans have downloaded music for free. That figure represents 14% of all US internet users nearly half of whom are aged 18 to 29. By comparison, fewer than 2 million have paid to download music."Millions of Americans have joined the online music revolution in recent months because it's simple, it's free, and so far nobody's stopping them," says Lee Rainie, director of the project to study the internet's effect on society. Freeloading, he added, is a "huge threat to the music industry and it is a harbinger of the trouble the internet will pose to other forms of entertainment". Though neither of the findings is unexpected, they have added to the pressure on the industry to develop a new business model at a time when many analysts predict technological advances could render copyright laws unenforceable.The big four music conglomerates are now pursuing "pay-for-play" or related schemes that   would allow them to retain some sense of control even though, as is widely perceived, they cannot expect to sustain the role of sole gatekeeper to music.The dilemma facing the music business is typified by the divergent attitudes to the new digital world expressed by those who have profited greatly from the old system. The high-profile lawsuit bought by Metallica against Napster and digital piracy has found an opposing champion in Kurt Cobain's widow, Courtney Love.At a seminar last week, the outspoken rocker - who is trying to terminate her contract with her record company - sided with Napster, saying: "Stealing an artist's music without paying for it is absolute piracy. And I'm talking about major-label recording contracts, not Napster."She is not alone among musicians who see the enemy as record companies that offer contracts with single figure royalty rates and insist on owning copyright to most songs. Others in a loose pro-Napster coalition include rock bands like the Offspring and Limp Bizkit and rappers like Chuck D and the Beastie Boys. Some mid-career artists like Aimee Mann have found liberation in ditching their record companies in favour of selling directly to fans via the web.Only artists with a proven market value can expect to survive in the clutter of the internet, say record execs, and even then could hardly hope to muster the marketing muscle to produce a big hit. "They don't have the clout as one artist to get the kind of broad-reaching breakthrough on the internet on a worldwide basis," says Kevin Conroy, head new technology at BMG Entertainment.This is true, but the rules of the game are changing and, with the partial acceptance of the industry that it must change or be left without a business, the settlement between MP3.com and two of the largest music concerns is significant progress.
A possible future for the internet is that humans and computers will grow together to form what biologists might term a single symbiotic life-form.Such a setup exists between certain one-celled algae and a filamentous fungus forming a network which the algae inhabit. If one component dies, the other cannot survive. The compound creatures are called lichens. Only recently was it realised that they are not straightforward life-forms, but symbiotic compounds of two totally different forms.Neither are humans, and vertebrates generally, straightforward life-forms. Our cells contain actively metabolising bodies called mitochondria which are essential to our remaining alive. They are simplified remote descendants of archaic free-living bacteria.An evolutionary pattern that has been followed several times cannot be excluded as a possible model for humans and their rapidly evolving electronic partner. The only significant difference is that the internet is not a life-form. But it has many features in   common with life forms, including susceptibility to virus infections.Could the internet develop a consciousness of sorts? If so why, how, when, and what are the possible repercussions?If one thinks of the future human-internet complex as a single organism sustained by the symbiosis of ancestrally different components, then the answer has to be "to a degree yes, since the participating human brains are assumed to be conscious". But could the networked computers also attain some significant degree of "corporate" consciousness. - even purposes of its own? Both human and machine components might remain largely unaware of the goals and constraints governing the new super-agent's high- speed meditations.Most computer users would agree that if only computers could be programmed with a bit more of the equivalent of self-awareness, trying to communicate with them would be less frustrating.My Microsoft Windows, like everybody's, has such poor powers of introspective report on what it is doing, or failing to do, that I sometimes want to say: "For God's sake talk sense. Concentrate, Thinkpad Junior! And stop repeating that error message. Repeating obvious nonsense doesn't make it true!"Big software companies are aware of this problem. The following internal email originates from a Microsoft R &amp; D lab: "The user interface group at Microsoft Research is working to develop an assistant-like interface... This project, which we're calling Persona, will try to produce the illusion of a conscious being in a machine."My own recent work in collaboration with Claude Sammut at the University of New South Wales is along this same line. An early stage is described in Putting A Personality In A PC in Online, June 23 1999.The individual PC user could certainly do with a fully fashioned intelligence under the bonnet, complete with consciousness, and certain natural-language skills. But a   machine-type consciousness is what we chiefly want. At a pinch, we can always get human-type from tech support, although a little human-type gloss faked up by the machine would certainly enhance the user's comfort. It would be nice if he or she could say, free-style: "But can you tell me more about just where you're hurting? I do hope you still feel OK in your file allocation table area!"Consciousness here means introspective rumination, self-report, question-answering about goals, and articulation by the machine of its own decisions and states.Shallow consciousness (faked-up human-type) already has an avid commercial market, addressed by the rise of the chatbots. These programs are fun, but also have serious roles, as in computer-aided language learning. Web-based facilities for "Practice your English conversation skills" could, if coherent enough, become a world-wide draw.Back, then, to the internet question. Could the net itself become self-aware by summation of the mutual awarenesses of its constituent electronic and biological agents?There is a Catch 22.If it doesn't become self-aware it will, through insufficient transparency, become impossible to regulate. If it does, then we may have to watch out - not for some sinister Big Brother centralisation but almost the opposite. I see a possible fragmentation, centred around warring bio-cybernetic empires. Giant multi-national man-computer complexes could wage the global competition game until the playing field is exhausted. Not a pretty sight in anyone's crystal ball!Anyone's crystal ball can be wrong, and usually is. But perhaps it's time to begin setting up markers against which to monitor possible shapes of our global future.&#149; Donald Michie is Professor Emeritus of machine intelligence at the University of Edinburgh
It's often said that the expanding videogame industry is beginning to resemble Hollywood with the big players such as Eidos and Infogrames dominating the scene like the old moguls.The gamers have also cottoned on to another celluloid trend: the remake. Just as Hollywood has seized on old classics like Psycho and reshot them, old favourites such as Pong and Asteroids have been spruced up and placed in front of PlayStation owners, many of whom would   have been in nappies when the originals appeared.However, giving a facelift to the simplistic likes of Centipede and Space Invaders is one thing. Remaking some of the more advanced game icons is entirely another matter, though one that an   increasing number of publishers are looking at.But just as remakes like Psycho shot in colour pale in comparison with the revered originals and flopped at the box office, so have videogame remakes suffered. A recent PlayStation remake of highly   regarded 80s oddity Sentinel failed to recreate either the sales figures or the beguiling atmosphere of the original.Even worse was the truly awful PlayStation conversion of seminal 16-bit hit Sensible Soccer.So the imminent release of Speedball 2100, a PlayStation remake of Speedball 2, is causing a few jitters in the videogame world.Released in 1990 on the Amiga (a home computer with far superior graphics and sound than the PCs of the time) Speedball 2 is widely seen as a classic piece of gaming software. By making a future sport interesting it achieved something seen neither before nor since. Wearing gridiron style armour and encased in an indoor arena, two teams battled it out in a violent ice hockey/basketball hybrid. The simple rules - throw the ball into the opponents goal, defend yours - and smooth control, ensured both critical and commercial success.Unlike similar remakes, Speedball 2100 has been programmed by the original development team, the Bitmap Brothers. Head of development Steve Whittle sees this continuity as crucial. "Speedball 2 was our cherished title and the one that established us on the map," he says, "so we would not want to damage it in any way."Famous for its use of photo-shoots and credible musicians, the Bitmap Brothers team has bucked the traditional bedroom programmer image. Speedball 2 saw the programmers hitting their creative peak but since the 1996 PC strategy game, Z, there has been nothing. So why now?Whittle says an update of Speedball had always been planned but it took the emergence of the mass market PlayStation for the right conditions to emerge.Since the project was announced, the company has been swamped with emails demanding a Windows conversion but Whittle is wary. "There are relatively few games that work across both formats with PC owners tending to be older and more interested in strategy titles".He sees the PlayStation as the natural home for 2100's fast-paced action. "Speedball is perfect for post-pub sessions and for those who enjoy arcade style immediate play." There is a whole new audience for remakes of vintage titles.But Whittle strikes a cautionary note for those publishers who are looking to exploit any nostalgia bug. "Classic games were good for a reason and it's easy to try to change things, invariably the wrong things, too much."Speedball fans will hope he's followed his own advice.
While you're relaxing in a shady part of the garden and the kids are doing their homework on the net, your mobile phone rings: the boss wants an amended version of your heavyweight presentation. Both the PC and the phone line are in use, but who cares? You can use your notebook computer to fetch the file, quickly change the dollar figures to euros, and send it off without even going in to the house... if you have a wireless network.Because it's wireless, several computers can be connected without the cost of cabling and perhaps redecorating the house. And each computer can use any printer, scanner or other peripheral and share the internet connection. Not many people have wireless home networks now, but that's expected to change rapidly.Kurt Bauer, vice president of marketing at Proxim, one of the leading suppliers, says wireless sales are "closely tied to the arrival of broadband networking". Once people get a high-speed connection, whether ISDN, DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) or a cable modem, they want to share it. "Wireless is a great way to do it."It's not the cheapest way,   but it is convenient and easy to set up. Bauer claims "it only takes 10 mouse-clicks - mostly yes/no questions - and you're up and running."Wireless home networks have started to take off in the US, where the suppliers include Apple, Cisco, Intel, Proxim, Zoom Telephonics and 3Com. In the UK, Apple started shipping its Airport system at the end of January, while Elsa, a German company, has just started selling the AirLancer range for PCs. Some computer manufacturers already offer Proxim's Symphony products, and Bauer says they'll reach the high street later this year. Intel's AnyPoint system is already in US stores and could reach the UK next year.Both Cisco and 3Com are selling wireless networks to businesses and could target home users later. Cisco's Ian Milne, former managing director of Aironet Europe, a company Cisco bought in March, says: "Cisco will certainly be in that space: it's an obvious market to go to."Another reason why wireless networking has started to become more attractive is the growing support for the HomeRF (radio frequency) Working Group standard, which is backed by almost a   hundred suppliers. There is also the arrival of high speed 11Mbps wireless connections based on a new Ethernet networking standard, 802.11b.Apple's Airport (developed by Lucent), Elsa's AirLancer and 3Com's AirConnect are among the products based on the new standard.Proxim's Symphony range isn't yet HomeRF compliant (it has other models that are) and still runs at 1.6Mbps speed. But Bauer argues that "speed is less important when people are used to dial-up connections, and Symphony is more than adequate. What's more important is the 'out of the box' experience, the ease of use." But Proxim expects to get regulatory approval to run its system at 10Mbps later, while retaining support for voice, which 802.11b lacks. Proxim's vision is for one home network that supports everything, and it is working with Siemens to integrate DECT telephony.Although 1.6Mbps is very slow for an Ethernet network connection, it's still almost 30 times faster than a 56K modem. However, no Ethernet network ever runs at its theoretical maximum speed, and wireless network efficiency will vary with distance and the number of walls in the   way. An 11Mbps connection will probably work at about half that speed and may fall back to 2Mbps or even 1Mbps. But if this sounds pessimistic, in tests using Proxim's Symphony equipment, we were able to work more than 200ft from the house and still connect a laptop to the internet via the home network.Installing a wireless (or any other) network usually means opening your desktop PC to plug in an expansion card, though with notebook PCs and smaller machines, it's simply a matter of inserting a PC/ PCMCIA Card. Intel's AnyPoint range is different because it uses a USB (Universal Serial Bus) connector: plug in the external box and you have a 1.6Mbps wireless network. Access Points - base stations or hubs - may also be added to manage the communications on a wireless network and to connect networks together.Most wireless products will work with whatever internet   connection you have, whether it's an ISDN card, DSL or just a dial-up modem. In other words, if you invest in a wireless network - and they're not cheap - it won't become obsolete when you get a faster internet connection.Microsoft Windows CE machines and PocketPCs have wireless networking capabilities built in. Some handhelds simply can't be connected into wireless PC networks, but later they may be able to connect to mobile phones and other devices using Bluetooth, a short-range wireless system that uses the same 2.54GHz waveband.Bluetooth isn't a networking standard in the same way as IEEE 802.11, and has been designed mainly for point-to-point communications with one device at a time. However, Bluetooth devices will be able to form "ad hoc" networks so the two systems will overlap to some extent.Cisco's Milne reckons that the fixed channel Direct Sequence Spread Spectrum wireless technology used by Cisco/Aironet and similar products is better for the job than the frequency hopping approach adopted for Bluetooth and also used by Proxim's Symphony. Having devices hop in sync from frequency to fre quency avoids interference but reduces throughput. "Bluetooth is good for your personal area network," says Milne, "but if you need to communicate beyond that, you need to move to the next level up."It is not clear which type of networking and which wireless standard will be the winner, if any, or whether the different wireless systems will be able to talk to one another. But markets have to start somewhere, and it's usually by offering a product that solves an immediate problem.If you have two or more PCs or Macs, and at least one notebook computer, and want to share a high-speed internet connection, consider yourself a target.Web addressesHomeRF Working Groupwww.homerf.orgApplewww.apple.com/ukElsawww.elsa.co.ukor phone 08000 563445Proximwww.proxim.com
Homely viewHomecheck could put you off your house, which may not be such a good idea if you're already mortgaged to the eyebrows, but could save you a    fortune if you're about to buy.Homecheck.co.ukis very easy to use: type in a postcode and Homecheck provides information on possible environmental risks, such as contamination from old industrial sites, landfill sites, radon gas, subsidence and flooding.Start hereThe Guardian's website now offers newbies somewhere to start surfing. The annotated directory has 10 sections covering topics such as Family life, Food and drink, Health and fitness, Money, Society    and Travel. Seehttp://lifeonline.guardianunlimited.co.ukLook thereDVTV (Digital Versatile Television) claims it will be the UK's first internet-based TV broadcaster when it finally goes live today. Visitors towww.DVTVchannel.comwill also have access to archived material. The programmes are original and aimed at 18-35 year olds. Topics include music, dance, animation, extreme sports, arts and media, fashion, travel, street culture, trends and computer gaming.Move ITMobileID, an American company, has launched a European service for net users with mobile phones and personal digital assistants, and it's giving away a web browser for Palm and Handspring handhelds. The site also provides free email, web space, and personalised content. Seewww.mobileid.com.Eat your spamTam Thompson, former marketing director at Planet Hollywood,is now serving up spam and chips. You don't    want "spam" - advertising email - especially when it has multimedia content. However, the chips might change your mind, because Thompson's big idea is to pay users five chips for each one they read. Chips are apparently worth about a penny each and can be cashed or used to purchase items online atwww.spamandchips.co.uk.WelcomeThe Queen will open the Science Museum's Wellcome Wing at the end of the month, but you can get there first by paying it a virtual visit. The Wellcome site, linked fromwww.sciencemuseum.org.uk, starts with a Macromedia Flash intro then offers three levels of web technology: Slow, Very slow, and Couldn't you buy a faster computer?Read thisStephen King's success with an electronic book must have benefited Bookface Inc, though its new site atwww.bookface.comdoesn't offer them. Instead of downloads it provides texts that can be read online, including promotional chapters from some new books.Native portalsIf you need information about Mongolia, you might get it via Mongolia's leading search engine, if you knew its address.Search Engine Colossusoffers links to search engines in a large number of countries, thoughWorldSkipis probably the best place to start.Sue RexSue is a Tyrannosaurus Rex, or at least, a large T Rex skeleton unearthed by Sue Hendrickson in South Dakota. The Field Museum in Chicago has assembled the bones and also put together a very readable website atwww.fmnh.org/sue.Celebrity sitesFilm and TV star Michael J Fox and the Parkinson's Action Network (PAN) have combined to launch the Michael J Fox    Foundation forParkinson's Research website. Fox is a sufferer and it's a good use of celebrity status. Pity about the overindulgent page design.Melanie Griffith's Worldis a new site that should be scrapped and redone. However,One World Networksis probably too busy with other celebrity siteswww.oneworldlive.com/celebsearchin its Star Clubs series. MeanwhileDr Dreand former Beach BoyBrian Wilsonare less concerned with changing the world than flogging it CDs and concert tickets.Sex quizDoes surfing help spread venereal disease? The Denver Public Health Department and The Centres for Disease Control and Prevention wants to know the web's impact on the risk of STD/HIV infection, and is using a survey (seewww.sexquiz.org) to find out. The formal title is Soliciting Sex on the Internet: Online Risk Assessment Survey.New and notedZapperis yet another information utility designed to revolutionise the web.Firesendonly wants to revolutionise parcel delivery, althoughUniFormwould be happy just to flog you a trendy T-shirt. Invaluable has set up a community site atwww.invaluable.comfor collectors and people who buy things from auctions .
