The New York Timesasks this familiar question today, interviewing bigwigs at Ziff Davis and Future US about how the companies are attempting to maintain their print publications while increasing their online presence."If information is all that we require, the Web wins. Game over," said Simon Cox, the vice president for content at Ziff Davis Media's game group, which includes Electronic Gaming Monthly, a print magazine, and the 1UP Network, an online gaming portal. "But people want content and perspective."Consequently, Ziff Davis games magazines are now looking to offer longer, more in-depth features, including big cover exclusives, which can beat even the major websites to juicy new stories - a recent example being a 19 (19!) page Halo 3 article. We see this sort of thing in the UK mags, too, but it's questionable whether this really represents the best way for magazines to compete with online news sources. The New York Times piece quotes a writer for theGamedaily website, who claims that mammoth features don't get read as attention spans are way too short these days.Meanwhile, the editor of videogame journalism review site,VGMwatch, suggests that gamers are suspicious of these mega-features. "We're seeing situations where publishers are dangling exclusive stories in front of publications in exchange for scores for their products," he warns as though stumbling upon an entirely new phenomenon.Two years ago, I covered the state of the videogame print media on this very blog (gohere), arguing that magazines would have to change their whole structure if they were to accommodate more reflective, analytical articles. It seemed debatable at the time whether this was actually what readers wanted - the point made by the Gamedaily writer. And even if gamersdowant extended coverage, they can bypass the media altogether these days: lots of development studios now produce excellent blog-style dev diaries as well as podcasts.Perhaps it might be time to cut the strings between game and magazine publishers and start commissioning features with more critical bite. Instead of fawning 20-page previews of triple A titles, perhaps a few investigative pieces on working practices within dev studios? But then, bang goes your advertising.One solution Future UK has hit on is to 'leverage its brands' and maximise profit from faithful readers by producing special editions. Edge for example has recently produced a Retro special, an Art of Videogames special and three collections of classic issues - it's a strategy that has served the lifestyle magazine sector well, with several publications running special Fashion issues in the past.I think magazines do still have a valuable role to play. They're portable, easily navigable and -arguably- offer more reliable quality control in terms of writing. They provide a comparitively relaxing environment in which to read about and discover games. Screenshots look better. Magazines don't crash or freeze or require you to download a different media viewer or use a browser you don't have.But I'm in the last generation that feels this. The value I perceive is partly historical, partly nostalgic, partly selfish. It might be nothing to do with the future.
Firefox is open source, of course (based on the opening up of old Netscape code), but the company behind it is banking tens of millions of dollars a year from Google.The New York Timeshas some interesting details:According to Mozilla's 2006 financial records, which were recently released, the foundation had $74 million in assets, the bulk invested in mutual funds and the like, and last year it collected $66 million in revenue. Eighty-five percent of that revenue came from a single source -- Google, which has a royalty contract with Firefox.Despite that ample revenue, the Mozilla Foundation gave away less than $100,000 in grants (according to the audited statement), or $285,000 (according to Mozilla itself), in 2006. In the same year, it paid the corporation's chief executive, Mitchell Baker, more than $500,000 in salary and benefits. (She is also chairwoman of the foundation.)Ms Baker, a lawyer who has worked for Silicon Valley companies since the mid-1990s, said her compensation "is yet another example of Mozilla as a hybrid," adding that it made her "a poor stepchild, not even," compared to the leaders of other equally influential Silicon Valley companies.Poor Ms Baker. Google's co-founders are worth about $20 billion each and even theirmasseuseis a multimillionaire....
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
TheWikigamershave reached a crossroads. Bolstered by the completion of Chapter One (yes, you canplay itfrom start to finish now! Please do help though by reporting any bugs you may findhere), but daunted by the mountains of Chapters 2-5 looming ahead, they have become self-reflective, considering whether to press on or call it a day. This experiment started as an exercise in collective creativity - if other forms of media could develop entertainment output through Web 2.0, why not games? In the end, a few enthusiastic and dedicated gamesbloggers pushed the process forward and have learned something along the way. For DennisChow's excellent reflection of independent game development through the wiki medium, lookhereand learn.In sum:The free-thinking, Wisdom of Crowds, collective action ideal has metamorphosed into a kind of hierarchy with project managers creating the skeletons and scaffolding for the story and - certainly by the end - the masses (gamesbloggers) contributing significantly, but in dribs and drabs:I suggest that before we start work on actually designing ChapterTwo, we need to collectively come up with a synopsis for it that takes us (roughly) from start to finish. If the onemillionpenguins guys can come up with a full novel, I think we can come up with a brief chapter synopsis. Then we sketch a rough map, making gradual alterations to it as we come up with more puzzles and ideas.I think that writing up a decent chapter synopsis would probably alleviate a lot of the confusion that arose at around the week 6 stage, which was extremely damaging to not only the coherency and quality of the plot, but also the enthusiasm for the project. Another advantage of this is that the synopsis page would become a big focal point of the project, no longer would we have to ask willing contributors to wade through the organized chaos of the Wiki in order to help.We are hugely grateful for the contributions which the gamesbloggers have made based upon the requests of the designers, and the outpouring of creativity - in bite-sized chunks rather than big dreams - has produced some of the funniest (and most useful) content to date.I am eager to see how our protagonist gets on over the next few chapters and would like to press on, but recognise the manpower required to get through. I vote the Wikigamers continue towards text adventure nirvana according to the new approach outlined by Dennis and seconded by PhilWal onthis page, where the developers create the outline amongst themselves and ask for simple content contributions every week via these blog posts. We've come so far; it'd be a real shame to leave our clueless main character stuck on the train to the unnamed Village2!In the meantime, three cheers for WikiGame team for creating a playable product in record time.
Nintendo's new Wii "channel", called Check Mii Out,launches in the UK today, less than 24 hours after the US. The channel lets users show off their Mii avatars - you know, those characters you create for use in Wii games like Wii Sports - and vote and rate others. Sounds thrilling. Actually, putting cynicism aside for a moment, this could actually be quite amusing. Sure, it doesn't get close to the ambition of something like Sony's Home, or the all encompassing beauty of Xbox Live, but as a way of creating some sort of easy access Wii community this may be a success for Nintendo. Confident enough to show your Mii off, or really not bothered?
Back in the days when people aspired to write proper English, I was a devoted user of the Oxford English Dictionary on CD-Rom. Alas, times have changed, and my OED has been replaced by a website,Urban Dictionary, which is written by its users.The problem nowadays, of course, is that most of us continually run into slang terms and neologisms created by hackers and slackers, gamers and stoners, gangsta rappers, anime fans, drug abusers, sexual deviants and countless other subgroups, all with their own choice bits of jargon.Urban Dictionary aspires to define all these words. It also takes in vast numbers of names and catchphrases from games, movies, and television programmes such as The Simpsons (D'oh!). If you have mysteriously missed out on Master Chief, Jar Jar Binks, J-Lo or their latest equivalents, you can look them up here.If you are a n00b (newbie), you can look up 1337 (elite) terms such as h4xx0r, lamer, pr0n and pwnage - w00t! If you're otaku, you can find definitions for anime, cosplay, hentai, kawaii, manga, Naruto and many more. There's also a sprinkling of txt and IM (instant messaging) abbreviations such as brb, g2g, lol, omg, wtf, cya and l8er.But a very large number of definitions are sexual in nature. This doesn't really make the site NSFW (Not Safe For Work) because there are no pictures. However, it does mean it's only suitable browsing for the very broadminded.Urban Dictionary was started by Aaron Peckham as a way of collecting new words and definitions. Anybody can define a word or phrase, though you also have to provide an example of its use, a few related words, and a working email address.Nonetheless, plenty of entries seem to be pure fiction - or impure fiction, given their frequently sexual nature. Goodness only knows what the site's volunteer editors keep out, given what they allow in.Many words have multiple definitions, and users can vote on them. This is as simple as clicking a thumbs up icon to vote a definition up the list, or a thumbs down icon to vote it down.This generally works well, though sometimes the best definition is voted down. Still, reading at least the first two or three entries should be more than enough to get the idea.If you mainly want the amusement value, you can sign up to get the Urban Word of the Day in your mailbox or RSS reader.There are also two compilations in book form: Urban Dictionary: Fularious Street Slang Defined, and Mo' Urban Dictionary: Ridonkulous Street Slang Defined.But the site has also found plenty of serious uses. It has even been used in the high court in the UK, in a case involving the lyrics to a song by the Heartless Crew.Men in horsehair wigs had to decipher phrases such as "mish mish man" and "shizzle my nizzle" which are in the Urban Dictionary, along with "Back in the days". Which is where we came in.
For anyone with a case of mild Facebook addiction, finding the time to squeeze a little work in between messing around online has become one of the great challenges of the 21st-century office. So if you are taking a quiet moment at work to read this online, steal a glance over your shoulder now: an investigation by the Guardian has found that employers are taking an increasingly draconian line on workplace time-wasters.More than 1,700 public employees have been sacked or disciplined for internet or email misuse in the past three years, our research has found.The figures - obtained from 65 institutions - show how strongly employers are clamping down on staff who spend hours on social networking sites such as Facebook, MySpace and Bebo.Unions say that disputes over the sites are growing at a phenomenal rate and have demanded clearer guidelines for their use. Studies have shown that up to &pound;130m a day in productivity is lost because of the sites, with Facebook's British members spending an average of 143 minutes a month logged in.Other common offences include excessive use of other websites or email, viewing "inappropriate" material such as pornography and the forwarding of offensive emails. An increasing number of employers now attempt to ban sites they consider inappropriate. Government departments have been among the most unforgiving. The Ministry of Justice (MoJ), formally the Department for Constitutional Affairs, dismissed 30 employees while the Department for Work and Pensions reprimanded 313.An MoJ spokesman said that the offenders had been in clear breach of the department's IT procedures and, in some cases, its equality and diversity rules. Personal internet use is only allowed if sanctioned by a line manager.The Metropolitan police disciplined 187 staff while Hertfordshire police gave formal warnings to 25 after an offensive video clip was circulated. The TUC has criticised employers who clamp down too heavily on staff without  properly fleshing out guidelines for what constitutes reasonable conduct. A spokesman said: "Social networking at work is a recent problem and it's growing at a phenomenal rate. But employers are often not setting a standard as to what level of internet use is acceptable."The figures, obtained under the Freedom of Information Act, show that in the past three years at least 1,722 public employees were disciplined for internet or email misuse. A total of 132 were sacked, 41 resigned, 868 got formal warnings and 686 received other forms of warning or punishment, such as a reduction in rank or a fine. The data came from 65 government departments, police forces and local councils.A spokesman for the Local Government Association said: "Councils will take a no-nonsense approach to anyone who uses the internet in work time to download inappropriate or offensive material. Councils have a duty to ensure that employees are working for the council taxpayer as that is who pays their wages."Cary Cooper, a professor of organisational psychology and health at Lancaster University, said that managers should be realistic. "Britain has some of the longest working hours in the developed world. Employers have created this culture. It is natural for people to have to use work computers for organising their personal life." Social networking has boomed over the past 12 months. Facebook alone now has more than 5 million regular users in the UK.A spokesman said: "While we respect the decision of employers to put website policies into place, we also encourage them to consider the important role Facebook plays in people's daily lives."Caught in the act&middot;Metropolitan police officers in Lewisham were in hot water last summer after posting a bizarre series of video clips on Facebook. One revealed that he loved his job because "I get to hit people with a stick."&middot;Nine workers were sacked by Neath Port Talbot council this year after spending up to two hours a day on eBay.&middot;140 officers and staff of Hertfordshire constabulary were caught up in an investigation last year after a video from the United States showing a man being decapitated was circulated.&middot;Former IBM employee James Pacenza, 58, is suing the firm for &pound;2.5m in the US after he was fired for visiting an adult chatroom - claiming he is a chatroom addict because of stress arising from seeing his best friend killed in the Vietnam war.
Europe's internet users are spending 12 hours a week online, an hour more than last year, with 16- to 24-year-olds - a crucial audience for advertisers - increasingly logging on rather than watching TV, according to research released today.Social networking has taken off, with 42% of internet users regularly visiting sites such as Bebo and Facebook compared with 23% last year. Two years ago the number was so small it did not register as a separate category in the annual survey by the European Interactive Advertising Association (EIAA).An increase in usage of instant messaging and the message functions of social networks has led to a decrease in email. The EIAA's Mediascope Europe survey shows 81% of surfers say they have sent an email at least once a month over the past year, down from 85% in the 2006 survey.The survey of more than 7,000 specially selected people across 10 European countries, shows users are spending an average of nearly 12 hours a week on the internet.The Italians are the heaviest users, with an average 13.6 hours, followed by the Swedes on 13 hours and the French on 12.7 hours. The British - in seventh place - spend 12 hours a week, up from 11.3 hours in 2006. The Dutch are last on 9.8 hours.Of the 169 million Europeans online, eight out of ten are using broadband, helping to explain the rise in popularity of online video and TV services, which need fast connections. Almost a third of European web users have watched a TV, film or video clip, compared with 12% last year. A fifth have downloaded a video. The boom has raised concerns that there could be a capacity crunch. Research by internet networking group Cisco this year forecast internet traffic will quintuple from 2006 to 2011, driven by video services. Cisco reckons internet video streaming and downloading will grow from 9% of all consumer internet traffic in 2006 to 30% in 2011.The EIAA study shows the effect on TV viewing, especially among the youth audience which is using the internet more often than TV for the first time. The survey shows that 82% of 16- to 24-year-olds use the web between five and seven days a week while only 77% watch TV as regularly - a drop of 5% from last year.The survey - conducted by Synovate, part of Aegis - shows that the real growth in internet usage over the past year has been among women and the 55-plus age group with a 12% rise in the number of so-called "silver surfers", aged 55 and above, who use the web at least once a week. The number of women using the internet at least once a week has grown 8%.
Fed up with Facebook? Fear not. There is a new website in town perfect for whiling away those long office hours. Better still, you can brush up on your vocabulary while helping to feed the world's poor. Or so Freerice.com promises.Here is how it works: A word appears along with four possible definitions. Choose the right one and the website donates the cost of 10 grains of rice to the United Nations World Food Programme. How? By taking money from advertisers whose brand name flashes across the bottom of the screen.The better you do, the harder the clue. On one sitting, the first word is pollute with the options 'nap', 'refute', 'contaminate' or 'incinerate'. A few dozen words on and this time the player is faced with anthropomorphic and given the options 'piercing', 'humanlike', 'submissive' or 'nourishing'.Freerice.com launched on 7 October and a measly 830 grains of rice were donated to charity that day. By  last week the daily amount had hit 77m. The  game has even made it into the Washington Post, which asked: 'What if just knowing what a word meant you could help feed hungry people around the world?' With brands including American Express, Apple and Toshiba lapping up the advertising, maybe it can.
it looks as though the music clips will only be 30 seconds long. This will be a blessed relief with Radio 1's Chart Show, which will offer "clips of the hits played on the show along with the run down of the Top 40". Even 30 seconds per clip could be too long for some programs, such as 1Xtra UK Garage Top 10. However, in many cases it could make the podcasts more annoying than interesting.The BBC says:From Saturday, November 17, the portfolio expands to offer podcasts including Folk &amp; Acoustic with Mike Harding from Radio 2, Stuart Maconie's Freak Zone from 6 Music and the Asian Network Chart. 1Xtra has podcasts from a range of music genres including hip hop, dancehall and garage.The full list of music podcasts is below. Presumably they will appear on thedirectory.The BBC reckons it was "the first British broadcaster to podcast when it offered Radio 4's 'In Our Time' as a podcast in November 2004." It now offers more than 120 speech-only titles.Radio 1 Chart Show BBC Radio 1 Radio 1 Punk Show BBC Radio 1 Radio 1 Rock Show BBC Radio 1 Radio 1 Indie Weekly BBC Radio 1 Radio 1 Dance Weekly BBC Radio 1 Zane Lowe's Hottest Records BBC Radio 1 Radio 1 Mini Mix BBC Radio 1 1Xtra RnB Top 10 BBC 1xtra 1Xtra Drum &amp; Bass Top 10 BBC 1xtra 1Xtra Dancehall Top 10 BBC 1xtra 1Xtra Hip Hop Top 10 BBC 1xtra 1Xtra UK Garage Top 10 BBC 1xtra Paul Jones Rhythm And Blues BBC Radio 2 Folk &amp; Acoustic with Mike Harding BBC Radio 2 Music Club with Simon Mayo BBC Radio 2 Asian Network Music Chart BBC Asian Network Friction: New British Asian Music BBC Asian Network Jazz Library BBC Radio 3 Stuart Maconie's Freak Zone BBC 6 Music
Way back in September, I wroteAdobe airs a new way of using the web offline, based on a couple of days of sessions with senior Adobe staff in California.Adobe techie Kevin Lynch said lots of interesting stuff, and Matt Nicholson, who was also on the trip, recently put up what looks like a 5,000 word transcript,Coming up for AIR. This include's Lynch's view of how AIR releates to Google Gears and Microsoft Silverlight.I haven't tried to track down everything that came out of the trip, but it's well worth reading Tim Anderson's piece,Adobe AIR: 10 reasons to love it, 10 reasons to hate it. Simon Bisson's take is atFlash, aah ooh!There was one minor interruption when a train parked on the street outside Adobe's San Francisco office, ignoring the sign that says No Parking Any Time. Unfortunately it moved before I could get San Francisco's finest to come and tow it away...
Carphone Warehouse Wimbledon -- one of many shots from the Dialaphone blogMost Britons failed to follow the American example and waste a couple of days queuing up for a product that wasn't in short supply, apart from a small number of oddballs outside the main Apple store in London, and even they didn't seem to have much of a clue why they bothered.The Dialaphone blog made fun of the Guardian's substantial coverage of the non-event -- which, Bobbie points out in a comment, was our Press Association news feed [corrected] -- iniPhone Crowds? Don't believe the hype!.In The Register, AndrewOrlowskyOrlowski had a go withTumbleweeds outnumber punters, as iPhone's First Night flops. He says:The UK iPhone launch had generated acres of newsprint, with papers outdoing each to signify the importance of the "event". But rarely have the media elites shown that they don't have a clue what they're doing.Failure to queue, of course, does not mean failure to buy.
Mini Clubman DPrice:&pound;15,400Miles per gallon:68.9Seats:5Good for:ContendersBad for:Pretenders'I think Richard III would have liked this Mini better than his own. It's purple and that's his colour...' my six-year-old daughter trails off in thought. The association between the murderous 'bunch-backed toad' so maligned by Shakespeare and BMW's multi-award winning Mini isn't as far fetched as you might think.You see, earlier that morning, at a medieval re-enactment at Castle Rising in Norfolk, we'd actually seen Richard III, wearing an ermine-trimmed velvet gown, getting out of his Mini. The year was 1483, and we'd spent the day wearing purple ribbons on our sleeves as we cheered on the King's best men with shouts of 'A York, a York' as they jousted and clashed staves with the Duke of Buckingham's men. And with all the treachery he faced, Richard could certainly have done with something as loyal and reliable as a Mini to depend on.Six years after first rolling off its production line at Plant Oxford, more than 1m Minis have now been sold and demand for the big-thinking small car shows no sign of waning. From Chile to China, it is sold in 80 countries - 80 per cent of the vehicles made in Oxford are for export. The facility employs 4,700 people who, along with a number of robots, build 700 cars a day.This year has now seen the launch of two new Minis: the Clubman estate and also a super-efficient diesel. The Clubman is just what you'd think - the slightly awkward addition of an estate box on to the back of what is already an over-stretched small car. The wardrobe rear doors are certainly cute, but to me it doesn't have half the charm of the old wood-battoned Mini Travellers. The diesel-powered Mini, however, makes use of some of BMW's cleverest fuel-saving tricks (and as of this month you can order a Clubman with the same savings). First up there is Brake Energy Regeneration, which recycles previously lost energy. Then there is the Intelligent Alternator Control, which reduces drag on the engine by only engaging when the battery needs to be charged - a traditional alternator takes power whether it needs it or not. (I told you they were a clever bunch.) Next up is the Auto Start-Stop Function. This switches the engine off whenever you put the car into neutral. To restart, you simply touch the clutch. Then there is the Switch Point Display which tells you which gear would be the most economical. Together these systems push your fuel consumption towards the mythical 70 mpg, though I only managed 49 mpg - still a figure to give a Texan oil-man palpitations.Back to 1483 though, and after some traditional 15th-century games - tug o' war, arse-kicking and a little slapcock, we wave as Richard III heads into a 21st-century sunset in his own, ever-loyal Mini.martin.love@observer.co.uk
In previous weeks, our roundup of what you've been reading has been something of a pick n mix - lots of different things for you to read. But there was only one story in town this week - the iPhone.Our biggest story was a little number givingthe lowdown on the iPhone, followed closely by my extendedreview, and the review byStephen Fry.Also in the top were Oliver Burkeman's reportfrom the Apple storeandthe pledge from hackersto unlock it as soon as the new 1.1.2 firmware as soon as they can.Outside the iPhone bubble - and a long way back - the biggest stories wereGoogle AndroidandBritain being a nation of bloggers. Intriguingly, our gallery on theSeven Ages of Steve Jobsalso saw a resurgence on the back of iPhone interest.On the blogs, meanwhile, we debated the ins and outs offilesharing studiesand took a look atsex and rivalry in MMOs.
The Apple iPhone arrived in the UK on Friday and evoked a predictable spectrum of responses - from ecstatic boosterism to technophobic spluttering. The Daily Mail said Carphone Warehouse expected to sell 10,000 on the first day, which may or may not be connected with the fact that Carphone CEO Charles Dunstone sits on the board of the Mail's holding company. Personally, I wouldn't be surprised if Carphone achieved its  target, because no phone in history has had so much advance publicity. But why? It's only a phone, isn't it?Yes and no. Yes in the sense that it enables its user to make voice calls, like any other mobile phone. No, in the sense that it's the most powerful computer ever shoehorned into such a small and elegant package. All mobile phones are small computers, but most run Mickey Mouse operating systems tailored to the limited requirements of a phone. The significant thing about the iPhone is that it runs a version of Unix - Berkeley Software Distribution or BSD, a proper operating system that powers not only Apple's personal computers, but also industrial-strength servers across the world. If you're a techie, you can log into the iPhone using a terminal, and when you do, you see a proper Unix machine. And at that point you begin to see the device in a new light. You also begin to ask some hard questions about the mobile phone business. And about Apple.Let's start with Apple. Proud owners of its powerful new micro-computers can use them only on a single network - O2. Anyone who hacks an iPhone to liberate it from that stranglehold is likely to find the device disabled ('bricked' is the colourful term) the next time they synchronise it with their PC. This is because Apple has a deal with O2 that ensures a tidy payment (the US equivalent is rumoured to be $11 a month) for every iPhone registered with it. So Apple has deliberately crippled the iPhone to ensure a cosy revenue stream, and the hapless consumer - who has paid &pound;269 plus an 18-month contract - is barred from harnessing its full potential.It gets worse. The iPhone has a wonderful wi-fi system, which sniffs out wireless networks wherever it goes, and effortlessly hooks up with them. Purchase of an iPhone gives users automatic access to the thousands of wi-fi points run across the country by a company called The Cloud. Given that Skype internet telephony software runs on Apple Macs, there's no reason why the iPhone can't be used to make Skype (or other VoIP) calls whenever it's in range. But again, the device has been crippled to preclude this  - because the last thing O2  wants is customers using their mobiles to make free internet calls.Until now, phones have been relatively primitive devices, so the corrupt absurdity of the closed systems operated by networks has not been obvious to most. The arrival of the iPhone lays it bare. Having an iPhone locked to a network which doesn't provide 3G connectivity, and is unable to make VoIP calls despite having good wireless networking built in, is like buying a Ferrari and finding that the only thing you can do with it is power your lawnmower. It's nuts - and our regulators have allowed it to happen.In fact, it's worse than nuts. Writing in the Wall Street Journal recently, veteran commentator Walt Mossberg described the mobile networks as the last vestiges of the Soviet industrial model. 'Like the old bureaucracies of communism,' he wrote, 'they sit athwart the market, breaking the link between the producers of goods and services and the people who use them. To some extent, they try to replace the market system and, like the real Soviet ministries, they are a lousy substitute. They decide what phones can be used on their networks and what software and services can be offered on those phones. They require the hardware and software makers to tailor their products to meet the carriers' specifications, not just so they work properly, but so they promote the carriers' brands and their various add-on services.'Mobile networks shouldn't be allowed to pick and choose what phones run on their systems, or what software and services run on those phones. What we need, as Mossberg argues, is a mobile device ecosystem that mirrors the PC/internet one - where  purchase of network capacity is separate from purchase of the hardware and software used on it. Otherwise we'll wind up with Ferrari-powered lawnmowers for the foreseeable future.Mossberg's right. Ofcom, are you listening?
As Tolstoy might have put it, had destiny only taken him into car journalism, all new sports utility vehicles are alike, but some new SUVs are more alike in their likeness than others. In fact, some SUVs are exact replicas of one another, give or take a nose-badge and a few strips of chrome here or there.Consider, for example, the new Peugeot 4007. It represents the first time that Peugeot has ventured into the whole Chelsea Tractor/Paranoid Mum's Armoured Personnel Carrier genre, having been too busy, for the most part, building the kind of characterful hatchbacks that SUVs make life miserable for.With its chunky wheel arches and tinted windows, the 4007 is hardly, in appearance, a million miles away from the lofty Citroen C-Crosser, discussed in these pages a few weeks ago, and itself the first stab at an SUV that Citroen has made. And neither of these two models could be said to be mind-bendingly dissimilar from a third new SUV, the Mitsubishi Outlander.Lo and behold, the three cars turn out to have been built on the same factory platform in an innovative three-way share between the Peugeot-Citroen company (willing novice in this area of expertise) and the Mitsubishi Motors Group, which could bring some crucial specialist knowledge to the table, having, in its time, provided semi-redundant 4x4 technology to more paranoid mums than you could shake a stick at.And, given that the resulting three products are identical from their roof rails to their third rows of fold-flat seats (Tweedledum, Tweedledee and Tweedle-something else), it has been left to each company to express its individuality on the limited canvas represented by the body's front end.At Peugeot, clearly, someone has asked the question, "How can we make our version of this car distinct from the others, while still allowing it to speak appropriately to our brand?" And someone has answered, "I know: we can stick a whopping great Peugeot badge on the front of it, as big as we dare."And so they did. As a result, this must be as close as the Peugeot lion has ever got to being an actual-size model. If only they had thought to make it detachable, the badge on this car would usefully double as a picnic table.The 4007 is also separated by the now statutory modern Peugeot grille, grinning hard, like an extra in Cars. After that, though, give or take a nudge on the suspension, arranging these contenders in rank is anybody's game.Let's just note that, as with the Citroen, the 2.2 diesel version of the 4007 will yield a low-ish, almost conscience-salving emissions figure. It will also give you a split tailgate and just over 17.5cm of ground clearance, which, in the old days, would have been amply guaranteed to get you to the other side of any puddle you were likely to encounter but, these days, well, who knows?Still, if you got stuck and it was the Peugeot you were in, you could always wrench off the front badge and paddle upstream on it. On the basis of that, and pure prejudice about the brand, I would go for the Peugeot, but tossing a coin is almost certainly as reliable.Peugeot 4007 GT HDi 156Price&#163;25,490Top speed124mphAcceleration0-62 in 9.9 secondsConsumption38.7mpgCO[squared] emissions194g/kmEco rating4/10At the wheelJo 'Supernanny' FrostBound forHaverhillIn a wordSamey
Fridge Watcherfridgewatcher.comGiven the freedom to poke around a stranger's house, much as Loyd Grossman once did on Through The Keyhole before he became a Thai sauce king, there are several obvious places you'd look for clues - their bookshelves, CD collection and their fridge. This project deals with the latter and very simply asks people from all over the world to send in snaps of their chilled cabinets. So what do we learn? A great deal - Rob from Wales' neatness with cheese possibly indicates an obsessive personality, both Italians and Brazilians like their apples cold, Ukrainian yoghurt packaging is duller than South African yoghurt packaging and the ketchup in the fridge debate remains as heated as ever the world over. Cold ketchup - you people are insane. Fascinating, if slightly creepy.Klaus Harmonyklausharmony.comAlthough you may not have heard of this German composer he was, this website claims, "the Mozart of porn". Klaus was certainly prolific, scoring such 1970s erotic masterpieces as The Ladies Man, Elektrische Lippen and Who Needs Dialogue? as well as the classic Wundercrotchen. According to the biography here Klaus "thrust the genre beyond its known limits until his disappearance in an unexplained explosion during a visit to a second-hand music store in London's East End". It certainly sounds plausible but some people on the internet - including the know-it-alls at Wikipedia - believed this moustache-sporting playboy is a spoof. Ridiculous.What we learned on the web this week&#183;Reverend Billy wants us tostop shopping&#183;About the wedding where everyone took home apiece of the bride&#183;Pizzas finest momentsin movies don't even include Mystic Pizza&#183;King Leonidasfrom 300 has one of those faces that the Photoshop crowd enjoy&#183;George Clooneywasn't always a looker&#183;A paper wasp stinghurts more than a Bullhorn acacia ant sting&#183;It isn'tChristmas yet&#183;What to buy: Vince Clarke's studio...&#183;Marilyn Manson'shellhole?&#183;Photographers make goodphotographic subjects&#183;What the2010 World Cup stadiumslook like&#183;The best places to getfree and legal musicBlog RollMagnetic Migrationmagneticmigration.netA project dedicated to finding old bits of cassette tape and discovering what's on them.Is This Youisthisyou.co.ukReuniting owners with the strips they inexplicably left in photo booths.To-Dotodolistblog.blogspot.comThe hidden meaning of a list of tasks scribbled on a Post-it Note.Big Happy Funhousebighappyfunhouse.comStrange, wonderful and ordinary abandoned family snapshots from the 1960s and 1970s.Garbage Scoutgarbagescout.comGoogle Map tool alerting the junk fans of New York where to find recently dumped treasures.Faces In Placesfacesinplaces.blogspot.comA photographic collection of faces found in everyday places.
John Schiefer, a computer consultant, has pleaded guilty to creating a botnet of 250,000 PCs which were used for identity theft and siphoning cash from bank accounts.Specifically, he was charged with accessing protected computers to conduct fraud; disclosing illegally intercepted electronic communications; wire fraud and bank fraud. They're all federal offences, the International Herald Tribunereports. And so he faces up to 60 years in prison and (and?) a $1.75m (£850,000) fine.He's the first (but we hope not the last) person charged with running such a botnet.The story says thatprosecutors contend that Schiefer and his associates installed malicious computer code, called malware, that gave them remote access to the computers without the owners' knowledge. The "zombie" computers then eavesdropped on the users' electronic communications.Schiefer culled user names, passwords for the PayPal online payment service, and other account information that he used to make unauthorized purchases and passed on to others.And the final flourish:Prosecutors contend that Schiefer also defrauded a Dutch Internet advertising company who hired him to install its programs on people's computers with their permission. In his role as a consultant for the Dutch company, Schiefer is accused of installing the programs on more than 150,000 personal computers without the owners' consent.We'd like to know more about quite how this Dutch advertising company had access to 150,000 peoples' computers. Enlightenment welcome.
Some people might argue that you'd have to be mad to queue from before dawn until after sunset, in icy weather, just to purchase a small and arguably overpriced slab of metal and plastic. Oddly, this also seemed to be the consensus among those who queued from before dawn until after sunset yesterday, in the bone-chilling wind, just to be the first in the UK to purchase an Apple iPhone."I'm a commercial director. This is ridiculous behaviour for someone like me," said Paul Acott, who got to Apple's store in Regent Street, central London, at 5am yesterday, a mere 27 hours after the first devotees had shown up, at 8am on Thursday, to hunker down with vacuum flasks until yesterday evening's launch.Mr Acott was one of many to betray a bewildered awareness that what he was doing didn't quite make sense. Apart from anything else, there were no queues at all at nearby branches of the Carphone Warehouse or the O2 store, which, along with the Apple store, began selling the much-hyped phone at 6.02pm yesterday. (Even the time of the launch contained a free advertisement for the phone network.)But like other religions, Apple worship is not a rational phenomenon; and, even by Apple standards, the company's combined phone, web browser and music player has led to unprecedented fervour. About half a million iPhones were sold in the first weekend of availability in the US earlier this year, lending credibility to the firm's goal of selling 10m by next year to secure a 1% share of the global mobile market. Most of the adulation has focused on the minimalist touch-screen design of the phone, which Time magazine named invention of the year: it has no keypad, and is controlled by brushing or pushing its sleek full-colour display."Several of my colleagues have tried to arrange meetings with me on Monday just to have a look at it," said Mark Flaherty, a civil servant waiting in line.By the time 6.02pm arrived, the atmosphere resembled a revivalist meeting.First out of the store with the device was Tom Jasinski, a 20-year-old north London architecture student. "It was worth the wait, I got here 26 hours ago," he explained. "It is a great piece of hardware." Another, Alan Mehmet offered, "No way am I getting it out of the box till I get home," as he stuffed his iPhone into his backpack. Nik Fletcher, 21, from Petersfield in Hampshire, had waited 34 hours. "I am going for a pint and then I am getting the hell out of this city," he said.Demographers of geekdom might be interested to learn that on an unscientific count, only 7% of the queue were female. "They should have made it white and a bit smaller to make it appeal to a female audience," said Yulia Titovets.Unsurprisingly, the shivering devotees chose not to dwell upon the gadget's downsides: a price tag of £269, a compulsory 18-month contract with O2 costing a minimum of £630, and its reliance for web access on the Edge broadband network, which covers only 30% of Britain.Even before the launch, sellers on eBay purported to be offering "unlocked" iPhones, usable on any network, though unlocking the phone comes at the cost of invalidating its warranty and surrendering the right to future upgrades.But the crowds were paying tribute to the idea that technology might actually be pleasing to use. "Look, this probably isn't what my grandparents fought in the war for," conceded Paul Waite a web designer, fingering his remembrance poppy. "But the point is attention to detail."An alternative interpretation of yesterday's event was evident in the faces of passersby. "What are they queueing for?" people asked the stewards, only to respond to the answer with the withering expressions of people who considered themselves too savvy to be recruited into an expertly concocted publicity event.
And lo! The great day came.I have been using an Apple iPhone now for more than four months. This is due to an unhealthy mixture of friendship with its designer, a slobbery and pathetic love of the new, the possession of an American billing address (necessary until today for the activation and use of the device) and a willingness to pay preposterous international roaming charges. It puts me in a good position however, to tell you what you're in for if you decide to own one of these honeys.I should first get out of the way all the matters that will please those of you wrinkling your noses in a contemptuous Ian Hisloppy sort of way at the sheer hype, pretension, nonsense and hoopla attendant on what is, after all, only a phone. There is much to support your case.Proud techie owners of rival devices can say: "What, only a 2-meg camera? What, no GPS? What, no 3G? What, no video? What, no third party applications?" What, no Sim card swapping?" A whole heap of what no-ing can be done.Proud non-techie people can say: "I just want a phone that lets me make a call with the minimum of fuss. I don't want a 'design classic' and I certainly don't want to be locked into an 18-month data plan, whatever that might be."Even those excited by the iPhone and likely to block their ears to the derisive hoots above, even they must allow themselves honestly to accept its drawbacks. Text entry is, despite the spine-tingling brilliance of a creepily accurate auto-correct facility, clumsy. There are perhaps a dozen niggles of that nature (though the camera isn't one: the iPhone's lowly 2-megapixel snapper easily outperforms higher-spec rivals). So what's to set against these drawbacks?Beauty. Charm. Delight. Excitement. Ooh. Aah. Wow! Let me at it.In the end the iPhone is like some glorious early-60s sports car. Not as practical, reliable, economical, sensible or roomy as a family saloon but oh, the joy. The jouissance as Roland Barthes liked to say. What it does, it does supremely well, that what it does not do seems laughably irrelevant.The iPhone is a digital experience in the literal sense of the word. The user's digits roam, stroke, tweak, tweeze, pinch, probe, slide, swipe and tap across the glass screen forging a relationship with the device that is like no other."But I don't want to 'forge a relationship', I just want to get the job done," you say? Well then, you know what? Don't buy one. And stop reading this. You're only doing so in the first place to lend fuel to your snorts and puffs of rage. Allow us our pleasures.Whatever your view on Apple's new instant icon, you will not be able to deny that it has already changed forever what was already a colossal market.There was pre-iPhone and there will be post-iPhone. All the competitors will have to come up with something better. I'm no red in tooth and claw capitalist, but actually, I can't think this example of mercantile evolution-through-competition is so very bad.Conflict-traded rare earths and minerals, that's another matter. Someone wrote to tell me that the iPhone is full of Congolese metals. Guardian readers may want elucidation on this front. I'm not the man to give it, I fear.The rest of the world can mock as much as it likes. If you're going to have a phone/video player/slideshow/music centre/web browser/camera in your pocket, is it so wrong to want one that makes you grin from ear to ear? Not with smugness (though heaven knows the enemies of the device will read that into the smiles) but with delight.&copy; Stephen Fry 2007&#183;Stephen Fry's gadget column, Dork Talk, appears in Weekend&#183;stephenfry.com/blog
Apple's ability to grab headlines is a matter of huge annoyance to many. How come their launch of a phone makes the evening news? A new iPod, and it's a bigger headline than Darfur. Whoopy-doo, as Americans like to say. Why should I care?I have an iPhone, an iPod Touch and a new Nano to hand, but to save the anti-Apples out there aggravation, I shan't review them. They don't need it. All you have to do is ask someone who has one if you can play with it for a second and any pointless carpings melt into nothing.And if they don't, well, that's fine, too. You can carry on hating Apple and thinking it's all hype, but you'll have to accept that the iPhone and iPod Touch changed the face of hand-held digital devices.In 1984, many said Apple's use of a mouse and pull-down menus was a silly, stylistic nonsense, but sure enough in the end everyone had to follow. Apple doesn't always invent or originate all the technology for which it becomes known, but it is nearly always first to bring it fully formed to market.Proof of how it has changed the digital world, and a clear demonstration of how far its rivals have to go to compete, comes in the shape of the Philips Streamium Player. (Yes, someone was paid to devise that name.)"Its bright, large display and intuitive UI with Sensory Touchpad SuperScroll let you easily engage with all your music, videos and photos."Actually, Streamium is the name for a range of Philips devices that are meant to utilise WiFi home networks and Universal Plug and Play devices to "deliver content", streamed via wireless, which gives some justification to the preposterous name.The family of products are multiplatform and allow you to watch movies, listen to music, download podcasts, vodcasts and so on all over the house. Dozens of companies are trying to offer the same thing, but Philips is Philips, so we should pay attention. They were behind the tape cassette and CD, after all. They're big. They know what they're about.Well, no, they don't. They're wading backwards in treacle with this. A Flash device (meaning its ROM memory is solid state not disk drive) of 4GB, this product is an insult to the buyer and a stain on the reputation of a once noble company.Despite the vaunted multiplatform interoperability of the Streamium name, this is a PC-only player. I don't mind products such as this per se, but what would Mac users who have the Philips Media Manager software and other devices feel about the name Streamium being appropriated for an object that a) doesn't stream and b) is incompatible with their OS?But that's of no importance compared with the cheap, clumsy and dreadful nature of the device itself. I wanted to throw it in the ocean after five minutes (I am in America right now), but instead gave it to a friend who threw it away after 10. One knows the instant one plays the bundled video content, a truly pathetic and dated home movie of some dudes skiing, that we are dealing with a dog. The blocky, pixelated images are so poor as to beggar belief (220 x 176 pixels) - and this is the footage that's meant to show it off!It gets worse. It has touch controls, but not touch screen. In the desire to jump on Apple's multitouch bandwagon, Philips have come up with something worse than an old-fashioned knob. The Streamium offers fiddly controls with terrible delay, so you're always pressing them too often and reversing their function. The sound level is poor and the phones inadequate. The whole thing's a gift to Apple.The price, too, is a disaster - you can get an 8Gb iPod Nano with its stunning 320 x 240 resolution screen for the same money. How mad, sad, ignorant and deranged would a consumer have to be to forgo the latter for Philips's horror? Believe me, this will be a forgotten failure within a year. I don't know who is in charge of recruitment or marketing at Philips, but they need a rapid injection of talent, imagination, flair and understanding, or in this sector at least they'll rapidly go under.I kept the foam earplug pads. The rest lies deservedly somewhere on the seabed of Nantucket Sound, along with sunken whaling ships and other obsolete embarrassments.&middot;Visitstephenfry.com/blog
MondayRatchet and Clank: the best game on PS3CoD4: a lesson in level designHot Coffee 2TuesdayCoD4 single playerpac-Man vs ZorkAuroraWednesday50 design innovationsPortalPress X for Albert SquareThursdayReviewsByron reportGirl's guide to gamingGame Informer's greatest gamesSuper Mario GalaxySim City and OLPCFridayCoD4 leads release chargeSex and MMOsPlaying for keepsPortal
Nicolai Fuglsig, the man behind the Sony Bravia "balls" ad, has released Tipping Point, his latest creation, and the most expensive Guinness ad to date. The 90 second version will be in cinemas from today.Brand Republic covers the story inGuinness to debut £10m domino toppling ad(registration required). It says:Fuglsig said the work was his most challenging experience to date, and involved around 1,000 people from the Salta region of northern Argentina, who had no previous experience of working on camera. The domino toppling series was created by the world record-breaking group, Domino Domain, and took two days to construct.Around 6,000 dominoes were used for the ad, around 10,000 books, 400 tyres, six cars and 45 wardrobes, while 24 hours of footage was captured despite the dominoes taking just 14 seconds to topple.Fuglsig said: "Shooting this was the biggest challenge of my career to date. It was a really tough job -- from the remote high altitude location to having to frequently reset thousands of props, as well as working with hundreds of villagers that had absolutely no understanding of acting of film making -- nothing was easy.Yes, it's a lot like the Honda Cog add, which was, er, inspired byDer Lauf Der Dinge(The way things go) by Peter Fischli and David Weiss.As Simon Lamey comments at Brand Republic: "What's next a nuclear explosion filmed on a small Indonesian island where the nuclear mushroom morphs into a Coca-Cola logo?"Well, it's a lot more fun than those surfing horses....
MTV.comhas reported a statement from Radiohead in response to widely reported numbers from ComScore that say most downloaders are freeloaders. Thestatementsays:"In response to purely speculative figures announced in the press regarding the number of downloads and the price paid for the album, the group's representatives would like to remind people that... it is impossible for outside organisations to have accurate figures on sales.However, they can confirm that the figures quoted by the company comScore Inc are wholly inaccurate and in no way reflect definitive market intelligence or, indeed, the true success of the project."According to MTV:ComScore senior analyst Andrew Lipsman strongly defended his company's results when asked about the band's claims. "We're confident in our data," he said. "There's a minimal margin of error based on the size of the sample we used and the narrow range of values."
Portalhas proven to be a MEGA hit for Half Life creators Valve. The puzzle game, released as part of theOrange Boxlast month, has been the subject of much analysis, from theridiculousto the sublime.Rock, Paper Shotgun (via/.) tracked down the developers for a chat. Top quotes include:At strip clubs, there's a guy whose job is to talk between the strippers. He tries to do a good job and be entertaining and enthusiastic, but everybody's just there for the nakedness. That's a professional writer trick we call called an "analogy". What I really mean is that game writers are the game equivalent of the guy who talks between the nude girls at strip clubs. Nobody cares about what that guy does, and anybody who does care is probably a little maladjusted. So I'd have to say the hardest part of being a game writer is learning all the writing tricks like "analogy".from writerErik WolpawTry to imagine a bunch of engineers inside your brain trying to hook up the pipes, where do they hook up? And eventually you'll see something, like you'll see yourself in a portal, or you'll see some momentum, and all of a sudden, we hooked it up. I think in Portal we're much more deliberate about setting up those set pieces that let people understand what's happening.co-lead Jeep BarrettThank goodness for simple puzzle games, reminding us exactly what fun can be.
What do you call someone who charges £440 for five minutes' work? An Apple financial controller in charge of Ram upgrades. Let me explain.The other day I was thinking about buying a new computer. While mine is only three years old and still works adequately (within the constraints of the software I load onto it), you always hanker after something a bit newer and faster, don't you?So I started looking atApple's online storefor a MacBook, the consumer-level laptop, which should serve my needs - I'm not planning on making any professional videos after all. But to get it to run really well, of course, you need lots of extra Ram.Which is where the first surprise comes. The newest MacBooks come with 1GB of Ram, but can support (and use) up to 4GB. OK, so how much would it cost to have 4GB of Ram pre-installed on the machine? Here's what Apple's site says:Yow!£539.99for two 2GB sticks of Ram, plus assembly? That's almost as much as the machine itself costs. This must be some pretty gold-plated memory, right? And that'safterApple has saved whatever the price is of the two 512MB Ram sticks that it won't have to fit in the machine you're buying. Even getting two 1GB sticks will cost you an extra £90 - which, don't forget, is £90 after the savings Apple has made on the two 512MB Ram it would have used.It gets even stranger when you compare the cost of extra memory at some other manufacturers. I looked at Dell and Toshiba.For aDell Inspiron 1501, an extra 1GB will cost you just £40 (though you can't go up to 4GB - for shame, Dell):For a Toshiba Satellite U300-134configured through PC World, you'll pay £100 for an extra 1GB - but that's pure addition, not replacing old sticks.So what does it cost if you just buy your 4GB (two 2GB sticks) of Ram directly from a memory supplier? I checked withCrucial, which says that the price is......yup, just £97.99 excluding VAT, or £115 with VAT, which means that when Apple configures a 4GB MacBook for you, it charges £442 for the pleasure. But wait, there's more: it saves itself the price of those two 512MB Ram sticks it doesn't use. How much do they cost? According to Crucial, you and I would pay £10 per stick. Assume there's some markup there, but Apple must be saving at least £10 for each.Mike Davidsonrecently pointed outthis bizarre anomaly. The comments to his blog post are alive with people insisting that Apple only takes the crème de la crème of Ram - an idea that I frankly find implausible. Apple doesn't employ Ram tasters who reject most of it. We're talking about products that are among the most traded commodities in the world.And it's not as though installing the Ram needs years of training. Apple explains how to do it right there in the manual it supplies with the machine. Equip yourself with a small crosshead screwdriver, a cake tin lid (to hold the screws) and make sure you're not wearing rubber-soled shoes, and you're done.So why is Apple charging so much? The truth, one suspects, is that it's just an easy way to make money. It is not as though there's a flourishing ecosystem of Apple clones out there competing to offer machines running Mac OSX with the maximum amount of Ram installed. That's why Dell, competing like mad, has the very keenest price of all the companies mentioned here apart from Crucial. (Incidentally, Dell should be cheaper; it must buy a lot more Ram than Crucial, surely?)But of course Steve Jobs killed the clone business when he returned to Apple in 1996. He has always thought that computers should just be appliances, ideally, welded shut - adding Ram to the original iMacrequired a thorough disassembly. And since there must be some people who pay those figures (perhaps a little bell rings in Apple's accounts department and they shout "Got another one!"), it is unlikely that you'll see the price drop any time soon.Apple made a stack of money in the latest financial year. Now you're getting an idea how: its financial controllers levy markups that make no sense. I would be amazed if any of that £440 for the five minutes' work goes to the people on the assembly lines. To them, one pair of Ram sticks is like any other - part of the day's work.The trouble with discovering this discrepancy is that it puts a nagging doubt at the back of your mind. What else are you being overcharged for when you go for those customisation options in a purchase? Trust is such a fragile structure: take one piece away and the whole edifice starts to wobble.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
UK Trade and Investment, Tiga and BERR have published a fat report on the state of the contemporary international games industry. EntitledPlaying for Keeps, the document is free to access and is split betweenPart 1(international) andPart 2(UK)Both parts are pdfs.Says the introduction:Playing for Keeps is an evidence-rich piece of research which will help inform the policies of Government departments and agencies but will also be of great value to the industry itself. UKTI, BERR and DCMS are now evaluating this research and discussing it with the industry: we need to determine together what it tells us about the UK's future competitiveness in the global games sector, about our ability to remain competitive and to fully exploit the massive growth of the global market and what actions Government and industry might take to help ensure that we have the best possible business environment for games companies in the UK.The UK has dropped from the third most productive market in the world to the fourth, after the Canadians thanks, I'm sure, in no small part to the tax breaks put into place for creative companies. Organisations like Tiga have been pushing for similar things here. This report represents a collaboration between those in government who recognise the import of games to the UK's economy and those who've been pushing for it all these years.Have nothing to do this weekend? Grab a cuppa and hunker down. Grab ithere.
What's your favourite piece of technology?I consider the air guitar to be the ne plus ultra of both high and low tech, and thus find myself subservient to its power.How has it improved your life?Air guitar liberated me from my day job, scored me a book deal, made me a movie star, sent me gallivanting around the world, and got me laid — twice.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it this morning to get my rock off.What additional features would you add if you could?That's the beauty of air guitar — I can add whatever features I want. Frequently, I find myself adding multiple necks or whammy bars. On occasion, I've been known to add a beverage holder.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?If rock'n'roll and/or humanity becomes obsolete, thus the fate of air guitar shall be; however, I will note that air guitar is 100% environmentally friendly and in no way contributes towards global warming.What one tip would you give to non-air guitar users?Make air, not war.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I play air guitar for a living — what do you think?What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Jimmy Page's double-necked Gibson Les Paul air guitar (purchased on eBay for an embarrassing sum).PC or Mac?Mac. Simply put, Macs are sexier, more rocking machines. And Björn Türoque is all about the sexy and the more rocking. Plus, Air Guitar Nation was edited on a Mac, and I do all my air guitar song edits using Apple's Garageband—the greatest amateur music software ever made.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?Ace of Spades, by Motörhead. Lemmy rules.Will robots rule the world?Have you heard a speech by my nation's president? Robots already rule the world. Humans can't possibly be that stupid.What piece of  technology would you most like to own?An air purifier. The air quality in major cities these days is horrendous and has had a deleterious effect on my mojo. Air pollution also slows down my windmilling.Air Guitar Nationopens across the UK today
Two quick stories from the world of RPGs. First, the web is alive with comment on some long-rumoured 'adult' content set to feature in Bioware's sci-fi adventure Mass Effect. Two videos are doing the rounds, one showing an alien woman performing aprivate dancein a futuristic night club. It looks like someone in a cheap swimsuit attempting to stand-up on a wet surface. The other sequence, appearing on IGN (there's a linkhere) is billed as an alien girl-on-girl love-in. It will in no way live up to what you are currently imagining.Stilted, awkward and obtuse, 'sex' in videogames is still a ridiculous concept, not helped, of course, by the squeamishly Calvanistic leanings of the ESRB - see the laughable 'Hot Coffee' scandal for more on that. You'll be required to enter your age before watching the Private Dancer video on Gamevideos.com - youwon'tbe required to enter your age to see, say,thisvideo of a Dead Rising TV ad in which slavering zombies eviscerate a victim with their bare hands. This makes perfect sense, doesn't it?In other RPG-related news this week, it seems that Peter Hines of Bethesda hasconfirmedthat an Elder Scrolls MMORPG is in production. Rumours have been circulating for a while, ignited by the setting up of a new online games division within Bethesda and purchase by the studio's parent company of the Elderscrollsonline.com URL (morehere).Can the world cope withanotherhuge, addictive massively multiplayer fantasy world? Aren't we all already addicted to at least one? Not according to a recentForbes articlewhich suggests virtual worlds are more about hype than population substance.
Another Friday, another pile of excellent games get released. The biggie is Call of Duty 4. I've been playing it for the last week and it's easily the best shooter around at the moment. Better than Halo 3? I think so. The single player is certainly more enjoyable than Halo's sci-fi hokum and has, in the Chernobyl level, one of the most movingly atmospheric gaming experiences yet coded. Halo 3 does win the AI battle - your opponents in COD4 occasionally suffer from the respawn-continuously-until-you-move tendency - while COD4 lacks Halo 3's superb online co-op. But while the multiplayer options generally may lack Halo's user generated embellishments the leveling/perks system in COD4 just keeps pulling me back.But it's not just COD4. Ratchet &amp; Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is the first must-have for the PS3. While Lego Star Wars The Complete Saga has just enough additions - particularly online co-op - to make it worth revisiting. Less interesting are Smackdown 2008 - does anyone over the age of 16 really care? - and Gears of War on the PC. Actually what I've seen of the latter suggests it is probably worth a shot if you have a decent PC - and no access to a 360 - but Crysis remains the one to watch for PC gamers.
Electronic Arts has given the original SimCity title to the non-profit initiative,One Laptop Per Child, for installation in its cheap laptops. The machines, complete with wi-fi functionality and open-source office applications will be distributed to schools in countries such as Uruguay, Peru, Mexico, Ethiopia, Rwanda, Haiti, Cambodia and India. As Gamasutrapoints out, the game, "demonstrates the impact of various power sources and provides a socioeconomic simulation, among other features". Apparently EA hopes it will, "provide children with a way to engage with computers while learning decision-making skills".It's a great idea and SimCity is the perfect candidate, not only for the educational benefits of the gameplay, but for the open-ended nature of the experience. SimCity's sandbox structure perfectly compliments the philosophy of the OLPC project - to provide tools to children but also to allow them to express themselves through these tools.So, what other recreational games do you think should make it into these laptops? Civilization, obviously, along with any of the dozens of Tycoon titles spawned by the casual gaming scene lately. What else?
Mario's latest big adventure has shot to the top of the Japanese games chart in its first week, shifting 250,000 copies - almost as many as the rest of the top ten put together. Wii.com has afascinating interviewwith the dev team, conducted by Nintendo president, Satoru Iwata. Here, they reveal the idea for the game came from an old tech demo for the Gamecube, shown off at the Space World 2000 event and featuring a hundred Marios wandering around on a spherical landscape. So far it's got ametascoreof 97, putting it above this year's other big-hitters, Bioshock (96), Orange Box (96), Call of Duty 4 (96) and Halo 3 (94).Another interesting thing from the chart: there's an Xbox 360 title at number two! Ace Combat 6 has sold 77,000 copies. Apart from Wii Sports and Super Robot Wars Scramble Commander the 2nd, everything else is on DS.(ViaGamesindustrybiz)
Okay, there's enough 'best game ever' charts on the internet to bore even the most committed Hornby-esque list compilers. But they're always fun to argue with sohere's the latest top ten, this time from Game Informer editor, Andy McNamara.The Legend of Zelda and Super Mario Bros take the first two slots with Tetris, GTA III and Doom following. McNamara is clearly one for originals - many would put Ocarina of Time above its 1986 predecessor; many others would go for Quake over Doom. GTA III was effectively a fresh start for the franchise, but GTA III Vice City was arguably a superior title. No arguments with Tetris though.In the bottom half of the list are Resident Evil 4, Final Fantasy III (a 'hardcore'/elitist choice, there - VII and X are the usual choices), Halo, Ms Pacman and World of Warcraft.I guess Paradroid must be at number 11, then.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Young digital journalists covering a digital literacy conference, photo by Kevin AndersonCharles pointed out a great post by Bill Thompson yesterday calling on schools to teach students to becomputer literate, not just computer users. Today, I'm at a conference asking what it means to be digitally literate in a digital society. What does that mean?Read on for updates through the conference. If you've got any questions, leave them in the comments, and I'll try to get some answers.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:digital literacy,web2.0technorati tags endIt is a bit meta with young digital journalists interviewing those of us who are journalists here, but it's pretty common at these types of events.The questions they hope to answer (in public sector speak):How can people be empowered with the skills, competencies and confidence to get the most out of Web 2.0 media in the ways they relate, interact, work and create today?How can 'critical thinking' and awareness about media - sources, editing and ownership - best be 'taught' or encouraged? And by whom?Is theCharter for Media Literacystill fit for purpose?What collaborations between government, the media industries, education and cultural organisations - as well as with parents and users - are needed to develop a media literate UK?What new opportunities for creativity and participation do Web 2.0 capabilities offer people as citizens or as consumers, and in their various communities?Now, there is a lot about Web 2.0 in there. This is one of those terms that means everything and nothing to most people.Dale Dougherty of O'Reillycame up with this definition, which I'll paraphrase:The sites and services that succeed are the ones that are of greater value to their users the greater the level of participation.Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport, the Rt. Hon. James Purnell, MP, began by saying that the response to this explosion of information is not to curtail the freedom of speech.But he also said that government would be creating a 'kitemark' to flag up products that parents can use to block 'harmful material' and 'inappropriate content' for their children. This isn't about censorship but identifying the risk and helping parents, he said. Some of this concern comes from parents being concerned that their children know more about the internet than they do.A day in a lifeThe next speaker isYemisi Blake, a 20-year-old, who gave an overview of his digital life, saying that he can't believe his parents when they say that there was a world before e-mail and that he's into blogging, YouTube and Facebook. Twitter, not so much.Last year, he discovered WordPress when he wasn't writing about race and ethnicity. He blew his entire student loan on a MacBook Pro and spent a month eating fish fingers to save up all the money. He wanted to find out what his computer could really do. He had a paper to do on deadline, but he couldn't find any books on what he wanted to write about about race and advertising. He found the books in the library dry and dusty and not relevant to his studies. But he found a blog calledRacialicious. He quickly found himself part of an online anti-racism community. He also was introduced to the woman bloggers behind Blogher. It took him out of his world in north London, and completely changed his life.He also discovered theEntrepreneurial Thought Leaderspodcast. Stanford offered up Q&amp;A podcasts from the founders of some of the biggest companies in Silicon Valley.This was something that school couldn't give me.He said that his blog gave him a profile that he couldn't have had as a student otherwise. It's helped him find a voice, a community and confidence.Interesting quote of the dayJon Gisby, former MD of Yahoo! UK and Ireland and Vice President of Media Europe, said:You connect with people like you, no longer who the media say you should connect to.Most media execs who I've spoken to don't really grok that one. They still are obsessed with their brands and the power of agenda setting. He then discussed the issues and consequences of greater participation online.We need greater transparency.What are the ethics? Those carrying out journalism might not be trained as journalists. Piracy?How can we prevent crowds that we love when they are wise, from becoming mobs? How do we prevent anonymity from becoming a shield for bullies?Atomisation? What are the consequences of the crumbling of mass media?Digitally illiterate leadershipEwan McIntosh, who works with education and technology in Scotland, discussed the digital divide. It's not about access to technology. It's about digital literacy. That's important. A lot of the technology we use everyday has become invisible such as the mobile phone.Ewan said that one of the main things holding back digital literacy was accountability anddigital illiteracy amongst policy makers:The fact is, that most of those working in education, in politics, in the civil service are the equivalent of modern day illiterates. Without understanding how to read and write on the web, there is no other way, really, to describe this state of being.He also made the point that many of the technologies that get students excited and can be used for education - games, social networking and other Web 2.0 tools are actually banned in UK schools. Apologies for the long quote, but it's a great point:The dangers and fears employed by many Local Authorities and senior school managers to continue to block and filter social media sites are nearly always unfounded, that is, when media literacy is also taking centre stage in the priorities of the school's curriculum. Saying that a photo-sharing site is unsuitable because naked ladies appear when you type 'naked' is simply not a reason to block a site. It's like banning young people from any newsagents because they might glance up and spot the latest edition of FHM or Loaded: disproportionate, reactionary.
It's "thanks" to the cross-over appeal success of the Nintendo DS that we getThe Girl's Guide for Gamingwhich aims to appeal to the "unheard" voices of girls who game. From their blurb:Do you want to take on the boy's at their own game and beat them every single time? You want to prove that games AREN'T just for the guys anymore! Are you, your daughter, your niece or your best friend a Nintendo DS or DS Lite girl gamer? Tired of other gaming publications ignoring all your favourite games in favour of the latest big boy's toys? So you want all the latest gaming gossip and the hottest hints and tips especially written for you? So do we, and its about time. The Girl's Guide To Gaming! is the must have accessory for all Nintendo DS and DS Lite gaming girls, just like you.I sense this was written by a non-gamer. Forgive me if it wasn't. Why? Well, one of the biggest misconceptions of gamers, male or female, is that all they want to do is beat the other person. When it becomes a gender thing, the lines are clearly divided between the sexes and the us-vs-them thing makes "us" girls" want to kick the proverbial butts of "them" boys. Sigh. I'll tell you that it isn't, and this kind of framework ruins the fun.It'snotabout beating the boys at their own game. It hasnothingto do with that. This a cheap approach which reduces the perception of gaming into sport for hyper-competitive people.I've not read the book, but if you have, please do tell us what you think of it, and whether it transcends the stereotypes at all.
The Joy of Sox, a blog run by Red Sox fan Allan Wood, explains how he spent $280.45 on MLB videos online, and now can't watch them because MLB has switched to a different DRM (Digital Rights Management) system. And no, he can't have his money back.[See update at end]This sounds like an accidental screw-up, because video buyers should only have to go to the MLB site once to license their videos: after that, the licence should be stored on the local PC. (In which case, users wouldn't normally run into problems until they had a disk failure, changed their PC or whatever.)However, it does show the problems that DRM can create, which is why some people (eg me) never buy any digital files encumbered with DRM.Ars Technicahas covered the story, and notes that people who bought videos from Google had problems after Google closed its video store. But Google eventually did the right thing and gave its customers refunds.As Ars Technica also points out:Last year, the US Copyright Office considered -- and then rejected -- an exception to the DMCA that would give consumers in this sort of predicament some recourse. Under the proposed exception, those stuck with busted DRM schemes would have had the right to bypass the DRM. As it stands instead, paying customers are at the whims of content providers and whatever DRM clearinghouse they happen to be using at the time. It's no wonder so many sports fan turn to BitTorrent for game footage.It's a pity that the issue only seems to get real traction in the geekosphere. Look, this is now affecting MLB fans. Isn't it time for consumer watchdog groups to start some more serious campaigning?Update: As brusselsaway has pointed out in a comment (for which many thanks), MLB seems to be backing down. Joy of Sox has taken part in a conference call with MLB, andhe now says:What I was told is this: Everyone who purchased a game download while MLB was on the old platform (prior to 2007) will be receiving an email (possibly within 48 hours) with a link that will allow the customer to re-download the game again -- for free.
Where's your dead PC buried?The "recycling" of used PCs often means their export to countries such as Nigeria, where they're stripped of valuable metals - and then dumped in rivers or burnt, releasing a new set of toxins.Human Tetris. No, really.It's surely impossible not to laugh at this game show from Japan, which leads the world at coming up with daft things to put on TV. Can a British version with minor celebrities be far behind? Please?Did you mean to search for 'causes of climate change'?In July, Intel and Google launched their climate-saving initiative. But this is a problem where search isn't the solution.Come on - we want to know what science/tech videos you've found and liked. Funny, stupid, fascinating, whatever. Post your links in the comments.
Theprinted Technology sectionis online today; click through for the full details of the stories there. (Or follow the link, of course.)This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Meet your new driver, the robotHubertus Breuer reports from the California desert on a competition that was more about the software and algorithms of robot-controlled cars than their speed.How to turn one computer into manyCharles Arthur and Andrew Brown: Virtualisation software, used to make hardware more efficient, is catching the eye of big business.Free Our Data:192.com's founder raps 'pure greed' of data re-use systemMichael Cross: Company's decade-long battle to win access to information emphasises need for change.Empire of Sports takes a 'web 3D' approach to online gamingA new MMO format may have found a way to create multiple revenue streams, says Kate Bevan.'The FPS genre has never had more vitality'Alexander Gambotto-Burke: Developers are coming up with new takes on the classic shooter game genre.Downloading doesn't affect sales of CDs. PerhapsJack Schofield: Peer-to-peer file-sharing tends to increase rather than decrease music buying, according to a study produced for Industry Canada by Birgitte Andersen and Marion Frenz of the Department of Management at Birkbeck, University of London.Why do people become so stingy once they're online?Andrew Brown: About a fifth of the whole population of the world's is online today - and there have never been so many people united by their extreme reluctance to pay for anything.Alien hordes approaching? It's time for a cup of teaAleks Krotoski: My coverage of Brighton's Street Wars water gun tournament, in which I confessed that it rendered me immobile for three weeks, has resulted in an outpouring of support.We should praise successes of the NHS IT projectMichael Cross: In spite of the grim headlines, across the NHS there's a sense that individuals in the service are still enthusiastic - passionate, even - about bringing healthcare in to the IT age.Social networks are the new cannibalsVictor Keegan: Social network ideas are rapidly being taken up by other websites, with online banks like Zopa copying their characteristics.Newly Asked QuestionsIs Apple's Leopard less secure than its predecessor, Tiger?In some ways yes, in others no. The latest big cat flavour of OS X unleashed last month was quickly poked and prodded by security experts keen to explore any weakness they could find.Why has the growth in broadband adoption slowed?Because there are fewer dialup users to convert - and there's a hard core of households who don't have, and possibly don't want, internet access.TechnophileBobbie Johnson: The iPhone's technology is amazing, especially the touchscreen - but being locked to 02 is a worry.Ask JackMobile plus DAB | Keyboard problem | Sony hell | Digitising negatives | BackchatNewsbytesDownloaders are freeloaders | Business game | Virtual snooker hall | BlackBerry Pearl | Broadband for a tenner | Renegade gaming chair | Oprah on YouTube | Sketch on the phoneLetters and blogsReal use of virtual worlds | Hear, hear | Message for the mass age | Size is everything | No oak grew from Acorn | If it ain't broke ...GamesMetroid Prime 3: Corruption | Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction | Hellgate London
As a rule, government press officers are scarce at weekends. Fair enough - we all need days off, and government flak-catchers need more than most. On Sunday June 17 this year, however, my email, voicemail and mobile phone brimmed with messages from press officers claiming to represent Connecting for Health, the NHS IT agency. They were offering a package of quotes from 10 prominent individuals on what a good job had been done by the agency's boss Richard Granger, who had just announced his intention to leave. ("Transition" was the chosen word.)I didn't use the quotes, but noticed similar ones elsewhere. And after such an overtime effort, I wasn't surprised the other day when ministers revealed that Connecting for Health had spent &pound;3.4m on external communications over two years, including &pound;509,263 (including VAT) paid to a company called Good Relations, whose name appeared at the foot of one of those Sunday emails.With ministers now pondering what to do with the &pound;12bn programme to computerise the NHS in England, it's worth trying to separate the truth from the spin about what five years of work have achieved.As usual, it's a more mixed picture than the "IT fiasco" stories make out. While the ill-conceived scheme to standardise acute hospitals' software has been a disaster, there are welcome signs of progress elsewhere.I've commented previously on the programme's success in jollying the NHS along to replace film X-rays with digital imaging.Last month, Connecting for Health announced progress on what should have been another early win - about 10% of GP practices now have the technology to transfer patients' records between each other without having to print them out on paper and solemnly rekey them.So called GP-GP transfer is popular with doctors and popular with patients - it needs to become universal. More controversially, and further behind schedule than anyone five years ago could have believed, the first abbreviated extracts of 50,000 consenting patients' medical records have been uploaded on to the national health records "spine".In spite of the grim headlines, across the NHS there's a sense that individuals in the service are still enthusiastic - passionate, even - about bringing healthcare in to the IT age. Look at the winners of the BT/e-Health Insider annual awards announced last night. Trafford Healthcare's system for integrating data about blood transfusions seamlessly in to the electronic patient record; Tayside's integrated health communications network, Tower Hamlets' achievement in electronically joining up local authority and NHS care systems and the electronic patient records at Countess of Chester hospital. These results aren't the products of fiasco.I was especially impressed by another winner from London, which is, for historic and political reasons, usually a dismal IT scene: Homerton University Hospital's use of IT to gather opinions from patients about their experiences, and to act on the findings.After years of resistance, the government now seems to have accepted the need for a review of the NHS IT programme. This is welcome.It should probe the past, but identify winners as well as losers, and give local NHS organisations the confidence to invest in technology that makes a difference.Most of all, it must not become an excuse for paralysis. Except, possibly, in PR spending.
Underneath its sleek exterior and slick advertising, the iPhone relies heavily on a single piece of technology.Such dependence could be a weakness, but here it's a strength because - to put it simply - the touchscreen is years ahead of anything else on the market. Wave a digit and your contacts scroll by; flick a finger and your pictures fly past. Even for old hands, the accuracy and intuitiveness of the interface should provide a few jaw-dropping moments.Elsewhere, the software seems equally well crafted: phone calls, SMS and email are straightforward and the iPod functions work well. Even the on-screen virtual keypad - a potential bugbear for those used to hammering real buttons - is intelligent enough to get you texting at a respectable speed.Wi-Fi access is a doddle, and the Safari browser renders websites beautifully - although sometimes it feels like the web got shrunk in the wash.There are a few bugs and annoyances, however; the inability to send an SMS to more than one person, or the under-powered 2 megapixel camera. The 8GB memory limit won't raise a smile from music fans, nor will the recessed headphone socket which forces you to use Apple's earbuds.The biggest problem, though, is the phone network itself. While the call plans available are fairly competitive, the fact that you're running on O2's mobile system makes the trip a little less enjoyable. O2 insists that it is rolling out faster Edge networking where it can, but it's tough to get any reception at all in many places - Edge or otherwise.It's the iPhone's overall approach to mobile phones that will probably have a lasting influence, however. As the mobile revolution took hold, we all became used to wrestling with the deficiencies of our handsets. But the iPhone cuts through that predictable haze of awkward moments and messy menus: somehow, almost, it is as if Apple has wrangled the cats back into the bag.Arthur C Clarke's third law of prediction says that "any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic", and - for all its solid engineering - it's the little flourishes that make the iPhone a joy to use. At &pound;269 plus an 18-month contract with O2, it is  far from cheap, but even if you decide not to buy one, chances are that in a few years every mobile will have a little of Apple's magic dust sprinkled on it.
MCVhas an interview with Dr. Tanya Byron, the psychologist heading up the Byron Report, an independent inquiry into the effect of videogames on players. Among the talking points are:I'm a parent, I've got a nine-year-old and a 12-year old child and we all play video games in my house - my husband and I included. Playing video games with our kids is the same as reading them a bedtime story for us. It's part of what we do as a family. It's part of education, literacy and bonding. I'm also a realist. This is part of the landscape of society. It's how kids spent their leisure time and this is important in terms of development.Great news: Dr. Byron understands games as a medium and their postiton in the media fabric of families.Fundamentally, the people responsible for stopping children getting access to these materials and having these experiences are parents. But the truth is that many parents don't even understand that an '18' rating on Grand Theft Auto is the same as an '18' on Texas Chainsaw Massacre. They see the word 'game' and have a totally different mentality.... Adults need to play catch up with these new technologies. In the same way there comes a point when parents can say, "right, you can go to the shop and get some sweets on your own, because I trust you", we've taught them how to cross the road, be safe and not talk to strangers. They understand and manage risk. When children enter a virtual landscape, the trust and skills needed are more like those for letting them outside the door than letting them watch TV.It's not about wrapping kids in cotton wool. I have a real problem with the risk-averse culture that we have for children. Kids can't even play conkers or throw snowballs anymore. It's ridiculous. This is about how kids manage risk - not censorship.This may shake the rankles of quite a few parents, but Dr. Byron does plainly emphasise the responsibility of the parent in this situation. While games supporters have been saying this for years, perhaps these words from a lady in a proverbial white coat will get the message through.Read morehere.
Thereviews are inthis week and as you'd expect, given that we are right in the middle of the finest release schedule in gaming history, all three games are good 'uns. I'vealready talkedabout Ratchet &amp; Clank but if you have a PS3 then this really is a must-have. Wii owners looking for something meatier than Wii Sports and Big Brain Academy will have probably already bought Metroid Prime 3. I'm looking forward to getting properly stuck into Metroid but with Call of Duty 4, Puzzle Quest, PES 2008 and the beginnings of a relationship with Eternal Sonata taking up my gaming time I can this being left until the post-Christmas slump. And that's before you consider Mass Effect, Super Mario Galaxy and Assassin's Creed, all of which arrive in the next fortnight. This really feels like a gaming golden age.I am going to free up some time to check out the subject of the final review though - Hellgate London. Reviews have been mixed but a first person RPG reminiscent of Diablo 2 and set in the London Underground has surely got be worth a look.
Mobile plus DABI am very happy with my Sony K800i but would consider replacing it with a mobile that had a DAB radio as opposed to an FM one. Is such a thing available?Richard CardenJS:I only know of one: it's an HTC product sold by Virgin Mobile as the Lobster 700TV (tinyurl.com/377q9l). As the name suggests, it's aimed at the mobile TV market, so it hasn't been promoted as a DAB phone.Keyboard problemWhen I shut down Windows Vista Home Basic I get an error message saying that KBD.EXE has stopped working.John ChatleyJS:I'd guess you have a Hewlett-Packard wireless or similar extended keyboard. Suppliers provide their own drivers to handle extra multimedia keys, and so on. Check your supplier's website for an updated driver. Alternatively, you could use the msconfig utility to remove it from the startup sequence (tinyurl.com/yoyvg3): if you don't use the extra keyboard features, you don't need the file. The File.net site warns that a malware program could be using the kbd.exe filename (file.net/process/kbd.exe.html). However, any of the mainstream checkers should pick that up.Sony hellI have bought a Sony Net MD Walkman to record audio on location, and transfer digitally to a PC for editing. Sony's SonicStage 1.5 gives a fail message on attempting transfer of the sound file to the PC. Short of dubbing in real time, is there any other way of digitally transferring such a sound file, please?Richard ThornJS:Not as far as I know. The "innovation" with Net MD was that you could do quick PC-to-MiniDisc transfers via a USB cable. It didn't allow the reverse. There was a petition about this in August 2002 (tinyurl.com/2zdphu). In any case, I think the data is in copy-protected Sony Atrac format, so there's nothing else you can do with it.Sony got the message and in 2004, three years after NetMD, it introduced the new high-capacity Hi-MD format. This can record audio in uncompressed linear PCM (ie, CD format), and a Hi-MD recorder should be recognised by a PC as a DOS-format USB storage device with no drivers required. (Record in Atrac, however, and you will have to use Sony's SonicStage software.) Hi-MD should allow fast file transfer, but I haven't done it myself. See the MiniDisc FAQ attinyurl.com/2yd33jfor more details. I'm a MiniDisc user who balked at the stupidity of NetMD and am now wondering whether Hi-MD is worth a go. But I'm more likely to buy a digital recorder such as the Roland Edirol R-09 or Zoom H4, now these are getting smaller and cheaper.Digitising negativesIn the course of 60 years, I have acquired hundreds of negatives that range in size from 5 x 7cm to 10 x 8 inches. Having prints made is ruinously expensive. I know there are scanners for 35mm film, but are there any that can handle larger negatives?JW TarrantJS:Large-format negatives are usually scanned professionally on drum scanners, but these are very expensive. Fortunately, some of the better flatbed scanners can scan negatives, perhaps with an accessory adapter from BetterScanning.com. Your best bet is probably the Epson Perfection 4990 Photo (tinyurl.com/2ujadv), which can handle 10 x 8in negs with a film adapter. It's very good value at under &pound;300.The Epson Perfection V750 Pro is better but is more than twice the price (around &pound;650). The CanoScan 9950F has also been a popular choice for the job but only goes up to 5 x 4in negatives.The Large Format Photography site is doing collaborative tests of large-format scanners (largeformatphotography.info). Make sure the negatives are really clean before you start: dust specks can be a problem, and the built-in Digital ICE does not work with black and white images. You may want to invest in VueScan software (hamrick.com/vsm.html) to do the scanning, and PictureCode or similar noise reduction software (picturecode.com). You will probably need to do some retouching in a graphics program such as Adobe Photoshop or Paint Shop Pro.Backchat&middot; Richard Bell wanted advice on how to handle software updates when he only has a dialup connection. Rob Irwin ran into the same problem when a Zone Alarm upgrade came in at 34MB. He suggests using Headlight Software's GetRight, which can resume downloads. That way a long download can be completed over several sessions.&middot; Greg Pritchard wanted software "for the small/amateur investor in the UK stock market." Ralph Blumenau says: "Moneyextra.comis free and very good. You can set up and monitor your own portfolio and, if you wish, buy and sell online."&middot;blogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack. Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor, onjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Peer-to-peer file-sharing tends to increase rather than decrease music buying, according to a study produced for Industry Canada by Birgitte Andersen and Marion Frenz of the Department of Management at Birkbeck, University of London.In fact, the research suggests that "for every 12 P2P downloaded songs, music purchases increase by 0.44 CDs".However, the researchers admit that "our results ... are mixed". The paper says: "In the aggregate, we are unable to find direct evidence that P2P filesharing  either increases or decreases CD purchases in Canada. That is, in our analysis of the whole Canadian population, we are unable to find any relationship between the number of P2P music tracks that were downloaded and the number of CD purchases."The study says that there is a positive effect on CD sales from people ripping CDs, and there's also a positive effect "from individuals downloading via private websites".However, there is a negative effect on CD sales from the number of individuals copying other people's MP3 files.Earlier research by Felix Oberholzer-Gee and Koleman Strumpf has claimed a positive impact from file-sharing, but has been shot to pieces by Stan Liebowitz, from the University of Texas at Dallas.Liebowitz keeps asking the brutal question: "What has caused the recent large decline in record sales if not filesharing?"On his website, Liebowitz says: "Contrary to the large increase in album sales predicted by [Andersen and Frenz], album sales in Canada have fallen considerably since 1999. According to the IFPI, which represents the recording industry around the world, unit sales were down 30% by 2005 whereas statistics from the Canadian Recording Industry Association indicate that unit sales were down by 20%."To believe the results of A/F you must accept that sales have dropped by half in six years, due to some factor that no one can identify. Does this seem even remotely plausible?"
Know anything about the first-person shooter? Chances are you do, and you've heard of at least one. They're the linchpin of most competitive online play, they act as showcases for the latest visual technology and they have also inspired substantial criticism for being "murder simulators" (as Lt. Col. Dave Grossman put it: seetinyurl.com/4br8r).Shooters are the most significant game-type of the 1990s, ushering in what are now staples of the games industry: fast, real-time 3D graphics, online play and cybersports. New, visually stunning shooters usually chaperone next-generation videogame consoles or graphics card families. It's an important genre with an enviable history, but there's one problem: developers are getting bored.Take id Software, the Dallas-based company that in effect invented the FPS with landmark titles such as Wolfenstein 3D and Doom. The company then popularised true 3D graphics with Quake (1996), and has since been living off the fat of those franchises: despite a 10-year gap between Doom sequels, 2004's Doom3 sold 3m copies.Exploring ideasRecently, however, Tim Willits, id's lead designer, found himself itching to do something different. And with the revenue his company now generates from past successes, he's able to do just that."We've been lucky enough to have very successful franchises and developers to work with us," he says. "So, we have these other teams who create good games for us; we now have the luxury of exploring new ideas while the other IPs generate enough income. And if you don't come up with new ideas, you get stale. You always need to come up with new ideas, because that's what makes this exciting. That's what makes it fun, and that's what got us into it."Fuelled by this conviction, Willits has started work on Rage, id's first original IP in more than a decade. According to early reports, Rage is distancing itself from the restrictive, maze-like worlds that traditionally serve as FPS environments. The action will instead take place in a vast, simulated virtual world, and id plans to support play of a far greater depth and customisability than the likes of Quake could ever accomplish.Willits explains his motivations: "I wanted to make a game that was fun and different. Fun is always my goal. We come to crossroads in Rage, like with the driving stuff. We have realism, and then we have fun. And sometimes, something that's real isn't fun. So whenever we come to those crossroads, I will always pick the fun one. Even if it's a little out there, or a little arcade-y, if it's more fun, that's the route we take. And again, we like to make games that we want to play. And a lot of us like different game genres. We're all gamers here, so we wanted to have a game that embodied all the aspects we love."Although id is clearly moving away from the genre it more or less created, Willits is nonethelesssure the shooter has a future. He still considers Rage an FPS, albeit an evolved one, but believes preconceptions about the genre need to be given the heave-ho."Is the FPS in jeopardy?" he asks. "No. There's a lot of room to grow. Players expect more from games these days. People want to experience more. They want more from stories; they want more from environments. The pure, arcade-y shooter is definitely going old-school. But the new games are expanding. Rage, for example, is built on that first-person genre, but we've blown out the gameplay. We have driving combat, racing, adventure elements ... The genre isn't in jeopardy. It's growing."He doesn't believe the classic FPS is completely out of luck, either. "It will exist in some form," he says. "It's definitely shrinking, and I think where you see legs with that is in some of those marketplace downloads with the 360 and the PS3. For example, we released Classic Doom on Microsoft Download, and it was super-successful; Microsoft was thrilled. And we're a developing a Quake title for that download, so you can have these smaller games in a kind of environment that limits itself to that arcade-y, instant action setup, which is what you get with those downloadable games. So I think the evolved FPS will be turning the tables, and the older, pure FPSs will be moving towards the downloadable environment."Limitless potentialOther celebrated shooter studios have similar views. Frank O'Connor, lead writer at Bungie Studios, thinks evolution is inevitable, but believes there'll still be room for Quake-esque shooters. Bungie is responsible for the absurdly successful, story-heavy Halo series - the third instalment, Halo 3, was released in September - and is considered one of the leading innovators in the genre. "The FPS genre," he says, "is effectively defined by the camera point of view - which is analogous to the human experience. So it certainly can and will evolve. Much of that evolution will happen in cursory areas, like control schemes, graphics and technology - but the biggest challenge to overcome is the storytelling aspect."I think that can go in a couple of directions - from the more literally immersive experience - where things happen to you in-game, to better ways of dealing with the kinds of vignette and cinematic we use as tools right now."As for the survival of the more traditional FPS, I think every genre has a future, if handled well and executed cleverly. Even old and defunct genres, like the classic platform game, can come back from time to time when they're done correctly - and the FPS is far from being old or defunct. In fact, with stuff like Bioshock, Resistance, Team Fortress 2, and, of course, Halo 3, I think that the genre has never had more vitality."Games like Halo 3 and 2K Boston's BioShock (released within a month of each other) do indeed seem to be revitalising a genre accused by many of stagnation. "It's interesting that BioShock and Halo came out a month apart from each other and both have been successful," Ken Levine, BioShock's lead designer, notes. "I was talking to Jon Chey - co-founder of Irrational [now 2K Boston] - about this last week, and he pointed out that multiplayer shooters are about competition and single-player [games] are more and more about having an experience. He said that games were born in a time when the goal was to force the player to hand over another quarter. But we're past that now, and the single player experience seems to be more of a 'go to another place and be another person' kind of feeling. FPS games convey that especially well. One of the key reasons BioShock was so successful was Rapture turned out to be a place where people wanted to go."Thus, the focus of the new FPS is evident: simulated, detailed places that take advantage of the immersion inherent to the first-person viewpoint, rather than constricted, largely cosmetic levels whose primary purpose is to act as a labyrinthine arena. The FPS allows the player to identify with the game world in a way no other genre can allow; its potential is limitless, but design needs to evolve to keep both players and developers interested.Most significant advances in games technology post-1990 have been either caused or accompanied by a landmark shooter game; now that other facets of the industry are maturing - storytelling, world-crafting, artificial intelligence - the FPS needs to follow suit. It never was one to be left behind.
Where's your dead PC buried?The "recycling" of used PCs often means their export to countries such as Nigeria, where they're stripped of valuable metals - and then dumped in rivers or burnt, releasing a new set of toxins.tinyurl.com/2yg6rlHuman Tetris. No, reallyIt's surely impossible not to laugh at this game show from Japan, which leads the world at coming up with daft things to put on TV. Can a British version with minor celebrities be far behind? Please?tinyurl.com/2dgqc5Did you mean 'climate change'?In July, Intel and Google launched their climate-saving initiative. But this is a problem where search isn't the solution.tinyurl.com/2lftv7&middot; Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Real use of virtual worldsIn some quarters, virtual worlds are still perceived as something for grown men who live with their mothers (Virtual China looks for real benefits, November 1). That's not only out of date, but it also masks some of the very real uses they hold. Corporations like Cisco and IBM use it for meetings in place of the sterile videoconference. And universities are turning to virtual worlds as a new form of distance learning. There is the often-quoted Gartner stat that in five years 80% of regular internet users will have a virtual world presence, and it may well be ventures such as Dotman, as opposed to Second Life, that turn that figure into reality.thisisherd.comHear, hearI laughed so much reading Charles Arthur's winge about Bluetooth earpieces (Technophile, November 1) that my spectacles nearly fell off. Oh, what problems these gadget kids have to face up to! Congratulations to those drivers who "seem to have mastered the art of wearing these things for long periods of time" and shame on those who haven't. Have you thought about those of us who have to wear "things" in our ear all the time? Surely to solve your problems the Bluetooth manufacturers ought to consult with hearing aid manufacturers whose earpieces have to stay put, fit snugly to cut out external noise and carry a significant load, maybe about 20 hours a day, and without driving the wearer mad. On the whole they do a good job. Maybe it doesn't create the right image to have links between boy's toys and disability, but us "One in Seven" would surely benefit from any technological spinoff.Andy Lane,SunderlandMessage for the mass ageMcLuhan's understanding "that as media become more interactive, they also become more potent tools for manipulation and control" was rather more subtly encapsulated by his actual phrase (and book title), "The medium is the mAssage", than by the misquoted phrase Nick Carr (among thousands) wrote in his article (Read Me First, November 1).Malcolm Shifrin,Leatherhead&middot; "The medium is the message" was McLuhan's message, and was the intended title of the book: seemarshallmcluhan.com/faqs.html- Tech.EdSize is everythingWhy should the computer industry change its ancient definitions to compensate for drive manufacturers' dishonesty? (Ask Jack, November 1). Kibibytes? It sounds like a children's breakfast cereal. Manufacturers should use a small "d" in front of their quoted drive capacities, viz: 320dGB. They could pretend it stands for "decimal"; we know it really means "deceptive".Chris Rigby,UffculmeNo oak grew from AcornYour Newsbyte article (November 1) on Google and Yahoo! providing search suggestions after typing one or three characters reminds me of Clawsoft's TOSS system, previewed by Mike Cook in the April 1987 edition of The Micro User -tinyurl.com/2wb3oy. Sadly it never caught on, and Acorn failed to drive all other computer manufacturers out of the market.Tim Matthews,BollingtonIf it ain't broke ...Hazel Davis's article about her HSBC branch (Technobile, October 25) resonated with me. The branch at Huddersfield introduced a wonderful new scheme. A paying-in machine produced a copy of the cheque so that you were then carrying around the payer's bank details and signature -  an open sesame to significant fraud. I never paid in a cheque at that branch again, preferring to seach out the really old-fashioned type where a record was made in your paying-in book and it was date-stamped.Maureen Panton,Malvern&middot; Read all this week's letters and blogs atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
