This week I'm in Japan for the Tokyo Games Show, the biggest and most innovative interactive entertainment festival of riches in the world. I'm accompanying 12 British games companies to the epicentre of the world's gaming scene with the UKTI's Game Mission, where they'll get a three-day programme of seminars and meetings with Japanese publishers, developers and dignitaries. While I'm here, I'm going to trawl the show floor, to meet a few gaming celebs and a couple of those dignitaries myself. I'll be reporting back on a daily basis in video updates on the Technology Guardian website, giving Gamesblog readers the tweets and whistles from the show floor and behind the scenes.Although there's an element of going with my eyes wide open to see what ephemera fall in front of me, I'm not heading overseas without a bit of forethought. I'll be seeking out the following choice offerings.The Nintendo DSi, launched last week, has a gaggle of new features: a camera, an SD slot, a larger screen and a souped-up download service. I'll have a hands-on before moving on to Phantasy Star 0 on the DS and its sister on the PSP. The Sega game places another stake in the ground of innovation for the developers, bringing massively multiplayer experiences to the handheld scene for the first time, opening up new avenues for big worlds on small platforms.Meanwhile, design wunderkind Keita Takahashi is bringing his first new IP since the remarkable Japanese puzzler Katamari Damacy to the show. Little is known at present about Nobi Nobi Boy and it will only be shown in a non-playable video form, but it will at least give us a hint of what it's all about.These new products might distract me for a while, but I expect to spend most of my time loitering around the Konami stand. The Metal Gear Solid publisher won't be demonstrating a playable version of its forthcoming stealth-a-thon, but it will have Silent Hill Homecoming, which I expect to have a go on (in a bright, large venue, surrounded by thousands of people and not on my own, at night, with the lights out), as well as the Wii version of Castlevania.Finally, Bungie's next Halo project is rumoured to be landing in Tokyo. The studio has at least four projects in the works, and one of them is certainly the cash cow Halo 4. Most games observers are certain Master Chief is on the guest list, and I intend to meet him.That's only the software. Just wait until I get my hands on the hardware. Head to the blog for the latest, and do let me know what you want to see. Let my eyes guide you through the brightest, most exciting games show on Earth.
We tend to take it for granted that technical innovations will make our lives easier and more convenient; but that isn't always the case for everyone. In fact, a host of alleged upgrades are actually alienating the 2 million people in the UK (and the 314 million worldwide) who are visually impaired.Ahead of the changeover to digital TV in 2012, many of us have bought new televisions, set-top boxes or personal video recorders (PVRs). But none of these is set up so a partially sighted person can use it without help. The onscreen menus feature no options to adjust the font, colour, contrast or size of the display and the lack of text-to-voice capability excludes blind people entirely.The switch to chip-and-pin card readers in 2005 was also greeted with disappointment by people with visual impairments. Again, these do not include audio or Braille options and partially sighted people find the screens on some readers impenetrable, However, Denis Deasy of Action for Blind People, says that Marks and Spencer is one of few places to use an easy-to-read chip-and-pin interface.Dark agesThis ignorance of the needs of visually impaired people when it comes to new technologies even extends to new educational equipment. Adrian Farnsworth, Derby's resource officer for the sight impaired, wrote in RNIB's magazine Insight about the problems caused by the increased use of electronic whiteboards in schools. The whiteboards are harder for visually impaired children to see due to a lack of contrast, and must be used in a darkened room, meaning they can't see to make notes. "The children we work with are now less integrated than a few years ago," he wrote (bit.ly/visual01).The frustration is that the technology exists to make the world more accessible for the visually impaired, but companies tend to be reluctant to use it. Denis Deasy uses the example of microwave ovens which can "speak" to users: "If you put this technology in all the microwaves, it costs a lot less to make them and many people would find it useful." Instead, blind and partially sighted people who want this technology have to shell out for expensive equipment.But sometimes the problem is more about what new technologies add than what they lack. For years, visually impaired people have had an array of options for accessing the internet, ranging from specialist software such as Jaws, which converts text to speech, to magnification tools including Zoomtext.For the totally blind, there are refreshable displays that translate what's on the screen into Braille in real time. But Flash-based websites are not compatible with these devices. The ubiquitous use of captcha codes, which aim to prevent spam, is another concern.Shelly Brisbin, a technology journalist and author who is visually impaired, says: "When you're faced with a captcha or a Flash-based page it's like somebody put a wall up." The World Wide Web Consortium (w3.org) publishes accessibility guidelines - including the use of clear descriptive tags for web pages and images, simple layouts and the avoidance of Flash - but designers do not always adhere to them.Still, some innovations offer reason to hope. Glenn Tookey, CEO of Sight and Sound, which distributes specialist technology to visually impaired people, is excited by the KNFB Mobile Reader. This is software compatible with Nokia's N82 phone that can take excellent quality pictures of documents and read them back to its owner (via headphones if preferred). Meanwhile Dan Jellinek, editor of the E-Access Bulletin newsletter, is impressed with the future possibilities of radio frequency identification (RFID), which is already being used in London's Oyster travelcard system.Says Jellinek: "RFID combined with mobile roaming devices could mean all sorts of interesting applications. With GPS technology as well, it means blind people will increasingly know exactly where they are." The advantage of these types of innovation is that visually impaired people are able to blend in."What I've learned from speaking to blind people is that despite the fact they cannot see the device they are using, they want it to be fashionable and not to stand out, as anyone else would," says Tookey.In order for such innovation to be encouraged, however, businesses must feel it is a worthwhile endeavour. Brisbin advises that wherever possible, blind and visually impaired people should make their feelings known: "Don't just complain, write to companies that aren't meeting your needs about what needs to change."It could just be a matter of time before improving accessibility becomes as much of a priority as environmental awareness now is, says Tookey, although it might help if the government forced the issue.See you in courtCompanies dragging their heels would be wise to learn from the court case against American retailing behemoth Target, which was settled out of court last month (bit.ly/visual02).Target paid $6m (&pound;3.4m)to three blind plaintiffs who argued the use of Flash on the retailer's website,Target.com, made it inaccessible to screen readers and thus discriminated against the visually impaired (bit.ly/visual03). Target did not admit liability, but the case could alert other companies to the need to take accessibility more seriously.
If a fraudster copies the numbers from your bank debit or credit cards, there's little to stop them going on a shopping spree online. This kind of fraud - known as card-not-present -  exceeded &pound;290m in the UK last year and is a growing problem. It could also be one of the first consumer applications to benefit from quantum key distribution.Quantum key distribution - or QKD for short - exploits the quantum mechanical properties of light particles (photons) to generate secret keys (strings of random numbers) that can be shared between two parties (for example, you and your bank) and used to encrypt data to safeguard it from snoopers. Typically, QKD systems transmit a stream of differently oriented photons to represent 1s and 0s through an optical fibre or a free space link. The snooper-proofing is intrinsic due to the fragility of quantum states: if you try to measure them they collapse, which is a marker for tampering, alerting the legitimate users to the presence of an eavesdropper.Can you keep a secret?Using quantum keys to encrypt data is at present only of interest to banks, governments and defence organisations which might need to move lots of confidential information securely between sites. But a demonstration in Vienna this week takes the technology to a different level, by integrating quantum key distribution into a standard communications network.The event will show VoIP, videoconferencing and web services encrypted with constantly refreshed quantum keys. It will also include a prototype solution to card-not-present fraud, developed by Professor John Rarity from the University of Bristol and Hewlett Packard Research Labs. The idea is that we would fill up our mobile phones or similar handheld devices with secrets (random strings of digits) at a quantum ATM. During online transactions, we would gradually consume this personal stash of secrets to encrypt information, such as our Pin, or to authenticate ourselves."The quantum part gives you the promise that when you've topped up your secrets, only you and your service provider own this particular random digit string," says Tim Spiller of HP. "If you're doing an internet transaction, you send the merchant however many secret bits is deemed to be secure. The merchant sends them on to Visa, say, who checks they're OK and if so authenticates the transaction."The Vienna event is the culmination of a four-year EU project called SECOQC (Secure Communication based on Quantum Cryptography) to bring QKD technology to the mainstream. The SECOQC partners - who are now defining a European technical standard - include Siemens, Toshiba, Hewlett Packard, ID Quantique, Thales and Qinetiq as well as leading quantum scientists.For the demo, Siemens has installed seven quantum key links into a standard metropolitan fibre-optic communications network that runs around Vienna and connects several of its sites. The network has been successfully running in test mode for several weeks now, according to Wolfgang Richter of Siemens.Quantum keys won't be able to encrypt data traffic in real-world networks until standards have been finalised. However, SECOQC project leader Christian Monyk is optimistic. " We could produce it in six months."When (or if) consumers enter the picture is difficult to predict. Rarity and HP's technology is "on the banks' radars", according to Spiller. But the point about their system is that it's potentially very cheap. HP's vision is that mobile phones could easily include half a short-range QKD system (which they say can be built from some standard LEDS and a low-cost integrated optical circuit). "Getting that into the market would depend on demand but five years is reasonable," says Spiller.No hiccupsMeanwhile, quantum cryptography is gaining interest. Last year, ID Quantique's simple point-to-point quantum key distribution technology was used to guarantee the security of votes cast in Geneva during the Swiss general election. This summer, the defence and security company Qinetiq has been doing trials in London with network operator AboveNet, which provides fibre-optic connections for businesses. "We've done some experiments sending polarised photons through part of their network," says Dr Brian Lowans of Qinetiq. "We didn't have any hiccups."
As scientific ambitions go, it's a big one: no less than the creation of an artificial life form. Since the early 1980s, scientists have been attempting to create synthetic cells. And apparently the final breakthrough is expected very soon."This is a critical time for artificial life," says Dr Seth Bullock, who chaired the ALife XI conference - a gathering of more than 400 scientists, philosophers and engineers at the University of Winchester last month. "The field is on the verge of synthesising living cells."Artificial life, often referred to as alife, is a very diverse field of study, encompassing simulations, computer models, robotics and biochemistry. Researchers concern themselves with the reconstruction or simulation of living processes in a variety of media - including robotics and chemical systems, as well as computational modelling. It's also a very esoteric community, but their work has proven, despite much controversy, to have many practical applications.Pieces of the jigsaw"There are many aspects to what makes up a living organism," says Alex Penn of the School of Electronics and Computer Science at the University of Southampton. "The key aspects are production of a self-sustaining metabolism, a membrane to separate this metabolic system from its environment and an informational system, such as DNA, to support replication and heredity."Penn argues that although there has been no single breakthrough, different groups are approaching the problem of making a whole cell from different angles. "Although we are not yet at the stage of creating a totally self-producing, self-reproducing, autonomous living cell, considerable advances have been made on individual aspects."At the forefront of the artificial life movement is a research group led by Craig Venter, the American biologist who founded the Institute for Genomic Research and who is a leading cartographer of the human genome. Venter has recently managed to insert artificially constructed chromosomes into existing living cells: not quite artificial life, but something approaching a synthesis of it. Rival research institutions are also close to fitting other pieces of the jigsaw in to place. Mark Bedau at the European Centre for Living Technology in Venice has manufactured artificial vesicles - in effect, artificial cell walls - thought to be a key step in the origin of proto-cellular life.Although the creation of a synthetic life form is a mainly a practice of biologists, the results are of keen interest to any scientist interested in understanding living systems and their origins. "One route to understanding a system and its origins is to attempt to reconstruct it," says Penn.Since the movement's rise, it has often been perceived as an endeavour perused by maverick scientists operating on the edge of mainstream science. "The alife community has always been a place where [scientific] outsiders could gather," says Mark Bedau, editor of the Artificial Life Journal. "It's been seen as something of an amateur science and yet the robot being used to explore Mars uses principles that have come out of the alife community."Moreover, artificial life has produced many practical achievements much closer to home. Its ideas and principles have helped inspire a range of innovations, ranging from the development of household robotics such as Rod Brooks' iRobot vacuum cleaner through to computer games that use evolutionary artificial intelligence approaches, to the special effects in Hollywood blockbusters. The battle scenes in the film Troy, for example, were produced with software developed by Torsten Reil's Natural Motion company, which in turn was based on principles spun out of the alife movement.Elsewhere, financial systems modelling biologically-inspired evolutionary algorithms are used to analyse complex financial portfolios by companies such as CodeFarm and Icosystem, while BT is investing in alife approaches as a means for understanding and manipulating the behaviour of large, complicated, open socio-technological systems such as wireless networks. The idea is that the BT could build telecommunications networks that could self-regulate and repair."Cells are constantly processing information. Everything that is alive is a fantastic information processor," says Klaus Peter Zauner of the University of Southampton. Just as 19th-century engineers studied the flight of birds and dreamed of being airborne, he says, so today's computer engineers marvel at the intelligence in all forms of life and contemplate the potential of more efficient computation.Great leaps forwardThere are, however, major conceptual challenges that need to be overcome before the synthetic cells are possible. First, the coupling of the three essential components of a living cell: metabolism; membrane and inheritance system is not yet fully understood. "Second, and more generally," says Penn, "we need to better understand the respective roles of evolution and self-organisation and how they combine to produce living systems."A decade ago, artificial life was criticised by the evolutionary biologist John Maynard Smith as being a "fact-free science", but the recent leaps forward mean that it is belatedly being accepted into the scientific mainstream.
Just as Wall Street was facing financial meltdown, Microsoft turned up at the 2008 High Performance on Wall Street conference with the idea of using Windows for what we used to call supercomputing. The event marked the RTM (release to manufacturing) of the latest HPC (high performance computing) version of Windows Server 2008, and followed the launch of a cheap Cray CX1 supercomputer designed to run it. In a business where machines can cost $100m, "cheap" starts at around $25,000. Other machines will follow from companies such as HP, IBM and Dell (bit.ly/mshpc).This doesn't mean Microsoft expects to take over the supercomputing business, where Linux has something like a 95% market share. Very few real supercomputers run Windows, though one recently established a top-25 benchmark performance of 68.5 teraflops. (Actually it was a Linux supercomputer at America's National Center for Supercomputing Applications, and the NCSA just ran the Windows benchmark.)According to Kyril Faenov, general manager of Microsoft's HPC team, the idea is to deliver an integrated system that works at a departmental level, running existing Windows software and utilising existing Windows skills. It's a sort of deskside PC vision of a supercomputer, rather than an enterprise-wide or national resource.Says Faenov: "Even small companies can take advantage of high-performance computing. We're taking it to the mainstream." For example, Faenov says Excel 2007 supports "transparent parallelism", so that an HPC machine can speed up everyday workflows in financial institutions where they have spreadsheets that take hours or even days to run. (Crazy, I know.)Windows HPC is based on the same Windows core as Vista SP1 and Server 2008, so programs can be developed in Microsoft Visual Studio. But Faenov says a lot of supercomputing programs "move very easily to Windows: usually the code has been abstracted to use only a few operating system specific calls".If your financial world is collapsing, I can understand the appeal of being able to run financial analyses in a hurry. But people may soon get their own supercomputing facilities by exploiting their PC's graphics processors.Nvidia has been talking up GPUs for a couple of years, and Nvidia's chief scientist David Kirk told a conference: "If you think about it, this is a massively parallel supercomputer on your desktop. It is truly the democratisation of supercomputing."The potential is already visible in the results from cooperative projects such as Folding@Home (bit.ly/fathome). The problem is that programs written for CPUs don't usually have any way of accessing GPU power, except for mundane, repetitive tasks such as pixel shading and playing DVDs.But that could change now AMD (Intel's main rival) owns ATI (Nvidia's main rival). According to Ian McNaughton, a senior manager with AMD in the UK, AMD is planning multi-core processors that will have both CPUs and GPUs on the same chip. For consumers who need fast graphics processing for video and games, it would make more sense to have a quad-core chip with two CPUs and two GPUs than four CPUs, he says. No doubt Intel and Via are thinking along the same lines.It should certainly be possible to enable an on-chip GPU to handle the sort of repetitive parallel processing that would race through an Excel spreadsheet. In which case, the market for deskside supercomputers may not be as big or as profitable as Microsoft and its PC partners hope.
Just the net, pleaseIs there a device that will provide email and internet access without the need for a computer, and using a TV as a monitor? A large display is essential because of eyesight problems.GB LoweJS:Plenty of products have been offered, over the years - including Web TV, Microsoft's "Internet Companions" and Amstrad's e-Mailer - but there seems to be no market for them. Well, not a market based on customers spending money. The best option at the moment is probably the Asus Eee PC Box (&pound;199), which is very small and, according to Asus, can plug into a TV set ... though a TV is not a good monitor for people with eyesight problems. The Eee Box runs Windows XP Home, but it has a simple Linux-based front end called Express Gate (bit.ly/aj0042), which lets you surf and run Skype without loading Windows. There's a demo on YouTube atbit.ly/aj0043. (A full Linux version of the Box is due soon, possibly this month.)The Eee PC Box is actually a netbook like the Asus Eee PC, Acer Aspire One or MSI Wind but without the built-in screen. Netbooks usually have 7in, 8.9in or 10.2in LCD screens, which you would probably find too hard to read, though they're a good solution if your eyesight can cope. With the Eee PC Box, however, you can buy a screen that's as big as you need, or can afford. Streaming media devices such as the Archos TV+ and Apple TV can also be used for web browsing, and in the future, web access may be built in to many more devices, including LCD TV sets. But at the moment, the easiest way to get a big screen, a decent keyboard and a speedy machine is to buy a cheap Dell, HP or similar PC, which usually means running Windows XP or Vista. Windows also has accessibility features to help vision-impaired users, and lots of related software such as screen readers.Trip computerMy wife and I embark on a round-the-world trip at the end of November. We need a secure method of moving money from UK accounts and also the ability to send emails and check hotel bookings and flight times. Would a Dell Inspiron Mini 9 be suitable?Bob DaveyJS:Netbooks or minibooks will be used by many travellers because they are small, light and cheap, and will do the job. However, you will need to work on the security. The simplest idea is to do all your web browsing using a privacy mode so that data is discarded instead of stored. Google's Chrome, Apple's Safari and Microsoft's Internet Explorer 8 all have "porn modes".An alternative with Windows XP-based netbooks like Dell's Mini 9 is to run the Firefox Portable Edition browser from an encrypted USB memory stick. You can do this with the Base Edition of the Portableapps.com Suite, which provides a menu system along with an office suite, calendar/scheduler, instant messaging client, antivirus, Sudoku game and backup utility (portableapps.com/suite). Also, always use secure https:// addresses whenever possible.Using a memory stick keeps data off the computer and reduces your security risk if is lost or stolen. But if you do store personal information on your netbook, try to keep it in an encrypted, password-protected file or folder (truecrypt.org). You could even encrypt the whole hard drive, though this may not be very convenient.Caught by NoAdwareI recently downloaded NoAdware 5.0 from an advert on your blog: it was advertised as free! Now I find that it won't allow me to remove trojanguarder without paying for the product. Can I safely get rid of it?Peter PaulJS:You should be able to remove NoAdware with the Control Panel's Add/Remove Programs utility. You can then download SuperAntiSpyWare (superantispyware.com)- free for personal use - to remove trojanguarder. To avoid confusion, I do recommend Adblock Plus, which is a Firefox browser extension, and Lavasoft's Ad-Aware, but I don't recommend NoAdware.Back up sticksI've started backing up onto a 2GB memory stick. Is this a safe method?Martin JamesJS:USB memory sticks, CompactFlash and SD cards are good for short-term backups if you don't have an external hard drive, but they can be corrupted and lose data. Also, to avoid overwriting backups, I'd rather you used two memory sticks and alternated them. However, I'd still recommend making a CD-R backup every month or so, as an archive. CD-Rs are cheap and don't take up much room. Even if you throw most of the old discs away, you can still keep multiple backups of data going back years. And one day, you might need them.Windows oddityDouble-clicking folders in Windows Explorer has suddenly changed from opening that folder to opening the Search dialogue. Any ideas?Phil LeahyJS:Oddly enough, this is a known problem caused by an incorrect entry in the Windows registry. Kelly's Korner offers an XP tweak to fix this: it's number 18 on the right hand side (bit.ly/aj0045). The fix involves downloading and double-clicking a tiny .reg file to make the correction automatically.Backchat• John Ward wanted to increase the hard disk space on his 2003 computer. John Thow warns that his old computer's BIOS chip is unlikely to recognise an internal hard drive larger than 137GB, adding: "I was looking for a 120GB HDD for a client with a machine of similar age the other day and found that no one makes them any more."While John Ward can add a much larger external hard drive, John Thow adds: "It is also likely that a computer of that age will have only USB 1 support, so it would also be advisable to get a USB 2 PCI card for about &pound;15 to improve the data transfer rate."• Robert Caldicott found his PC transferring data when he wasn't doing anything. Another possibility readers suggested is the BBC iPlayer, which "will move data around without you knowing about it".• Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
David Berry was puzzled when his computer began throwing strange, lingering popup notices at him demanding payment to a company called Platte Media. Five days later, there was a "notification" demanding &pound;29.99. "The Platte representative was ill-mannered, totally ignored any suggestion that the subscription was unsolicited, and as a matter of expediency I coughed up &pound;29.99," he says.Intending to take the matter further, he asked for a VAT receipt. But when the receipt arrived without a VAT number, he telephoned again. "I was informed that any payment made to Platte Media was to Platte International in the British Virgin Islands and as such was not subject to VAT," David says.Popup puzzleMeanwhile Malcolm, who prefers not to give his surname, had a different puzzle: a letter from Platte Media sent to his address threatening action at the small claims court for non-payment. What he couldn't figure out was: how had the company got his address?Platte International - formerly known as Micro Bill Systems, or MBS - has an unusual business model. People go to websites that use its software. To view the site, they click an agreement that offers a free trial, and download software to their (Windows) PC. If you don't actively end the trial and don't pay the subscription, you'll get a series of popup windows that make it harder and harder to use your machine. If you then call Platte, it will help you disable the popups.Platte International Ltd has previously garnered attention from this newspaper and BBC Radio's You &amp; Yours programme for having stills from mainstream films on a website (Porn billing firm lures customers with promises of Hollywood movies, June 26) when it was offering thousands of pornographic films and film trailers. But the mysteries around the company won't go away. The latest: its apparent ability to obtain personal details about customers, and a trickier one about whether - or where - it is registered for VAT.Platte's signup process for its free three-day trial to watch pornographic films is unmistakable thanks to an undertaking with the Office of Fair Trading. Despite this, some consumers claim only to see a popup bill demanding &pound;29.99 for a 30-day subscription - though it's possible that it's because they won't admit signing up on the family PC, as has happened in a number of cases.For some who don't pay, Platte sends letters threatening legal action at the small claims court. This includes a page of "pre submission" information which could, to the unwary, appear to come from "Issuing Court Northampton County Court" - but which doesn't.Michelle, who has no interest in pornography, received letters from Platte just addressed to "the computer owner". "I phoned the court, who said that because there was no claim number attached, it wasn't valid, but asked me to send the information in so they could have sight of it."The IP address quoted by Platte does not match Michelle's ISP and, strangely, she hasn't seen any popup bills, either. Those ignoring the popups have also received what one describes as a "sham county court notice".Several people have suggested that Platte uses IP addresses to ask internet service providers, because when the software installs it does not demand any personal details. The Information Commissioner's office says: "Unless they are required by law or by a court order, it would be for the internet service provider to determine whether or not it is lawful to provide another company with the names and addresses of consumers. If we receive complaints about this issue we will, of course, investigate."Stanly Hiwat, the chief executive officer of Platte International Ltd, told us by email that the only situation where Platte would obtain an individual's address is "where a court has granted a Norwich Pharmacal Order [a specific legal device] requiring the ISP to disclose it". He said: "Whilst this option is available to us we have not to date had to obtain such an order. All address information that we use is information provided to us directly by the customer themselves."Over the threshold?We took Malcolm's IP address to his ISP, TalkTalk, for comment. "As far as we are aware, we have not revealed this customer's details - or any customers' details - to Platte. It is not TalkTalk's policy to do this except in the most serious circumstances, for instance when we have been asked to cooperate with the police," says the ISP.But the boot might be on the other foot after David's experience over the missing VAT number. We asked HM Revenue and Customs whether a company registered overseas, but providing a service to a customer in the UK, would be exempt from VAT. Not so, said HMRC: non-EU suppliers providing "electronically supplied services to UK consumers" were required to register for VAT if the VAT threshold is exceeded.So has Platte exceeded the VAT threshold, of &pound;67,000 in a year? It seems remarkable if it hasn't. Ashley Bateup, chief executive officer of the UK-registered Platte International Ltd, which operates in Leeds, says the UK managed services company is registered for VAT, but he "cannot comment on any other company". Platte has also said its customer contracts are "with Platte International BVI".Hiwat, of Platte International Ltd, which is registered in the British Virgin Islands - although he is in Brazil - also didn't answer any detailed questions about VAT. "Truth remains, however, that Platte International Ltd BVI insists on operating a healthy business model that does not antagonise its customers, nor the institutions that protect them, nor do we willingly seek to offend applicable laws and business practices," he said in an email.Vital statisticsPlatte claims that only 20% of customers cancel before the end of the trial, and adds: "Contacts to Trading Standards from our customers represented less than 0.2% of total downloads by customers in the previous month."That gives us some help. West Yorkshire Trading Standards (where Platte is based in the UK) says it has so far received 693 complaints and/or inquiries nationally about Platte, with 129 of those in September and 81 in August.That suggests between 40,500 and 64,500 downloads per month, and that 80% of those signed up - which, at &pound;29.99 each comes to between &pound;971,676 and &pound;1.5m of revenues each month.  In fact, just 2,000 subscriptions each month is enough to exceed the limit, assuming all the subscriptions come from the UK and EU, which would all attract VAT.Prevx, an internet security company, monitors Platte's activities and says that "Platte downloads/installs may easily reach 50,000 a month".Mike Bailey, of accountancy firm PricewaterhouseCoopers, says that enforcing VAT registration for non-EU companies supplying electronic services is a real problem. It's not easy to find out which non-EU companies should have registered or their income. "How would you possibly be able to track that?" he asks.But HMRC is more determined. "If HMRC becomes aware that an overseas trader is liable to register in the UK, it can compulsorily register them and issue an assessment of any tax due. If appropriate, a civil evasion or belated notification penalty can also be issued."So is everyone happy with Platte? The company claims "very satisfied customers who sign up month after month and appreciate the security our payment options offer". Despite this, forums like mbsvictims.org.uk show that reports of unexplained downloads persist.But it may be that all those satisfied customers will create a problem of their own for the company. Ironically, its success could be Platte's biggest headache.Platte in numbers67,000Threshold in pounds at which a business must register for VAT50,000Estimated monthly level of downloads and installation of Platte software20%Percentage of customers Platte says cancel before the end of the trial period
Mobiles to hit 4bnThe International Telecommunications Union is predicting that the world will have 4 billion mobile phone users - 61% of the population - by December. More than 600m are in China.bit.ly/itu4bnWe play WiiResearch company GfK Chart-Track reckons the UK now has 3.6m Nintendo Wii games consoles.bit.ly/ukgconsCharity begins onlineThe Charity Commission, an independent regulator, is putting its registry of almost 200,000 UK charities online.www.charitycommission.gov.ukEarth v Space, checkGreg Chamitoff, on board the International Space Station, is now playing chess against earth people.bit.ly/nasachessDigital art rockSony is offering a limited edition of USB thumb drives loaded with digital versions of artworks from rocking Ronnie Wood's Scream gallery.sonystyle.co.uk/screaminhdiPod overboard!OverBoard has launched some waterproof Pro-Sports earbuds to go with its waterproof Pro-Sports iPod case.over-board.co.ukReally really remote controlKeene's IR Anywhere modules (&pound;99.99) allow infrared control commands to be sent over the internet from anywhere in the world.bit.ly/kiraSymbian expoThe Symbian Smartphone Show will be held at Earls Court, London, October 21-22.smartphoneshow.com
An interesting development this year was the discovery by the IT industry of a whole new market for affordable computers of the kind that Asus makes and which has already spawned a host of imitators. But there is an even bigger market staring the industry in the face. There are now more pensioners than children under 16. However, the word "pensioner" is still a bit of a turnoff for the youth-centric marketing and advertising industries and so, to a lesser extent, is "silver surfers" or even "older people". But call the same people "baby boomers", and suddenly we change from a no-go area to a huge marketing opportunity. Baby boomers - those born after the second world war from about 1946 - are starting to retire, and they have different expectations and lifestyles to their forebears. Reared on rock'n'roll and the Spectrum or BBC computers, they are technically savvy with high spending power. Most have no intention of retiring quietly, a fact that technology companies are only just realising.There are, of course, far too many poor pensioners. Some 3.5 million are living alone despite a global revolution in communications technology. Pensioners spend six hours online a week on average, but nearly half of people over 50 don't have a computer, according to Age Concern. When they do have web access the results are dramatic: consumers over 65 who have a net connection spend 50% more time online per day (90 minutes) than the UK average of one hour. So the first priority must be universal broadband for all, as the European Union said last month. Next there is a psychological barrier to overcome, the deeply embedded perception that they are too old or it's "not for me". Recently, I watched a 70-year-old type his first query into Google and the look of utter amazement it generated was a joy to behold.Of course, there is no substitute for real-life meetings. But for older people reluctant or unable to go out of doors regularly, the potential of new technology is awesome - email, chatrooms, photo sites such asFlickr.com, search engines, free videoconferencing through Skype, social networks, Twitter or even virtual worlds to attract kindred souls. The point is that nearly all of them are pretty easy to use, so long as the instructions are set out clearly and in reasonably large type. Websites designed for older people are starting to appear. Last week I went to the opening ofthetimesofmylife.com, an interesting site enabling older people (and others) to post their memories - in text, audio or video - to be shared and preserved for posterity. Its effectiveness can't really be judged until there is more material up there but a lot of thought has gone into making it simple to operate. It is well worth trying, even though it is not dissimilar from the more complicated miomi.com, aimed at all ages. Another new one aimed at older people is finerday.com, the owners of which have taken trouble to make it easy to use but have spoiled it with an entry procedure that will defeat most older people since it involves having to memorise a pattern of squares within a grid. No thanks.It is high time the moral of all this - honing technology to user needs - was adopted by others, not least telephone manufacturers, who fail to see the enormous market for a simple phone. Some companies are trying hard, such as Samsung (seejitterbug.com) and also the Austrian Emporia, two of whose phones I tried recently There were big buttons on the keyboard, a big monochrome screen with large letters, just four navigational buttons (plus an emergency button on the back) and also a torch. The concept was great but it was tricky to use - the keys needed quite a lot of pressure to depress and navigation wasn't intuitive. Manufacturers had better turn over a new leaf soon or the wrath of the baby boomers will know no end.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
A raft of smartphones are due to be unleashed in the weeks before Christmas, and Palm's latest is just one of them. But unlike, say, the Sony Ericsson Xperia or the HTC Diamond Touch, the Palm Pro doesn't have a proprietary interface and flashy functions bolted on top: it's a vanilla Windows Mobile 6.1 smartphone, selling unlocked for &pound;399, and on contract with Vodafone and O2.This is a good thing. My experience with third-party GUIs is that they tend to add a layer of complexity, freeze up and crash. And while it has steered clear of adding prettiness to the OS, Palm has finally got with the design vibe and come up with a handset that looks a lot better than some of its previous efforts.The Pro is a shiny black handset with elegant curves at the sides and corners, which means it fits comfortably in the, er, palm. Windows Mobile 6.1 is a big improvement on version 6.0, and the straightforward implementation of it here is easy to navigate. Improvements included threaded texts and a better Today screen.Bundled with the OS are Office Mobile apps (Word, Excel, OneNote and PowerPoint) as well as Google Maps (which integrates with the GPS), a couple of games, the unloveable Internet Explorer and a pocket version of Windows Media Player. And it also supports Microsoft Exchange, which is easy to set up.Hardware-wise, this Palm has a touchscreen, which compared to some other devices is a bit small, but bright and responsive; Wi-Fi, so that you can hop on to a hotspot and save downloading data via 3G/HSDPA/Edge; and a physical keyboard. The latter has a slightly odd jelly-like feel and it's hard to work up much speed on it, and the keys are a little close together. However, double-thumb input on this is a lot better than on most touchscreens. Battery life is what you'd expect on a smartphone - that is, you'll need to charge it once a day - and you can add up to 32GB of storage via a micro SDHC card.The camera is below average by today's standards at just 2MP, but on the upside is quickly accessed via a button on the side of the device. The buttons are probably the most thoughtful thing about this phone: the red button returns you quickly to the Today screen as well as both locking and waking up the screen, while a touch of the centre button unlocks it. Wi-Fi is switched on and off via another button on the side. Most thoughtful is the switch on the top that toggles silent mode. Not very glamorous, but nicely implemented.And that's the theme of this phone. There are flashier handsets, but this one is straightforward, responsive and thoughtfully implemented. It's not going to set the world on fire but it will do what it says on the tin, quietly and effectively.Pros: No third-party GUI to go wrong, Windows Mobile 6.1, good use of buttonsCons: Poor keyboard and camerabit.ly/treopro
Cerfing the webHow ironic it is that non-scientific writers - the editors of the Guardian's Style Guide - insist on the use of a scientific fact that seems to be unknown even by at least one distinguished scientist (It's every man for himself, October 2). Vint Cerf uses the word "schizoid" to mean "in two minds", despite the style guide's correct statement that such a use is incorrect as schizophrenia is not Multiple Personality Disorder.Frank Desmond,Cork City, Ireland• A brilliant analysis by the inventor of the internet on why it shouldn't be regulated or policed - because it can't be regulated.blog.andibaritchi.comHow to survive the crunch• The downwave world is all about productivity, efficiency and other cost-reducing techniques (Newly asked questions, October 2). The one thing I do think [the article] missed is this: sell to companies that have money, and/or in industries that are growing; make the stuff that customers say they want and will pay for, not what you think they want.broadstuff.com• This is the first time I've encountered a newspaper journalist quoting a Twitter feed.oakleafblog.blogspot.comSmokescreen on cloudsI am not sure what Richard Stallman is putting in his pipe to produce this smokescreen (Cloud computing is a trap, warns GNU founder Richard Stallman, September 29), but the issues of privacy have nothing to do with his other point: that cloud computing is a trap aimed at forcing people into locked systems. We need intelligent, thoughtful conversations about privacy and data portability, but don't let the intellectually dishonest hang these issues on cloud computing or use them to defend the traditional datacenter model of developing IT solutions.Jonah Stein,Berkeley, California• I felt it necessary to at least provide one man's different opinion and one based on experience. Cloud computing provides an alternative to the "deploy your own" approach. I'm cofounder of a new software company that recently completed this analysis and made the decision to go with Amazon's cloud solution instead of building our own data centre. Several months into the decision, we are very pleased with our choice, and do not feel we are trapped or would be prevented from moving to another platform. I thought the entire article misrepresented cloud computing and the author's quote: "It's stupidity. It's worse than stupidity: it's a marketing hype campaign," seemed like some sort of personal rant: another one man's opinion.Ken Forbes,Aliso Viejo, CaliforniaVirtual collapse• What effect will the financial crisis have on virtual worlds like Second Life (Vic Keegan, October 2)? Given that the economic underpinnings of the Linden dollar make CDOs look like Krugerrands, the grid may not survive the looming depression.secondlifeshrink.wordpress.comNew Notes rocks, honestJust dropping an email to comment as an end user in Lotus Notes 8.0, I think it is fantastic (Tech Weekly podcast, September 25), Granted, pre-v8 it was a pile of dog, but the UI improvements are very welcome.Alex Crooks,PortsmouthGreen tokenism• I'm glad to see the market has overwhelmingly rejected Dell's environmentalist tokenism (Dell customers ignore the offer to plant a tree, October 2). I fully support the idea of companies reducing the environmental impacts of their products, but gimmicks are pointless. Improvements will come from product design, manufacture (how and where) and packaging: invest in getting that right, rather than offering a sop.ministry-of-information.co.uk/blog• Read all this week's letters in full atguardian.co.uk/technology/blog
The answer seems to be no, unless you are specifically licensed by a movie studio and your main line of business is manufacturing DVDs. But if you're just someone at home, then the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) really doesn't want you making copies - not for backup, not for storing on a hard drive, not at all.This approach has been solidified by the lawsuit filed by the MPAA against RealNetworks, Rob Glaser's company, to prevent it selling RealDVD - a $30 (&pound;17) DVD-ripping program - that seems pretty draconian. The software creates a disk image on your hard drive that will only play on the PC that made it. You can't share it with anyone. You can't even burn it. But a judge granted a temporary injuction against Real.Puzzled by what the MPAA would find acceptable in a DVD-copying program, since making encrypted disk images (which Real argues is "fair use" for personal backup, normally allowed under US law) is hardly piracy on the high seas, I called the MPAA.Unfortunately it was unable to discuss the case, or even the general point about what would be acceptable: when we spoke on Tuesday afternoon, it was awaiting a further court hearing that evening (UK time), and the judge had gagged both sides from discussing the case or related matters.Glaser, writing his first post on RealNetworks' blog (bit.ly/glaser01), insisted ahead of its launch that RealDVD was "clearly legal", based on a separate case involving the MPAA and Kaleidascape, which produces a system for storing films on home servers. Though a judge ruled in Kaleidascape's favour, the MPAA is appealing.But why is the MPAA is waging war against those who would be its friends? Real and Kaleidascape took huge pains to prevent content being shared. Other free programs widely available online - such as Handbrake - simply crack the CSS encryption on standard DVDs so you can create a backup copy and even burn a fresh backup disc.That's been possible for nearly a decade. And there's an interesting twist: Real accidentally made it feasible for the group of Norwegian hackers to crack CSS back in November 1999: according to IDG's report then (bit.ly/glaser02), "the XingDVD Player, from RealNetworks Inc. subsidiary Xing Technologies, didn't have its [CSS decryption] keys adequately safeguarded. The hackers were thus able to deduce how to crack DVDs and released the CSS program, which will do it automatically."In fact, the studios' best hope of curtailing DVD copying is to get everyone to trade up to Blu-ray high-definition DVDs, whose encryption scheme hasn't been comprehensively cracked.But given the economic climate, it's hard to see people being willing to shell out hundreds of pounds on new DVD players, and then more than &pound;15 per disc.&middot;This article was amended on Friday October 10 2008. We should have referred to the CSS (Content Scramble System) encryption on standard DVDs, not DeCSS encryption. This has been changed.
Last week I headed down to a press event at the 24 Club in Soho to get some hands-on time with Quantum of Solace, Treyarch's videogame tie-in with the forthcoming Bond movie. I wasn't expecting much – since GoldenEye, the 007 games been grindingly mediocre, intent on cramming in as many Bond clichés as possible, thereby providing hopelessly confused and diluted gaming experiences.This one might be different. Utilising the Call of Duty 4 engine and based on elements from both Casino Royale and Quantum, we're promised something that reflects the changes to the Bond universe since the arrival of Daniel Craig. It is, apparently, going to be gritty, tough and realistic; as Executive Producer Garrett Young explains, "We spent a lot of time talking to the filmmakers about how they think about Bond, and how they "rebooted" him in Casino Royale.  This new Bond formed the vision for the experience we wanted to deliver in our game:  Daniel Craig is a much more physical, more cunning, and more dangerous Bond than ever before."So there will be no tank driving. There certainly won't be a proliferation of ridiculous gadgets. Instead, it's a straight-up first-person shooter…….well, a straight-up first-person shooter with third-person elements. When you get close to an enemy, the camera zooms back so you can simulteneously perform and view a 'Takedown' - one quick, rugged hand-to-hand combat move that messily debilitates your target. The concept is designed to reflect Craig's highly physicalised Bond interpretation, so expect plenty of snapped necks and pulverized faces. There are also a few cinematic action sequences, which work a little like quick-time events and again, let you watch Bond carrying out the task in hand. The free-running sequence from Casino is supposed to be one example.The cover system is third-person, too, apparently to give you a better tactical view of the action. Like Gears of War and Rainbow Six, which also use the third-person viewpoint (the latter is a major inspiration on the Quantum team) this is a game about careful progress and positioning, not running in like a maniac brandishing a railgun. Although, with 26 weapons to collect, running in like a maniac is probably always going to be an option. On that subject, the game seems to contain the usual collection of semi-automatics, sniper rifles and machine guns. My favourite though, is the D.A.D System – an enormous multiple grenade launcher that looks like it could take out a small town, let alone a passing super criminal.Anyway, the action kicks off at Mr White's mansion on Lake Como where the Casino Royale movie ends. Bond has just put a bullet into White's leg when several henchmen turn up and a shoot-out commences, spilling out across the palatial gardens and down to the boathouse. There's a good sense of place and choerography, with ornamental trees and flowerbeds, providing an unlikely backdrop to the mayhem. The enemies seem reasonably intelligent, using cover, not just to duck behind stuff when you're shooting straight at them, but also to get around the environment without you seeing them. I was also told that in later levels, they'll begin to use flanking manouveres, lobbing in the odd flash grenade if you spend too long cowering behind a wall.I also got a quick blast on two levels inspired by Casino Royale scenes. One is in Miami and involves sniping guards from across the road before moving in to sneak around a science facility. Another is aboard a train (a sequence cut from the film), where Bond must fight his way through several carriages, blasting enemies before climbing onto the roof and leaping on to an adjacent goods vehicle. If Treyarch was hoping to avoid any GoldenEye comparisons this was probably not the level to show to journalists: it bears more than a passing resemblance to that game's own Train mission.Several multiplayer maps were also playable, all of which (understandably) have a real CoD4 feel to them – there's the same brutal intensity, the same sense of constant vulnerability. The environments are similar too - 'Barge', for example, is set on a large ship highly reminiscent of CoD4's Wetwork map. Another level features a rundown apartment complex, surrounded by dusty car parks and sporting a rooftop patio that's ripe for sniping. It's got the same battered, war torn look as the urban locales built by Infinity Ward. The standout for me, though, is 'Siena', a mass of rooftops, walkways and church towers, brilliantly utilising the renaissance architecture of the Tuscan city. You want to leg it around the place, jamming in and out of nooks and crannies, but one dodgy step and you're plummeting to the narrow streets below.As with most games these days, physics is a key concern. "We have destructible environments, incorporating everything from ambient effects to interactions that impact gameplay," says Young.  "We have large 'mousetraps' gamers can use to take out multiple enemies at once (as we learned from the filmmakers, "Bond is almost always out-manned and out-gunned").  We even have a sinking house at the end of the Venice level, complete with swinging beams, falling elevators and paint cans that roll with the dynamic angle of the floor."So this is the new Bond, real-world physics, real-world action. No camp comedy. No safari suits. No gadgets. And apparently the movie chaps love it. As Young says, "They really did a tremendous job of supporting us with reference and assets - we got a very early draft of the movie script, we got to visit the set four times, and we got thousands of photos and dozens of hours of video. That synergy between movie and game really comes across in how the levels look and feel". Craig himself is a fan – contributing ideas during the development process, especially about the Bond characterization.Oh actually, there is one gadget. Bond can use a  smart phone to patch into security cameras and hack electronic locks. He can also steal the SIMs from enemy handsets and nick all their sensitive information. But this is just peripheral stuff. It's filler, there to appease the casual crowd. The main focus is combat. It's Call of Duty with spies. I mean, how wrong could that be?
The day after the launch of the stylishS101 netbook in Taiwan, I had a brief interview with Jerry Shen, chief executive of Asus. I asked him what proportion of Eee PC netbook sales were Windows XP rather than Linux. Surprisingly, he told me. But he didn't tell me quite enough.Shen -- who is keen on Linux -- said Asus had hoped sales of Eee PCs would be 50:50 between XP and Linux, but actually they were 60:40 in XP's favour. (I assume that's for this calendar year.) So far, around 4m have been sold, and the target is 5m for this year.Linux got about 6 months start over XP, including four months this calendar year, so the market has swung XP's way. However, it's impossible to say where it will end up.I asked several Asus staff about figures for returns, but none thought that more Linux machines were being returned to stores. This is not the case at MSI, where Andy Tung, the Director of US Sales, toldLaptop magazine: "The return rate is at least four times higher for Linux netbooks than Windows XP netbooks." He said:People would love to pay $299 or $399 but they don't know what they get until they open the box. They start playing around with Linux and start realizing that it's not what they are used to. They don't want to spend time to learn it so they bring it back to the store.After trash-talking Microsoft and launching with a Linux netbook, Acer is also shipping XP, and that became its best seller at Amazon.com. (SeeAre netbooks a threat to Macs?)Shen said Asus would ship 700,000 Eee PCs this month, of which 50,000 will be S101s.Asus expectsto sell around 6m notebooks this year, and 5m netbooks, for a grand total of about 11m units. This should put it in the year's Top 5 portable computer suppliers, along with HP, Acer, Dell, Toshiba and Lenovo. China's Lenovo, which sells ThinkPads, could be the one to drop out.Asus's notebooks and netbooks are created by different divisions with different managers. The netbooks go up to models with 10 inch screens, which is where the notebooks start.Update: Re Vista and the S101, Samson Hu, the Asus vice president in charge of the EPC Business Unit, says: "Microsoft thinks it will impact the notebook market, so they have asked us not to run Vista on it."
The Tokyo Games Show isn't the only event of interest happening this week; theVirtual Worlds Forumis currently taking place in London (albeit in a slightly different format than initially expected due to an unfortunate criminal incident in the venue the day before the show started), and everywhere you turn in the capital are people trying to get you to get another life.As so many leaders in this space have descended, it was a clear opportunity to track some of them down and get their views on the state of the industry in 2008. First on the list isGaia Online- a phenomenally successful anime social network. They've got a massive following, having doubled their user base in the past year, and are just about to launch a new gaming platform,zOMG!. I asked CEO Craig Sherman some difficult questions about how to bring social networking to the great gaming unwashed.Anime is still a niche in the UK, yet Gaia continues to go from strength to strength, doubling its population in Europe in the past year. What makes it so successful?Gaia's anime look is a distinctive art style and component of our brand personality that we're proud of. It allows Gaia's brand to express the same kind of range, diversity and personality of our ever growing audience. We've grown from 1/2 mm unique visitors a month two years ago to 7mm last month largely based on word of mouth. We know our look is part of our success, but that doesn't account for all of our growth. One might glance at Gaia Online and think, "it's for anime fans." But Gaians know it's radically broader than that. Was Wall-E or Ratatouille for people only into cartoons? The 'voice' (writing style) on Gaia Online is much closer to The Daily Show or Saturday Night Live than a graphic novel. We'll never abandon our roots in anime culture but the truth is that we've grown to be much more of a mainstream attracting teens and young adults with a wide variety of passions and interests.Gaia is a social network-slanted virtual world. Why should gamers be interested in it?Gaia is a community for people in their teens and twenties who love gaming, cool art, and fantasy - basically for creative souls to hang out away from the pressures of the offline world. You don't quit your games or quit your social network to go hang on Gaia - you do both simultaneously. For example, we have some of the largest message boards for gaming that you'll find anywhere on the net. Social networks are a tool, just the 21st century version of the telephone. Gaia Online, on the other hand, feels like a place to go hangout - much more like going downtown with your friends. But here's the amazing thing: people may come to Gaia to play games, etc. - but they stay because they've made their best friends on the site.Tell me about zOMG!: when's it launching, what is it? How will it change the world?zOMG! doesn't require a download and it's free. It's Flash-based so you can play on your computer or a friend's computer, as long as you have an Internet connection. There's no waiting 15 minutes to download or going to a store to buy software. It will be the first truly free (no hidden up sell to subscription to unlock areas) MMO built in Flash. It's also super-social: you actually get stronger if you play with other people nearby. And it's totally integrated into the larger world of Gaia so when you're bored of fighting you can hang out and play puzzle games or talk about your favorite celebrities, fashion, or gaming, or just check out other users' art, fiction etc. It's truly bigger than a typical game. When does it come out? Soon. :-)What do virtual worlds have to offer games design?Virtual worlds are radically more accessible than traditional hard core MMOs. They are easier to jump into and get started. They require far, far less time commitment than traditional MMOs, and they are much more social. The best of them, like Gaia Online, celebrate self-expression. On Gaia you can be who you really are - without the limits of reality imposed on you. It's liberating.What do you think are the best ways virtual worlds designers can best communicate that to game developers?Smart game developers will spend time in sites like Gaia and pick up the clues. Mark Kern, the CEO of Red5 studios (and formerly the producer of WOW) makes all his new employees use Gaia Online to pick up tips.You'll be speaking about virtual world best practices; best practices for what? And what are they?Virtual worlds have grown fast because they do two things very well. First, they empower people to be more than they can be in the real world (put another way: be who they really are instead of who they've been 'typed as' by their peers). Second, they connect like-minded souls through entertainment. You come to play, but through the social aspects of the world, you make your friends. Games like WOW pioneered this second point, almost as a side-effect of the game play. Sites like Gaia have taken the concept and transformed it: instead of bonding through fighting monsters, in Gaia you bond by watching movies like the matrix for free in a virtual theater with others, you can then join a Keanu Reeves fan club or get Morpheus' jacket and pinzers.What responsibilities do developers have to their users? For example, if (heaven forbid) the credit crunch started to take its toll and you needed to close down, what would happen to the community that's developed via Gaia?We exist first and foremost to deliver a great quality experience to our users. We are very conservative and have raised funds to ensure we can continue operations in case the economy worsened. Right now, we're still growing rapidly.Which other online communities - other than Gaia - do you think are doing innovative work?Kongregate is impressive. They've grown extremely quickly by positioning themselves as the 'YouTube for Flash games.' Roblox, which is targeted at males under the age of 11. QQ (ten cent corporation) in China. Also there are a lot of interesting communities developing outside of the gaming space: medhelp.org in the health space and Yelp! in the restaurant space are two of the best examples.Tomorrow we feature Dizzywood, a children's virtual world trying to make it in the education market. Friday we're opening the doors of Habbo Hotel, the most successful Western social virtual world on the market
Print this outand calmly hand a copy to anyone who tries to tell you that games have a negative impact on society, based on an article in the tabloid press, or something a publicity-hungry MP said on GMTV.Henry Jenkinsis co-founder of the MIT Comparative Media Studies Program and a long-time gamer - in this excellent essay he debunks some of the key myths about videogame culture - that there's a proven link between violent games and real-life violence, that games are anti-social, that games are not a 'meaningful form of expression'. A lot of this is familiar stuff, but Jenkins has the stats, the academic overview and the ability to condense complex arguments into a few short paragraphs.My favourite point, is the one about emotional identification:[Games] allow players to navigate an expansive and open-ended world, make their own choices and witness their consequences. The Sims designer Will Wright argues that games are perhaps the only medium that allows us to experience guilt over the actions of fictional characters. In a movie, one can always pull back and condemn the character or the artist when they cross certain social boundaries. But in playing a game, we choose what happens to the characters. In the right circumstances, we can be encouraged to examine our own values by seeing how we behave within virtual space.It's true. If you think about it, since the dawn of Greek drama, narrative spectacles have sought to elicit catharsis - the purging of emotion through vicarious suffering. In other words, we feel better because it's not us up there making those horrible decisions and doing those terrible things. Although we can identify with the emotions, we don't experience the consequences.But in games, there's no fourth wall of impenetrable narrative. If Tommy Vercetti murders thirty people on the streets of Vice City - we're not helplessly watching that happen, we're doing it ourselves. Morally, the safety net is removed.Anyway, there's plenty more to ponder in Jenkins' piece.
(Photo from Flickr byPhotosNormandie. Some rights reserved.)You'll have noticed the PDA blog's report about thelatest estimates of how many iPhones have been sold- a solid 9.1m and counting.But you might have wondered how the process of simply asking people for their phone's serial number, IMEI number and date of purchase would allow someone to make such a specific calculation of the number sold (which, according to thespreadsheet, was 9,190,680).The answer: tanks. Well, the same process that allowed the Allies to calculate how many tanks the Nazis were producing during World War II. You canread Gavyn Davies's full-length account, or we'll give you the extracted version here.It goes like this:By 1941-42, the allies knew that US and even British tanks had been technically superior to German Panzer tanks in combat, but they were worried about the capabilities of the new marks IV and V. More troubling, they had really very little idea of how many tanks the enemy was capable of producing in a year. Without this information, they were unsure whether any invasion of the continent on the western front could succeed.They could try spying on factories, or count tanks in the field. This was easier. Even better: get the serial numbers from the tanks, and estimate from this how many were being built.The basic idea was that the highest serial number among the captured tanks could be used to calculate the overall total. The German tanks were numbered as follows: 1, 2, 3 ... N, where N was the desired total number of tanks produced. Imagine that they had captured five tanks, with serial numbers 20, 31, 43, 78 and 92. They now had a sample of five, with a maximum serial number of 92. Call the sample size S and the maximum serial number M. After some experimentation with other series, the statisticians reckoned that a good estimator of the number of tanks would probably be provided by the simple equation (M-1)(S+1)/S. In the example given, this translates to (92-1)(5+1)/5, which is equal to 109.2. Therefore the estimate of tanks produced at that time would be 109The maths wonks reckoned the Germans were making 246 (precisely) tanks per month between June 1940 and September 1942.Intelligence scoffed. Their number was much higher - those damn Germans were turning out 1,400 per month!German production records captured after the war showed that there were actually 245 made per month. Score one to the maths wonks. (They then lost it all by betting on credit default swaps, but that's another story.)The process works, basicaly, when you're trying to find out the production of a public item from a secretive organisation.In fact if you really felt like it you could get people to pony up the serial numbers of their MacBooks/MacBook Pros/other Apple items, and it would probably help you to figure out Apple's production (depending, very much, on the size of the sample). Then again, it tells you how many it sells each quarter.German tanks, iPhones.. what else needs calculating, do you think?
Last week,Greggave mobile gaming a break, thanks to the line-up of interactive entertainment on the iPhone. Well, here's something for you video junkies out there who need a bit more proof: a vid ofKROLL, the action adventure games making waves for its bar-breaking visuals.The game, a 3D monster smash-'em-up, was made in 2 weeks by N-Gage veterans,Digital Legends. Two weeks, folks.Oh the places you'll go.Stunning.
Chatterbox is back. Back!
First an admission. I have never been a fan ofBlackBerrydevices. Maybe that's partly because management have never found me worthy of one, but it's mostly because they have always felt 'plasticky' to me. The Pearl was, of course, slimmer than the traditional BlackBerry brick but still lacked a certain physical gravitas, while the Bold just seemed unnecessarily bulky. So the Storm really is a revolution.Basically the same size as the iPhone - though admittedly about the same weight as theheavier G1- the Storm just feels more sturdy than many of its predecessors. That said, I never got to chuck it on the floor to see whether my perception of its resilience is warranted and it needs to be, because customers will be stuck with it for two years if they want to get it free from exclusive network partner Vodafone.But it is the Storm's touchscreen that sets it apart from the rest of the recent button-less pack. It actually makes the iPhone look flat.Both the G1 and the Nokia 5800 XpressMusic - which by the way will be sold in the UK by Orange - have made use of tactile feedback. The G1 uses it cleverly, for instance, when you move icons around the desktop. Press and hold on an icon and it shudders to tell you it can be moved about. The 5800, meanwhile, uses it well to make its touchscreen qwerty keypad seem much more active by having the virtual keys gently vibrate when pressed. RIM, however, has taken a different approach to the difference between navigating a page and activating a page.RIM maintains that for years it has steered clear of touchscreens not because it could not make them, but because its core business customers feared that they would accidentally send an email or text or make a call just by moving around the screen.The 5800 gets around this problem by demanding double tapping to activate commands. The Storm, however, has a touchscreen that effectively floats a fraction of a millimeter above a whole bank of sensors so when you scroll down to an icon you want you just press down on the screen in the right place. It gives the sort of physical click that any BlackBerry user will recognise from the trackball on previous devices. Its simple but remarkably effective.The Storm has many of the features people have come to expect in the post-iPhone world. Turn it through 90 degrees and the screen flips from portrait to landscape. Web pages are crisp and clean and easily navigated by dragging them around. Double tap on an area and it zooms in. If you want to click on a link you can move a cursor around a screen with your finger - cleverly the cursor is set slightly away from your finger so you can see what you are doing, the same goes for the cursor when typing emails if you need to go back and make corrections - or if you have zoomed in, you can just 'click' on the link.One Storm-specific variant is to place two fingers on the screen - one at the start of some text and one at the end - which highlights the text so it can be copied and pasted into an email, text message or instant message.One potential surfing drawback is that the Storm does not have Wi-Fi - a technology of which Vodafone is no fan - but with HSDPA it should operate fine... provided the company can keep its network up to scratch.The 3.2 megapixel camera is better than the camera in the iPhone - and it has a flash like the Nokia 5800 - while its video capture rate is even better than the Finnish effort. It comes with all the usual widgets such as purpose-built versions of YouTube, Flickr and Facebook and BlackBerry plans to make its software developer's kit available from today in the hope that application hounds will get working on creating some must-have apps.BlackBerry is working on its own application store but Vodafone also plans to make them available through the device and give downloaders the chance to pay for them through their phone bill. Showing its business roots, the Storm already has software for reading and editing Word and Powerpoint documents.The device's music player will play pretty much everything - except tracks purchased via iTunes, of course - as will its video player. And you get to plug your own headphones into it. Hopefully Vodafone will ship it with a fairly chunky SD card, at least bigger than the 2GB card which T-Mobile plans for the G1.GPS enables a host of map applications - including of course BlackBerry maps and Google Maps - while it will work with instant messenger clients from AOL and Windows Live Messenger to GoogleTalk and ICQ.Being a BlackBerry, of course, email is very important and it can integrate 10 different accounts into one inbox and take push email from all the major web accounts such as GMail, Hotmail etc. Obviously it will sync with Outlook, Exchange or Lotus Notes et al because it is, after all, a BlackBerry, which gives it a major advantage over the G1.When it comes to integrating all the different ways that a user can communicate, however, it does lack a certain panache. Other devices - especially the iPhone, with visual voicemail, and the 5800, with its clever use of its contact books to store all your communications with individual people - do so-called integrated communications better than the Storm.Oh and if you get completely lost it has those two friendly green and red buttons on the bottom. It is, after all, a phone...On the surface the Storm runs the iPhone a close second of the four Christmas touchscreens, beating the Nokia 5800 - who can be bothered to double tap everything? - and the G1. But the devil is going to be in the detail.One of the things that makes the iPhone so appealing is the unlimited data package that O2 put together for it. Vodafone is being evasive about exactly what is going to be included in the £35 a month contract - for 24 months remember - which will qualify for a free device.Having integrated all your email accounts into one inbox and got ready to start editing everyone's attachments and uploading great video, the last thing you want to be doing is trying to work out how much data you have used each month so you can avoid a massive bill. A badly constructed tariff could kill this phone. But if done right, the Storm will ruffle a few feathers over in Cupertino.
In preparation for the Tokyo Games Show, I've had the opportunity to learn first-hand about trends in the Japanese gaming industry from one of the leading lights in the field: Ricky Tanimoto, Global Marketing and Strategic Planning Manager fromEnterbrain, publishers of the world-famous gaming magazineFamitsu. Over lunch with Ricky and the UKTI yesterday - who organised the meeting - I gleaned some key facts about the difference between the UK's industry and the industry here.Handhelds dominateThe numbers don't lie: it's all about portability. Yesterday, on the way to an early-morning visit to the Tsukiji Central Fish Market, I witnessed this firsthand: a PSP on my left, a DS on my right and a mobile phone across from me. They are pervasive and they are the most important gaming machines in this market. Why? Well, they're ubiquitous. PSP is the current leader in the dedicated games console space, but only by a sheet of rice paper, and Ricky says that's specifically because of the massive success ofMonster Hunterwhich single-handedly took the console from zero to hero.Mobile phones do everything here, from e-commerce to rides on the Tokyo Metro. Downloading is a way of life, and along with animated sequences and other mobile-specific content form the web, games are just part of the package.The PS3 is a European consoleThe biggest surprise over lunch was to discover that the PS3 is a non-player in Japan, and that the company has made a very explicit move to direct its content towards the European market rather than the home team. And what was the key to its success there? Apparently SingStar. Who'd have thought it?There's no PC marketThere is no PC market here. People are more likely to access their web content from their phones, casual games live on the DS or on their mobiles and there's no MMO culture - despite the valiant efforts of the Korean publishers, who've repeatedly attempted to break this market - and the prevalence of RPGs in its output.Social virtual worlds and other social network services, however, are rising stars. This space is as vibrant as the European and North American markets (if not led by them, but that's my own conjecture), and the leaders at the minute areSecond LifeandMixi. That SL's mobile phone version is beingspearheaded by Japanese companiesis not a surprise, considering the importance of this platform for this country.The user-generated content scene is on the riseAs well as being as excited about Little Big Planet as I am (new and exciting stuff on that before the game is launched on 24th October!), Ricky assured me that user-generated content in games is in its infancy but likely to rise over the next five years. We'll be moving away from physical products, and the console leaders will be the pipelines through which content can be uploaded and downloaded, kind of like iTunes is to music, in the next five years.If you want to make it in Japan, you've got to commit to JapanAgain and again I'm hearing that the japanese business system is dominated by relationships developed through a combination of persistence and patience. One of the most important parts of breaking this market is to commit to the region by setting up shop and having loads of face time.And, according to Ricky and the Japanese UKTI team here, this is why didn't Microsoft's Xbox360 make it in Japan. Sure, they had an office, and sure, some of the development houses were working on Microsoft products, but every decision had to be made by home office in Seattle. The lack of autonomy, and the associated lack of support, turned the developers off, and thus they lost one of the most important markets in the world.Japan's not short of ideas; it's short of technologyJust a glance at the streets ofAkihabarasuggests that the Japanese games industry's creative cup overfloweth. Creatively, Japan reaches heights that we can't even imagine; the breadth of content is overwhelming.But technologically, the realisation of ideas is underwhelming. Apparently - and counter-intuitively - Japan is not a rich games tech producer. The UK on the other hand - with its strong middleware and toolkit development history - is very much on the radar for Japanese companies seeking a conduit for their creativity. Hello opportunity.It's all about the gameThe centre of the media future in Japan is the game. Over the next five years, the satellites of social network services, interactive TV, music, video, telephony and communication will overlap, but the cruz - the most important interactive component  -will be the game. How (and if) that translates to the UK market is debatable; if anything, social networking will be the key to true convergence in that space. But it remains that gaming is at the centre of the Japanese universe. And what an exciting universe it is.
As mornings after go, there are few cocktails more deadly than a computer, a head full of booze and a seething sense of indignation. But help could be at hand for those who cannot resist dispatching a wee-small-hours email to a boss or an ex.An altruistic Google employee has come up with a system that will block -or at least make you think twice about - the kind of message you will only regret the next day. Mail Goggles, which can be set to spring into action late at night and at weekends, asks emailers to answer a series of short mathematical posers before sending their message off. The idea, according to Gmail engineer Jon Perlow, is to help people who are a little too tired and emotional to foresee the consequences of their actions."Sometimes I send messages I shouldn't send," he confessed on the Gmail blog. "Like the time I told that girl I had a crush on her over text message. Or the time I sent that late-night email to my ex-girlfriend that we should get back together." The program, he said, was designed to establish whether "you're really sure you want to send that late-night Friday email".Even alleged communications experts occasionally need a moment to check what they have written - and to whom. Three years ago, Alastair Campbell was forced into what passed for an apology after accidentally emailing abuse about the BBC's Newsnight - "Fuck off and cover something important you twats!" - to a reporter on the programme rather than his Labour party advertising advisers.
While governments around the world try to make sense of the internet and wonder how to curb some of its darker incarnations, all eyes should now be onSouth Korea, which is one of the first democracies planning to use the law to hold the internet to account.Many believe that the government's attempt to impose rules on internet users will fail. What it is seeking to do is bring websites in line with traditional media: to make them accountable, subject to laws of libel and so forth.This is a risky strategy for Seoul: if it fails, the government will face the kind of online rebellion that nearly ended the ruling government's tenure only a few months ago.South Korea is possibly the most wired nation on Earth: 97% of South Korean households have high-speed broadband access. In the UK, by comparison, 35% of homes have no access to the web at all.Bad mannersSome observers say this growth in internet access has brought out the worst in South Koreans."Internet behaviour in South Korea is somewhat of a low culture. I'm often disgusted or even offended by the manners on the net," says Dr Youngmi Kim, a professor of sociology and politics at the University of Edinburgh whose research is focusing on issues of governability in Korea, Taiwan and Japan. She is against any outright censorship, but would like to see some sort of campaign encouraging better web manners.The South Korean government is ahead of her. Along with laws controlling internet postings, which are due to be passed in November, Seoul also plans to introduce internet etiquette and ethics lessons in schools this year for children aged seven and older.The question is, can you police the internet? British MPs seem to think so. Members of the Commons select committee for culture, media and sport, which has made the case for centralising controls, say they want "a tighter form of self-regulation, under which the industry would speedily establish a self-regulatory body".South Korea is going much further. Not only will all sites that publish news be liable to the same restrictions as newspapers, TV and radio, they will be answerable to a government regulatory body - the Korean Communications Standards Commission.The rules extend beyond websites to individuals. All forum and chatroom users will be required to make verifiable real-name registrations, while internet companies will have to make their search algorithms public to improve "transparency". Most controversial of all, the commission will be given powers to suspend the publication of articles accused of being fraudulent or slanderous, for a minimum of 30 days. During this period the commission will then decide if an article that has been been temporarily deleted or flagged should be removed permanently.However, Seoul's previous experience with such censorship suggest that unless the government hires thousands more people to staff the commission, which is already behind in processing some 2,000 internet-related objections, just addressing the initial complaints will be unworkable, untenable and unenforceable.Professor Jonathan Zittrain, co-founder of Harvard's Berkman Centre for Internet &amp; Society, says other aspects of the new laws are unworkable. "There are genuine worries about misinformation that can be spread online, but a regime of requiring real-name registrations for all message boards and chatooms would represent a sweeping law-enforcement effort - and one that could not be readily accomplished without filtering out overseas sites that decline to implement the requirement."Jean K Min of OhmyNews International, South Korea's leading citizen-journalist-based portal, says that the new controls smack of Big Brother. "The approval rating of president Lee fell below 20% after the fiasco of US beef imports and poor handling of other sensitive diplomatic issues. Many here suspect the ruling party lawmakers and government officials are actually trying to save the deeply unpopular government by intimidating netizens from posting free online opinions with a variety of new legislation and legal threats."'Excessive emotional behaviour'Myung-bak Lee, South Korea's president,  defends the proposed measures as checks against "a society rampant with excessive emotional behaviour, disorderliness and rudeness". In a recent speech, he said: "We have to guard against 'infodemics,' a phenomenon in which inaccurate, false information is disseminated; prompting social unrest that spreads like an epidemic."That speech followed internet-orchestrated protests in August that spilled over into candlelit rallies and vigils in protest at Seoul's decision to restart beef imports from the US. Composed mostly of the young, the protests emptied schools and colleges and brought cities to a standstill; many ended in violence.The Seoul government blamed the disruption on rumours and lies spread by internet users. It went on to accuse internet service providers of failing to police the content they host and of providing a platform for hate, libellous claims and cyber-bullying.Providers have heeded the warnings. Korea's biggest portal, Naver, says it will drop all its news output while its rival, Daum, has offered an olive branch to old media. Daum says it will share revenue from its banner advertisements on news stories with newspapers, TV and other media outlets providing the articles.There is an irony in the fact that South Korea, with its focus on giving its citizens access to the high-speed internet, is now seeking to curb how its people use the internet. But will it stick?
According to our friends atTeleGeography- they were the ones behindthis awesome map of internet cables, if you recall - the wholesale price of internet access is dropping sharply.And the drop isn't just in developing markets where capacity is starting to flow and prices can fall accordingly. No, we're seeing pretty good news at home."Wholesale prices around the world have been declining rapidly, due to competition and declining equipment and transport costs. Somewhat surprisingly, prices in the U.S. and Europe are falling as fast as, or faster than, prices in many more expensive regional markets."This graph tells the story. But why isn't the cost of my broadband access coming down accordingly?
DRM restrictions, lack of resale and an attachment to a physical product – there are some pretty strong arguments against digital downloads.  But while it will be a few more years yet before you'll be able to/want to download the latest FIFA or GTA to your console or PC the market for smaller download games is booming.  PC has historically been the main home to this business but the consoles have been catching up. Wii, PS3 and Xbox 360 all have sizable online stores, with each having a couple of must-buy games. Eurogamer hastaken a lookat the three stores and finds it hard to decide which one is the best:The 360 currently has the advantage in four of the areas discussed, with the PS3 edging it out in terms of the overall shopping experience, as well as having a much better quality-to-crap ratio. The Wii Shop, on the other hand, is over-priced and horrible to navigate, but does let you buy The Legend of Zelda, Super Mario Bros 3 and Metroid for just over a tenner.I think they've pretty much nailed it, although I'd be more critical of the Wii Shop which is horribly backward compared to the 360 and PS3 offerings. Picking between the 360 and PS3 stores is harder. The PS3 shop is far easier to navigate than the 360's – though that may change when the 360'sdashboard gets updated- but the 360 has abetter selectionof games.So anyway, you sold on digital downloads? And if so which console do you think has the best store?
Yes, after a month-long hiatus, Best of Chatterbox has returned! I've been too busy pretending to have a writing 'career' of late, so last week I asked if a regular Gamesblog commentator fancied having a bash. And Limni bravely stepped up to the plate."I can see why you had to drop it, took me a good few hours," he admitted. There, see! Luckily, he had Office Pest to help out.Anyway, here are the goods. I think Limni and Pest (surely an ITV detective duo in the making) have done a grand job.This is the week that was last week. Next week: this week!Part One: GTA 4Plenty to talk about, at least in the early part of the week. Alimantado got the conversation rolling on Monday with his observations on GTA4: "Oh yeah, just to reiterate, I tried to get into GTAIV over the weekend and failed miserably. I think it's over-hyped dull pap. Anyone care to show me the error of my ways?"CBPodge agreed: "+1 for GTAIV being dull nonsense". This seemed to be the general consensus. "GTA4 just isn't fun. It's good, impressive, but feels like a chore," added TonyHayers.Alimantado didn't even bother buying it: "Sent it back to LoveFilm - what a pile of pap! I've no idea why anyone rates it - I can see it was a huge jump forward when they went 3D but the gameplay by now is so stale and the controls are a joke."From dbot: "GTAIV was technically and artistically impressive, but a lot of the freewheeling, cascading fun had been drawn out of it. Some of that returns in the multiplayer aspects, but just not enough. A return to an identifiable, satirize-able era would be welcomed by this player."Jihad was slightly less negative: "GTA4 is immersive not fun, although I had 'fun' playing noose and bomb the base at the weekend".Only a couple came forward to sing its praises, first Nattydread: "I think GTA 4 is great. Vigilante missions, stunt jumps etc are great. The physics engine and the AI are fantastic. From a coding perspective it's a masterpiece."Although I admit it does have less content and fun than the earlier GTA games. But perhaps that is to make it a bit more realistic and gritty? Just in the few end missions now. I love it."Then Smike: "I finally got round to finishing it this week and I thought it was great. It dragged on a bit towards the end but that's better than being too short."The main thing for me was that this was the first GTA game I've played so it was probably a lot fresher for me than a lot of the people who've said its was all a bit samey."Keef adds: there seems to have been a similar backlash among games journalists recently (though I'll prevent myself from showing them the review scores). I still think it's fun, though another 'period' installment would be welcome. What about a fifties LA sleaze-fest - lots of guys in sharp suits murdering each other over 'broads'?Part Two: FIFA v PESThis long and painful war dominated the next few days. Spew's review of the FIFA demo is too long to repeat in it's entirety. Fortunately he was able to provide this little snippet: "The linesmen have fetching little flags". After a heartfelt plea for responses, the floodgates opened.OfficePest was straight to the point: "Sorry for not commenting on your FIFA post, but it's football-game-related, hence I can't even face reading it."Dizzyisanegg had a similar sentiment for a differing reason: "In short I skipped your comment knowing full well, in my heart of hearts, that any new FIFA will not be as good as the '95 edition. I imagine most other poster here did the same." TonyHayers was less diplomatic: "FIFA? That was a shite review of a shite demo, of a poor game. We do have standards."The FIFA fight-back began with a long post from Naboomagnoli – again too long to repeat in full, he began: "Spew, I'm very much looking forward to FIFA 09 and so is anyone else looking for more from their football games than cheap and easy goals, or a game that only works offline."He slightly spoils an otherwise pretty valid critique by calling those who doubt FIFA's credentials "numbskulls" and risks a Hulk-esque response from TonyHayers by noting, "Hayers can barely pass the ball as it is and it's only the fact that nobody has the faintest idea what is going on during an online game in PES 2008 that levels the playing field for him". A little harsh given that Tony managed to come second in his division this season in the Gamesblog PS3 Pro Evo league.Resident champion CBPodge states: "Thought it was way too slow and unresponsive, especially given that it was top-level teams in the demo." Welshbloom might just about have it spot on: "Sensi was the pinnacle and it's gone downhill since."Naboomagnoli was forthright in his defense, yet again in too much detail to repeat in full: "Saying PES is better because it's faster is like saying Burnout is a better racing game than Forza for the same reasons. It's grade A baloney."Suffice to say this one rumbled on all week, with the outcome that absolutely no-one changed their mind. Oh, and several people lost the will to live.Keef adds: for the record, FIFA 09 does seem far too slow. I'm sure the speed is accurately scaled down, but I like to see the ball pinging around between my players. Sensi got it right, as did PES (in its on-form years). Also, there's no space in FIFA, the opponents are always on top of you - it's like playing in the Conference.Part Three: Other StuffLink of the week: From BillyBrush with someGospel/DnB madness.Games: WipEout HD, LBP Beta, Burnout, PES, FIFA, Portal, FFTA2, Mass Effect, Mirror's Edge, Mercenaries 2, Spore, Outrun: Coast 2 Coast.Film and TV: The Wire Season 5, Tropic Thunder, Blue Thunder, Breaking Bad.Quote of the weekHow does one wield a blind man with a samurai sword though?Where do you hold them?Foom asks the question on everyone's lips.Other top quotesAnyone had a go on Mass Effect?Mollocate is right up with the times.See that picture of a heron eating a rabbit in the metro this morning?Nature can be cruel, can't it? Still - the heron looked like he/she was enjoying himself/herself.Chubster2010 – always able to look on the bright side.I think I may have been banned, but not very well…TonyHayers comments on the Guardian Techbods' inability to get rid of him once and for all.I never read any comments over a certain length would be my comment.JimBob78 lets Spew know how he feels.A tortoise killed my grandmother. They deserve everything they get.Land-dwelling reptiles of the Testudinidae family beware – satansallsmiles is on the warpath.Although, as you are not primarily a journalist, you are an unknown quantity.TonyHayers again, with a vote of confidence aimed in Limni's direction.Like zombies?Like Lego?Then it must be Xmas...Christmas comes early for NickT.When I lived in a Pro Evo flat…Where can I find one, dizzyisanegg?Please don't bother, I have already reported myself for abuse.Lamontangne saves us the trouble.That's what I loved about '08. Someone had commissioned and chosen that music, performed and recorded. Never heard anything like it.One last word from TonyHayers, possibly the only person in Western civilisation who likes the Pro Evo 2008 music.Keef adds: well, I think Limni and Pest did a fine job. Any takers for next week?
Not many portable PCs get much of a launch nowadays, but Asus attempted to go beyond its origins as the world's leading motherboard manufacturer (as AsusTEK) and capitalise on the success of its Eee PC range of netbooks. The global launch (below) was staged at a popular wedding venue in Taipei, and while it was corny as hell, the S101 did look the sort of thing a fashion model might carry around…..I grabbed a seat early as two dozen had to stand. Not sure why I was handed a green card. I was hoping for a rosette, or even a Best in Show.Sorry, no black turtlenecks...Asus chief executive Jerry Shen dressed up for the event, which appeared to be a hit with the local press.Sorry, no black turtlenecks...The tech crowd -- around 40 journalists from Russia, Japan, Italy etc -- got a tour of the design lab (“usually out of bounds to almost everyone”) and focused mainly on the hardware. At least one of the 100-odd designers -- Peter Clark -- is British.Sorry, no black turtlenecks...Contrary to some reports, the Asus S101 really does have a removable battery. I removed it from two different machines, just to make doubly sure….But at least we have removable batteries.
When I moved from my native Canada to the UK in 2003, I thought it was ironic that the Doctorows had returned to Europe. My father was born to Polish-Russian parents in a refugee camp in Azerbaijan just before the second world war ended. My grandparents – deserting Red Army conscriptees – destroyed their documents and became, in the parlance of the day, Displaced People.When the war ended, they went west again, but when they reached Russia, they kept going. When they reached Poland, they kept going. They moved with the great refugee herd into Germany, to a camp near Hamburg (where my aunt was born), before boarding a refugee boat and sailing to the port of Halifax, where an immigration official truncated their names – Doctorowicz became Doctorow – and gave them a train ticket to Toronto, where my great-uncle Max and his family lived.My grandmother is still alive, and sharp as a tack. I asked her recently why they didn't stay in the Soviet Union. Despite her aversion to military service, she was a war hero. She had gone through her adolescence as a civil defence worker during the hard years of the Siege of Leningrad, digging trenches and hauling bodies as a girl of 12, until she was evacuated to Siberia at the age of 15. Her family still lived in Leningrad – mother, father, baby brother. Leningrad is a majestic city, cosmopolitan and vibrant, even with the war scars on its face. In Toronto she knew no one, didn't speak the language. Her years as a refugee would stretch out for decades until she could truly consider herself a Canadian.I asked her why she didn't stay, and she shook her head like I'd asked the stupidest possible question. "It was the Soviet Union", she said. She waved her hand, groped for the answer. "Papers," she said, finally. "We had to carry papers. The police could stop you at any time and make you turn over your papers." The floodgates opened. They spied on you. They made you spy on each other. Your grandfather wouldn't have been allowed to stay – he was Polish, they wouldn't let him stay with the family in Russia, he'd have to go back to Poland.My head bobbed unconsciously as she told me this. I knew all of it, by way of innuendos and hints over the years, but I had never heard her say it all at once. I'd even seen it firsthand, when we visited the family in Leningrad in 1984, having our conversations cut short when they strayed into political territory, with over-the-shoulder looks for the snoops who might be listening in and waiting to turn my family in to the KGB.Half a century later, the Doctorows came back to Europe. I set up residence in London, working for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, an American civil liberties nonprofit, running the European operations. I was privileged to be given status as a "highly skilled migrant" (the only visa category I qualified for, given my lack of a university degree). A few years later, I was living with my partner, and had fathered a British daughter (when I mentioned this to a UK immigration official at Heathrow, he sneeringly called her "half a British citizen"). We were planning a giant family wedding in Toronto when the news came down: the Home Secretary had unilaterally, on 24 hours' notice, changed the rules for highly skilled migrants to require a university degree. My immigration lawyers confirmed it: people who'd established residence in the UK for years and years, who'd built businesses and employed Britons here, who owned homes and given birth to British children, were being thrown out of the country, taking their tax-payments, jobs and families with them.My partner and I scrambled. We got married. We applied for a spousal visa. A few weeks later, I presented myself in Croydon at the Home Office immigration centre to turn over my biometrics and have a visa glued into my Canadian passport. I got two years' breathing room. My family could stay in Britain.Then came last week's announcement: effective immediately, spousal visa holders (and foreign students) would be issued mandatory, biometric radio-frequency ID papers that we will have to carry at all times. And I started to look over my shoulder.Once again, it seems as though the Doctorows may have to leave Europe. The identity card I'm to be issued when I renew my visa is intended to be linked to all my daily activities: my medical care, my use of transit, my banking and finance, my tax – a single identifier that will track me through time and space, forever. The dossier thus gathered on me will be managed by the same agencies that have lost (literally) tens of millions' worth of records on British people in the past year alone.It will all be tied to my biometric identifiers, such as fingerprints. Unless you wear gloves at all times, you leave these identifiers behind continuously, everywhere you go. These identifiers are not only available to law enforcement and the state, but to anyone who cares to lift them off any smooth surface you happen to touch. Once these identifiers are compromised, there is no means – short of amputation – to change them. Consider the case of German Interior Minister Wolfgang Schauble, who advocates biometric IDs: his fingerprints were lifted from a water-glass at a public debate and published on 10,000 pieces of acetate by a group of media pranksters with no budget and who stood to gain no financial benefit from the stunt. Will well-heeled identity thieves who can use these biometrics to commit crimes and empty bank accounts be less resourceful?The identity card will emit my personal information to people who are at a great distance from me, without my knowledge or consent. The RFID tags in the cards are advertised as only being readable at a few centimetres' distance, like an Oyster card, but, like an Oyster card, security researchers have shown that these cards can be read at tens of metres, and can be cloned using cheap, off-the-shelf technology.So it's fortunate that I got my spousal visa when I did, before these identity papers were made mandatory. Indeed, it's fortunate that I received my spousal visa at all, as Labour moves to limit the number of annual new visas of all kinds to 20,000 people, meaning that Britons who marry foreigners can no longer be assured that they will be able to settle and raise their families in the UK.The national ID card does not exist in a vacuum. It is part of an unprecedented, unparalleled programme to use technology to spy upon and control the movements of people in the UK. Our internet connections are censored and wiretapped by advertisers. Soon, our ISPs will be forced to log and retain the details of all our online activity for snooping by governments, bored employees, or any crook who can hack or bribe his way into the surveillance databases. Our image is captured hundreds of times every time we leave the house. Our number-plates are photographed hundreds of times by traffic cameras, creating a record of where we've been. Our Oyster card data is logged and made available to police, snoops, crooks and anyone else with the resources to get hold of it.We can be arrested and held for weeks without charge. Government tells academics which freely available information about terrorists they are allowed to study and what they are not allowed to look at.We are encouraged to spy on our neighbours and report their suspicious activity. We can be stopped and searched with no particularised suspicion, and during these searches, police officers can and do examine such things as the books we're reading and the personal notes we've made.Every one of these measures was beta-tested on less-advantaged groups before it was rolled out to the general public. CCTVs used the be the exclusive territory of bank vaults and prisons. Network wiretapping and censorship began in schools, "to protect children".Now, we immigrants are to be the beta testers for Britain's sleepwalk into the surveillance society. We will have to carry internal passports and the press will say, "If you don't like it, you don't have to live here – it's unseemly for a guest to complain about the terms of the hospitality." But this beta test is not intended to stop with immigrants. Government freely admits that immigrants are only the first stage of a universal rollout of mandatory biometric RFID identity cards. What happens to us now will happen to you, next.Not me, though. If the government of the day when I renew my visa in 2010 requires that I carry these papers as a condition of residence, the Doctorows will again leave their country and find a freer one. My wife – born here, raised here, with family here – is with me. We won't raise our British daughter in the database nation. It's not safe.
In this week's podcast we continue our trip around the country asJemima Kissvisits Newcastle-upon-Tyne to check out the city's tech talent.While in toon, she speaks to people from Newcastle University's computer science department to find out what areas of technology the north-east excels in. She also hears from a man who gone in the opposite direction to that of most other internet entrepreneurs. He left America for London, and is now working in digital media in the city. We hear his story.Plus we find out about the digital shoe insole (pictures to follow on our Flickr group), serious games, revolutionary financial software, and developers communities in the city.
As mornings after go, there are few combinations more deadly than a computer, too much alcohol and a seething sense of indignation.But there could soon be a solution for people who cannot resist sending an ill-conceived drunken email to their boss or a former lover.An altruistic Google employee has come up with a system that will block — or at least make people reconsider sending —  the type of message they will probably regret the next day.Mail Goggles, which can be set to spring into action late at night and at weekends, asks emailers toanswer a series of short maths questionsbefore sending a message. The basic addition and multiplication sums have to be completed within a time limit.The idea, according to the Gmail engineer Jon Perlow, is to help those who are a little too tired and emotional to foresee the consequences of their actions."Sometimes I send messages I shouldn't send," Perlow confessed on the Gmail blog."Like the time I told that girl I had a crush on her over text message. Or the time I sent that late-night email to my ex-girlfriend that we should get back together."The programme, he said, was designed to establish whether "you're really sure you want to send that late-night Friday email … what better way to check than by making you solve a few simple maths problems after you click send to verify you're in the right state of mind?".Even communications experts occasionally need a moment to take a deep breath and check what they have written and to whom they are writing.Three years ago, Alastair Campbell was forced into what passed for an apology after accidentally using his Blackberry to tell the BBC what he thought of the corporation's journalism.Unfortunately, he dispatched the email — which read "Fuck off and cover something important you twats!" — to a reporter on the BBC's Newsnight programme rather than Labour's advertising advisers.In a later email to the journalist, the former Downing Street communications chief admitted he was "not very good at this email Blackberry malarkey", adding: "Campbell swears shock."Final sentence of earlier email probably a bit colourful and personal considering we have never actually met, but I'm sure you share the same sense of humour as your star presenter Mr P[axman]."
Controversial internet advertising company Phorm might have got thego-ahead from Britain's big cheeses- but not everybody in Westminster is so keen. A tipster tells me that the parliamentary internet security team has blocked access to Phorm services. Is that a bit rich givenplans for a £12bn database of every phone call and email in the UK? I'll leave you to decide.
Real Networks, Rob Glaser's baby, has pulled its sales of its Real DVD rip-and-file-DVDs programfollowing a court injuction by the MPAA (Motion Picture Association of America). (Changed: originally said rip-and-burn, butReal's notesshow that this only lets you create an encrypted disk image of the DVD - not to burn it.)The MPAA alleges that the program violates the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. The lawsuit asks for damages and injunctive relief.Yes - it's all happening again, but this time with video rather than with music. Anyone else here got a memory long enough to remember themusic industry's lawsuit (via the RIAA, Recording Industry Association of America) against Diamond Multimediafor having the audacity to make it possible to play MP3s on a portable music player? (The RIAA lost. Phew.)What's going to be interesting is when, and whether, the MPAA is going to realise that this is not just shutting the stable door after the horse has left; in the words of one wag, it's a situation where the horse has "run off to the next town, married and had kids". You can get DVD-copying programs all over the place, and I don't see the MPAA stopping them with any effect. (Handbrakeis only one of them.)Yes, people are copying DVDs like billy-oh. No, DeCSS is not making the blindest bit of difference. Yes, Real's product was actually anti-piracy friendly, because it would tie the copied file to a particular computer, or portable device. No, there's no way of understanding quite why the MPAA manages to shoot its (potential) friends in the back with lawsuits like these, while completely missing all the people (yup, we'll say pirates) who deserve at least to be brought in front of a court, to argue their case.Put it down to missed opportunity. We assume nobody has had a chance to snag any sort of version of the program...?
Taiwanese manufacturers are not known for inviting the world's press to fancy product launches, but this afternoon in rainy Taipei,Asusput on a little fashion show to launch the latest Eee PC, the S101. This is a cut above the previous models in being thin and stylish, and Asus reckons it's "a successful melding of fashion and functionality" that puts it at the "pinnacle of netbook computing." And while it comes at a higher price -- $699 -- it's much lighter (1kg) and  cheaper than a MacBook Air, it looks nicer, and it has a much more practical specification.At around 18-25mm, the S101 isn't as thin as a MacBook Air, but it's certainly thin enough. And where the MacBook Air makes pointless sacrifices that reduce its practicality, the S101 does the business. It has three USB ports instead of one, it has a built-in 4-in-1 card reader, it has a real RJ-45 Ethernet socket, plus Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. And you can change the battery yourself, without undoing 19 screws. Asus reckons the S101 will run for about five hours, but when the lithium polymer battery runs out, you simply swap it for a spare.Since the S101 is a netbook rather than a notebook, the screen is 10.2 inches rather than the MacBook Air's 13.3 inches. However, it does offer similar resolution: you can choose 1024 x 768, 1024 x 600, or 800 x 600.The first S101 runs Windows XP Home in 1GB of memory and a 16GB SSD (solid state drive), to fit in with Microsoft's netbook guidelines. Asus is chipping in another 16GB on a memory card plus a free 30GB of online storage. However, two Linux versions, which will follow in a few weeks, are expected to offer 32GB or 64GB of SSD.In use, the S101 feels snappy, though the spec is familiar enough -- Intel Atom processor and Intel 945 Express (GMA 950) graphics with 128MB pinched from main memory.The keyboard is better than average for a netbook, and I had no problem touch-typing. The only real annoyance is the right-hand shift key, which is unusably the wrong side of the cursor keys.An Italian journalist here asked if it was a women's machine, because of the colours (which include Champagne) and the crystals that decorate the ends of the hinges. Asus's "fashion show" presentation also seemed to suggest as much, and I'd expect it to have that sort of appeal.However, the S101 doesn't look any more like a women's machine than similar models from Sony or even Dell. And unlike the MacBook Air, it also has the practical features that should prevent it from being dismissed as a fashion item.Update: UK users should be able to buy an S101 in early November for £449 inc VAT. The Windows and Linux versions will be the same price, but the Linux version will have a 32GB SSD.
This week is a veritable cacophony of games-related events. As I mentioned yesterday, I'm in Tokyo at the Tokyo Games Show (kicking off Thursday through Sunday), there's theVirtual Worlds Forum, with online community luminaries from Habbo Hotel, Gaia Online and Google's Lively offering their wisdom to the London crowd (you'll be hearing more about Habbo and Gaia later in the week), andHandheld Learning, two seminar days celebrating learning using mobile or ubiquitous technologies (sez the website), is happening at the beginning of next week, 13-15 October, at the Barbican in London.  Find out what Nintendo, Sony, Disney, Apple and Channel 4 have in store.And if you're not around for these, check out the other forthcoming fantastic games-related events in our Gamesblog Google Calendar. FYI, over the next month, you can geek out duringLondon Games Festival(25 October - 2 November), you can bash your buttons atGameCityin Nottingham (30 October - 1 November; featuring a repeat performance of our massively successfulHave I Got Games News For Youpub quiz, hosted by our own Keith) and you can go virtual at theothervirtual worlds conference,Virtual Worlds Forum, on 20 October in London.Check it out! If you'd like us to add your event to the Google Calendar, send us an email or join theUpcoming Guardian Technology group, where you'll find a host of neat-o tech events (not just games) in the UK (and abroad) submitted by the Upcoming community.So much going on. So little time.
The Akihabara skylineThe Tokyo Games Show doesn't officially start until Thursday, when the doors open for two days for the business audience before the show floor is overrun on Saturday and Sunday with regular consumers. So to pass the time before the Game Mission companies arrive, I headed toAkihabara, the mecca of gaming and electronics in Tokyo - if not the world.First stop was Akihabara Electric Town, an eight-storey jumble ofotaku(geek) electronics and culture, stuffed to the gills with (occasionally pornographic) anime and unusual objects (inflatable fish for £1, for example),cos-playaccoutrements and micro processors. People of all ages and both genders pawed through the collectables and ephemera that, literally, towered over consumers, lost in the latest gadgetry. Portable video players are the big things here, and anythingGundamrelated; if you want gaming materials, you'll have to settle for the non-playable references (figurines, t-shirts, highly-decorative official manga reproductions) rather than the interactive real thing.A wander outside, through the back streets and alleys, very quickly corrected this; entire stores are dedicated to single game franchises - many of which I was unfamiliar with due to the abundance of content that never makes it off this big island. There were plenty of phenomenal deals around for old school gamers; I saw a pile of SNESs in a basket on the street for sale for 1900 Yen each, and an equally enormous bucket of cartridges next to it for support. I also saw several TGS attendees clutching their spoils with looks of frantic glee, having arrived and consumed their fantasies.Inspired by the hours spent wandering through the back streets inShenmue, the Dreamcast's epic RPG, I went into aPachinkoarcade to play the Japanese version of the fruit machine, but the virtual money I'd earned in that game was no match for the real thing. No English translations for the kanji instructions left me up the creek without a paddle, and I escaped instead toTaito's multi-storey Game Station, where the entertainment on offer was more of the arcade variety.Each floor had a genre: pick-up machines for casuals looking for game-themed (and not) soft toys, bishi-bashi style frantic twitch games,bemanirhythm action games - including a full-size version ofBeatmania, the DJ simulation which was released in the UK on the PlayStation in 2000 with a mini turntable, but tanked - multiplayer first person shooters (including a version of Half Life in a bank of machines, not unlike racing games), quizzes, and two floors of the latest beat-em-ups. If you want to part with your money and have substantial time, this is the Trocadero, but well-organised and with a whiff of the professional.I didn't manage to make it to any of the infamousMaid Cafes, but stopped instead for sushi before buying a keychain that looks like a pod of edamame, and heading back to Central Tokyo. The hustle and bustle of Akihabara is phenomenal, and a must-see for any otaku when visiting the city.For an excellent write up on this part of town, see Boing Boing's coveragehere.
Fake microchips from China are causing a growing number of failures in military systems, according toan investigation by BusinessWeek magazine.The FBI is also investigating a consignment of Cisco-badged routers which turned out to be counterfeit - and could have been used to hack into sensitive equipment.The investigation found that the new tendency for the US Pentagon to buy equipment from off-the-shelf suppliers - some of them operating from residential addresses - has led to a fall in quality of supplied chips:Robert P. Ernst, who heads research into counterfeit parts for the Naval Air Systems Command's Aging Aircraft Program in Patuxent River, Md. Ernst estimates that as many as 15% of all the spare and replacement microchips the Pentagon buys are counterfeit. As a result, he says, "we are having field failures regularly within our weapon systems—and in almost every weapon system."And the "Cisco" routers? There were about 400:counterfeit routers made in China and sold to the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines over the past four years. These fakes could facilitate foreign espionage, as well as cause accidents. The U.S. Justice Dept. is prosecuting the operators of an electronics distributor in Texas—and last year obtained guilty pleas from the proprietors of a company in Washington State—for allegedly selling the military dozens of falsely labeled routers, devices that direct data through digital networks. The routers were marked as having been made by the San Jose technology giant Cisco SystemsBusinessWeek tracked the source of the parts back to traders in Shenzhen, China:The traders typically obtain supplies from recycled-chip emporiums such as the Guiyu Electronics Market outside the city of Shantou in southeastern China. The garbage-strewn streets of Guiyu reek of burning plastic as workers in back rooms and open yards strip chips from old PC circuit boards. The components, typically less than an inch long, are cleaned in the nearby Lianjiang River and then sold from the cramped premises of businesses such as Jinlong Electronics Trade Center.A sign for Jinlong Electronics advertises in Chinese that it sells "military" circuitry, meaning chips that are more durable than commercial components and able to function at extreme temperatures. But proprietor Lu Weilong admits that his wares are counterfeit.It's a serious problem which also seems to have affected BAe Systems, according to the story. It amounts, in the words of one of the ex-army people, to "a pollution of the military supply chain".There's aslide show, or if you want it as mood music, there's also agallery with audio commentary.
IT giant IBM has announced a series of new cloud computing initiatives, in its latest attempt to challenge the growing power of rivals like Google.The idea of a "cloud" – where computer power and services are delivered over the internet, rather than from a local machine – is being championed by a number of leading technology companies.IBM has already made some progress in this area, but this morning senior executives unveiled a spread of new services aimed at substantially boosting its cloud computing offering."This is a natural evolution for us," said Willy Chiu, IBM's vice president of high performance on-demand solutions."Our customers are looking for ways to lower their costs... and we want to give them the ability to use large computing capacity without having to install all of the equipment."Among the new systems offered by IBM are Bluehouse, a free business social networking service; expanded web sharing for users of its desktop software; as well as a series of security and privacy tools.In addition, the company will also be offering up its cloud to independent software companies, who will be able to use the capacity to deliver their own web-based services to IBM customers.Over the past year IBM has opened a number of cloud centres around the world, which allow users to tap into the company's infrastructure. Most recently it announced new centres in Sao Paulo, Bangalore, Seoul and Hanoi – bringing the company's total number of cloud bases up to 13.However, the company has been criticised for its lack of insight into internet services in the past, and some critics have questioned whether it would be able to successfully displace early adopters of cloud computing such as Amazon and Google.In response, the New York-based company says it will allow companies to mix together their existing IT set-up with web-based applications."The difference between IBM and others is that we help them run it internally, while at the same time making cloud enabled services that can be delivered to them securely," Chiu told the Guardian.As one of the current buzzwords in the IT industry, cloud computing is seen as a huge growth market by many analysts. A recent note from Merrill Lynch predicted that the total value of the cloud computing market would reach $160bn (£91bn) by 2011, largely focused around business applications and online advertising.However the concept – and the subsequent rush by many large technology companies to label their new services as "cloud-enabled" – has also come in for stinging criticism from senior technologists.Larry Ellison, the founder of Oracle, said the current spate of initatives was "fashion-driven" and that most proponents were talking "complete gibberish". Richard Stallman, the author of GNU, told the Guardian that the hype surrounding cloud computing was "worse than stupidity".Chiu said that he was not concerned by such attacks."Many customers come to us and ask what cloud computing and how can we take advantage of it?" he said. "We're seeing a proliferation of companies that want this kind of benefit – forget the definition: companies want this."However, IBM will face stiff competition for dominance in the market. Amazon and Google have already taken great steps in cloud provision, using their existing internet infrastructure to establish an early lead in many areas.The world's most powerful software company, Microsoft, has also started to re-evaluate its earlier position that web-based services would not threaten its business in desktop computing.After a series of concessions over recent months, Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer last week said the company was preparing to launch its own "Windows Cloud" system."We need a new operating system designed for the cloud, and we will introduce one in about four weeks," Ballmer told an audience in London. "We'll even have a name to give you then... but let's just call it, for the purposes of today, 'Windows Cloud'."It is believed that many of will be built in to the new version of the company's operating system, currently known as Windows 7, which is due to be unveiled at the company's Professional Developers Conference in Los Angeles	at the end of this month.
If you're anOasisfan, you probably visitedMySpacelast week. The social networking site previewed the band's new album,Dig Out Your Soul, a week before its official release.If not, perhaps you used the site to listen to something else, from Bob Dylan to the White Stripes. MySpace has, so to speak, a track record in the music businesses, being credited with furthering the careers of acts such as Lily Allen, My Chemical Romance, and the Arctic Monkeys.Now MySpace has an even bigger ambition. Following the launch ofMySpace Musiclate last month, it is building what chief executive Chris DeWolfe calls "the biggest internet music catalogue in the world".To achieve this, the site has signed deals with all four major record labels – EMI, Sony BMG, Warner Music, and Universal – that will apparently give them shareholdings in the site.Users will be able to share playlists of up to 100 songs with friends on MySpace, instead of going to music sites such as Last.fm. MySpace will benefit by selling advertising and sponsorships. Backers include McDonald's and Toyota.The idea is that fans will go to MySpace Music not just for free songs but to buy albums, T-shirts, concert tickets and other merchandise. It's hoped they will also buy MP3 digital downloads, which are delivered from Amazon's music store. Unlike the tracks provided by Apple's iTunes, these are all unprotected MP3 files that will play on almost any device.While MySpace Music has only been launched in the US, the plan is to roll it out to other countries.MySpace, which is now owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, has been able to do the deals it needs partly because the major labels resent Apple's control of the music download business.However, not everyone is pleased. The Washington Times, for example, pointed outthat the "home to Davids" was now siding with the Goliaths. It was the millions of unsigned bands, their fans, and the independent labels that made MySpace a force in the music business. Now the corporate giants are moving in, and some indies fear they may be pushed aside.On the other hand, MySpace probably feels the need to play to its strengths. It is one of the web's most popular destinations, along with sites such as Wikipedia and YouTube. It has more than 100 million users, but it is under increasing pressure from Facebook, a rival social networking site.MySpace and Facebook are, of course, dramatically different. MySpace home pages tend to be big, brightly coloured and jam packed with digital bling. They often include music and video streams.Facebook pages are more formal, far more sober, and most of them look much the same. MySpace tends to be hedonistic and leisure-oriented, while Facebook is more university and career oriented. Many users have, of course, signed up for both.But thanks to MySpace Music, users could spend more time at MySpace, and add shopping to their socialising. That's the plan.
We've got copies ofSporeto give away! Our friends at EA have sent over five copies of the evolution simulation and we want you to have 'em.As you're such a creative bunch, we're looking for the best ideas for games that involve evolution and biology in some way. We're looking for back-of-the napkin descriptions, nothing too detailed. Here's an example:What: A plant-growing multi-player puzzler in which you are trying to grow the most robust bush/tree possible using the limited sunlight and bee resources available, without it falling over.What do you do: At the start, you have a certain number of sprout points. Click on a branch to sprout an offshoot: a stem with a leaf at the end.  When sunlight (an arrow from the sky) hits the leaf, it gives you more offshoot power and contributes to the constant rate at which your plant grows. If your plant becomes unbalanced, it will topple over and die.Every once in a while, a flower will appear. Direct bees towards flowers by waving fly swatters (without swatting them, mind). They'll pollinate the flowers and will distribute copies of your plant around the screen. You've got to keep control of what's happening as things become hectic. Each round last 1:30. The most thriving ecosystem wins.You can surely do better than that.Send in your clever ideas to gamesblog +at+ gmail.com and we shall choose the best ones. Deadline: Friday 10 October. Go go go!(thanks bambino tostare!)
Executives across Silicon Valley are finally admitting that they are not insulated from the turmoil in the world's financial markets – after months of refusing to believe that an economic downturn would affect the hi-tech industry.Online auction gianteBaylooks set to be the latest west coast company to slash jobs, with reports suggesting that it could begin announcing as many as 1,500 cuts – 10% of the company's workforce – as early as today.Such an announcement would be another sharp reminder to Silicon Valley's most powerful, many of whom have continued to insist that the technology sector would remain unaffected by the credit crunch – despite evidence that it was already hitting them hard.Two weeks agoGooglechief executive Eric Schmidt waved off suggestions that his company could be in for tough times if a deep recession took told – particularly since Google is increasingly reliant on the advertising industry."My guess is the drama is in New York, not here," he told reporters at the company's headquarters in Mountain View, California. "It's business as usual at Google."Since Schmidt's statement, Google shares have dropped a further 28 points, ending up at 386 by the close of play on Friday. Last December stock was trading at an all-time high of 714.Even more bullish wasMicrosoftboss Steve Ballmer. As recently as September 26, he deflected concerns that the crisis would shake through to his company, claiming there was still "buoyancy" in the technology sector."Our industry is not immune to what goes on in the global economy," he said. "And yet as I travel… given the current circumstances, people still see a certain buoyancy in the market."That message turned around sharply in just a few hours, however, when Ballmer was forced to concede. "We have a lot of business with the corporate sector as well as with the consumer sector, and whatever happens economically will certainly affect itself on Microsoft," he said at a meeting in Norway on Friday.Microsoft shares were trading at 26 points at the end of last week, having lost a third of their value in the past year.The situation is similar for the technology industry's other giants, leaving the market confused by mixed messages. Stock market flotations have dried up for hi-tech companies over the past year, and even the venture capitalists who fund early stage businesses are cutting back drastically. Investors are so jittery, in fact, that the tiniest of rumours can have a huge impact.On Friday a single report – put out by a blogger on an unfiltered part of CNN's website – claimed thatApplechief executive Steve Jobs had suffered a heart attack. Before the company even had time to deny the rumour, Apple shares had started dropping sharply, losing 8% of their value in just a few minutes. Although the prices quickly corrected once it became clear that there was no truth in the report, it became clear how quickly panic could take over.Another company facing an uncertain future isYahoo, which has struggled for several years to reassure investors over its future – despite being one of the world's biggest web companies. Just months after spurning a $44bn takeover bid from Microsoft, chief executive Jerry Yang last week sent a memo to all staff which indicated he could be preparing for mass layoffs.Yang's message said that Yahoo needed to "get fit as an organisation" and said that he had hired management consultants Bain &amp; Co. Job cuts look certain as a result, following hard on the heels by the enormous 25,000 cuts announced by computer Hewlett Packard last month.Some parts of the hi-tech economy are better suited to the tough economic climate, however.The videogames industry, for example, often benefits when people decide to cut down their entertainment budgets in favour of staying home. Last week British retailer Game announced improved pre-tax profits of £33.4m for the first half of the year and predicted a 12% increase in sales for 2008.But some leading experts retain their view that the wider internet industry will be able to weather the storm, even if it may prove tough going."The advertising market as a whole will slow down, but I think search advertising will be less affected," said Danny Sullivan, the editor of news website SearchEngineLand.com. "I think someone like Google has more than enough to make it through."
Monday's how was your FIFA weekend edition of Chatterbox
Today, and for the rest of this week, I'm in Japan for theTokyo Game Show. I'm accompanying theUKTI's Game Mission, a gaggle of 12 UK-based games and game-related companies on their journeys to the epicentre of the world's gaming scene, who get three days of seminars and meetings with Japanese publishers, developers and dignitaries. While I'm here, I'm going to trawl the show floor myself, meeting a few gaming celebs and a couple of those dignitaries for myself. I'll be reporting back on a daily basis, using a handy Flip video (cheersJemima) to give you the tweets and whistles, bings and bams on the show floor and behind the scenes. Want to know about the 3D gaming specs? Fancy a peek at the latest in display technology? Or are you interested in getting a first peek at next year's games? Let me know and I shall comb TGS for you.Some of the action I've already got my eyes on:The new Nintendo DSiIt was launched on Friday, but I'm going to get my mitts on it here. What's the skinny with the camera? How much does the SD slot enhance the experience? Just how big is the new-size screen? Let's have a go at that sexy new download service, please, and then maybethatwill getour Gregexcited.Bungie's next Halo projectRumoured to be shown in Tokyo, the newly non-Microsoft studio's got four projects in the works. Most hope one of them is Halo 4. Acryptic messagewas released a few weeks ago, and it's got most games observers convinced that there'll be a big Master Chief-style show later this week.Something new from Katamari creatorNobi Nobi Boy's not a secret, but to date little has been said about it. Whileit's not expected to be playable, the Namco Bandai game will be on their stand. As well as Dynasty Warriors: Gundam 2. Slurp.Konami's standThe Metal Gear Solidpublisherswon't be demonstrating a playable version of their forthcoming stealth-a-thon, but I will get to have a go on Silent Hill Homecoming (thankfully in a bright, large venue, surrounded by thousands of people and not on my own, at night, with the lights out) and on the Wii version of Castlevania.O O O it's Phantasy Star O!The Nintendo DS gets massively multiplayer RPG thanks to this new version of the Sega masterpiece. Really, is there NOTHING they don't do first? Headherefor more of their awesome offerings, including Yakuza 3.And that's just the software, people. Just wait until I get my hands on the hardware.Keep in touch and do let me know what you want to see. I'll be blogging and twittering - send requests to@alekskor leave a comment below.Finally, the all-important companies joining the UKTI's Mission are:*3D Creation Studio*Connect 2 Play*Games BizDev*Magenta Software*Maverick*Milky Tea*Northwest Vision and Media*Playbox Ltd*Rebellion*Serious Games Institute*Testronic Labs*Universally Speaking
Gawker Media - theblog empire run by Brit Nick Denton- has made plenty of noise by deciding toslash staffand batten down the hatches for some upcoming financial difficulties.The announcement, which came on Friday, is fairly simple: the company's  much-vaunted and controversialpay per viewbonus system is out; 19 people have been laid off from the company's lower tier blogs such as tech gossip siteValleywag; and 10 have been hired at higher-profile ones likeGizmodoandKotaku. He's concentrating on building up the high-traffic, higher-value blogs - seems fairly straightforward for a media company looking a plunging economy.But hidden in there somewhere is the little-mentioned porn blogFleshbot, which is losing founding editor John D. Denton might be a smart operator who could give Rupert Murdoch a run for his money in business brutality stakes, is he theonlyperson in the universe who can't make money out of internet porn?
When Alex Day started keeping a video diary on YouTube, he wasn't sure how it would turn out. The teenager, from Hornchurch in Essex, admits that he was just looking for some frank feedback on his funny stories and songs."I was making a video podcast to entertain family and friends - just a little comedy series," he said. Eighteen months on, 19-year-old Day, known by his nickname Nerimon, boasts more than 30,000 subscribers and is one of Britain's most popular YouTubers.Armed with cheap video cameras and the internet, a generation of youngsters are growing up very publicly with online videos - and being failed by adults who are not paying proper attention to this new medium.That claim is made in a research paper published today by the thinktank Demos. The study, Video Republic, examines the rise of the YouTube generation and considers how their enthusiasm and skills can be encouraged."It's now as normal for teenagers to write a blog as it is to write a diary - that's a massive shift," said Celia Hannon, a researcher with Demos and the lead author of the report."Youngsters are working out their relationship to the outside world and forging an identity."The report makes recommendations to help adults cope with the changing online environment, and calls particularly on schools to help youngsters understand the long-term implications of living their lives in a semi-public way."Schools, universities and businesses should prepare young people for an era where CVs may well be obsolete, enabling them to manage their online reputation," says the report. "This generation of young people are guineapigs ... we need an educational response that extends beyond the focus of safety, towards broader questions of privacy and intellectual property."It also suggests that creating video blogs and online diaries should be part of the school curriculum, used by schools in the same way that they organise museum trips or extra art classes.Statistics show that the influence of online video is growing. Ten hours of video is uploaded to YouTube every minute of the day, and not all of it is karate-kicking chimps and dogs on skateboards. Figures from earlier this year suggest Britons are watching more than 3.6bn videos online each month - a rise of 56% from last year. YouTube, which is owned by internet giant Google, dominates the market with 20 million viewers in Britain, while the BBC trails a distant second with fewer than 6.5 million online viewers.Mainstream broadcasters are recognising the shift in consumption: the American cable broadcaster HBO recently launched a new show, Hooking Up, featuring a swath of popular YouTube stars. Although many web surfers have scoffed at what they see as a cynical attempt to cash in, the move exemplifies how the adult world is trying to reach out to video-friendly youth.The report also says that politicians can use online video as a way to engage with youngsters, who can sometimes be seen as apathetic and unreachable. But Hannon said such a strategy would only succeed if they were prepared to approach the internet on its own terms."The government is pouring vast amounts of money into this, because they feel young people should be making themselves heard," she said. "But people can see through it - bloggers say it feels contrived."Instead, she offered the example of the US presidential candidate Barack Obama, who has seen intense interest from young voters after he encouraged them to exercise their creative urges online, instead of simply dictating his ideas to them. "Obama is the first 'YouTube politician' because he gets that you can't control it. His campaign team get that it's about the enthusiasm."For Alex Day, there are no plans to give up any time soon. "Thirty thousand, one hundred people watch me now and it'd be very unfair of me to suddenly stop and say 'just go watch someone else'," he said. "It's a lot of people so I'll always feel a commitment to putting out things they'll enjoy, in some form or another."
MOBILE DATAI was surprised that you overlooked Windows Mobile, which offers many of the features you highlighted as lacking in today mobile world. Windows Mobile 6 &amp; 6.1 helps increase your ability to securely manage and deploy Windows Mobile devices with Exchange Server 2007. One-click simplified mobile administration, which provides single-click user and device tasks view, including the ability to Track and manage device partnerships, policies, and connections; Take specific actions, such as device wipe or PIN recovery; Increased policy management and flexibility for assigning policies to groups and individuals.Windows Mobile 6 &amp; 6.1 also has flexible policy options such as Storage Card Encryption, that enables encryption of data stored in external removable storage cards for Windows Mobile 6.0 &amp; 6.1 powered phones.Additionally with Microsoft Office Outlook® Web access, you can offer users mobile self servicing options for common administrative tasks, including: Device wipe; Managing partnerships; PIN recovery.David Weeks, Windows Mobile Product Marketing Manager, Microsoft UKLast week we were told "There are no tools out there at the moment that let you destroy the data on mobile phones".I have one. It is made by Stanley Tools. It is called a hammer.John Illingworth, BradfordPRICING CORY"Apple offers higher-priced DRM-free music…"Er, no. It's the same price as the DRM-encumbered music that three of the major record companies, not Apple, insist on.Simon Aughton (no post town given)SPORE&gt;&gt; In another example of why DRM is bad, one need only look to the recent iPhone App debacle by Spore. Spore was a game put out by EA Sports, a very popular one. It came with draconian DRM and in the space of days, a cracked version was leaked onto the net and over a half a million people turned to the cracked one instead of downloading a legitimate one crippled by DRM. EA relented and released a patched version with less constraints.dearauthor.com&gt;&gt; The combination of "Spore's" long history on the gaming world's radar and the publicity push surrounding its release will undoubtedly lead to good sales in the early going (anecdotal evidence suggests this is already the case). But "Spore" is one of those hyper-immersive games that's shaped by its users, and this DRM flap may ultimately limit adoption and future product opportunities.toc.oreilly.comWIKIPEDIA&gt;&gt; I don't get how this cult and the gang of Wikipedians actually work, but I know recently a group of librarians wanted to start an article on publib (an online mailing list and community), and were not able to do so because -- get this -- they couldn't provide valid sources they were valid, real, or existed.. it's a strange, not brave, new world when the info-dis-infomediaries are in charge of the "sum of all human knowledge." ...drweb.typepad.com&gt;&gt; Wikipedia cofounder Jimmy Wales sat for an interview with ad agency exec Liz Ross in front of an Advertising Week audience here in New York yesterday. Which is odd, because Wales's very popular Wikipedia is a nonprofit which doesn't carry advertising, and Wales's for-profit venture, Wikia, isn't very popular. So who cares what he has to say?valleywag.comPRINT OR NOT?&gt;&gt; Proper print journalist Victor Keegan has made a trip to Cambridge before offering an opinion about the Sony Reader and other devices. Good for him. It makes the cost of a newspaper seem cheap, even if they did skip the ICT bit last week.readg.blogspot.comWATCHING THE POLICEI read the piece twice but I still can't detect irony. Why limit the cameras to police officers? If we all had compulsory 24 hour recorders strapped to our heads, there'd be no disputes about anything.Have you read thisHome Office advice? Bearing in mind that this purports to make a case in favour of head mounted cameras, it hardly suggests a runaway success (despite the fiddled graphs). No overall increase in detection rates, marginally less paperwork but more time taken to process cases. The trouble with video is that, unlike paperwork, it doesn't summarise; watching an incident takes as long as the incident itself. It's also a nightmare for the defence. When some random loser gets arrested because an officer thinks he looks lairy, the mags or the jury get to see him looking lairy too, instead of looking at the facts of the matter and seeing there's no evidence of any crime.Andy Banks (no post town given)SPAM THATI've just read your article (online) about Egham being the "spam capital of Britain" and various towns in Hampshire running it a close second. I live in Winchester and I get several hundred Spam emails per day in my personal BT account. I've even had them from MY OWN ADDRESS and I'm now getting around 50-60 per day in Russian!I have several email accounts and it's quite interesting to note which ones get the most/least Spam. My Yahoo account (which I have given to very few people) gets none. This is closely followed by my Hotmail account, which gets only about 5 or so per day (including a couple from Indonesia). This is interesting because I give my Hotmail account to just about everyone. Whether they're just biding their time before they smother me with spam, I have no idea. My Gmail account (which I have also given to very few people – and only people I know personally) had probably been hacked into because I get around 10-20 spam emails per day in that one.What's really tiresome is having to check all this dross because my spam filter sometimes overrides my settings and sidelines genuine (and sometimes important) emails into my junk folder and several times I've gaily deleted them along with all the rest.I must admit to being a compulsive email checker – for all the reasons outlined in the other article – but I have a compulsive personality anyway, so that might not count.Caroline Andrews, Winchester
Can machines think? That was the question posed by the great mathematician Alan Turing. Half a century later six computers are about to converse with human interrogators in an experiment that will attempt to prove that the answer is yes.In the Turing test a machine seeks to fool judges into believing that it could be human. The test is performed by conducting a text-based conversation on any subject. If the computer's responses are indistinguishable from those of a human, it has passed the Turing test and can be said to be "thinking".No machine has yet passed the test devised by Turing, who helped to crack German military codes during the Second World War. But at 9am next Sunday, six computer programs - "artificial conversational entities" - will answer questions posed by human volunteers at the University of Reading in a bid to become the first recognised "thinking" machine. If any program succeeds, it is likely to be hailed as the most significant breakthrough in artificial intelligence since the IBM supercomputer Deep Blue beat world chess champion Garry Kasparov in 1997. It could also raise profound questions about whether a computer has the potential to be "conscious" - and if humans should have the 'right' to switch it off.Professor Kevin Warwick, a cyberneticist at the university, said: "I would say now that machines are conscious, but in a machine-like way, just as you see a bat or a rat is conscious like a bat or rat, which is different from a human. I think the reason Alan Turing set this game up was that maybe to him consciousness was not that important; it's more the appearance of it, and this test is an important aspect of appearance."The six computer programs taking part in the test are called Alice, Brother Jerome, Elbot, Eugene Goostman, Jabberwacky and Ultra Hal. Their designers will be competing for an 18-carat gold medal and $100,000 offered by the Loebner Prize in Artificial Intelligence.The test will be carried out by human "interrogators", each sitting at a computer with a split screen: one half will be operated by an unseen human, the other by a program. The interrogators will then begin separate, simultaneous text-based conversations with both of them on any subjects they choose. After five minutes they will be asked to judge which is which. If they get it wrong, or are not sure, the program will have fooled them. According to Warwick, a program needs only to make 30 per cent or more of the interrogators unsure of its identity to be deemed as having passed the test, based on Turing's own criteria.Warwick said: "You can be flippant, you can flirt, it can be on anything. I'm sure there will be philosophers who say, 'OK, it's passed the test, but it doesn't understand what it's doing'."One such philosopher is Professor AC Grayling of Birkbeck College, University of London. "The test is misguided. Everyone thinks it's you pitting yourself against a computer programme and a human, but it's you pitting yourself against a human and a computer programmer - i.e. two humans. AI is an exciting subject, but the Turing test is pretty crude."Can you tell human from machine?One of these conversations is between Professor Kevin Warwick (KW) and a human; the other between Warwick and a computer. Can you tell which is which?Conversation one:Subject:Hello. My name is Nick and I am a human.KW: Are you happy being a human?Subject:Yes, I am. Are you? Good. Then we are both happy.KW:Yes, I am. Are you happy with your life at present?Subject:Parts of it. I hate my job, but most people do, right?KW:I'm OK with mine. What is your job?Subject:I work as an 'online internet advertising monitor', which is fancy language for electronic filing. What do you do?KW:I interrogate humans and machines.Subject:Which ones do you prefer, humans or machines?KW:Which do you prefer?Subject:Hmm. Depends on for what purpose you mean.KW:To go to a restaurant, for example?Subject:Then I would much prefer going with a human.Conversation two:Subject:Hello, my name is Mike and I am a man.KW:Are you happy being a human?Subject:Judge, I'm a guy.KW:Does that worry you?Subject:Don't worry, we'll work everything through.KW:Do you have worries then?Subject:Let's move on from that basis.KW:Why?Subject:Why? I like this subject.KW:What is the subject, do you think?Subject:What is the subject I wonder if I think? I know that it's good to thonk about. Think deeplt about mysterious subjects.KW:What mysterious subjects?Subject:Think deeply about mysterious dubjects.KW:What's a dubject?Answers:Conversation one is with a human; conversation two is with the program Ultra Hal.&#183;This article was amended on Wednesday October 15 2008. We originally misquoted Professor AC Grayling as saying the Turing test was pitting yourself against a computer and computer programmer. Professor  Grayling actually said that the test involved pitting yourself against two humans, a human and a computer programmer. This has been corrected.
Kia Sport Pro_cee'd&pound;15,595Miles per gallon:50.4CO2 per km:149 gramsGood for:SpeedersBad for:Speed readersOver the past years sports fans have grown used to seeing the word Kia emblazoned on the hoardings of dozens of major events. There was, of course, Euro 2008, but there was also the World Cup, the Women's World Cup, the Australian Tennis Open, the Davis Cup and even the Asian X-Games... So it's a surprise to learn that Kia has only just got round to launching its first sports car. It's not a sports car in the two-seat, soft-top, bad-hair, hands-in-the-air way, but it is a sports version of one of its most successful models - the cee'd. Yes that's right, as in seed, with a lower case and a bafflingly redundant apostrophe. A punctuation apocalypse that would have Lynne Truss reaching for her sick bag - or should that be ci'k bag, in Kia speak?In order to tempt the young man in a hurry and on a budget into a Kia, the Korean giant's basic cee'd has been given a little automotive augmentation and been transformed into the pro_cee'd. Yes, Lynne, that is an underscore... Ludicrous name aside, the pro_cee'd doesn't put a wheel wrong.It's a three-door hatch in which everything from the roof to the suspension has been lowered and flattened; even the spotlights have slid round the deep central intake so that they hang just above the ground in front of the wide-set wheel arches. All its windows are shallower, giving the sense that you're sitting in a pillbox rather than a car; my mother-in-law chimed in from the back seat that the 'medieval leper squint in my local church has a better view'. In all, the look is just what Kia wanted - sporty.But in these credit-crunched days, sharp styling, nimble handling, a refreshingly gimmick-free interior, a cracking sound system, low price and a wallet-soothing 2-litre diesel aren't enough to sell a car on their own. And no one is going to take on the social disadvantage of a car that can't even spell its own name. So Kia has done what all big corporations do in such a fix - it's thrown money at the problem. Buy a pro_cee'd and it comes with an unheard-of seven-year full guarantee. The 'bumper to bumper' warranty covers every part of the car for seven years or 100,000 miles, and is transferable to subsequent owners. There's also a 10-year anti-rust warranty. Kia, at least, seems determined to put its money where its mouth is.The car may be South Korean owned, but it was designed in Germany and is built in the firm's Zilina factory in Slovakia. As Kia says: 'Built in Europe for Europeans'. Though considering the fact that Asian-built cars have dominated every road-reliability survey for the past decade, you'd have thought 'Built in South Korea for Europeans' a better bet.Next up for the cee'd (which, if you were wondering, is taken from the now-defunct French abbreviation for European Community, CE, and the car's project name, ED. Genius! These admen are worth their weight in gold, aren't they?) is the ex_cee'd, a soft-top cabriolet, and a model with green credentials, the eco_cee'd. Surely it's just a matter of time until the suck_cee'd arrives.•martin.love@observer.co.uk
Google's grandees might have been bullish over the potential implications of the company'sadvertising deal with Yahoo, but it seems that the warning shots fired by Washington have finally got through to someone in Mountain View.The deal, in which Yahoo is letting Google sell advertising on some parts of its site, was scheduled to roll out this month - but according to areport from AFP, Google has said it will be postponing its arrival while an anti-trust investigation takes place:When we announced our advertising agreement with Yahoo! in June we agreed to delay its implementation until October to give regulators time to look at the details," Google said in an email statement Friday."As we are still in conversation with the Department of Justice we have agreed to a brief delay in implementing the agreement while those discussions continue."Until now, Google had been pushing hard for the October launch:  "Time is money in our business,"the chief executive, Eric Schmidt, said recently. That's just the sort of thing to get up the nose of regulators. Indeed, one former senior justice department lawyer told me that it appeared"an unusual approach"to take.Still, even if Google is taking a small step backwards (perhaps at the request of the department), the language - "a brief delay" - is hardly conciliatory.
I recently noted in aNewsbytes columnthat Portugal was buying half a million Intel Classmate PCs, to be assembled locally under the Magellan name, at a subsidised price of €50 (£39.50) each. Now "The Venezuelan government has signed an agreement with Portugal that will bring 1 million low-cost notebooks, which are based on the Intel Classmate PC design, to the South American country," reportseWeek.However, while Venezuela is a win for Intel, it's a loss for Microsoft, possibly thanks toHugo Chavez. The story says:One noteworthy difference between the notebooks in Portugal and Venezuela is the operating system. While the Portuguese laptops use a modified version of Microsoft Windows, the government of Venezuela decided to use a version of Linux developed in that country.The Classmate PC is a reference design, and has been adopted or varied by a lot of different manufacturers. I first blogged it here inOctober 2006. Since then, Intel has updated the design based on tests in 35 countries and its own ethnographic research (above). It now has touch screen functionality just like Bill Gates's beloved Tablet PC.Although people havetried to take computing to third world countries before, the Classmate looked like a response to the OLPC (One Laptop Per Child) machine. However, OLPC has failed to make the big government sales once predicted, andstruggled. Classmate PC was successful in helping to kickstart the netbook market, while also making few sales. The Portugal and Venezuela deals are examples.It's not clear whether anyone else will buy a Classmate PC, ever. But it's a start.
My wife wants a simple music centre that she can set up in one room and listen to in adjoining rooms. The systems she has seen seem far too complex, requiring her to download and store stuff when all she wants to do is play CDs. Any ideas?There are all sorts of new-fangled, wireless hi-fi systems that beam music around your home, but you could be getting blinded by the white heat of technology. Tune out all the hi-tech noise and get back to basics: all you're probably looking for is some extra speakers. More speakers means you can buy a simple CD-playing hi-fi and expand it. You can buy pretty much any speaker set and run wires around the house back to the stereo system. If, however, you prefer a neater solution, consider wireless speakers. These generally use a transceiver, which plugs into almost any hi-fi and beams the music over radio frequencies to speakers that can be switched on or off.For something basic, try the HPL200 speakers from Connected Essentials. While they won't give you brilliant sound quality, for about &pound;70 they are probably adequate for basic listening and background music.• Email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
