"Sony: We want Xbox 360 to succeed in Japan" is the eye-catching headline inGamesindustry.biz, based on a perfectly reasonable interview with Sony's president of Worldwide Studios, Shuhei Yoshida, on sister-site Eurogamer.net. He'sactually sayingit would be better if consumers showed more interest in next-generation gaming than the twee stuff being rolled out for the Wii:If it continues that way forever, it's not a good thing for us. But I'm saying what Microsoft is offering and what we are offering are closer, compared to what other platforms are offering. Because of that commonality, the new games coming out on 360 and PS3 help to get consumers more interested in this generation of gaming.He also recognises that "Because of the amount third-party publishers have to invest to produce a game for this generation, it's really hard for them to justify releasing on only one platform." Well, on one minority platform. Two minority platforms makes more sense.I think we can be confident that support for its rival isnotthe reason why Sony is failing to respond to Microsoft's price cuts on the Xbox 360, except for bundling 80GB instead of 40GB drives. TheFT reports:"The answer is yes, if you're asking, 'Are these the prices we're going with this Christmas?'" said Kazuo Hirai, president and group chief executive of Sony Computer Entertainment, in an interview with the Financial Times.In the US, the PS3 is now twice the price of the entry-level Xbox 360: $399 against $199. Microsoft says US sales of Xbox 360s have doubled since the price cut, and increased fivefold in Japan.Mr Hirai argues that the basic Xbox has no hard disk drive while the PS3 plays high-definition Blu-Ray movies as standard. "When you really compare apples to apples, then I think we have a very good value proposition," he said.It's certainly true that Microsoft also has Xbox systems at $299 and (with the Elite), $399, so the gap isn't as big as it sounds. However, it may also be that Sony is still losing too much money on every PS3 it sells, and -- unlike Microsoft -- it doesn't have a fast-growing mountain of ready cash.Another possible problem for Sony is that the PS3 seems to be losing ground with games developers, according to numbers released at the Tokyo Games show and published onWired blogs.Comparing 2008 with 2006, the number of games for the Nintendo Wii has rocketed ahead from 1.0% to 7.1%, overtaking the Xbox 360, which has grown from 4.0% to 7.0%. The PS3, by contrast, has slipped from 3.6% to 3.5%, while the PS2 has plunged from 20.1% to 1.7%.The market leading platforms are now the Nintendo DS (up from 10.4% to 18.7%), mobile phones (down from 24.9% to 18.0%), and the PC (down from 24.5% to 17.5%).Back in 2004, things were much simpler, with the dominant platforms being the PlayStation 2 (31.5%), PC (25.4%) and mobile phones (15.6%).
So the show is over, the cos-players have scuttled home and Aleks is back in Blightly. But what were therealhits of the Tokyo Game Show? Edge Magazine has picked out20 of the best, and it's a slightly depressing line-up, crammed with fighting games, hack-n'-slashers and DS remakes of classic RPGs; this being TGS, I suppose it was par for the course.Nothing on there makes me think the Japanese games industry is about to go through a creative renaissance (more about that in the Guardian's Technology section on Thursday...). Instead developers seem to be eating their own back catalogues and regurgitating the bile into new brand extensions, spin-offs and sequels. Yeah, Western developers do that too, but there's less of the seemingly relentless mining and sub-dividing of franchises. In the name of Hironobu Sakaguchi, how many Final Fantasy titles do weneedevery year? I'd say exactly 12 less than we're currently getting.I do like the look of Yuji Naka's mini-game collection, Let's Tap, which bears a passing resemblance to the excellent Korean mobile title, Nom. Out of rest of the familiar mush, Square's Last Remnant and From Software's Ninja Blade look to be the most appetising, though Yakuza 3 may be worth a look. I'd prefer Shenmue 3, mind.The most anticipated title is Resi 5. Of course.
MySpace has launched a new advertising system targeted at small businesses, in a move it hopes will boost the company's profits and help it reclaim the No1 spot in online social networking.The MyAds system, which is due to go live today, allows anybody to buy advertising space on the social network. Using tools developed by MySpace engineers, advertisers can target banner ads at specific groups of users depending on their gender, age, location and interests.Chris DeWolfe, the co-founder and chief executive of MySpace, told the Guardian that he hoped the move could take the website to the next level and boost its income during a time of economic uncertainty."It's something that we've been working on for the last year and a half and we're ready to roll it out on a wide-scale basis," he said. "There's over 20m small businesses here in the US that we're not servicing at all. It's a complete market that we think is huge."Pricing for the adverts, which are paid for on a cost-per-click basis, begins at 25 cents and rises depending on the scale and popularity of the targeted groups.At the moment the MyAds scheme is only being launched in the US, but DeWolfe said that he expected it be available in other countries, including Britain, "probably some time in the next quarter".The site will continue offering advertisers the option to buy slots based on the number of views they receive, rather than the number of clicks – its main method of generating income so far.Opting for an open advertising system in this way is a shift reminiscent of Google's AdWords scheme, the system which helped turn that company from yet another internet search engine into the dominant force in the market."I'm not going to make any Google comparisons, but I really think that small businesses are looking for an alternative to what's out there," said DeWolfe.The use of social networking information to target advertising messages also has echoes of moves made byFacebook last yearto insert ads into its users' news feeds. That effort was largely condemned as unsuccessful, even though the site itself has taken MySpace's crown as the world's biggest social network. Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg last week admitted the company was still looking ata number of options, but did not expect to have a solid business model for another three years.DeWolfe remained upbeat about the prospects for the MyAds scheme, pointing out that the internet has so far proved resistant to an overall slump in the advertising market."Advertising on the internet in general last quarter was up 8%, while advertising as a whole was down. We're cautiously optimistic that we're going to continue to hit our numbers."He even suggested that Fox Interactive Media, the parent company of MySpace and a division of Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation empire, would consider purchasing other companies and technologies – particularly if an economic slowdown lowers the asking price."We're always open to that," DeWolfe said. "We've made several acquisitions over the last year and a half. Certainly we'll be looking at companies in the next year or two – especially as we expect valuations to go down."
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Remember theLoebner Prize- the annual test of artificial intelligence that wementioned last weekend? Well, it took place on Sunday in Reading,featuring five chatbotsdesperate to be the first to pass Alan Turing's famous test.Elbotemerged as the winner, after scooping a 25% success rate at convincing the judges that it was actually human. That's not enough to please the ghost of Turing, but it was enough to pick up Elbot's owner, Fred Roberts, a cash prize.Fred's invention had a few tricks up his sleeve, includingtrying to the judges off their gameby explicitly referring to itself as a machine."Hi. How's it going?" one judge began."I feel terrible today," Elbot replied. "This morning I made a mistake and poured milk over my breakfast instead of oil, and it rusted before I could eat it."The University of Reading, which hosted the event, is spinning the result as a "nearly there" moment - whether or not you agree is quite a different matter - but it certainly seems thesingularityis still a way off.
"How's it going?""Just a moment! I'll start my self-diagnosis algorithm and let you know the results.""Yes, you do that. Ready?""I can't answer you. It seems my self-diagnosis module is on strike. It wants to diagnose other things as well."Anyone who has ever felt that their computer has a mind of its own will sympathise with the experience of attempting to get some sense out of a piece of software. But what if your laptop really could strike up a conversation unaided? Experts at the University of Reading yesterday claimed to have put that possibility to the test, with a supposedly scientific investigation of whether computers can indeed think for themselves.The Turing test is inspired by the British mathematician Alan Turing, best known for his code-breaking work at Bletchley Park, who wrote in 1950 that "if, during text-based conversation, a machine is indistinguishable from a human, then it could be said to be 'thinking', and therefore could be attributed with intelligence".Kevin Warwick, Reading's controversial professor of cybernetics, who oversaw yesterday's experiment, claimed in the mid-1990s that by 2045 computers would have taken over the world and enslaved humanity. The experiment, he hoped, would demonstrate that day was coming.But if computers are indeed to take over the world in a little over three decades, they are unlikely, on yesterday's evidence at least, to do so by winning people over with their engaging dinner-party chat. A small group of volunteers took turns in five-minute bursts to conduct simultaneous typed conversations with two unseen respondents - one a human sitting in a next-door room, the other a piece of computer software.  If 30% of the volunteers could be fooled, by Turing's own measure the test would be said to have been passed.Five teams of programmers were competing for the annual Loebner prize, awarded to the software that comes closest to mimicking a human.Having been defeated by the self-diagnosis algorithm, the Guardian struck up conversation with another terminal. "Let's talk about religion or politics. How is the government doing?" "I'm a protestant." Oh, really? Which denomination? "I was raised as a Protestant." Then, "Judge This very minute, I am a protestant; Go ahead?"On the other half of the screen, a faceless music fan ("I like a lot of Radiohead, Stereophonics, Led Zep etc") admitted he or she hadn't watched either the England match or X Factor last night ("Haha, Top Gear's more my style"). It was pretty clear which one was a real person. And which one the computer.Warwick has attracted frequent derision from his peers over experiments that critics argue demonstrate little methodological rigour and are designed to enlarge not scientific knowledge but the academic's profile. He has been called a buffoon, a clown and a danger to the public understanding of science. His critics are merely publicity-seeking, he counters, and jealous that his public profile attracts funding. "That's the game we're in."The event's credibility was hardly aided by the insistence of Hugh Loebner, the prize's American sponsor, that he had no interest in the result and had only set up the competition 18 years ago to promote his firm's roll-up plastic lighted portable disco dance floors.The winning software, designed by an American and called Elbot, fooled 25% of respondents. "We really, really have come very close," said Warwick. His sample size, in a field made up largely of computer experts and journalists: 12.Warwick insists that Turing's test will be passed within two to three years, leading to innovations ranging from improved automated call-centre technology to increasingly interactive home appliances. All the same, it's hardly Blade Runner, is it? "Maybe instead of 35 years [until we are enslaved by computers] we've got 40 years. "It could be a little bit slower, that's all."If the computers in room G05 had any thoughts on the matter, they were keeping their counsel.
LET'S GO CERFINGHow ironic it is that a group of non-scientific writers, namely the editors of the Guardian's Style Guide, must insist on the use a scientific fact that seems to be unknown even by at least one distinguished scientist.Vinton Cerf uses the word 'schizoid' to mean 'in two minds', despite the Style guide's correct statement that such a use is simply incorrect as schizophrenia is NOT Multiple Personality Disorder.Frank Desmond, Cork City, Ireland&gt;&gt; Pretty much the EFF party line, I think.taint.org&gt;&gt; he makes the point that the development of the Internet relied on "openness - allowing people with new ideas to do their thing without getting anyone's permission". In other words, the Internet couldn't have developed in Europe (too bureaucratic, too hierarchical, develped OSI in competition), but was possible in the US (semi-structured, open).nelh.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; a brilliant analysis by the inventor of the internet on why it shouldn't be regulated or policed, because it can't be regulated any more than guns, drugs, alcohol, or prostitution can. (heh.) In other words, Vint Cerf lays the smack down.blog.andibaritchi.comTECH CRUNCH&gt;&gt; The downwave world is all about productivity, efficiency and other cost reducing techniques.The one thing I do think [the article] missed is this: sell to companies that have money, and / or in industries that are growing; make the stuff that customers say they want and will pay for, not what you think they wantbroadstuff.com&gt;&gt; This is the first time I've encountered a newspaper journalist quoting a Twitter feed.oakleafblog.blogspot.comYOUCHOOSE (OR DON'T)&gt;&gt; Someone who was obviously bored with waiting for Apple to bring out a Netbook decided to use their time by sticking the Mac OS X system sounds in GarageBand to make the most boring piece of music in the world. What do they want? A biscuit?!macbore.blogspot.comIN THE CLOUDSWriting about Gmail, Flicker and other cloud base applications under the headline of "Cloud computing is a trap" is absurd. I am not sure what Richard Stallman is putting in his pipe to produce this smoke screen, but the issues of privacy has nothing to do with his other point, that cloud computing is a trap aimed at forcing people into lock systems.We need intelligent, thoughtful conversations about privacy and data portability, but don't let the intellectually dishonest hang these issues on "Cloud Computing" or use them to defend the traditional datacenter model of developing IT solutions.Jonah Stein, Berkeley, CaliforniaRichard Stallman, If the article reflects your views, then I take that to mean that you think cloud computing and web applications as a whole are stupid and should be avoided? Are you saying that it would be stupid even if the cloud computing platform or web application is licensed with the GNU Affero GPL or other free software license that attempts to close the ASP loophole? The article makes it seem as though you think ALL cloud computing is stupid and should be avoided.Aaron Culich (no post town given)This is the first time I've ever responded to an article. However, after I read the article "Cloud computing is a trap, warns GNU founder Richard Stallman", I felt it necessary to at least provide one man's different opinion and one based on experience.Software-as-a Service (SaaS) applications provide an ease of access to features (applications) to small and mid-sized businesses at a lower price point, less complexity, higher availability, better data backup than is possible with traditional premised-based solutions. Delivering SaaS applications for emerging software companies that choose to build their own datacenters is very expensive. With the requirement being 24/7 access, high availability with redundant systems, the price tag can be very high depending on scale. Additionally, the technical staff to support these systems is another cost often missed when evaluating the cost of internal systems.Cloud computing provides an alternative to the "deploy your own" approach. I'm cofounder of a new software company that recently completed this analysis and made the decision to go with Amazon's cloud computing solution instead of building our own datacenter. Now several months into the decision, we are very pleased with our choice, and do not feel we are trapped or would be prevented from moving to another platform in any way.I thought the entire article misrepresented cloud computing and the author's quote "It's stupidity. It's worse than stupidity: it's a marketing hype campaign," he told The Guardian.", seemed like some sort of personal rant.Another one man's opinion.Ken Forbes, Aliso Viejo, CaliforniaI read your report of the Richard Stallman comments on Cloud Computing today and was a little disappointed at the lack of balance presented. It seems to me that there are very good reasons for sharing resources through accessing utility computing and web-hosted software applications. Not the least of which a reduction in owned computing resources, usually operated at very low levels of utilisation, and often imposing an high burden of administration and maintenance on non-expert users. Whilst it is true that there are risks in placing information in the cloud, there are more significant risks inherent in storing information on owned equipment which is not properly maintained and which itself fails more often than modern utility computing resources. At the end of the day, it is the non-expert computer user who sits on the horns of these dilemmas and I do not think that they are best served by extreme views from either end of the hype-luddite spectrum!Ian Osborne, Project Director, Intellect, Grid Computing Now! Knowledge Transfer NetworkVIRTUAL WORLDS&gt;&gt; Now, sure, maybe he's slicing and dicing, but it strikes the right note: at least he didn't mention anything about grandmothers getting jobs in Second Life or how much easier it is to use than the Internet. It's a crisp message.dusanwriter.com&gt;&gt; What effect will the financial crisis have on virtual worlds like Second Life? Given that the economic underpinnings of the Linden dollar are flimsy enough to make CDOs look like Krugerrands in comparison, I fear that the grid may not survive the looming depression.secondlifeshrink.wordpress.comNOTABLE NOTESJust dropping an email to comment as an end user in Lotus notes 8.0, I think it is fantastic! Granted, pre-v8 it was a pile of dog, but the UI improvements are very welcomed, and with the inclusion of Sametime instant messenger providing IT support is a real pleasure (maybe a slight exaggeration!).Keep up the great podcast, and embrace the notes!Alex Crooks, PortsmouthARCHOS (TECHNOPHILE)Hey ho here we go again. A review of another iPod/Touch killer. But it misses the point. There are always plenty of devices that offer more facilities than the iPod. But where the iPod still scores is in the complete package that makes it easy for the average user.Written on an iPhone with fat male fingers (at a reasonable speed )Felix Krish, DargateGREENING DELL&gt;&gt; I'm glad to see the market has overwhelmingly rejected Dell's 'environmentalist' tokenism: rather fewer than 1% of purchasers opted to pay £1 extra per laptop or £3 per desktop PC in order to plant trees.As I've said before, I fully support the idea of companies reducing the environmental impacts of their products, but slacktivist gimmicks are pointless. Improvements will come from product design, manufacture (how &amp; where) and packaging: invest in getting that right, rather than deflecting attention from sub-optimal products by offering a sop to the tree-huggers.ministry-of-information.co.uk&gt;&gt; It might be that users aren't fully aware of what the program means and why the little extra makes a difference. It might be that customers, in a bout of corporate distrust, don't believe that the tree will really get planted and so don't want to contribute. Perhaps customers think Dell should be doing this on their own and not asking customers to pay more. Or maybe they don't even know about the program at all when they're buying their new computer.lightbulbs.org&gt;&gt; Dell should just automagically include the fee and be done with it "with every purchase, you are planting climate leveling wonderful and pretty green trees! What's not to like?" and etc some marketspeak. Skip the voluntary part..this is the computer biz, route around the cheapskates.. it would be interesting to be able to do a stealth poll of all their customers to see how "green" they claim to be. Just for fun. I bet the results would be a lot higher than 1% claiming to be green.tomnelson.blogspot.comLOST, NOT FOUNDDoes anyone remember the SWOPEX website? Where you could trade DVDs / CDs etc. It was bought out by Hitflip who im my opinion totally ruined the site. On SWOPEX you could build up points etc but could also purchase for a fixed price and a comission going to the website. Brilliant, suited everyone. Hitflip by contrast is a points only site.Are there any sites that have got the same set up as swopex had?Andrew Brannan, Hale
As a virtual tourist, you can now visit China's 178-acreForbidden Cityin Beijing, watch the emperor feast at dinner, train fighting crickets and feed them with blood-fattened mosquitoes, or practice archery with the help of a courtesan, reportsReuters. (But you can't have aStarbucks.)"When you enter the Forbidden City you choose one of nine historical costumes, which is to give a sense of history but also keep a sense of decorum," said John Tolva, program manager at IBM who led the project, dubbed "Beyond Space and Time.""You can't run and you can't fly," he added, a restriction that aims to prevent other virtual visitors, whom you can see and interact with, being distracted.On the other hand, you don't have to spend time with your forehead touching the ground….AsAFPnotes: "Computer kiosks in the real Forbidden City allow people there to visit the virtual version as well."The development -- based on games software -- took three years and cost IBM more than $3 million. A visit requires a 204MB download (for Windows XP or Vista) and versions are also available for Linux and Mac OS X 10.4.5.IBM's other "cultural heritage projects" include the Vatican Library, the Pietà, Eternal Egypt and the Hermitage Museum.
Land Rover Defender 90From &pound;18,905Miles per gallon: 28.2CO2 per km: 266 GRAMSGood for: dirt tracksBad for: rare groovesIt's been a busy year for Huey. He's appeared at motorshows in Detroit and New York, visited a quarry near Dusseldorf and been to a book launch at Eastnor Castle. Huey, or to give him his full name, HUE 166, is the first Land Rover that was ever built. He rolled off the production line in 1948 and to celebrate his 60th birthday he's been on a global tour.A few weeks ago I was lucky enough to catch up with him in a field outside Milton Keynes. He may be a little a creaky in his joints, but with the sun glinting on his fresh Keswick-green paint job, he looked in high spirits. Huey's handler gave me the keys and I clambered in, feeling quite starstruck. I can't say it was the smoothest drive I've ever had. But it was certainly one of the most historic.Since Huey was introduced in 1948, more than 4m of his brothers and sisters (can a Landy be female? I'm not sure) have travelled to the far corners of the world, working in many of the planet's most hostile places and, yes, that includes Kensington High Street. Indeed, for thousands of people living in the most remote areas, those early Land Rovers would have been among the first machines many of them would ever have seen.You may have believed that the Land Rover - the archetypal British battler - came into being as part of the war effort. But the war had been over for three years when Huey was created, and he was actually born into a life of agricultural labour. For years he was known as the Farmer's Friend.The first sketch was made in the sand on the beach at Red Wharf Bay in Anglesey by the engineering director of Rover, Maurice Wilks. He wanted a versatile vehicle that could double as a light tractor and off-roader. It was christened the 'Land Rover' and his first prototype was built using an American Willys Jeep. The launch price was &pound;450 and in that first year 1,758 vehicles were sold. Today, around 25,000 are sold every year, but many of the original models are still going strong. Series I Land Rovers sent to Costa Rica to work on coffee plantations in the Fifties, for instance, are still in daily use.To get to know Huey's ways a little better, I've spent the past week driving a Defender 90 - his direct spiritual heir. And it seems his spartan approach to life has survived almost perfectly intact. Everything is built to be indestructible and easy to use. The switches are enormous and are labelled ON or OFF. There's no Softie Walter creature comforts. No gimmickry, no computers, no see-you-home lights. It's a car that's made to work hard and won't break or complain in the process. Compared to the brain-numbing complexity of modern cars, the Defender is a Luddite's delight. There's no vanity mirror, no carpeting, no glove compartment. There is a stereo, though - which, tuned to The Archers while I parked in a muddy field for a wet picnic, seemed the perfect way to celebrate Huey's 60th.martin.love@observer.co.uk
The last day on the floor saw a tsunami of people descend on the convention centre. By noon, the place had reached capacity. But before I headed for higher ground, I had a look at the cosplay scene.There will be more from TGS (but not live; I'm on a plane tomorrow), so keep tuned to the gamesblog next week for more coverage.
I've mentioned it several times already, but here's the kind Mike from Hudson explaining exactly what it is that the Wii can offer job hunters the world over.Want to be a dentist? Want to be a stuntman? Want to be a dairy cow milker? Watch and learn! Who says the Wii isn't hard core?
Is there a cheap (preferably free) program that will wipe the contents of both Macs and PCs? I have a couple of old computers I want to get rid of, but am concerned about sensitive data remaining.Lots of us recycle our computers by passing them on to friends, schools or other worthwhile causes, but it's worth thinking about what will happen to the data on your machine. Simply deleting files won't be enough to stop someone getting hold of them, should they want to. That's why you can sometimes recover lost files or photos even if they seem to have been erased.The most effective way to wipe a disk is to copy over every single piece of information again and again with blank data, until all trace has gone. Macs have a built-in tool for this, Disk Utility (it's in the applications/utilities folder), but to be sure that everything has gone, set it to pass over your drive the maximum 35 times. It will take a while, but it's worth it.For a Windows PC, I'd recommend downloading a free tool such as Darik's Boot And Nuke (dban.org) or Secure Erase from the University of California (icanhaz.com/erase). They're not so straightforward, but the accompanying instructions should help you through.
Outbreak is a grown-up, horror version of the old interactive fantasy book format ("Turn to page 4 to go to the castle"). With B-movie acting, much gore and a zombie scenario, the plot depends on the choices of the viewer. Decide correctly, and you can outwit your attackers; get it wrong and the cast is zombie meat. The site loads quickly and, unlike real life, you can go back to the previous scene if you change your mind. It's great fun, well produced and, possibly, the start of a whole new movie genre.
Helping the residents of Chroma City after their houses, parks and streets have been drained of colour by the evil INKT Corporation, your job is to restore the world to its former polychromatic refulgence. Using de Blob, who instantly colours in whatever he touches, and accompanied by perfectly judged laidback jazz, this is a game that immediately feels good to play. Steering de Blob and making him jump by flipping the Wii-remote upwards works nicely, though as the challenges progress from easy to taxing, the control scheme's flaws become irritatingly apparent. Minor complaints and rubbish name aside, this is beautifully made and highly original, gently ushering you into its more extreme demands as you hop around the tops of towering city blocks desperately in need of a dab of paint.
Mankind's hunger for what Emerson called "a better mousetrap" is unquenchable. I can think of few technological solutions perfect enough to force inventors and innovators to proclaim, "Right, that's it. Problem solved. Let's move on." The Screwpull came along in the 80s and was declared the last word in corkscrews, yet innovations continue to stream from the world's drawing-boards. Coffee makers: I could hymn on coffee makers until you begged for mercy. Pencil sharpeners, umbrellas, cigarette lighters: mankind will never cease from reaching ever upwards towards the paradigmatically perfect implement. Actually, you might argue that in the last category Zippo reached the sunlit uplands decades ago: wind-proof, reliable, a design classic that works every time and comes with a lifetime guarantee. Pity no one smokes any more.There is surely no climb to perfection more impossible of completion than that of the ascent towards the ultimate high-end sound system. How can we hope to recapture the first fine careless rapture with which music originally smote us amidships and enslaved us for ever? The rainbow we chase is to make music sound new again. Hi-fi is like wine: dangerously expensive as taste refines and jolly enthusiasm turns to pernickety connoisseurship. Audio shops still exist where twins of the Simpsons' Comic Book Guy sell valve amplifiers, record decks and styli as if the digital revolution never happened. They're probably right: nothing matches vinyl and analogue for audio range and richness. I want, however, to consider users who are hunting high-quality portable, digital music.When you rip from a CD or buy music online, it is usually saved as AAC, M4P or MP3: these are called "lossy" formats, a trade-off between memory compression and sound fidelity. There are alternative "lossless" formats: ALAC comes built into iTunes, while FLAC is gaining ascendancy elsewhere. But be warned: FLAC cannot run on iPods, and all lossless files take up more room than MP3 or AAC. Convert an album (from vinyl or CD, not from MP3!) to one of the lossless formats, and see if you notice the difference.If you can't be bothered, splash out on good earwear. A few years ago noise-isolating headphones were all the rage, with Bose and Sennheiser leading the way. I never saw, or heard, the value in them: big, clunky things that needed batteries and were inconvenient. More recently, high-end plug-in buds have become fashionable: for &pound;360, Shure's SE530PTH Triple TruAcoustic Micro-Speakers deliver amazing sound. For a very competitive &pound;79, Apple has introduced a pair with built-in tweeter and woofer drivers that dramatically improve the standard music player experience. But there is an even more impressive option.I recently tried out made-to-measure T2 In-Ear monitors from Advance Communication Systems. A month ago, its MD, Andy Shiach, came to squirt silicone in my ear and two weeks later he fitted a pair of cochlea-shaped creations in my lugholes. Ex-musician Andy, whose own hearing was harmed by overexposure to loud music, specialises in acoustic research, and I can vouch for the astounding quality of the music that fills the head when wearing his phones (hearingprotection.co.uk).They come in a distressing medical pink suggestive of NHS hearing aids, which is fair, because once they are pushed in, you are deaf to the world. But not to the music. When that comes, wow! The dynamic range, the richness, the power: this is the best performance digital music has ever given me. Like most custom-made items, they are expensive and, once tried, impossible to give up, but what a Christmas present. The company keeps the moulds, so new gels can be cheaply made for attaching to other makes. Listening to a lossless version of Siegfried's Death March reduced me to the happiest puddle of butterscotch Angel Delight in Britain.Initials of the weekAACAdvanced Audio Coding - 'lossy' successor to MP3ALACApple Lossless Audio CodecFLACFree Lossless Audio CodecNHSNorwich High School (amongst other things)stephenfry.com/blog
How to achieveFacebook zen.26 actorswho deserve better careers.Somebody somewherehas Alf the alien tattooed on their body.A new wayto make your friends look ridiculous.Where to goif you miss Muxtape.Christian Bale owesit all to Kermit the Frog, apparently.Something to have handywhen your friends start moaning about their crap day at the office.Great momentsoften catch us unaware.The reason ninjaswill always beat pirates
As the unfulfilled hope of summer gives way to the gloom of autumn, you know it's time to stop leaving the house in the evening and play more games. Or at least that's what publishers clearly think, holding all their best efforts back for the coming three months. On cue, theLondon Games Festivalarrives, with such attractions asVideogames Live, where game theme music gets the classical treatment; the wholly self-explanatoryMovie Comic Media Expo; theGamesindustry.biz Careers Fairthat helps turn your hobby into a job; theEurogamer Expo, giving the chiding uncles of British gaming their own show; andWho Wants To Be?which promises its audience the chance to decide in real time how to spend the &pound;2,000 raised by ticket sales in what it describes as a "dangerously democratic gameshow".• London Games Festival,londongames festival.com; Who Wants To Be?, Nov 7,whowantstobe.co.uk
For as long as PlayStation has existed there's been WipEout, the anti-gravity racing game with weapons and a dance music soundtrack. It's taken some time for the PS3 to get its instalment, but WipEout HD, in all its &pound;12 glory (with the promise of extra downloadable content to come), is a spectacularly beautiful thing to behold, with its elegant menus, swooping tracks and the speed it all moves. Featuring beefier-looking weapons and a set of tracks culled from PSP games Pure and Pulse, this adds the ability to barrel roll off jumps to trigger a brief Mario Kart-style turbo and pilot-assist mode that gently steers you away from the sides of the track. It pushes the exact same adrenaline buttons as ever, leaving you palpitating, yet constantly ready for more.• SCEE, &pound;12 download fromPlayStation Network
'Daddy," my daughter said, her voice pitched somewhere between amusement and bemusement, "there are two men in black at the door." That's not information you want to hear at 8.30 in the morning. CID? Debt collectors? Undertakers? There they stood on the doorstep, inscrutably cool, like Tommy Lee Jones in Men In Black.After a brief conversation, it became clear that they were not on the trail of fugitive extraterrestrials. Or so they said. Instead, they were delivering a Saab 9-3 Turbo X. Black, of course. Like the Model T Ford and the delivery men themselves, the Turbo X comes only in black. "Whoo," whistled one of the men, handing over the keys. "I can tell you, it really shifts." And with that they were gone, leaving behind the black saloon, as opaque and unyielding as the obelisk in 2001: A Space Odyssey.Perhaps the beauty of this saloon is that it's of that nature of design that leaves no impression in the mind's eye. Study it at length and then close your eyes, and all that remains on the inner eyelids is darkness. If it wasn't for the fact that it sported so many features, you'd call it featureless. The very title Turbo X sounds like some form of stealth machine, and indeed the car is ideal for anyone who doesn't want to be noticed, and even better for those who want it noticed that they don't want to be noticed.Many years ago, back in the days of the Saab 93 and 95, there was something sturdy and yet sombrely attractive about the Saab output - in a word, Swedish. But its distinctive characteristics began to blur even before the Scandinavians were bought by the American giant General Motors in 1990 (the takeover was completed in 2000) and all but disappeared thereafter.The Turbo X seems like an attempt to make a virtue out of the vice of Saab's increasing invisibility. As only 2,000 have been manufactured (and only 500 of them are designated for Britain), it's meant to be a marketing statement car. But what that statement might be is not easy to say. Perhaps that's the factor that accounts for the "X".By contrast, the appeal of the turbocharger, for which Saab is justly renowned, is more obvious. The man in black was right. Boy, does it shift, and with little fuss. There is, though, a quite audible hum, vaguely reminiscent of an aircraft engine, that starts up each time the groovy little dashboard gauge shows the turbo boost in operation.There are also several other technical aspects to excite motorheads, such as a new four-wheel drive system. Avoiding boring torque talk, it means you take corners at high speed, should you ever find yourself needing to, without all the hassle of tipping over. Otherwise it's a comfortable, spacious saloon, efficient but decidedly impersonal.I kept thinking that it's just the sort of car I wish would turn up on those rare occasions I order a minicab for the airport. But as the Saab retails at over 30 grand, it's small surprise that my local minicab drivers tend to prefer a fourth-hand Vauxhall Carlton.When you engage the ignition of the Turbo X, the display reads, no doubt in homage to Saab's aeronautical roots, "Ready for Take Off". It is. But somehow it seems better suited to taxiing.
The phrase "voodoo economics" is now part of the language, though many people may have forgotten who actually threw it at whom: in fact George HW Bush (the incumbent's father), as a would-be Republican nominee, used it to deride rival would-be nominee Ronald Reagan's "supply-side" plans, where you'd remove regulation and promote a free-for-all in any market you could see.Reagan's broad plan – since implemented by Republicans again and again – was that if you gave people at the top lots of money, then it would trickle down on everyone, to everyone's benefit. And come on, how can you argue thatLehman Brothers' Dick Fuld and his $250m payhaven't benefited the makers of yachts and other makers of20-room mansions that include squash courts?The point behind Bush Sr's gibe was that Reagan's idea was completely untested; it had nothing behind it but vague belief. You say a few vague words, wave your hands, do a few things, and hope that the gods are smiling on you.Well, we tried voodoo economics, and look where it got us. But it has a sibling: voodoo computing. You'll recognise what I mean: your computer's running slow, and someone says, "Oh, you need to delete [insert name of vital folder here]. It's the cause of all the problems." Not that they know it's the cause of their problems. But they know someone who knew someone who said that's what they once did, and it fixed it. Or something. Voodoo.Or, to take two examples from my own personal experience this week. I recently got an iPod Touch (no way I'm springing for an iPhone). Sitting on the train, with its screen off, simply playing music, it began glitching – the music would play, then stop for a moment. Nothing wrong with the headphones, no loose connection. If I went back to an earlier point in the track and replayed it, the glitch wouldn't happen.What could cause this? The Touch has no moving parts. Like all MP3 players, the Flash-based Touch reads a chunk of data out of Flash memory and into RAM, to be decoded by the processor into sound. What can go wrong? The Flash memory might be fault; the RAM might be faulty; the processor code might be buggy; the audio amplifier chip might be broken; the battery might be running down; the headphone lead might be messed up. (You might have a brain tumour or acoustic neuroma. But let's leave out scenarios borrowed from TV's House.)I figured I was unlikely to be the first person to have encountered this problem. So what was the solution? On asking, I got all sorts of answers. "How much free space do you have left?" I was asked. Um, about 10%. Why, would that make a difference? "It might..." Would it? How come? "Well, you know... it just does." Other advice was to turn if off and then on. OK, but why? People weren't sure. It was just the spell you incanted.And if you don't think that voodoo computing has infected pretty much everywhere, then tell me: have you ever rung a support line with an internet problem and been told to turn some component – a router or the computer – on and off again? That's voodoo. (It's also expedient: if it takes long enough to do, they'll get you off the phone and it becomes Some Other Support Person's Problem.)Another example came yesterday: Google's IMAP implementation was not playing well for me, using Apple's Mail program. Messages would arrive at Gmail, as evidenced by its web browser interface, but not download to the program on my desktop. Quit Mail and restart it, and the messages would appear. So was it a problem with Mail? With Gmail? Were messages being throttled? Asking – and searching – brought no particular answers. ("Use Thunderbird," one person advised. Another said "Mail's terrible." This is a variety of voodoo: use a different witchdoctor.)The answer – after some digging – seems to be that Gmail's IMAP isn't a clean implementation, and that when you sync a mail program, it traverses the whole of your inbox to see what's changed. When your inbox has, like mine did, 9,000-odd messages (because I'd never shifted any to the "Archive" folder), then although it will get the new messages on startup (because it starts at the top of the inbox and traverses down), it then takes a while – or longer – to get to the end. Meanwhile, if you're like me, new messages will have arrived at the top of the inbox. But the traversal is still only halfway. Solution: move a ton of messages to Gmail's "Archive". Score one for logic.The emergence of voodoo computing - where we just say "Oh, it's like that" and then incant a spell (usually involving a warm boot) - is faintly depressing, isn't it? Sure, it's a measure, and consequence, of complexity as we use more and more programs. Yet equally, considering the independent parts of a system will usually yield the shortest path to troubleshooting, it says something about the paucity of many peoples' comprehension of how things work that we're so confused by systems.This isn't like saying that you need to understand how suspension bridges stay up to drive over the Severn Bridge. It's more like figuring out what's wrong with a car that won't start. Eliminate the obvious first, then work on the more complex. The big advantage with computing being that there are so many resources online to help you. Well, to help a bit.Oh, and the iPod Touch? I turned it on and off again. That fixed... No. Literally just as I wrote those words, it glitched again: A moment of blank sound. I looked at the screen. It was popping up a reminder of an event for the evening.Has nobody noticed that popping up a reminder on an iPod Touch uses some of the processor power it would normally use to decode data into music? It's not voodoo. It's just computers.Voodoo is scary stuff – not because it actually has any power in the real world, but because of what it makes people believe. They think it will really make a difference, and so instead of investigating properly, people make guesses and say incantatations, in the hope that everything will come out OK.As I said – we tried it with economics, and look where that got us. Just please, don't be tempted to try it with computers. If it's not working, there's probably a real reason – and it may just be more deep-seated than that the power button is feeling lonely.
Today's G2 (the features bit) is about deafness, and I've contributed a piece which is about my third child, who was born deaf due to a recessive gene that affects inner ear function.But now he can hear. Although he's still deaf.So where's the technology angle, you ask? Cochlear implants, that's where. These are essentially analogue-digital-sort of digital converters, which turn sound into a stream of bits, which are transmitted as electrical signals to stimulate the nerve directly.Cochlear implants are a fascinating piece of technology which has advanced a long way. The code for the conversion is written in C. (Not the piano key, the programming language.) A key measure of how good an implant-processor pairing works in terms of the perceived sound is the number of "channels" it can give the user. The more channels, the greater the number of different tones the user perceives. Standard implants usually have just 16 tones - that's 16 frequency bands for the whole speech range, which is why adults who have implants after losing their hearing often say voices sound like Daleks at first (until the brain begins to perceive tone).Some other work has created "virtual channels", which gives the perception of up to 128 channels (my son was the first child in Britain to have the software for that); there's also work to make implants which have that many channels to directly stimulate the nerve. Put virtual channels onto that, and you'd have something powerful - though of course nowhere near the ear's 25,000 hair cells, tuned to different frequencies.Michael Chorost, who lost his hearing in adulthood, wrote afascinating piece for Wired about his pursuit of a "strategy" for his implant that would let him experience Ravel's Bolero again; highly commended.One thing that wasn't mentioned in the Deaf G2 was how cochlear implants are changing the landscape for deaf people. Every year, approximately 800 children are born with different degrees of deafness in the UK; a much smaller number lose their hearing through other causes such as meningitis.But last year more than 300 children had implants, and the number is going up fast. CIs mean that fewer children are learning sign language from necessity, because they get - like my child - "access to sound". The implant operation and post-operative support is expensive - but it's actually cheaper, according to the calculations by NICE, than the cost of support for a non-implanted deaf child.There's adramatic graphof the cumulative number with implants at the British Association of Teachers of the Deaf site: about 2,400 then (more like 3,000 now), and growing. As BATOD comments,The implication for Teachers of the Deaf is that now over half the profoundly deaf children beginning school have a cochlear implant and in some educational settings the numbers of children with implants outnumber those with hearing aids.A reminder, if ever you needed it, that technology can have profound social effects.
Yahoo has been a top story this year mainly because Microsoft tried to buy it for $33 a share, or more. Crazy? Maybe. But there's not much Microsoft can do with its money except give it back to shareholders.In the event, Steve Ballmer was saved by Yahoo's co-founder Jerry Yang, who wasn't about to see his baby swallowed by the barbarians from the north. He was supported by Yahoo's staff and the anti-Microsoft crowd, who threw their predictable hissy fits, and by a board of directors apparently too stupid to just take the money and run.That looked like a bad mistake at the time. It now looks even worse with Depression 2.0 looming: Yahoo's shares have alreadyfallen to $12.65.For the masochists among you,Silicon Alley Insiderhas posted a link to "theInvestor PresentationYahoo delivered when it was trying to persuade its shareholders that Microsoft's $31 offer was ludicrously low".However, asReuters reports, one Yahoo investor has suggested trying to sell Yahoo to Microsoft for $22 a share:Under the proposal by investment fund Mithras Capital, Microsoft would unload Yahoo's Asian assets and non-search businesses, extract $3 billion worth of cost savings and receive $2.8 billion of tax benefits, meaning the software giant would pay $10.3 billion for Yahoo's search business.Is Ballmer that crazy? Maybe. If so, will the proposal be enough to stop Yahoo's free fall?
It's the end of Day 2 at the Tokyo Games Show, and I'm on hand to give you a run-down on the state of the floor. Watch for five minutes and learn about Monster Hunter, the other stuff on Capcom's stand, the strange games, the strange peripherals and all the rest.For the record, there was no Dodonpchi on the MS stand and I couldn't get a look in to Yakuza 3 or the Level 5 stand. And I've got to rely onKotakufor its coverage of Nobi Nobi Boy. I may be asking some probing questions of them later tonight.I did catch up with Mirror's Edge. I'm not going to touch the games tomorrow (consumer day), but I will be taking orders for cos play pics...CheersAlicefor the camera work!
What's your favourite piece of technology?At the moment mine would be theiPodTouchHow has it improved your life?It's improved my life in two ways. First of all, after watchingMinority ReportI wanted something that's very futuristic that I could use with my fingers. Then I realised there was something else I could do with it – download TV shows off iTunes. Then my 2-year-old son got hold of it and started working it himself. Next thing I knew it became a great device for him, and for me to have lunches, or concentrate on some work while he was sitting in the corner playing with that. Then it became his – so in a way I lost it, but gained some free time.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it about a week ago – I managed to get it off my son – and I took it on set with me, on a movie I was shooting. I had a five-hour gap, so I used it to watch some classic TV I had uploaded – the Andy Griffith show, I think it was. And an episode of Bear Grylls Survival.What additional features would you add if you could?It's got pretty much everything at the moment – it's got Wi-Fi., so you can check your email etc. If it came with a stylus, like a little pen thing, it would be easier to write notes on it, along the lines of the Nintendo DS Lite. I like to take notes when I've got comedy ideas, and if I could use it to write on the Touch and then plug it in via USB and print it out, that would be perfect.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Possibly, but then I think most things will be. It could come out in 10 years' time as: "Hey, it's the Classic iPod Touch!" So yeah, I think it will be.What one tip would you give to non-iPod Touch users?Get one, and make sure to get a cover for it to protect the screen. And if you really want it for yourself and you have 2-year-old kids, don't show it to them.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm not sure what a luddite is, and I'm definitely not a nerd. I guess I'm somewhere in the middle.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My Sony Vaio. It's the first laptop I bought, and it was when they first came out, so it was a big thing. I just went into the shop and said: "I'll have the biggest one you've got." I call it the Battlestar Galactica now – I've still got it – but I can't really take it around with me, it's too big.Mac or PC?I'm PC. I think about going Mac, but I'm just a bit too scared; then I look at the PCs and they're really shiny now with lots of extra features, so I'm kinda torn.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?That would be The Humans Are Dead, by the Flight of the Conchords – the robot song.Will robots rule the world?Yes, definitely, I think we're getting closer and closer to that. I'm going to make a prediction: I'd say 18 months' time, it's all over. Humans are slaves; the ones that are lucky to get away are down in the sewers, trying to plot a way to get back. And up above, on the surface of the Earth, robots are walking around, basically farming us.What piece of technology would you most like to own?My own jet pack. I know they're available – I can't quite afford one yet – and I'm waiting until the flight time is a little bit more than 35 minutes. That's what I want.New Zealand comedianRhys Darbyplayed Murray Hewitt on the TV series Flight of the Conchords. His first live stand-up comedy DVD, Imagine That!, is out on October 13
Friday's what are you buying this weekend edition of Chatterbox
Operation: Sleeper Cell is a fundraising ARGLast week, we belatedly announced the release ofOperation: Sleeper Cell, a home-spun Alternate Reality Game supporting fundraising activities for Cancer Research UK. This week, we welcome one of the team who made it, Juliette Culver, who's stood under the grill and has answered our tough questions. Keep reading for all kinds of insights into how to build your own (alternate reality) game for just £1000.Explain your game to my mum in 140 words.Operation: Sleeper Cellis a game about biscuits, tea (stirred not shaken) and loveliness. It's an online game to raise money for Cancer Research UK and is free to play. You are trained as a special agent by a secret organisation known as The Agency that works to spread loveliness throughout the world. During the course of the game you work together with other agents to accomplish missions, solve puzzles, raise money for Cancer Research UK and eventually uncover enough intelligence to save the word from The Agency's arch-enemies E.V.I.L. You can also follow the inner goings-on atThe Agencyand might even find things spilling over into real life...How do players control the game?The game centres around 'the grid'. Some cells on the grid are 'sleeper cells' that give you missions to complete. As you do so, you go up in rank in The Agency and get access to more difficult missions as well as secret intelligence uncovered by the sleeper cells. But before players can access a mission, each cell needs to be unlocked with a donation. Sponsoring a cell in this way, gives the sponsoring team a head start over other players on the mission behind that cell. It's also possible to sponsor other cells on the grid with an image and link.What is your background?Last year, there was a competition calledLet's Change Gameto design a game to help the work of Cancer Research UK. Our team, Law 37 won that competition and Operation: Sleeper Cell is the result. Everyone working on the game has been volunteering their spare time, so our backgrounds are really varied. Although we're new to making games such as this one, we've all been keen games players of some shape or form and in particular have a strong contigent of former Perplex City players.Name your competitors.Not long after Operation: Sleeper Cell launched, The Red Cross announced a game calledTraces of Hope. Also kicking off around now isSuperStruct, a game about inventing solutions to future global problems. Both those games are very different from ours though - Operation: Sleeper Cell is far more light-hearted. Another big difference is that we're also trying to raise money for a charity as part of our game.How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?We've got about 200 active players since we launched at the end of September. We'd like to have a lot more by the time the game finishes at the end of November as well as hopefully have raised lots of money for Cancer Research UK! As well as providing some fun and raising money, we also hope that what we're doing will make people in the gaming world think about new ways that games can reach out and do good.What's your biggest challenge?Trying to fit making the game into our spare time! Everybody on the team has worked amazingly hard to make this game happen and it's incredible what they've achieved in the time. As well as that we've got team members as far apart as Edinburgh and Paris. This has meant that chances to meet and work on the game together in real life have been few and far between and we've had to make the most of what time we've had.What's the weirdest development experience you've had thus far?That would probably be revealing too many secrets as to what is to come in the game!What's your distribution/publishing plan?You can go an play it now. Just go towww.operationsleepercell.comand sign up.Are indie-developed games the latest killer app?It's been great having the creative freedom that we've had in developing the game. We were given a budget of £1000 to make the game, and that's forced us to be quite imaginative but at the same time has enabled us to do lots of things that we wouldn't be able to without that sum of money. On the other hand, making the game with a household-name charity like Cancer Research UK behind us has also really helpful.Are you the next big thing?It'd be great if it games for social causes such as charities and education did really take off. Games often have a reputation that leaves something to be desired - as timewasters or scapegoats. It'd be really great if we could turn that around and show that games can be a force for good in the world.
Friday's bring on the weekend edition of Chatterbox
A couple of weeks ago I had my first hands-on with the newPrince of Persia. Now the NDA has lifted I can tell you the good news - this game looks fantastic.  I never got on with theoriginal– even by the hardcore standards of the day it was just too frustrating – and only enjoyed parts of theSands of Time trilogybut this latest version of the franchise looks like being the best yet. Why? Well apart from looking great and playing well it reminded me of the PS2 classicIco.So like previous Prince games the action involves platforming and sword fighting in a graphically beautiful world. But the key difference with this Prince of Persia and the reason I'm so interested is the inclusion ofElika, his female guardian angel.So yes, the platforming was satisfying – although the camera was occasionally erratic – and the way each area opens up and fills with collectibles after you've defeated the "boss" reminded me of the stupidly addictive Crackdown orb collection. The combat stuff was fine too, though button mashing felt slightly too effective. But it was the dynamic between the Prince and Elika that really impressed. Leaping around a castle with Elika in tow bought back pleasant memories of Ico. Except this time the girl saves you rather than the other way round, with Elika catching the player if he falls.The controls worked well too, with a quick mid-air tap of Y (I played the 360 version) allowing her to grab your hand and propel you further through the air.  The controls generally have been simplified – wall running simply requires a quick tap of a button – but in the brief go I had it didn't feel like the game had been overly dumbed down.The promise of a relatively open world – Ben Mattes, the producer, talked up the freedom to go to different areas in the game but stressed PoP wasn't a GTA-style sandbox game – and the dynamic between the two characters has propelled this up towards Fallout 3, Fable 2 and Lich King in my most wanted list. Let's hope it delivers.
They chose to announce their latest product in the Halo universe in Japan - a market which has bought 170K worth of versions 1,2 and 3. What's up with that? I grill the Bungie boys about their marketing plan, the details of Halo 3: Recon and what they're taking home from TGS.It's just under 10 minutes of goodness.
Fracture, released tomorrow,  reminds me ofRed Faction, the ancient PS2 game-with-a-gimmick. And like Red Faction, Fracture is all about manipulating your environment, though this time it's the ground that you get to play with. While Red Faction supposedly allowed you to shoot through corridor walls, in practice the destruction was so signposted that you may as well have been shooting open doors. Fracture is similarly limiting. The gimmick this time round is the ability to manipulate your terrain. This is impressive at first but it soon subsides, leaving you feel more like Bob the Builder than a super space marine as you settle into a pattern of raising and lowering the ground only when obviously needing to. And it is usually very obvious when you need to, for example, create a hill.Take away the terraforming and you are left with a very average shooter. There's nothing new here, with Halo and Call of Duty 4 obvious inspirations.  The graphics are as bland as the gameplay, with brown, blacks and greens doing their best to sap your enthusiasm.  And that's assuming you have any left. Fracture is infuriatingly tough in places. Inconsistently placed checkpoints – which often mean a tedious retracing of steps – and a punishing number of enemies do little to make you love the game.Fracture is clearly a tech demo that has been over-stretched into a game. With the rush of big titles hitting in the next few weeks the chances of Fracture setting the charts alight are slight. But if it does sell a sequel with a bit more freedom and a wider use of the powers could be worth waiting for. For now though, Fracture is unlikely to make the earth move for you.
Apple: The spotlight turns to notebooksApple's got tongues wagging after announcinganotherproduct launch, this time in the cosy confines of its Silicon Valley HQ. Speculation - as always - is rife: is it an$800 notebook computer? Is it thecarved aluminium 'brick'? Is it going to change the world, man, or is it something else entirely?Yeah, yeah, we can all speculate. But right now I'm more interested in the of the invite that dropped into my inbox (shown above). Rather than the usual pseudo-cryptic messages that are meant to capture the secretive company's alleged allure, Apple's making no bones about this one: it's notebook computers, ladies and gentlemen. (Unless Apple's launching a range of stationery)Is this a new sign of openness from One Infinite Loop - the sortmentioned by Nick Ciarelli just the other day? Or is it just brazen hustling to drum up publicity for cat that already escaped the bag? Has the rumour machine finally busted apart Apple's love for the "One more thing" big reveal?
As we mentioned yesterday, the Tokyo Games Show isn't the only event happening this week. TheVirtual World's Forum– unfortunately transposed from a full conference to a series of seminars due to an unfortunate incident in the venue (nothing to do with the event, mind) – is also taking place. And even though I'm in Japan, I tracked down some of the movers and shakers in the virtual worlds scene to find out the state of the industry in 2008.  Today, inspired by a feature on kids' online spaces in Tech Weekly, I located Scott Arpajiann, co-founder ofDizzywood, a children's virtual world based in San Francisco, to find out how they engage with their audience, and what happens when schools want to play too.What is Dizzywood?Dizzywood is a virtual world for kids with a focus on collaborative play.Who's playing?Boys and girls, aged 8-12. Players are coming primarily from English-speaking countries. Currently the majority of the players are coming from the US. The second largest demographic (and one of the fastest growing) is the UK.What do you have to think about when creating content for this market? For example, how demanding are they?The most important thing to consider when crafting a virtual world for children is safety. We spent a majority of our product development time building safeguards to ensure that kids would have fun in a completely safe and age-appropriate environment. Our system has sophisticated dictionary-based chat filtering and has live trained moderators watching over the site on a 24/7 basis.  From a content standpoint, it's critical to have a constantly evolving product. Kids want to see new content on a very frequent basis. Part of our approach is to allow kids to create their own stories through our 'kit of parts' model. We provide props and setting, and kids are able to create their own stories, again in a completely safe way.Why should they play when so much else is competing with their attentions?Kids have a lot of demands on their time, and increasingly have many choices on what to play. With that in mind, we designed Dizzywood to be vast, and the activities and missions change every day. Dizzywood challenges kids to complete activities that earn them special powers and other unusual rewards. It's a huge step up from earlier virtual worlds and games where the sole object was to accumulate coins. Kids feel a sense of accomplishment when they master a new game, skill or quest and because it's changing everyday, they keep coming back. Many of them have developed blogs and videos to share their knowledge and tips, which has also created a sense of community.How are you engaging with kids in a different way from other children's virtual worlds?Dizzywood stands apart in two key ways. First, most activity in the world is based on the concept of collaborative play. A great deal of the world is social in nature, and kids learn quickly that working together towards shared goals is faster and more fun. For example, we held an event this Spring where kids could work together in-world to replant trees in Dizzywood's forest. We worked with the Arbor Day Foundation to plant a real tree on Earth for every virtual one planted on our site. Kids had fun re-planting Dizzywood, but also saw their their actions had a real-world benefit. This is very different from earlier worlds for kids which tend to be simple collections of mini-games and menu-driven solo activities. Second, Dizzywood is deep in story. We have a rich, detailed back-story that guides the experience. It's complete with quite a bit of conflict, a dastardly arch-villain, and several non-player characters placed throughout the world to help move the plot forward. Although everything move's at each child's own pace, the richness of the story helps provide a backdrop that keeps Dizzywood engaging and exciting for everyone.What do you have to think about when creating a virtual world that's explicitly aimed at supporting education?We think of Dizzywood first and foremost as an entertainment site. Kids aren't going to spend their limited online time on a site unless it's fun and exciting. Our educational opportunities arise from the collaborative nature of the site as opposed to traditional curriculum. We aimed to differentiate our site with a level of depth that would allow children to explore, use their imagination and have the opportunity to cooperate with others. So far, it's working. We've been approached by several schools and youth organizations in the United States who want to embed Dizzywood into the classroom. As a result of working with teachers directly, we've been able to develop program objectives focusing on character pillars, which include honesty, respect, trustworthiness, citizenship, fairness, among other important values that have translated into a pilot program at an elementary school and a summer program at the YMCA.Other projects - notably Castronova's Arden - fell over because they tried too hard to be pedagogically sound. How do you ensure that Dizzywood is fun?Our focus is entirely on fun. If we're not completely focused on creating an entertaining and engaging experience for kids, we're not going to succeed. We remind ourselves of that at all stages of our product development. We've aimed to make Dizzywood a place that has considerably more depth and value than the competition, but that never comes at a cost of good old-fashioned fun.What is the virtual worlds community doing to ensure that kids' virtual worlds aren't a flash-in-the-pan fashion, and something that has longevity?The most important thing that the industry can do is to continue to innovate and find new ways for kids to engage. With Dizzywood, we've tried to do that by focusing on social activity. Kids are constantly working together on events and missions and learning the power of teamwork and cooperation as a source of fun. Although identity on Dizzywood is closely guarded for safety, the relationships that kids are forming on the site are very real. This type of experience hopefully creates an effect that leads to significantly deeper engagement and enjoyment. Based on what I've seen from other companies in this space, we'll continue to see even more innovation like this in the months to come as virtual worlds for kids move far beyond the simple menu-driven mini-game approach.Which other online spaces for kids are you watching, out of interest rather than out of competition?Lego Universe. I don't think you can ever truly outgrow Legos, and I'm looking forward to seeing how they're able to move a very tactile experience into a virtual world setting. I'm also watching what Disney is doing, particularly with Pixie Hollow. With the acquisition of Club Penguin last year and the intention to launch many new virtual worlds in the next few, they're clearly the company to watch.Yesterday we featured fast-growing, gamer friendly Gaia Online. Tomorrow we're opening the doors of Habbo Hotel, the most successful Western social virtual world on the market
User Account Control (UAC) added greatly to the security of Windows Vista, but some people -- and plenty of vocal geeks -- have found it annoying. Microsoft security expert Ben Fathi has now explained the background and outlined the company's thinking on theWindows 7 Engineering blog. He says: "we will also address the overwhelming feedback that the user experience must improve."We've heard loud and clear that you are frustrated. You find the prompts too frequent, annoying, and confusing.According to Fathi, there has been a notable benefit to the Windows infrastructure. He says there were 775,312 unique applications producing prompts, mainly because "much of the software ecosystem unnecessarily required admin privileges to run. As the ecosystem has updated their software, far fewer applications are requiring admin privileges. Customer Experience Improvement Program data from August 2008 indicates the number of applications and tasks generating a prompt has declined from 775,312 to 168,149."This reduction has made Microsoft look worse. As he admits: "Windows components accounted for 17 of the top 50 UAC prompts in Vista and 29 of the top 50 in Vista SP1."With SP1, users get an average of one prompt every three days.For the future, Fathi says:We still want to provide you control over what changes can happen to your system, but we want to provide you a better overall experience. We believe this can be achieved by focusing on two key principles. 1) Broaden the control you have over the UAC notifications. We will continue to give you control over the changes made to your system, but in Windows 7, we will also provide options such that when you use the system as an administrator you can determine the range of notifications that you receive. 2) Provide additional and more relevant information in the user interface. We will improve the dialog UI so that you can better understand and make more informed choices. We've already run new design concepts based on this principle through our in-house usability testing and we've seen very positive results. 83% of participants could provide specific details about why they were seeing the dialog. Participants preferred the new concepts because they are "simple", "highlight verified publishers," "provide the file origin," and "ask a meaningful question."
Microsoft has added another spoof to its catalogue with aChannel 8video that uses a new "boy band" to promote itsProfessional Developer Conference 2008in Los Angeles (October 27-30). Attendees will get a free 160GB hard drive preloaded with Windows 7, among other things. The video takes us behind the scenes to an ad agency brainstorming session where a new boy comes up with a somewhat different way to get the message across.....P-D-C, two thousand eightWindows 7 is coming and I can't wait.It's quite well done and has a funny ending, but it's already a week old, so I doubt it will go viral. These work best when you want to see the clip more than once, and I can't imagine many people wanting to see this one twice. (It would have a better chance at half the length.) On the other hand, PDC2008 is only of interest to a few thousand people, and the clip will reach a much wider audience. It should therefore be hugely successful compared with paid advertising.The free distribution includes an HQ video onYouTube, an MP3 atlast.fm, aMySpacepage, andFacebook.Also….Developers and users, be good to your computersYa can't win with another system made for losers.For Windows 7, my love is trueNow let me use Direct 3D to unlock your GPU!The fact that it will annoy the humourless jerk tendency is an added bonus….
I made it through the first day on the floor of Tokyo Games Show and while I didn't see much (too many meetings, not enough play time), I did see some stuff. Watch and learn. The vid's approx 6 mins.Today: Xbox Experience, Ratchet &amp; Clank PSP, the state of the Japanese market, and other highlights from Day 1.And if you want me to find anything for you, let me know!
Yesterday Google launched Adsense for Games, an in-game advertising system initially designed for browser-based Flash titles. Publishers will be able to display video, image or text ads, and also customise their placement via the Flash SDK, opting to show ads before the game, between levels or when the game is over. FromGoogles Adsense Blog:Members of our AdWords team will sell your in-game ad placements directly to top brand advertisers, and you'll also see contextually targeted text and image ads based on content and demographic information. In addition, you'll be able to control the ads you see on your pages using our filtering options.Google has helpfully produced a video to show what an Adsense for Games placement will look like. I can't get the bloody thing to embed sohere's a link to YouTube.Several partners have already signed up including indie game stronghold,Armor, and Konami, which is planning to produce Flash versions of games like Dance Dance Revolution and Frogger. As for advertisers,according to VentureBeat, Sony Pictures and US telecommunications giant Sprint are on board.The response from rival in-game ad companies has been interesting. Jonathan Epstein, CEO of DoubleFusion,enthused to CNET, "it confirms for all parties...that this space is of interest to one of the largest media companies in the world. Google does not enter into markets that don't have billion dollar-plus potential for them". In other words, Google brings legitimization to an ad market still struggling to make headway against more traditional media channels like TV and print. Although, of course, you would have thought Microsoft's ownership of Massive might have had a similar effect.If this is a success, Google is certain to roll the service out to mobile games and eventually to console. Perhaps if the tipping point for in-game ads is yet to happen, this is the moment of imbalance.Stats seem to showthat players are okay with in-game ads as long as they're in context. But when titles with in-game promotions become the majority, and when those in-game placements multiply as Google boosts the image of the sector, will this still be the case?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
As Inoted in a piece for Comment Is Free the other day, former eBay CEO Meg Whitman has been put forward as a potential senior cabinet member under White House hopeful John McCain (not much was made in his presidential debate of that the company she left behind just laid off more than 1,000 people).On a similar note, I couldn't help but be disappointed in the news that Gordon Brown's reshuffle hadbrought in Stephen Carteras minister for "communications, technology and broadcasting". This is the job in charge of quite a lot of stuff that's important to the likes of you and me, and Carter's track record is not even Whitmanesque.After all, he counts more than a decade with abig advertising agency; controversially heading up cable company NTL,which went into bankruptcy; being thebig bossat the launch of Britain's (in my opinion fairly limp) media regulator, Ofcom; a quick turn inPR; and being Brown's top policy adviser.Sounds to me like that's a lot more to do with communications and broadcasting than it is technology. But then again: if somebody else should be in charge of Britain's long term technology, who would it be?The country's most famous technologist, Tim Berners-Lee, might seem like a good pick. But would an academic - however influential - be the right person to guide us through?Our biggest 'technology' companies include BT, BAE Systems and Vodafone - but would you want any of those plutocrats running the show? I suppose former BBC tech chief Ashley Highfield might be out of a job ifProject Kangaroo gets kiboshed...Or you could pick somebody with vision and energy, like, like...Crikey. Maybe this is what made Gordon Brown go for the easy option and give a new job to his right-hand man.
Is there a device that will provide email and internet access without the need for a computer, and using a TV as a monitor? A large display is essential because of eyesight problems.GB LowePlenty of products have been offered, over the years -- including Web TV, Microsoft's "Internet Companions" and Amstrad's e-Mailer -- but there seems to be no market for them. Well, not a market based on customers spending money. The best option at the moment is probably the Asus Eee PC Box (£199), which is very small and, according to Asus, can plug into a TV set ... though a TV is not a good monitor for people with eyesight problems. The Eee Box runs Windows XP Home, but it has a simple Linux-based front end calledExpress Gate, which lets you surf and run Skype without loading Windows. There's a demo onYouTube. (A full Linux version of the Box is due soon, possibly this month.)The Eee PC Box is actually a netbook like the Asus Eee PC, Acer Aspire One or MSI Wind but without the built-in screen. Netbooks usually have 7in, 8.9in or 10.2in LCD screens, which you would probably find too hard to read, though they're a good solution if your eyesight can cope. With the Eee PC Box, however, you can buy a screen that's as big as you need, or can afford.Streaming media devices such as the Archos TV+ and Apple TV* can also be used for web browsing, and in the future, web access may be built in to many more devices, including LCD TV sets. But at the moment, the easiest way to get a big screen, a decent keyboard and a speedy machine is to buy a cheap Dell, HP or similar PC, which usually means running Windows XP or Vista. Windows also has accessibility features to help vision-impaired users, and lots of related software such as screen readers.* If you downloadaTV Flashfor $49.95, which adds a Safari-type (WebKit) browser and also runs popular video formats such as DivX, Xvid, avi and wmv. The catch is that you also need a Mac running OS X v10.4 or later to create the aTV USB Flash drive.
My wife and I embark on a round-the-world trip at the end of November. We need a secure method of moving money from UK accounts and also the ability to send emails and check hotel bookings and flight times. Would a Dell Inspiron Mini 9 be suitable?Bob DaveyNetbooks or minibooks will be used by many travellers because they are small, light and cheap, and will do the job. However, you will need to work on the security. The simplest idea is to do all your web browsing using a privacy mode so that data is discarded instead of stored. Google's Chrome, Apple's Safari and Microsoft's Internet Explorer 8 all have "porn modes".An alternative with Windows XP-based netbooks like Dell's Mini 9 is to run the Firefox Portable Edition browser from an encrypted USB memory stick. You can do this with the Base Edition of the Portableapps.com Suite, which provides a menu system along with an office suite, calendar/scheduler, instant messaging client, antivirus, Sudoku game and backup utility (portableapps.com/suite). Also, always use secure https:// addresses whenever possible.Using a memory stick keeps data off the computer and reduces your security risk if is lost or stolen. But if you do store personal information on your netbook, try to keep it in an encrypted, password-protected file or folder (truecrypt.org). You could even encrypt the whole hard drive, though this may not be very convenient.
I recently downloaded NoAdware 5.0 from an advert on your blog: it was advertised as free! Now I find that it won't allow me to remove trojanguarder without paying for the product. Can I safely get rid of it?Peter PaulYou should be able to remove NoAdware with the Control Panel's Add/Remove Programs utility. You can then download SuperAntiSpyWare (superantispyware.com) -- free for personal use -- to remove trojanguarder. To avoid confusion, I do recommend Adblock Plus, which is a Firefox browser extension, and Lavasoft's Ad-Aware, but I don't recommend NoAdware.
I've started backing up onto a 2GB memory stick. Is this a safe method?Martin JamesUSB memory sticks, CompactFlash and SD cards are good for short-term backups if you don't have an external hard drive, but they can be corrupted and lose data. Also, to avoid overwriting backups, I'd rather you used two memory sticks and alternated them. However, I'd still recommend making a CD-R backup every month or so, as an archive. CD-Rs are cheap and don't take up much room. Even if you throw most of the old discs away, you can still keep multiple backups of data going back years. And one day, you might need them.
Double-clicking folders in Windows Explorer has suddenly changed from opening that folder to opening the Search dialogue. Any ideas?Phil LeahyOddly enough, this is a known problem caused by an incorrect entry in the Windows registry.Kelly's Korneroffers an XP tweak to fix this: it's number 18 on the right hand side. The fix involves downloading and double-clicking a tiny .reg file to make the correction automatically.
Pipe Mania is much as it ever was on the Amiga, a manic puzzler that's arguably just as addictive as Tetris. At first glance, not much has changed; as the liquid flows, you build a pipeline to carry it - easy at first, but soon a frantic test of logic and thumb control. And over the 300+ levels and seven themed worlds, other improvements emerge - leak-tanks and reservoirs to use to your advantage, rival plumbers to get in your way or add an occasional helping hand. Pipe Mania won't win any prizes for looks and the soundtrack's incredibly annoying, but it's charming retro fun and the PSP's easily the best handheld version.
FIFA '09 is the closest edition yet to replicating the fluid action seen in arch rival Pro Evolution Soccer (PES). It's not quite there - the players still don't feel quite as responsive as they do in PES - but the difference is far less marked than before. And when it comes to heading, FIFA wins out, with players having much more control on where they place their header. The game looks the part, too, with players pointing where they want the pass and the bigger-name players running in the style of their real-life counterparts. Up close, though, the players still look like freakish zombies. And get out of the top leagues and likenesses go out the window. There are plenty of new features - 10 versus 10 online, with each gamer playing as one player, and a season update that adds real-life form data to the game are the highlights. And, unlike PES, online play is relatively lag free. PES still wins on the pitch but as an overall package FIFA '09 is hard to beat.
Friday night has long been considered the most exciting and dangerous time of the week. After five days in the doldrums of an office, it offers a glimpse of freedom, and a chance to tell it like it really is.After a few drinks, firing off an email becomes irresistible. I have done this many times, but have still not come to terms with how silly it is. Now, an employee of Google has invented Mail Goggles, to try to put an end to the practice.After signing up for the service, the would-be emailer is requested to answer some maths puzzles before their bile is unleashed. Failure to do so will then indicate that it would be advisable to cease any effort at communication. The device has been invented by Jon Perlow, and I would like to tell this modern Good Samaritan that his efforts are doomed to failure.The need for self-expression on a Friday night is absolute. I once took issue with a manufacturer of smoked salmon over a letter he had sent me, indicating that he was a friend of Michael Winner, and therefore a man with heft. I told him where to go for a good cure.There was an altercation with another man who assured me that, contrary to my well-reasoned arguments, magpies were the best birds in the world. My riposte, detailing a recently witnessed magpie massacre of songbird chicks, was satisfying in the extreme.What Perlow has failed to gather is that the late-night Friday email is essential for blowing off steam. When the average person is confronted with a series of IQ tests when all they want to do is resign or simply put the world to rights, they will be cross. The sound of Mail Goggles being forcibly disabled will echo across the land.
Disney racing games are not, generally, cause for celebration. However the mouse ears (and duck feathers) are notable by their absence in Pure, the studio's all-terrain-vehicle title. Pick a challenger, build an ATV and then race, sprint or freestyle around the sort of extreme geography that only exists in racers like this. Realistic? No. Fun? Hell yes. The environments are stunning and the details impeccable: if you race through a cave, the engine note changes, and you'll even leave permanent tracks in the mud. On top of that, the boost-earning stunts - standing on the saddle playing air guitar as you fly several hundred feet off a sand dune anyone? - are brilliantly daft. The learning curve is spot on, too - two minutes of training and you're ready to go - but mastery will require many hours of repeat play, a full investigation of every possible path and much tweaking of the highly customisable ATVs. Is there room for another off-road game? If it's as good as Pure, then absolutely.
The phone I bought last month has a camera supposedly better than the camera I bought four years ago. That's to say it has a 5MP camera instead of a 4MP one. I could have bought a Samsung phone with 8MP, the same as my second digital camera. And the phone does take perfectly usable pictures and recognisable videos. That it functions as well as a mapping device and a recorder is astonishing, but irrelevant to this argument. My cameras will do none of those other things. When I want to take a close-up with the most recent, and expensive, DSLR, I have to go to the trouble of changing the lens first. The phone - and the previous camera - do it all in software.This is all part of a revolution that has put good photography in the hands of everyone. Yet the paradox of digital photography has been that the standards of publicly acceptable photographs has plummeted. Perhaps I am spoiled, because I worked on the Independent when it first started, but I expect a newspaper photograph to give me an aesthetic thrill at the same time as it illuminates the news. The Guardian's wonderful centrespreads are an example today of what I mean, but they are very unusual. This isn't just an aesthetic argument. The influential Daily Mail demands an extraordinary flat lighting style which robs its standard portraits of any individuality, but at least they are technically clean. The quality of the digital photographs in the papers is often dreadful: screengrabs with fuzzy grey lines across them; phone shots that have been run through the ugly filter in Photoshop; in the local press, pictures are often lurid, splodgy and blurred. Sometimes these have a vitality that outweighs their flaws, but most of the time they fail the test of a good photograph.There is a parallel here to what happened when desktop publishing (DTP) software first appeared. Immediately, the world was swamped in ugly and uninformative layouts. It took a couple of decades before the hideous tide receded and the business was back in the hands of professionals, or of amateurs safely corralled inside templates drawn up by professionals.Incompetence and lack of self-discipline is only part of the story. Modern cameras make it very hard to take pictures which are out of focus or horrendously badly exposed. They can't do much about composition, though they do make it very easy to recrop and recompose in software afterwards. It's not the fault of the camera if no user does bother. Some of the new cameras will even try to find smiles in the picture and focus on them, which is a startling example of usefulness. But these are not the points that get advertised. Instead, consumer cameras sell themselves largely on their zoom range and the megapixel count. These are measures which can actively worsen the pictures they can take. When you are judging a camera's sensor, size is about the only thing that counts. Fewer pixels on a bigger sensor will usually take better pictures than more pixels on a smaller sensor. There will be less "noise" - speckles in darker areas - and greater sensitivity to light. Similarly, a zoom that extends to 10 times its original size may make a man feel good, but it won't be as sharp anywhere along its range as one that is less grotesquely enlarged.So millions of cameras have been sold in the past five years where the technical improvements did very little to deliver better pictures. The advantages of digital over film cameras was not that they delivered better images but that they made things easier, quicker and cheaper.That is now changing, even in the almost affordable sections of the market. The other day I saw Brian Harris, whose moody black and white pictures gave the early Independent much of its style. He was clutching a new Nikon D700, which costs around &pound;2,000 - yet has "only" 12MP. But these pixels are on a sensor the same size as 35mm film, which is about 50% larger than the sensors of consumer DSLRs, and the result is a camera that is actually better at low-light photography than anything he could manage with film. He had just spent four days shooting backstage at the National Theatre without any flash at all. Technology has finally caught up with where it started.•thewormbook.com/helmintholog
With the government contemplating the possibility of a record &pound;70bn deficit in public funding, now is not a good time to ask the Treasury to forego hundreds of millions of pounds of income from sales and licences of the government's geographic and other data. Unless, that is, you can prove that providing public-sector data freely for re-use is just the boost that the knowledge economy needs.This, roughly, is the challenge faced by politicians championing the cause of free data, as our campaign launched in March 2006 enters a new political season with the return of Parliament. The good news is that the ministers most associated with the free data idea have survived last week's reshuffle of government jobs. Michael Wills remains at the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for freedom of information and data protection, while the government's web 2.0 champion, Tom Watson, remains at the Cabinet Office.Although ministerial roles have not been announced, Watson is strongly tipped to retain the "transformational government" portfolio. Two new arrivals at the Cabinet Office are also (by ministerial standards) well up to speed with knowledge economy issues. Baroness Vadera, who officials say has taken a keen interest in public sector information, joins the Cabinet Office while retaining a role at the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform. Liam Byrne, who as a management consultant in the 1990s was a prominent enthusiast for "e-government", has joined the cabinet. Meanwhile at the Communities and Local Government department, Iain Wright and Baroness Andrews, ministers responsible for the largest information trading fund, Ordnance Survey, remain in place.Decisions about the future of such trading funds will need to be made soon. A much-delayed government-wide strategy for geographical information is due for publication this autumn. It has spent the past year being bounced between Civil Service desks as its ideas are aligned with Britain's commitments to open access to environmental data under the EU Inspire Directive. More interesting for the Free Our Data campaign will be the outcome of a review by the government's Shareholder Executive into the trading fund model.If the review echoes the findings of the Cambridge study earlier this year, that the UK economy would gain more overall from making free data than from selling it, then ministers will need steady nerves to put such a policy into effect.• Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
