A couple of emails arrived in my inbox over Christmas that I'd been meaning to do something about, both from disgruntled gamers hoping for the Games blog spotlight to be shone on their respective plights.The first highlighted an ongoing row between the community ofFootball Manager Liveand the makers, Sports Interactive. Subscription paying users were told after investing months in their teams that the game was to be 'reset' to make way for an updated version - losing all the experience and progress they'd accumulated along the way.Earned stadiums and players would be lost, and the existing communities carved up. Doubtless Sports Interactive hope the changes will result in a better gaming experience for all, but it's understandable that current players are upset.An offer of free subscription until the reset in spring will be of little comfort to those losing out.  Players simply wouldn't have bothered had they known all their hard work would be erased after a period of time. Quoting my emailer:"From the perspective of a consumer, rather than a gamer, I can say that this is absolutely ridiculous."This got me thinking - do we put up with more as gamers than we do when we purchase other media? The last two Football Manager games for example both insisted I install a Steam client and made me install huge updates to the game before I could play it.Imagine buying a DVD only to be told that you had to install new software on your DVD player to watch it. Or that some of the scenes needed to be downloaded as it wasn't quite finished yet. Consumers simply wouldn't put up with it.Now, this is a bit unfair on Sports Interactive who have always listened to their community when developing previous Championship/Football Manager games. They are by no means the first to rush out an unfinished product, or chuck unnecessary software in along with the game you're buying. But when did this become something to simply put up with?The second email was a rather different gripe, but nevertheless a case of gamers and games developers in conflict. This time, a Games blog reader wanted to draw my attention tocounterstrikepetition.com; fives years after Counter-Strike: Source was released an active community still remain and are desperate for an update to be released by Valve.The emailer felt that Valve were shying away from competing with other FPS heavyweights, but that there was still plenty of demand for such a title. His argument is persuasive:"Counter-Strike is different to most modern FPS games as it focuses on the player's skill and not the amount of time played and upgrades 'unlocked'. This seems to have left a gap in the current chart FPS scene on PC, and players are demanding a game just like Counter-Strike. "Now, it would presumptious to expect games developers just to release whatever titles we fancy (after all, who would be accountable if they fail) but still it's indicative of some sense of neglect.The underlying factor for all these gripes is that gamers are more attached to the products they buy than most other consumers - yet the companies creating that attachment don't always fulfill the accompanying responsibilities.Loyalty works both ways, and games developers should perhaps take a little more time to think about looking after the communities they've created. As multiplayer and MMORPGS become more ubiquitous, this idea of a developer's 'duty of care' to its consumers is going to become more and more important.Now, I'm in an unusual position here: a lot of the games I play are hanging around the office anyway, it's difficult to get too annoyed about them. And the only game I play online at the moment is Modern Warfare 2. So I'm curious - what bad experiences have you had on behalf of the games industry? Do you ever feel treated like a second-class citizen?
It has been one of the best-selling games of all time and encouraged a generation of gamers to swap joysticks for fake instruments - but trouble could be in the air for Guitar Hero, after the head of the franchise stepped down today.In move that surprised industry insiders, Dan Rosensweig - who took over the job of running the game's developmentless than a year ago- is leaving publisher Activision Blizzard to join an internet startup.The world's largest games company - formed in 2007 largely thanks to the success of Guitar Hero and Vivendi's World of Warcraft game – released a brief statement thanking Rosensweig for helping to shepherd the franchise for the past year."We would like to thank Dan for his contributions to the Guitar Hero business," said Activision Blizzard's president and chief executive, Mike Griffith. "We widened our leadership in the music gaming genre in 2009."Rosensweig - a former chief operating officer at web giant Yahoo - is moving toChegg, a site that offers students the chance to rent, rather than buy, textbooks."We are thrilled that Dan is joining us as our president and CEO," said Osman Rashid, Chegg's co-founder and chairman.He will be replaced by David Haddad, an industry veteran who was previously in charge of Vivendi's Sierra Games division.While the details of Rosensweig's departure were not clear, the move may betray some of the tensions at Activision as the company struggles to cope with falling demand for its premiere title.After several years as one of the most popular games on the planet - and credited with helping to bring a new generation of people into gaming - Guitar Hero has found it increasingly tough to keep up with expectations.Guitar Hero III, which was released in 2007, became the first game to surpass $1bn in sales - but faced with competition from rival title Rock Band, created by the original developers of Guitar Hero, its sequels have found it hard to achieve similar levels of excitement and popularity.A sales analysis last yearsuggested that interest in Guitar Hero was waning, with revenues from the franchise down by around 30% on the previous year.That comes despite recent attempts to reinvigorate the game with spin-offs, includingDJ Heroand Band Hero.
There's an iPad flavour to most of this week's progamme as we deconstruct the most anticipated launch of 2010.Wasthe launch of Apple's iPada whole lot of hot air or the next evolution in gadgetry? The debate begins as author and technology commentatorNick Carrjoins us to debate the highs and the lows of the next must-have gadget, and Bobbie Johnson describes getting his hands on the iPad.The studio is also buzzing withthe escalating row between publishing house Macmillan and Amazon. Did the virtual bookseller drawn a line in the sand by removing all of Macmillan's books from its shelves at the weekend? Was the launch of the iPad a contributing factor? Literary agentClare Alexander- a former editor-in-chief at Macmillan - joins us to debate the future of publishing and the iron grip that Amazon has over the old media. We also hear hints thatGoogle might have a tablet device of their ownon the way later this year.Elsewhere, Charles picks throughthe Tories plan for broadbandif they win the election (verdict: unlikely) and we discussthe financial issues at Wikileaks. There are your comments as always, too.This weekwe're also asking for your comments on how you'd like to change Tech Weeklyin future - we've had plenty of responses already, but please do leave us your thoughts, it's important to hear from you all.Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
You may remember the BigDog robot byBoston Dynamics- a robotic pack animal developed on behalf of the US military. When videos of it started spreading around the web a couple of years ago, people were astonished by its lifelike movement  - particularly the moment when somebody gives it a hefty kick to try and unbalance it. The visceral reaction most people feel when watching that moment is, if nothing else, proof that machines can bridge the uncanny valley sometimes.The idea of BigDog -which we first covered in 2005is to help soldiers carry equipment over rough terrain, but it's also a really interesting application that could be used in all kinds of other situations as well - imagine one that could move materials around a building site or even little dogs to help you with your shopping.Now a new BigDog - even bigger than this one - is in development. Last week the US military research wing Darpa awarded a $32m contract to the same developers to create a that can go nearly double the distance, carry more weight and last for up to 24 hours.According to the press release put out by Darpa (PDF), the Legged Squad Support System (LS3) will "develop a walking quadruped platform that will augment squadsby carrying traditional and new equipment autonomously".Let's see where this one goes.
Aposting on Google's Chromium blogreveals that the company is considering a touch-sensitive tablet computer like Apple's iPad.It says that the tablet would have- Keyboard interaction with the screen: anchored, split, attached to focus.- Launchers as an overlay, providing touch or search as means to access web sites.- Contextual actions triggered via dwell.- Zooming UI for multiple tabs- Tabs presented along the side of the screen- the ability to create multiple browsers on screen using a launcher.There's also a concept video which has made its way to YouTube:In its ghostly way, it reminds one a great deal of the Apple iPad launch, particularly in its use of multi-touch - though that multi-touch functionality is also reminiscent of Jeff Han's work.The concept (which presently just looks like wonderful work with Photoshop - it doesn't have any physical reality) is likely to remain just that for some time, since Google surely won't want to alienate any more potential hardware manufacturers for the Chromium OS having just annoyed those like Motorola which thought that the Android mobile OS would be their saviour, and have now found that Google is competing directly with them through the Nexus.Yet in theTech Weekly podcast for this weekLondon literary agent Clare Alexander, of Aitken &amp; Alexander, mentioned that the book trade has been hearing that Google could come up with a tablet. Clearly, there is a lot of interest in this field. The appearance of this post and this video is only going to enhance it.According toErictric,"Rumor actually had it that HTC in partnership with Google would unveil a tablet prototype to an exclusive group of guests in a private session at the Consumer Electronics Show 2010 at the beginning of last month. Later in the month, HTC Australia and New Zealand Sales and Marketing Director Anthony Petts confirmed the rumor, then stated that work on said tablet had been halted completely."A little extra from Erictric:"At the beginning of this year,we posted an editorial pieceinwhich we stated that this year [2010] would be the year of the tablet.We noted that there were three major contenders that could dominate thetablet wars. They were Apple with the iPad, Google with an unveileddevice, and Microsoft with the Courier. With what we've seen so far,Apple can not be expected to compete with iPad, as it is basically aweak device compared to the concepts of the Microsoft and Googletablets. In our humble opinion, that's what revolutionary devices aresupposed to be like."Umm - while there are certainly Windows tablets out there (which launched with all the splash of philosophical trees falling in forests), one must say that it's always better to bet on revolutions happening from devices that haveactually been demonstrated and have a ship date. Google's tablet sure looks purdy, but it's a long way from doing any revolving of anything.[Updated: added link to podcast now it's live.]
The gadget siteEngadget has turned off commentsbecause, well, it was all turning too ugly.Let them explain it:"Hey guys, we know you like to have your fun, voice your opinions, and argue over your favorite gear, but over the past few days the tone in comments has really gotten out of hand. What is normally a charged -- but fun -- environment for our users and editors has become mean, ugly, pointless, and frankly threatening in some situations... and that's just not acceptable. Some of you out there in the world of anonymous grandstanding have gotten the impression that you run the place, but that's simply not the case."A stunning moment in internet history? OK, perhaps not, but even so: one of the poster children of the web crying uncle over commenters? How can that happen?Though truth be told we always thought that the comments on Engadget weren't actually mean to be read. They're like some Usenet newsgroups - strictly a write-only medium.Anyway, the Engadgeteers feel your pain:"Luckily, our commenting community makes up only a small percentage of our readership (and the bad eggs an even smaller part of that number)"If the commenters are typical, then they'll be about 9-10% of the readers. In case you've forgotten, we explained why some time ago inWhat is the 1% rule: "if you get a group of 100 people online then one will create content, 10 will "interact" with it (commenting or offering improvements) and the other 89 will just view it."Let's just have a quick look at Engadget's most commented. Hmm, "Eros tablet video is a lesson in why Windows 7 isn't strictly meant for finger navigation". I wonder if that could have inflamed Windows-Mac/iPad ire? Next up: "Apple iPad rumor roundup: Abraham Zapruder edition." Third: "Fusion Garage says Joojoo pre-orders went up after iPad announcement, new funding on the way." Are you starting to see a pattern here?Engadget is saying that it will turn comments back on after everyone has calmed down.So... March?Update:you canread Joshua Toloplsky's explanation for the no-commenting over at Venturebeat. Allow us to quote him:"we've had an influx of new readers due to our iPad coverage last week, which blew away our previous [traffic] expectations."Unfortunately, we've also had an influx of readers who are very trollish."Yeah, that would be trolls, all right.
"Blue Lego" where the iPad can't play Flash content on a web page. But what if the internet changes? Photo byearthgiant100on Flickr. Some rights reserved.You know when you get one of those letters and you know what's going to be in it? Adobe's on the receiving end of one.Dear Flash,Being with you has been really nice. We've had a lot of fun times together browsing the web. Apart from those times when you crashed and made an icky mess, or just slowed down so much we couldn't get anything done. It's time to move on, I guess, and find someone new, do new things, get out and find other ways to spend the time. It's not you, it's me. Well, if I'm being truthful, it'snotme, it'syou. I know you'll probably take this hard and I want you to know that it was really great, but we're done now. - Apple.Yes, it's "Dear John" time from Apple. You remember how Adobe and Apple used to be likethat? Then Adobe bought Macromedia, which owned Flash, and Apple liked that because it meant that Microsoft's plans to dominate the web animation landscape came to naught because Flash was far more widely installed than Silverlight could ever hope to be (having had only the 10 or so years' head start).Now however Apple has started to look at the relationship and decided it doesn't like the mess. All those browser crashes that leave such a dispiriting, hard-to-get-out stain on its user experience? Yeah, usually it's Flash. (Steve Jobs said as much, it's claimed,at an Apple "town hall" meeting last week, says Wired, and Apple's software chief Bertrand Serlet also indicated much the same to developers last year,claims John Gruber.)So the iPad and the iPhone and the iPod Touch do not support Flash. (The playback system, not the memory form - obviously they use the latter for storage.) Navigate to a page that depends on Flash, and you'll get a "blue Lego" brick (indicating a missing plugin).That doesn't mean though that YouTube or the BBC's iPlayer are no-go areas. Both those organisations - andalso now Vimeo, a fast-growing video site - will serve H.264-encoded video for those who come to the site with non-Flash enabled devices. (Not all of YouTube has been converted to H.264 alternatives, but it's well underway.)Will Apple support Flash on those devices? Bet against it. OK, but what about others? You can start to bet against Google and Palm supporting it either. The problem is that Flash on non-Windows platforms is a CPU hog which is also a known cause of browser instability.It doesn't matter thatmuch of Flash is open, orsemi-standardised. Battery life is crucial to mobile devices, and CPU hogs and crash-causers are not going to get chosen if there are alternatives. And there are.Although it's premature to write Flash off, I think that Gruber has it about right that we've seen the high water mark of its adoption. From here it's going to be downhill as more and more sites adopt HTML5 and H.264.Michael Pinto things that this is thebeginning of the end for Flash:"Another use for Flash has always been to create multimedia interfaces for websites, however AJAX has started to really to really chip away at that market. Yes a microsite for a Hollywood film might still use Flash but my guess is that 80% of animated slideshows that you see out there are powered by AJAX scripts."Jeffrey Zeldmanarguesthat the falling amount of support for Flash is a good thing for standards:"Lack of Flash in the iPad (and before that, in the iPhone) is a win for accessible, standards-based design. Not because Flash is bad, but because the increasing popularity of devices that don't support Flash is going to force recalcitrant web developers to build the semantic HTML layer first. Additional layers of Flash UX can then be optionally added in, just as, in proper, accessible, standards-based development, JavaScript UX enhancements are added only after we verify that the site works without them."He has a wider point: plug-ins are soooo over."Flash won't die tomorrow, but plug-in technology is on its way out."Plug-in technology made sense when web browsing was the province of geeks. It was a brilliant solution to the question of how to extend the user experience beyond what HTML allowed. People who were used to extending their PC via third-party hardware, and jacking the capabilities of their operating system via third-party spell checkers, font managers, and more, intuitively grasped how to boost their browser's prowess by downloading and updating plug-ins."Buttomorrow's computing systems, heralded by the iPhone, arenot for DIYers."You don't add Default Folder or FontExplorer X Pro to your iPhone, you don't choose your iPhone's browser, and you don't install plug-ins in your iPhone's browser. This lack of extensibility may not please the Slashdot crowd but it's the future of computing and browsing. The bulk of humanity doesn't want acomputing experience it can tinker with; it wants a computing experience that works."He concludes:"HTML5, with its built-in support for video and audio, plays perfectly into this new model of computing and browsing; small wonder that Google and Apple's browsers support these HTML5 features."By the way, if you want to see how HTML5 video can work, head over toJillon's sublime video page. You'll need to be running one of Safari (v4.0.4+), Google Chrome (v4.0+) or Internet Explorer with Chrome Frame installed.It is definitely interesting that theMozilla foundation has decided that it will not, for now, support H.264 in Firefox, on the basis that while it is an open standard, it's not free. Just to remind you of thestated position of Mike Shaver, Mozilla's vice-president of engineering:"there is no apparent means for us to license H.264 under terms that would cover other users of our technology, such as Linux distributors, or people in affiliated projects like Wikimedia or the Participatory Culture Foundation. Even if we were to pay the $5,000,000 annual licensing cost for H.264, and we were to not care about the spectre of license fees for internet distribution of encoded content, or about content and tool creators, downstream projects would be no better off."Is it an impasse? Firefox doesn't like the licensing for H.264; Apple and Google and Palm don't like Flash on mobile devices. That seems to leave room for Flash to continue in Firefox (one of the most popular browsers, don't forget). But Flash is threatened in Safari and Chrome on the desktop: its share of video served will fall over time as Chrome (particularly) gains share, and particularly as mobile grows its share of the overall web browsing experience.The big elephant in the room? Microsoft and Internet Explorer. What is it going to support in IE8 and IE9? (Don't say "Silverlight". Well, do if it makes you feel good, but don't expect it to get anything like the penetration of Flash, nor even H.264 - remember, YouTube and Vimeo are adopting the latter.)MIcrosoft's decision could keep Flash alive for a bit longer. But if it adopts H.264, things are going to look very thin for Adobe's product all of a sudden.Some bonus linkage: Robert Scoble wondering "Can Flash be saved?" (as he writes it he thinks: no) followed by, um, Scoble posting later saying "Google will save Flash, a developer who uses it says". Why? "Because Adobe's 10.1 is finally ready for mobile phones. Adobe is, next month, going to show off its new mobile strategy, at the Mobile World Congress". Oh. OK, Robert (though even he adds some caveats to that). Not sure how that gets past the problem of device makers not liking it for crashiness or CPU hogging.There's also somemore on Flash and its CPU-hoggery. This comes from an Adobe developer who explains why Flash runs less well in Mac OS X than in Windows:"We have identified the bottleneck in the Flash Player for OSX. Like in the other plugins the culprit is text rendering, in this case rendering using device text. This benchmark spends &gt;50% in a single OSX function: ATSUGetUnjustifiedBounds. You can verify this yourself using Shark. I am working on a change which will cache the results returned by that API to where this call should completely disappear from the performance profile."(That was October 2008, but probably not much will have changed since then.)So - developers, what is your opinion?
I use Windows XP with a wireless router and Microsoft Security Essentials anti-virus and anti-spyware. Is the Microsoft firewall sufficient or do I need to use Zone Alarm or similar?Charles BoweringThe firewall that Microsoft introduced with the Windows XP SP2 service pack provides a basic level of protection from external attacks: it blocks unsolicited inbound connections to your PC. Like other "lightweight firewalls", it also offers ease of use, and does not consume a lot of your PC's resources.Whether you need better protection depends on a number of factors. These include where the PC is used, how much effort you are willing to make, and the types of internet site you visit.For example, if you use a PC behind a NAT router or an external firewall, if you are running anti-malware software with an anti-intrusion guard, if you are security-aware enough not to fall for phishing links/fake codecs/malware attachments etc, and if you use mainstream web sites, then Microsoft's firewall should be more than good enough. However, if you carry your PC around and connect to unknown networks, don't have good anti-malware protection, will happily click on links or unscanned files from people you don't know, and download pirate software/music files/pornography from insalubrious parts of the net, then you should use the strongest firewall you can get. And even that might not be enough.A strong firewall will check both incoming and outgoing internet traffic, and it may well stop outgoing traffic from programs that you have installed unless you tell it explicitly to allow them. In many cases, you will not recognise the filenames, and you will need to do some research to find out if they are legitimate or not. After a few days, however, the firewall should be aware of most of your software, so it will stop asking about it.In general, I think it is worth running a good firewall, and there are several free ones. The two main candidates at the moment are Tall Emu'sOnline Armor FreeandComodo Internet Security. Both companies also offer paid-for software.Online Armor Free is powerful but relatively easy to use. It includes HIPS (Host Intrusion Prevention System) and a Program Guard, but if you want a quieter life, both of these can be turned off by right-clicking the Systray* icon for a pop-up menu. It also has a "Run Safer" option that enables you to limit what programs can do even if you allow them internet access.Comodo Internet Security is another strong program that includes HIPS and an application monitoring guard called Defense+, which tends to pop up even more alerts. However, when you install CIS, it allows you to choose the level of protection you want. You can have Firewall Only, the default middle way, or high-level Proactive Security, which uses all Defense+'s monitoring capabilities. Again, you can configure the program via a right-click on the Systray icon. Gizmo's Freeware (formerly Tech Support Alert) has a guide:How to Tame Comodo Defense+ Without Disabling ItThe site also provides a much longer and more comprehensive guide to theBest Free Firewall* What Microsoft calls thetaskbar notification area.
One of the greatest achievements of the Guardian Gamesblog is the creation and maintenance ofthemost entertaining, welcoming and knowledgeable videogame community on the web. I'm talking, of course, about Chatterbox, our daily discussion post, where talk of Modern Warfare, PES and Dwarf Fortress segues seamlessly into epic diatribes concerning the best sauce brands, heated arguments over the most effective ways to cook meat products and, that perennial favourite, ineffective relationship advice.The Chatterbox has its own stars, its own villains and its own desperate minds in very serious and immediate need of medical intervention - and all of these are celebrated every year at the star-studded Chatterbox Awards. This year's event took place on Saturday night at the exclusive Dog and Duck pub in West London. 14 awards were handed out by glamorous compere, Limni, and celebrations went on into the early hours. Or last orders.If you weren't there, and have missed all the subsequent Chatterbox coverage, here are the winners! You can also watch some authentically shaky footagehere. Well done every one - especially me.Lifetime Achievement AwardRunner-up: Tony HayersWinner: Office PestBlogger of the Year 2009Runner-up: MollocateWinner: BeardofBeesFunniest BloggerRunner-up: MollocateWinner: TonyHayersNicest BloggerRunner-up: HenryPootleWinner: HiddenAwayMost Informative BloggerRunner-up: HiddenAwayWinner: ChubsterMost Off-topic BloggerRunner-up: MollocateWinner: TonyHayersKeeping it games-relatedRunner-up: ChubsterWinner: HiddenAwayMost Irritating BloggerRunner-up: PhilosopherKingWinner: CunningStuntMost Argumentative BloggerRunner-up: CraggyIslandWinner: CunningStuntCraziest BloggerRunner-up: TonyHayersWinner: MollocateMost Improved BloggerRunner-up: LazyBonesWinner: RustyJamesBest NewcomerRunner-up: BarryEansWinner: SuperSmashInBest AvatarRunner-up: BeardofBeesWinner: HenryPootleGuardian ColumnistRunner-up: GregWinner: Keith
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Video websiteUstreamhas announced a substantial new investment as it attempts to expand in Asia and take on rival YouTube.Japanese internet and telecoms giant Softbank announced today that it was buying a $75m (£47m) stake in the Californian dotcom company, as part of its strategy to back what it called "next generation services".Ustream, which allows users to broadcast their own live TV channels on the internet, already has more than 2m users and receives more than 50m viewers each month - but co-founder and chief executive John Ham said that the cash injection would allow the company to broaden its horizons."Asia offers a significant, untapped market opportunity for streaming video," he said. "Softbank will enable us to develop this opportunity and deliver on our vision of live streaming video everywhere. We look forward to deploying these resources to accelerate our growth in the United States and Asia Pacific."Online video has proved a huge hit in recent years, with sites like YouTube – which was bought by Google in 2006 for $1.65bn – proving web mainstays, and services like the BBC iPlayer and America's Hulu.com quickly becoming indispensable for millions of people.Ustream is among a new breed of video site that allow users to broadcast live, bringing a new element of immediacy and interactivity to the medium – with rivals such asQikandJustin.tvalso providing similar serices.For its part, Softbank is hoping that it can use Ustream's proven popularity in the US to push and encourage more people to use high end mobile phones. While many broadcasters on the site use traditional cameras or webcams, it also allows people to use their mobile phones as video streaming devices.With greater penetration of 3G handsets in countries like Japan and South Korea, and Softbank's position in the mobile market – it is the only provider of the iPhone in Japan, for example – Ustream will likely focus heavily on expanding its mobile user base.The deal marks the latest in a series of investments in Silicon Valley companies by Softbank, which was one of the world's richest companies during the height of the first dotcom boom.One of the firm's other US investments, the social networking application company RockYou, has made significant inroads in the Asian market – although it has also been plagued by controversy after millions of passwords were stolenwhen the company's servers were hacked.It also means that Ustream becomes the latest in a new generation of Californian dotcom companies to draw significant investment over the past year.  Last spring Russian investment vehicle Digital Sky Technologiesbought a $200m stake in Facebook, while Twitter confirmed late last year that it had taken a"significant" round of funding, said to be around $100m.
At 5.38pm  on 29 January, the German social theorist and philosopher Jürgen Habermas  apparently tweeted the following: "It's true that the internet has reactivated the grass-roots of an egalitarian public sphere of writers and readers." At 5.40, he tweeted again: "It also counter­balances the deficits from the impersonal and asymmetrical character of broadcasting insofar as . . ." At 5.41: ". . . it reintroduces deliberative elements in communication. Besides that, it can undermine the censorship of authoritarian regimes . . ." At 5.44: "But the rise of millions of fragmented discussions across the world tend instead to lead to fragmentation of audiences into isolated publics."Had the 80-year-old doyen of the Frankfurt School for social research joined the twitterati? Or wastwitter.com/­jhabermasjust an elaborate cyber-ruse ­devised by someone who should really stop mucking about and finish their thesis on Habermas's theory of communicative action? Personally, I couldn't bear to consider the latter: even if he was a hoax, Habermas had at least 7,000 more followers thanreal me, damn him.Either way thephilosophy ­blogosphere went into a frenzy of speculationabout whether Twitter Habermas was authentic. Arguments raged over whether the messages sounded like him, or if his German-langage posts were ­sufficiently idiomatic.All good points, but surely a stronger objection to Twitter Habermas's authenticity came from the fact that all the above tweets were from footnote three to his ­(surprisingly readable) 2006 paperPolitical Communication in Media Society: Does Democracy Still Enjoy an Epistemic Dimension?Why would Habermas cut and paste from his own paper? What's more, it's the work of ­moments to set up a phoney Twitter account to subvert or satirise a celebrity. Cyberspace teems with such shadowy simulacra, real hoaxes and phoney thinkers – if only Baudrillard was alive to bear witness. Finally, on 1 February, the bloggerJonathan Stray (jonathanstray.com)revealed that he had contacted the real Habermas at his home, and asked him if he was on Twitter. "No, no, no," he was told. "This is somebody else. This is a misuse of my name."But, even though Twitter ­Habermas is not for real, there are lots of other top global thinkers who could show that Twitter is not just forWossyand his banal ilk. Zizek, Eco, Hobsbawm, Chomsky – tweet us your thoughts, in 140 characters or fewer.
Photo from theGuardian Tech Weekly feed on FlickrSo theTech Weekly podcastis past its second year (it kicked off in 2007). As ever with things editorial, we wonder whether there are things that could be changed, improved, chopped, and so on.That's our question for you: how should it evolve? What parts do you like, what don't you like, what are the bits you look forward to, what do we never do that we should do?Should there, for example, be more long-form interviews? More short news? More "packages" (a series of interviews and info around a subject)? We welcome your views. Obviously, we'd like it if you're already a listener, though if there's something missing that's preventing you being a listener then tell us about that too.And for those saying "bring back Jemima!", she'll be back from maternity leave in March. That's one problem solved.
Google has made an announcement onWeb browser support for Docs and Sites, saying it will reduce support for "older browsers like Microsoft Internet Explorer 6.0 as well as browsers that are not supported by their own manufacturers". Google suggests users upgrade to Microsoft Internet Explorer 7.0, Mozilla Firefox 3.0, Google Chrome 4.0 or Safari 3.0 or, in all cases, later versions of these browsers. As users have complained in the comments to the blog post, the list omits the Opera browser.The main impact will be on those people still using IE6 which,as pointed out below, still has about 20% of the market, according to Net Applications' usage monitoring statistics.Google says it is "going to begin phasing out our support, starting with Google Docs and Google Sites on March 1st". After this date, "newer features may not be available and some features may even stop working".Last July, according toreports, Google's YouTube started giving IE6 users a message to say that: "We will be phasing out support for your browser soon. Please upgrade to one of these modern browsers."However, phasing out IE6 support is a much bigger risk to Google Docs. Google is trying to sell its online applications to companies, and a large proportion of IE6 users -- perhaps the majority -- appear to work for large companies and government organisations. These usually have locked-down PCs so individual users cannot upgrade their browsers. Testing and then rolling out a company-wide browser upgrade is expensive, especially if it requires any in-house web applications to be rewritten.The UK government has IE6 users and seems very slow to upgrade. Last week, an NHS advisory (ie6gudiance.pdf) echoed Microsoft security bulletins about the Aurora vulnerability and suggested applying the patch, but warned:"Organisations should ensure that appropriate levels of testing of the update take place prior to mass deployment. Organisations should be satisfied that the update does not cause any problems with already existing applications and so forth prior to applying it to all affected systems."Upgrading to IE7 is recommended but the current and most secure version, IE8, wasn't suggested even though it runs on XP. The note says:"It is additionally further recommended that organisations still using Internet Explorer 6 on the affected platforms upgrade to Internet Explorer 7. Internet Explorer 7 has been warranted to work correctly with SPINE applications such as CSA and provides additional security features over Internet Explorer 6."Microsoft has been trying to get IE6 users to upgrade their browsers since it launched a replacement, IE7, in 2006. When it released IE8 last year, Microsoftoffered up to $1mto feed American children in a "Browser for the Better" campaign. This involved Microsoft paying $1.15 per IE8 download to Feeding America.However, the major impact on IE6's market share continues to come from users upgrading from Windows XP to Vista (with IE7) or Windows 7 (with IE8). Both browsers have more features and better standards support than IE6, but also consume more resources.Unfortunately, it's only by installing IE7 or IE8 that Windows users replace the IE6 code in their operating system. Simply using a different browser, such as Firefox or Chrome, does not do this.Microsoft'sDean Hachamovitchwrote last year that"Dropping support for IE6 is not an option because we committed to supporting the IE included with Windows for the lifespan of the product. We keep our commitments. Many people expect what they originally got with their operating system to keep working whatever release cadence particular subsystems have."Microsoft will therefore continue to support IE6 until 8 April, 2014, when it stops supporting Windows XP.
Listorious goes some way to solving one of the biggest problems for Twitter users: finding people who are interested in the same topics as you. That could be something as broad asNewsor as select as thecast and writers from the BBC comedy, The Thick of It.If you want a list devoted toAirportsorNew York City Food Trucks and Other Street Vendors, you can find them here. If you can't find what you want, you can create your own list on Twitter then add it to Listorious. If you don't add it, of course, then Listorious won't publish it.Listorious provides a more open and democratic source of lists than Twitter's ownSuggested User List(SUL), which offers new users a selection of people to follow. The SUL means some accounts now have hundreds of thousands of followers that they have not "earned" on the merits of their tweets.Twitter has recently taken a step in the right direction by dividing the SUL into categories such as Books, Politics and Travel, but it's still dominated by American celebrities. If you want to find people in more specialised areas, or a decent sample of non-Americans, then you'll have to try a different directory. The main ones are probably Listorious,TwellowandWeFollow, but there are also more specialised guides such as Sawhorse Media'sMuckRack(journalists),Championist(sport) and other subjects.Which is not to say that Listorious couldn't be better. It now offers so many lists that most people are not going to look beyond the first few at the top –  the ones that already have the most followers. Also, Listorious works by using the tags added by whoever created the list, and these are not necessarily accurate. (It makes sense to use lots of tags because then your list appears in lots of Listorious categories, but if you make a mistake, you can't edit the tags later.)If users could search using more than one tag, that would help people to narrow lists down to what they really want. Some form of geo-tagging would also be useful for international users.For those who want a quicker option, Listorious has its own lists, often based on 140, which is the number of characters allowed in a tweet. The biggest is theListorious 140, which shows the 140 biggest lists by number of followers. Actually, it shows the top 1,400, spread over 10 pages. There are similarly long lists ofThe Most Followed People on TwitterandThe Most Listed People on Twitter. "Most listed" is probably a better guide to tweet quality than "most followed", though it only includes lists added to Listorious.People have always created lists, and Listorious probably taps into some deep human need, even if it's only to save time by focusing on things you consider important. Listorious means you can save even more time by letting other people create them.
Turning Dante Alighieri's seminal poem into a video game sounds like an exercise with the potential to be a digital car-crash, but at least for gamers, Dante's Inferno provides a thoroughly entertaining experience. Literary sticklers, though, will be less impressed; the game has to take some serious liberties in order to be fun to play.For a start, you play as Dante himself, magically transformed into an action-hero – somewhat ironic, given his passivity and tendency to cower behind Virgil in the poem. And he appears to have been conflated with someone else – possibly his ancestor Cacciaguida, mentioned in Paradiso – as the action starts with him participating in a Crusade, only to return home to find Beatrice dead. Although alluded to, the famous forest where he encounters Virgil is eschewed – Virgil first pops up at the gate to the Underworld, and generally plays a very peripheral part in proceedings. The philosophy with which Inferno is shot through is completely jettisoned, and the quotes the game occasionally chucks your way are very short and pretty random.It would be churlish to be too critical, though, as this is a video game, rather than some scholarly evocation. It basically uses the poem as an excuse for creating a nightmarish, horror movie-inspired depiction of the nine circles of hell, populated by gruesome, outlandish monsters, demons and bosses. It's essentially a hack'n'slash, in which Dante is equipped with the Grim Reaper's scythe (wrested from him in the first boss-battle) and a Holy Cross which works as a ranged weapon; he also acquires magical abilities as the game progresses, and can cash in souls acquired by defeating enemies for new moves.Unless you're squeamish, you'll appreciate Dante's moves – he can, for example, skewer smaller enemies on his scythe, then opt either to punish or absolve them. Punishment brings Unholy experience points while absolution generates Holy ones, a game-mechanic which offers access to different types of upgrades. You often encounter fairly inventive mechanical puzzles and platform-style sequences involving climbing or swinging from ropes, which leaven the hacking and slashing by making the game feel like some sort of warped take on Tomb Raider. The boss-battles are suitably epic (although, disappointingly, they are invariably wrapped up by timed button-pressing sequences), betraying the obvious influence of the God of War games.But Dante's Inferno's most impressive aspect is its art direction and character design, although be warned: it won't be to all tastes. The scriptwriter and character designers have credits for films including the Hellboy and Hellraiser series on their CVs, which shows, and there's a pervasive undercurrent of gothic soft porn: the boss in the Lust circle, for example, is a giant naked houri who spews babies equipped with hands replaced by blades from her right nipple, and her minions are also naked women with giant scorpion-like stings that emerge from their nether regions. Dante's Inferno, then, is not for the faint-hearted nor fastidious, nor does it do much to counter those who argue that games are intellectual. But at least it's action-packed and fun to play.
Microsoft's Internet Explorer 8 has finally become the world's most-used browser, according toNet Applications' figures based on monitoring website usage. IE8 has taken over from IE6, which has been hit by the decline in the use of Windows XP.InJanuary 2010, NetApps reckons IE8 had 22.31% of the market, with IE6 on 20.07%. Firefox 3.5 took third place with 17.01%, ahead of IE7 (14.58%), Firefox 3.0 (5.29%), Google Chrome (3.92%) and Apple Safari (3.55%). Actually, IE8's lead is even larger if its 3% market share in "compatibility mode" is counted.The decade-old IE6 had a transitory spot at the top of the chart because of IE7 users switching to IE8. This put both IE7 and IE8 below IE6, according to NetApps, even while IE6 was losing 8 points of market share.IE6 has maintained its user base because it shipped with what has been by far the world's most popular operating system, Windows XP. However, XP is now in decline. According to NetApps, XP's market share fell from 75.02% in March 2009 to 66.31% in January 2010. IE6's decline is very similar to XP's decline. It appears that the most effective strategy for those who want to be rid of IE6 would be to encourage Windows XP users to upgrade to Windows 7.Windows XP, launched in 2001, still had two-thirds of the market inJanuary 2010, ahead of Windows Vista (17.39%), Windows 7 (7.51%), Mac OS X 10.5 (2.36%), Mac OS X 10.6 (1.79%) and Linux (1/02%).NetApps has beentracking Windows 7's rapid growth separately, and notes that on the last day of January, it managed to beat the 10% barrier. However, usage is noticeably higher at weekends.There's no guarantee that NetApps' numbers are accurate, and they are very unlikely to be correct to two decimal places. However, they do appear to be a good indicator of market trends.
Apple's new iPad tablet computer could hamper innovation and cause long-term damage if it becomes a hit, according to experts.Just as Steve Jobs tries to wow the world with the "magical" new device - unveiled on Wednesdayat a media-saturated launch event in San Francisco– leading industry figures have told the Guardian that the machine marks a fundamental shift in the way the computer industry works.The iPad, a 10-inch touchscreen computer that will cost upwards of £300,  was greeted by many admirers as a significant step forward. But in developing it using the closed model of the iPhone, industry insiders said, Apple could wrestle even more power away from its rivals and partners."It's chilling," said Brewster Kahle, a technology veteran and director of theInternet Archive. "We may be seeing the iPhone-ification of the Macintosh."The concerns come because – contrary to the predictions of many pundits – the iPad is more like a scaled-up version of the iPhone than a scaled-down laptop computer. That means it can only run one program at a time, and even then those applications must be approved by Apple before they can be loaded on to the machine. This is the opposite of the traditional model used by the computer industry, where  the makers of operating systems have little or no control over what software their users buy or download.Kahle told the Guardian that such a lockdown would prevent major innovation from software developers."They really control the horizontal and the vertical by going with the iPhone platform... I think it's discouraging," he said. "The future is controlled, and it's controlled by Apple."Referring to some major innovations like web browsers, email and instant messaging, he added that Apple could easily block in favour of developing a competing product or simply limiting new ideas."All of those started out as independent applications by independent organisations that were not in the plan of any of the platform makers," he said. "If you were to come up with these now on the iPhone, you couldn't even get out of the starting gate."Kahle, whose organisation is trying to assemble a vast library of digital assets for access by the public, is not the only person concerned that the move to what Harvard professor Jonathan Zittrain calls "tethered appliances" could have long-lasting effects on modern culture.The Free Software Foundation staged a protest at the launch event and argued that the iPad could set a precedent that would fundamentally change the way we related to technology."This past year, we have seen how human rights and democracy protesters can have the technology they use turned against them by the corporations who supply the products and services they rely on," said Peter Brown, executive director of the FSF."Your computer should be yours to control. By imposing such restrictions on users, Steve Jobs is building a legacy that endangers our freedom for his profits."Apple has previously come in for criticism for its seemingly arbitrary approval policy for applications submitted for use on the iPhone – a system that has seensome applications banned from going on sale for containing "sexual content", while allowing others get through.Last summer,Google accused its Silicon Valley neighbourof unfairly blocking rival companies from putting their software on the iPhone, a claim that led to an investigation by US regulators.Kahle, who overseesthe OpenLibrary projectthat aims to put millions of books online, also said that he hoped Apple's iTunes model would not become as dominant as it has in the music world – and that the company would open up the system to benefit everyone."Apple is going towards having a single store and aggregating everyone into that store. That is not the web, that is a pre-web world. We think that you not only want interesting applications that weren't predicted and weren't previously approved by Apple, but you want people to be able to set up and sell and lend books. Does this do that? I see no indications yet."
Last week, I posted a feature onhow indie gaming is reviving the spirit of eighties Britsoft. I hoped I might inspire a couple of readers to start creating their own games, or at least to mess about with some thing likeGame Maker.If anyonedidfeel a twinge of creative enthusiasm, here are eight tips to getting started. I've kept out of the mechanics of creating games - these vary so much depending on your chosen platform, development software and project type. So this is more about getting the approach right.I've askedCharlie Knight,Matt JamesandRob Fearon- three of the indie developers I spoke to for my feature - to provide some pointers. I also managed to get some questions toTerry Cavanagh, the astonishingly talented coder behind Don't Look Back and VVVVVV. Their input is invaluable.Even if you have no intention of sitting down to create a world-beating Bejeweled clone, you'll at least find plenty of links toamazinggames in here...Don't buy an expensive PCDid the Sex Pistols play brand new shiny instruments? No (indeed Steve Jones claimed to have stolen his from Mick Ronson, but that's beside the point). As Charlie Knight mentioned in last week's feature, he uses an old Pentium 4 and a Mac. And as Rob Fearon puts it, "you can make a good game on a crap netbook".Don't buy expensive softwareLook, stop trying to spend money. "Stuff likeConstructyou can download for nowt and shaders aside, it'll blitz through any 2D game you could want to make," says Fearon. "Personally, I preferGame Makerwhich is a whopping $25. Shoddy DRM and lack of regular updates aside, it's an immense package."If you're more of a code monkey then there's stuff likeBlitzMax,GLBasicorXNAfor those who wouldn't want to get too far under the hood of stuff. Zombie Cow'sTime Gentlemen, Pleasewas done inAdventure Game Studiowhich is free. Mac users haveGame Saladamongst other things. And then there'sUnitywhich has recently dropped a powerful free to use version out there.Terry Cavanagh provides another vote for Construct, though with some reservations: "it's a bit like Klik and Play and a lot of people love it, but it's still early in development and a little buggy. Unity is a hugely powerful 3D development environment which was recently made free for indiedevelopers - I think you're going to see a lot more people using thisin the coming year."However, Cavanagh is currently working mostly inFlash(check outDon't Look Back; it's absolutely bloody wonderful). "Flash is fantastic in a lot of ways, but it can be pretty horrible too sometimes. Recently, with libraries likeFlixelandFlashpunkit's gotten easier to get started with. I don't use the IDE - I useFlexandFlashDevelop, which are free."Cavanagh suggests wannabe Flash coders goherefor a starter guide to setting up the free tools Flex and FlashDevelop."Personally, I'm looking froward to seeing what becomes of Google'sNative Client, which allows platform native code to be run in a browser," adds Charlie Knight. "There have been browser plugins that do the same thing in the past, all of which have done the job but not really taken off, but I think Google have the clout to make this one work."Choose the right projectBe realistic, and think indie. You're not making Modern Warfare 3. "The best advice I can give is really simple: don't make your dream game," says Cavanagh. "Work on small games. It's so easy to fall in love with an idea and get carried away with it until it becomes a magnum opus that you sink all your time into, and there's nothing more demotivating. It's far more rewarding to work on games that you can actually finish! Every time you finish a game, you'll learn something. If you want to be a better game designer, the best way to do it is to make games. Lots of them."Most indie developers start by working in a well-established genre. Platformers and shooters are popular - as shoot-'em-up expert Charlie Knight explains, "Mostly it's because I like shooting things, but also because it's easier to put my vision for the game across when I'm not having to work around some sort of physically accurate setting. They're also a good showcase for more abstract graphic styles."If inspiration is lacking, remaking a classic title is a good way to flex those creative muscles.Construct the game properlyAs with every other artform, games have their own conventions, which we often overlook as players, but are instrumental to our enjoyment. You need to learn them. "With War Twat it was about keeping the immediacy, tapping into that compulsive 'just one more go' thing," says Fearon. "You can't win on it, you can never win on it - it's designed to beat you to a pulp and screw your eyes up in the process. Squid And Let Die is about the entire board being a death trap and there's a futility to it all y'know? There's no point to either, you just exist, do your stuff and die. And you'll always die. Which is rather nihilistic now I think about it."So you want things like quick restarts, information conveyed to the player as fast as possible using what we have at our disposal as designers. Make sure that sounds signify key events, that certain effects are triggered with certain actions and using distinctive shapes for quick screen scanning. Lots of stuff like that, really. The more you throw around on screen, the more important getting that information across becomes because without it, you're left with a frustratingly unplayable and obscure mess."Stay FocusedAs with any creative endeavour, it's easy to get distracted while your're working on a game project - especially if you don't enjoy the process itself. As Fearon admits, "It's painful. Well, it is to me. I hate the creation part. If someone could make me a big red button to press that guffs out my game straight from my head to the computer, I'd sell my cat for it."Matt James, on the other hand, enjoys programming, but finds focusing on one game to be the difficult part. "I have to work quite hard not to get distracted by other projects and ideas. Before Leave Home I was making a lot of prototypes and starting new projects all the time, I probably have 30 or so unfinished games from between Fren-ze (2006) and Leave Home (2009) but just couldn't get anything to release stage. When I started working on the XNA platform I made several resolutions. Firstly not to work on more than one thing at a time and secondly not to work with anyone else. I prefer doing everything, code, design, art and music myself anyway and while collaboration can definitely get better results in some areas it's just too much hassle and an impediment to finishing stuff for me, less enjoyable too."In other words, stay focusedandstay single...Make it accessible"I truly don't believe that just because a game is hard, it has to be exclusionary" says Fearon. "With War Twat, there's a colour blindness mode which was my first tentative steps to getting to where I wanted to be with these games. SYNSO 1&amp;2 let you tinker with the effects settings, player speeds and even switch off death. I'm in the middle of writing an app to accompany Squid And Let Die which lets you amend pretty much everything from the amount of graphical niceness you get right down to changing the speed of the player, guns, bullets and even to let you turn stuff off if you want."I want people to be able to play my games. It's too easy to take our own abilities for granted and it's often no more than ten minutes work to add stuff that makes the difference and we're in a position to make that difference as game makers. And we should."Play anything byPopcap,Digital Chocolateor, of course Nintendo, for a crash course in the art of accessibility.Become a distributorThe web gives you a global reach, and as it's mind-numbingly easy to get a reasonable looking site together these days. You've heard of Wordpress, right? Thebasic versionis easier, but if you're going to be carrying out any sort of financial transactions, or even looking to attract advertising (good luck), the more customisableWordpress.orgis a better option. There are other blog sites too, of course, but the point is, you can have your own distribution centre set-up in a matter of hours."Anyone can get some webspace and throw their game out there and there are a lot of folks willing to support the whole DIY thing," says Fearon. "All my PC games are technically available for free to download and play but that's not stopped folks from donating even when they don't have to and that's great. I doubt I'll make what you'd call a living from the way I do stuff but there's plenty of room for others to do just that, which is the great strength of online distribution."If your game runs on PC, it's worth looking into one of the major online distribution platforms. Charlie Knight suggests Valve's Steam, ("in my experience it's by far the best portal/service to go with if they'll have you"), which offers theSteamworksdevelopment platform for indie coders. He also mentionsStardock/ImpulseandDirect2Drive. None of them charge to upload your game, but they all take a cut of any download revenues - it can be anything between 30-70 percent. "And they're not a golden ticket to fame and glory," Knight cautions. "You'll still need to put in the bulk of the legwork yourself if you want to make a few quid.Meanwhile, Flash developers have a similarly wide range of options, the biggest players being Kongregate, Newgrounds and Mochi. You won't make a fortune, but at least these sites offer a viable revenue system. "Basically, it's all about getting your games in front of people who want toplay your kind of game," concludes Knight. "The portals are OK at doing this to an extent, but you have to be selective with which ones you go with. It's no good, for example, putting a hardcore shooter on a casual gaming portal..."As for console development, you can probably rule out PSN, Wiiware and Xbox Live Arcade - you'll need dev kits and a developer license, which are near-impossible for unknown studios to get hold of. The Xbox Live Indie Games site, though, allows anyone to upload and share games (more info on developing for XBLIDhere). So is this the meritocratic goldmine it appears?"I've got a game up on Xbox Live Indies a friend ported, and MS haven't really cracked the storefront side of things well at all," says Fearon. "Generally, Steam aside,no-onehas cracked the whole online storefront proper yet - the lack of one click purchasing and the visibility issues that come from paginated browsing is going to be an issue for a while longer I reckon, but Microsoft's implementation is pretty horrid."Still, I don't want to be one of those indies that moans about XBLIG, because overall, I'm happy with how it went down and I've had very nice things said about the game that make it all worthwile. With XBLIG, we can all get a game on there for a really tiny fee and be able to sit back on the sofa and play it and have people all around the world play it. I can't overstate how wonderful it is for someone who writes games for shits and giggles to be able to do that."Get out, get noticed, get playingSure, you can write games in your bedroom and distribute them worldwide without so much as donning a pair of trousers, but stepping out of your front door and meeting the indie community is a good idea if you want your output to get noticed. From San Francisco'sIndependent Games festivalto Nottingham'sGameCity, there are dozens of annual events showcasing the work of developers like yourself - often in the form of a structured game design competition.There are also plenty of game jam events, in which coders are shoved into teams and tasked with creating a working interactive product within 48 hours. In fact, you've just missed theGlobal Game Jam, which took place in several locations around the world this weekend.Failing that, at least play a lot of indie games and learn from the established masters as well as the rising starlets. "I'm quite a big fan ofCactus' games," says Knight. "He's got a really unique handle on style - you can tell it's a Cactus game just by looking at it. Also, the guys who just releasedRunman: Race Around the World, they've just made the game Sonic always wanted to be in.""I love where Jon Blow took us withBraid," says Fearon. "And Terry Cavanagh ofDistractionwareis punting out a stream of sterling brilliance - VVVVVV is masterfully crafted platforming aceybeans.Minteris still a god of mechanics-led game design; Dan and Ben ofZombie Coware fab;Anna Anthropyis someone whose games you should not only be playing but whose blog anyone with an interest in games should be reading; Matt James ofHermit Gameshas the shooter down to a fine art;Stephen Lavellegoes to the darkest recesses of where games can go and they're all wonderful if sometimes depressing vignettes."Folks to keep an eye on though? Lobo ofInfectuousis an almost Swellsian wet dream of futurism, anarchy and madness with games ranging from Sigue Sigue Sputnik to As Time Goes By which is a sort of beat-em-up based around Casablanca. His vampire Christmas game is majestic and some of his collaborative stuff with Retro Bytes and this other chap Sokurah is so, so smart."David ScatliffeandAndrew Brophyare definitely ones to watch - they've got that unfingerable something and if they keep chuntering out stuff as good as they do currently then y'know, they could be massive,Jesse Venbruxis smart too. Oh, and Ron Bunce. He didGravitron 2, it's dead cheap on Steam and it's a marvel..."• This article was amended on 2 February 2010. In the original, David Scatliffe was named as David Scattle. This has been corrected.
Ok, if you have a 360 or PC and a bit of cash I probably know the answer to this but anyway - how was your gaming weekend? Yes, Mass Effect 2 will have probably made it a good one for many of you. And it deserves too - it is a fantastic game that is likely to take up a few more gaming weekends in the near future. Assuming you didn't or couldn't succumb to the charms of ME2 what else did you play? Still playing games out before Christmas like Assassin's Creed 2? Or saving cash for an expensive looking February that includes Bioshock 2 and Heavy Rain amongst others?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Amazon has conceded that it will have to give in to Macmillan in a row over the pricing ofebooksthat saw the publisher's titlesremoved from the retailer's virtual shelves this weekend.After a meeting between the two parties on Thursday ended in deadlock, Amazon stripped books from Macmillan – including Hilary Mantel's Man Booker prizewinner, Wolf Hall – from its website in the US.In a posting on its site, Amazon said the talks stumbled over Macmillan's push to switch to a pricing model where $12.99 to $14.99 is charged for e-book versions of bestsellers and most hardcover releases. Amazon, which has long been under fire from the publishing community for selling ebook bestsellers at $9.99, sought to paint Macmillan as the pricing tyrant."We have expressed our strong disagreement and the seriousness of our disagreement by temporarily ceasing the sale of all Macmillan titles. We want you to know that ultimately, however, we will have to capitulate and accept Macmillan's terms because Macmillan has a monopoly over their own titles, and we will want to offer them to you even at prices we believe are needlessly high for ebooks," the online retailer added."Amazon customers will at that point decide for themselves whether they believe it's reasonable to pay $14.99 for a bestselling ebook. We don't believe that all of the major publishers will take the same route as Macmillan. And we know for sure that many independent presses and self-published authors will see this as an opportunity to provide attractively priced ebooks as an alternative."Thursday's price spat with Amazon – home of the Kindle ebook store and reading device – followed the news that Macmillan was one of a handful of publishers to be the first in Apple's new iBookstore.Apple, which is potentially providing Amazon's biggest ebook challenge yet with the iPad, is expected to allow publishers more freedom to set their own prices.Macmillan's chief executive, John Sargent, said the row with Amazon was about the "long-term viability and stability of the digital book market"."Amazon and Macmillan both want a healthy and vibrant future for books. We clearly do not agree on how to get there,"he said in a statementto authors, illustrators and literary agents, posted online.Visitors looking up Macmillan titles on Amazon's US site this morning saw a list entitled "available from these sellers", but no Amazon price or order button.The retailer is under pressure to stay competitive on price as digital books become a growing part of its business and rival sellers increase.Macmillan's description of Amazon as "a great innovator" reflects the retailer's development of the Kindle, which publishers such as Penguin have credited with invigorating the ebook market in the US. Amazon recently passed a milestone when on Christmas day it sold more ebooks than traditional books, as people who got Kindles for Christmas bought titles to download.But now it has a new challenger in the form of Apple. The iPad tablet brings with it the iBookstore and new pricing models for electronic publishing.
&bull; This weekend's big story has been therow between Amazon and Macmillan, the publisher, over ebook pricing. After temporarily pullingallMacmillan books - including physical ones - from its site as they argued about who can set the price of ebook downloads, Amazonhas now relented. The particulars may have come and gone over the course of a weekend, but this argument has only just started.&bull; The fallout fromGoogle and Chinacontinues - mainly because a lot of people are now turning their attention to the subject of internet espionage and hacking. The latest piece of news?a leaked MI5 report, seen by the Sunday Times, which suggests that China "represents one of the most significant espionage threats to the UK".&bull; And we're finally seeing the war of promises ahead of an upcoming election in Britain touch on technology. To trump the government's plan to get everyone2Mbps broadband by 2012(announced a year ago), the Tories now say they want100Mbps lines to the 'majority' of homes by 2017. What next? And will it change your vote?You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Amazon has given in over the pricing of ebooks which prompted a row with the publishers Macmillan - to the extent that Amazon stopped selling both Macmillan's ebooksandits physical books in its US store.The initial move had generated a great deal of entirely acceptable heat for Amazon, which wanted to be able to set the prices of ebooks and was prepared to use its power in selling physical ones to do it.Wewrote about that earlier today:"Describing the move, Macmillan chief executive John Sargent signalled the impasse may not be resolved any time soon, sparking speculation that the row could affect Amazon operations outside its home market, including in the UK.""Amazon and Macmillan both want a healthy and vibrant future for books. We clearly do not agree on how to get there. Meanwhile, the action they chose to take last night clearly defines the importance they attribute to their view. We hold our view equally strongly," said Sargent."Wiser heads now seem to have prevailed at Amazon. In anew posting on its site(which is certified Amazon official - we don't want any old bod turning up claiming to be speaking for Amazon), the Amazon Kindle team says:"We have expressed our strong disagreement and the seriousness of our disagreement by temporarily ceasing the sale of all Macmillan titles. We want you to know that ultimately, however, we will have to capitulate and accept Macmillan's terms because Macmillan has a monopoly over their own titles, and we will want to offer them to you even at prices we believe are needlessly high for e-books. Amazon customers will at that point decide for themselves whether they believe it's reasonable to pay $14.99 for a bestselling e-book. We don't believe that all of the major publishers will take the same route as Macmillan. And we know for sure that many independent presses and self-published authors will see this as an opportunity to provide attractively priced e-books as an alternative."Where "attractively priced" means "priced at the price we tell you to set". However, it's clear that what Macmillan wanted to do was to set its own end prices - an intriguing case of resale price maintenance. Perhaps more precisely, Macmillan wanted to set the wholesale price, and also wanted to be sure that the wholesale price for an ebook wouldn't interfere with its physical books' price. And of course Apple having released the iPad and allowing publishers to set their own ebook prices - high, low, wherever - is also going to have played on Amazon's collective mind.There's going to be more to play out on this. But the publishers have won this round for certain.
SUBARU LEGACY TOURER£23,295CO2PER KM: 148 GRAMSMILES PER GALLON: 54.4GOOD FOR: FAST ROADSBAD FOR: SMALL LOADSChristian Louboutin gives his stilettos blood-red soles, Paul Smith lines his jackets with candy stripes… and Subaru pierces the bonnets of its cars with exquisite sculpted air-intakes. A promising bulge, filled with potential, that lifts the car from workaday motor to transport of delight. It hints at thrust, power, smoking tyres and, to your inner  boy-in-shorts, it shouts "This car goes fast."The scoop has featured on many Subarus down the years, most memorably on Colin McRae's multi-titled Impreza – a beefed-up diamond blue rally monster which had all the swagger needed to carry off such an outlandish body contour. But the Subaru I've been driving this past week appears to have all the attitude of a librarian with a taste for early English chamber music. It does have interesting wraparound headlamps and a fairly sporty derrière, but in a car park it wouldn't stand out. Which makes that telltale scoop all the more intriguing.The car is a Legacy and it is the first car to be fitted with an oil-burning boxer diesel engine. Car makers love to claim firsts – and more often than not they're simply old ideas reheated and served up with a large dollop of PR spin – but Subaru's technological first has created a diesel that behaves like a petrol. For those of you not fine-tuned to the fascinating nuances of these two energy sources, this means that the Legacy is smooth, refined and yet economical – that's the theory anyway.The Legacy has just celebrated its 20th anniversary, and this latest model of the Subaru flagship is wider, longer and taller than the one that went before. It looks fresh, clean and neat. And in pearlescent satin white it has a pleasingly uncluttered look. If a car were to look Japanese, this would be it. More than 3.6m Legacys have been sold in the past two decades and this fifth-generation edition will certainly add to that total. It's an impressive drive – responsive, alert and obedient. The exact opposite, in fact, of my teenage children. There's also a sense of robustness about the car. I remember seeing a Subaru Forester slither down a muddy bank before falling on to its side. Four passersby pushed it back on to its wheels and the driver, still belted in his seat, waved and drove off as if he'd simply stopped at a red light.Inside, the story is less promising. It's certainly comfortable and spacious, but it seems to have borrowed its styling from a 1970s stereo system – all blue flashing lights and annoyingly small buttons. In the rarefied atmosphere above 20 grand, nothing short of sumptuousness is acceptable. There are a few gremlins that need to be put out of their misery, too. The only way to open the doors when the engine was running was to turn it off. And the button-operated handbrake was placed above a small access hatch which kept coming off in my hand… More alarmingly, the official consumption figures – and the very raison d'etre of the boxer engine – were way off mark. But for the driver in search of an estate which handles like a car rather than a block of flats, the Legacy is definitely a test drive.★martin.love@observer.co.uk
WATCHING STEVE JOBS unveil the Apple iPad, what came to mind was something that Neil Postman, the most influential media critic since Marshall McLuhan, once said. Our future possibilities, Postman thought, lay on a spectrum bounded by George Orwell at one end, and by Aldous Huxley at the other: Orwell because he believed that we would be destroyed by the things we fear; Huxley because he thought that we would be undone by the things we love.As the internet went mainstream, the Orwellian nightmare has evolved into a realistic possibility, because of the facilities the network offers for the comprehensive surveillance so vividly evoked in1984. Governments everywhere have helped themselves to powers to read every email or text you've ever sent. And that's just the democracies; authoritarian regimes are far more intrusive.Until recently, the Huxleian nightmare seemed a more distant prospect. Then, two years ago this month, Jobs launched the iPhone, a product that was initially underestimated by many commentators (this columnist included) but which has radically transformed the mobile phone market.What was revolutionary about the iPhone is that it's a powerful handheld computer that can also be used to make voice calls. But it's the computing bit that matters – a fact implicitly confirmed by Apple when it launched the iPod Touch, which runs the iPhone operating system but doesn't make calls. A year after that launch, Apple revealed its strategy for harnessing the device's computing power by launching the app store – a marketplace for small, mostly inexpensive, programs that could run on the phone. This generated a perfect storm of software development: there are now more than 100,000 apps available, and more than 3bn have been downloaded since the app store launched. At a stroke the consumer software business has been transformed. As ever, theNew Yorker's cartoonists are tracking the change in the zeitgeist. In one recent cartoon a depressed-looking man arrives home and is greeted by his anxious-looking wife: "Bad news, hon," he says. "I got replaced by an app."The iPhone evokes powerful emotions. Users gibber lovingly about it and become dependent upon it. They buy lots and lots of apps. And, most significantly, they find that they use their PCs less – sometimes a lot less. They discover, in other words, that the phone has become their de facto gateway to the internet.Which brings us to the iPad. Critics and naysayers of all stripes piled in to complain that it was "just a bigger iPod Touch". Spot on: that's exactly what it's intended to be. Good though the iPhone/Touch was, it has one drawback — the screen's rather small. The iPad's screen is bigger and better. And it has a beefier processor, so it handles graphics brilliantly. It's a racing certainty, therefore, that the possibilities of this improved display performance will lead to another explosion in apps.As with the first release of the iPhone, there has been lots of carping about alleged deficiencies: no camera, no physical keyboard, no USB slot, no removable battery, no memory card slot, doesn't do Flash, etc. Some of these probably don't matter much. Or, in Stephen Fry's words: "They all fall away the minute you use it ... No YouTube film, no promotional video, no keynote address can even hint at the extraordinary feeling you get from actually using and interacting with one of these magical objects."Which is where I begin to think of Huxley and Soma, the hallucinogenic, hangover-free drug inBrave New Worldthat makes users contented with their (subjugated) lot. If the iPad takes off as the iPhone did, then it will have as disruptive an impact on the computing and media industries as the Apple phone has already had on mobile telephony.And if that happens then we will all have to take a long, hard look at the company that has made it possible.For the implication of an iPad-crazed world – with its millions of delighted, infatuated users – is that a single US company renowned for control-freakery will have become the gatekeeper to the online world. The iPad – like the iPhone – is a closed, tightly controlled device: nothing gets on to it that has not been expressly approved by Apple. We will have arrived at an Orwellian end by Huxleian means. And be foolish enough to think that we've attained nirvana.
Peugeot Citroën, Europe's second-­biggest carmaker, yesterday announced a recall of about 90,000 cars manufactured at its plant in the Czech Republic amid concerns they may have faulty accelerator pedals.The company said it had decided to withdraw some of its Peugeot 107 and Citroën C1 models following a similar move by Toyota last week.The Japanese car giant is to recall 1.8 million cars across Europe, including about 220,000 in the UK, on safety grounds. It has already recalled 2.3 million US-built vehicles and some manufactured in China.There are concerns some of the vehicles have been fitted with pedals that may stick in the depressed ­position.In the US, the sudden acceleration of Toyota vehicles has been linked to 19 deaths in the past decade, Henry Waxman, chairman of the US House energy and commerce committee, said in a statement. A spokesman for Peugeot Citroën said he was not aware of any injuries caused by the problem in the vehicles it is recalling, which were all made from 2005 to mid-2009 at the Kolin plant east of Prague, run jointly between Peugeot Citroën and Toyota.Toyota says it is withdrawing cars manufactured over the past four years, including some from the Aygo, iQ, Yaris, Auris, Corolla, Verso, Avensis and Rav4 ranges. So far, Toyota has withdrawn 7.5 million cars and trucks, almost as many as it sold worldwide in 2009. The company president, Akio Toyoda, apologised.
The Sixty OneThe Sixty One is a music exploration site with an unusual but beautiful interface. Without much hand-holding, you're invited to enjoy new music – including some free downloads – while perusing full-page pictures, info boxes and slick graphics; some straightforward interactive touches also make an interesting departure from standard music blog layouts. Although it's mainly built around unknown US college acts, dig around to find tracks by the Killers and Portishead, as well as a band who hold the world record for the most crumpets eaten at a live concert.Kid CastingYou know when a movie has a flashback scene and you get to see the character as a child? Well, that's what this website has dedicated itself to documenting, with hundreds of side-by-side screen grabs of the adult and flashback kid versions. Great fun – especially if the film stars Woody Allen, whose gawky alter egos are boss-eyed, where everyone else's are cuter mini lookalikes. Some kids reappear several times; a young man called Troy Gentile has a permanent gig as Jack Black's younger self. Others eclipsed the careers of the main actors (Dakota Fanning played a miniature Reese Witherspoon in her first movie). But for many, roles like 30 seconds as a 12-year-old Brad Pitt will remain career peaks.BLOG ROLL: LOSTYunjin Kim as Sun-Hwa Kwon in Lost.Dark UFOTheories, spoilers and Nike's Dharma trainers.Lost mediaThe Lost cast's chatshow appearances on one site.The Tail SectionSayid's best moments, 42 signs you're addicted to Lost and episode recaps.Daily Lost NewsThe Flight 815 crash in real time and Lost re-enacted by an Italian family.Lost InitiativeSky's site with cast interviews, clues, chat and Iain Lee's weekly podcast.Fuck Yeah LostFan videos, bento boxes and updates on the producers' Twitter activity.Lost BooksTracking every literary reference from Flannery O'Connor to Dostoevsky.Lost ROFLChildish humour applied to the sci-fi soap.Lost in LostThe Guardian's Lost blog.WHAT WE LEARNED ON THE WEB THIS WEEKA deeperunderstandingof the ampersandThe Lady Gagais edibleFive waysto be boring on Second LifeWhat's beenon Bill Gates's mindSome hairstylesIndian men should avoidJames Joyceis now available in cartoon formatLife ishard for a man with tiny handsHow tomake your own Star Trek phaserThe irresistiblescience of Ke$haWhen it's OKto eat stuff you've dropped on the floor
Army Of Two: 40th Day, PS3, PSP, Xbox 360 (reviewed)Army Of Two told the story of two boorish mercenaries whose ill-judged smack talk and clumsy co-operative gameplay made the prospect of a sequel questionable. And here it is. Fortunately for the rematch, our two gunmen-for-hire are now significantly more affable as they go about wiping out legions of uniformed terrorists of uncertain denomination, and while it's still a game designed to be played alongside a fellow human, fighting with an AI chum is rarely too frustrating. Other new features include the ability to mock surrender or feign your own death under fire, springing up when your enemies turn their backs. You also now have the option of saving civilians by taking their highest ranking captor hostage. While its team tactics are almost always impractical to use in the heat of a firefight, its enjoyably silly premise and the sight of Shanghai exploding make its flyweight thrills worth persevering with.EA, £29.99-£49.99Dante's Inferno, PS3, PSP, Xbox 360 (reviewed)A little like EA's take on The Godfather II, Dante's Inferno loses a little gravitas in translation from cultural icon to hack'n'slash hokum. That means endless gratuitous gore and nudity, with larger foes often dispatched via eye sockets or from the inside out, which, while barely interactive (finishing moves are executed by pressing buttons in sequence, rhythm action game-style), certainly add to the grisly spectacle. Whether you choose to punish or redeem enemies adds points to your hellish or holy powers that evolve steadily over the course of the game, but its fights lack the flow or spectacle of Darksiders, let alone the towering artistry of Bayonetta, compared to which this game is disappointingly retrograde and prosaic. Its real inspiration, though, comes from God Of War, and as second rate rip-offs go, this couldn't be worse timed – the third instalment of the real thing arrives on PlayStation 3 in March.EA, £29.99-£49.99Games news:Halo ReachNews is finally starting to seep out about what developer Bungie promises will be its final Halo title, and since this is the second instalment since Halo 3 "finished the fight", it may be best to leave that claim to the court of history. Pre-launch hype cynicism apart, the series is Microsoft's most enduring on Xbox and a staggeringly good set of games. Reach is a prequel to the original Halo, telling the story of the fall of an Earth colony and the death of its 700 million inhabitants, so you can probably rule out a diversion into slapstick comedy. What is being promised is a more visceral set of weapons, new types of enemy and a whole squad of team-mates wearing the game's famous, energy-shielded Spartan Armour, rather than just the lonely Master Chief. Not expected until autumn, this is already shaping up to the biggest game of 2010.
You may have noticed the absence from these parts – particularly on the Games blog – of our colleagueAleks Krotoskiin recent months. That's because she's been busy travelling the world for a new BBC series about the history of the world wide web – and finishing her PhD, of course.The first part of the fruits of her labours,The Virtual Revolution, airs Saturday at 8.30pm on BBC2. Travelling with a team of BBC documentary makers, and accompanied on part of the journey by web inventor Sir Tim Berners-Lee, Aleks journeys across four continents and six countries and speaks to more than 50 people who have made the web what it is today – including some rather famous names, such as Bill Gates, Al Gore, Stephen Fry, Jimmy Wales, Arianna Huffington, Mark Zuckerberg, Chad Hurley, Stewart Brand, Jeff Bezos … and the President of Estonia.For Dr Aleks (as she now insists we call her), the making of the series was  a very personal journey: "It was an amazing opportunity to meet the people who have helped to create exactly the things I've been writing about and studying for the past decade," she says. "I managed to meet most of the people I referenced in my PhD thesis, and was able to ask them all of the difficult questions I had been thinking about in my research."It really was an extraordinary adventure that allowed me to test a few theories, challenge some of my long-held ideas and to dream up a few more along the way."You can find out more about The Virtual Revolution atthis article by Dr Aleks in the Observer, or bylistening to the Tech Weekly podcast.And after watching the first episode on Saturday night, please pop back here and give us your thoughts in the comments …
OK, so people have drooled endlessly over the iPad. Yes, we've seen it. But it's time to lift our eyes a little higher and ask: how many unicorns does Apple have left in the cupboard?The unicorns in question being the unreleased but much-rumoured products or services we are always told Apple is "just about" to announce. Unlike many companies, it has a devoted following, who revere the products that it does release so highly that they then go on and make up their own that they'd like it to release in turn.In some cases, that's based on reality. For years, there were rumours that Apple, whose computers used processors from Motorola – and whose software was thus incompatible with processors made by Intel, which dominates the field – was secretly producing Intel-compatible versions of its products. The whispers said the project was called "Marklar". In March 2000 Wifredo Sanchez, an Apple software developer, posted a little note on the Apple Darwin bulletin board saying: "Wednesday – the whole thing compiled for the first time for both PowerPC and Intel."And then in 2005 Steve Jobs announced that Apple was abandoning Motorola – the chips were falling behind Moore's Law – and shifting to Intel.Even before then, I'd been in press conferences where Steve Jobs had been asked what "iPhone" was. (The first time was probably 2003.) Jobs crinkled up his face in disdain. "Iphone?" he said. "What's that?"In 2007, Apple announced the iPhone.For slightly longer than the iPhone rumour there has also been the "Apple tablet" rumour – especially after Bill Gates introduced the format at Comdex in November 2001. When's Apple going to release the tablet, people have asked each other. (No point asking Apple. It never comments on rumours, future product releases, or pretty much anything that isn't on its website with a price tag attached.) Others have put together mockups, Photoshop jobs, and done pretty much everything to imagine how an Apple tablet might look.What none has managed is to imagine how it would actuallywork– which is of course the really important thing about any piece of technology, and one that Steve Jobs emphasises again and again. Design, he points out to journalists who don't seem to get the message, isn't about how something looks; it's not something you put onto the outside of an already-built product. It's how you build the product, from the inside out.Now, though, we've had the iPhone, we've got the iPad (as we must call it), and Intel. What's left for the Apple rumour cupboard? You'd think that the last of that triumvirate, which have served us well over the last decade, and spawned all sorts of wild goose chases, would signal the end.Not at all. The rumours have simply moved to a new place: the cloud.There are, you can be sure, people who are disappointed by what was announced on Wednesday night. (There always are after any Apple launch.) Possibly we can count the programmer and blogger Dave Winer among them, who the day before the announcement offeredhis list of what he expected(with the caveat that it was "not in any way based on actual information"): Apple would drop AT&T; there would be intuitive gestures besides the virtual keyboard; there would be a new "Apple cloud" to connect devices together, because the tablet would only cache data; there would be a radically new iPod and iPhone; the new "iTouch" software would run on the iPhoneand alsothe Mac; Google would be on stage for the announcement to proclaim its support, and Apple and Google would proclaim mutual support; publishers would do the same; there wouldn't be USB on the new device.Well, score 2 of 9: no USB port, and some leading (mostly games) publishers.He'd have done better to crowdsource it.That's not particularly to pick on Winer, who throws out ideas at a furious rate; he's just indicative of the remarkable output of the rumour mill. A tablet that you can watch and read stuff on? That's been predicted already! We've got to go further – and predict an Apple cloud!Not that Apple has been making the sort of massive investments that would allow it to build serious cloud systems. Much has been made of its recent purchases of streaming music site Lala.com, and of the mobile advertising company Quattro Wireless. And even though those purchases were only confirmed (and completed) this month,of courseApple should have rolled them into new products and services that would be announced three weeks later.That's the thing about Apple. Ten years ago it was a hobbling company that wasstruggling to pull in $1bn of sales in the Christmas quarter, on which it lost $195m. Miserable fans would start rumours because they hoped that if they imagined something wonderful, something they would buy, that Apple might make it, make humungous profits, and everything would be good.Nine months – a gestation – after that press release, Apple released the iPod. And things improved slowly, and then dramatically, and now it's a rocket. But that's not enough; people still set it the most ambitious targets (iTouch software that will run on both the iPhone and the Mac?Really?) because they think it can – and they still want to buy it.So Apple will never run out of rumoured products to release. But many, many, many of those unicorns will forever remain in the forest. The question for Apple now, in fact, is quite how to tie together the pieces that it is carefully building. Nick Carr, who has remarked perceptively on how the cloud is taking over,observesthat "The transformation in the nature of computing has turned the old-style PC into a dinosaur" and that "Today, Jobs's ambitions are grander than ever. His overriding goal is to establish his company as the major conduit, and toll collector, between the media cloud and the networked computer. Jobs doesn't just want to produce glamorous gizmos. He wants to be the impresario of all media."As the people in the record industry, bruised from seeing Apple transform from a company that they indulged by granting it a licence to sell downloaded music into one that is the biggest seller of music in the US, and the people in the mobile networks, who have been browbeaten into offering iPhone users truly unlimited bandwidth (where they can supply it), could tell you, it's quite enough dealing with the products Apple actually does release without worrying about the unicorns still in its cupboard.So despite all the years that book, magazine and newspaper publishers have been wishing for a system where they could get paid for producing content over the internet, it might be best not to embrace it too tightly. These unicorns that Apple turns out to be wild horses for their riders; and people get trampled once they're running.
Crowdsourcing the iPad: the resultReaders predicted...Steve Jobs unveiled...Right or wrong?NameiPad or iSlateiPadScreen sizeUp to 10.3”9.7”ColourBlack like the iPhoneBlack like the iPhoneUK cost£701-800US prices start at $499 (£308) No UK prices yetWeight0.9-1.1kg0.68kg (1.5lb)Number of modelsOneTwoMobile?Yes, GPRS/3GYes, on some modelsUS networkOnly AT&T;Only AT&T;UK networkO2 (possibly Orange and Vodafone)“to be decided”Screen materialOLED [Organic Light Emitting Diode]not OLEDConnectionsUSB, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, headphonesWi-Fi, Bluetooth, headphonesPlay Flash video?YesNoEbook copy protection?YesYesAll in all, a great success for the crowd. Next week we'll try the lottery …
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?That's an easy answer – it is my 65in screen and high-definition setup. I am an absolute nut when it comes to high definition and Blu-ray; it has absolutely improved my life. When I saw it in my house for the first time, it felt like somebody had opened a window. The image is so overwhelming – it's pure joy.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Just before I went on a trip  a week and a half ago, I set my TiVo for the series Legend of the Seeker. It's extremely well done, I love it, so I didn't want to miss an episode while I was away.What additional features would you add if you could?More storage in my TiVo box.  I get frustrated when I have to delete things that I haven't been able to watch. I'm a big nut for nature programmes.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years  time?I hope it will still be around but I think we will be downloading these things in the future. I like my current setup so much I  know I will still like it in 10 years.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Passwords that you need to create for all sorts of accounts. I keep forgetting them, and it drives me kind of crazy. We are living in an age of passwords.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I have had bad luck with cordless phones and fax machines. I keep buying them and they keep breaking on me. They last for eight or nine months then I have to get a new one.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?I would say if you like high definition as much as I do, and if you like Blu-ray, get the PS3 player because it has the most capacity and plays Blu-rays the best.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?I'm a little bit of a Luddite – I need to have things explained to me. I hate manuals, so I have to have a friend who knows the technology to explain it for me. But I can be a little bit nerdy, too.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I bought my first high-definition setup about 10 years ago when the technology was brand new and very expensive. It was a 60in screen and speaker system. It was ridiculously expensive, but I didn't regret it at all.Mac or PC, and why?Mac, because I hardly ever get any junk mail or viruses on the Mac. Once I switched I didn't want to look back, so I'm kind of sold on Mac.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I still buy CDs and DVDs. My last purchase was on Oxford Street, London – I bought the BBC series Life, and even though my Blu-ray player does not play this region.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I don't think so, because eventually you have to get your butt off the couch and move and do something. I think robot butlers will make us very lazy.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I'm waiting for the completely electric car. I have a hybrid myself, but that's half and half. I'm waiting for the time when cars do not need gasoline any more.•Andreas Dejais a supervising animator on the new Disney filmThe Princess &amp; The Frog, out today in London and 5 February across the UK.
Apple's iPad prices, which range from $499 to $829, might start too cheap for Taiwan. Leading suppliers such as Asus and MSI have already developed their own tablet PCs, but they were expecting to undercut an Apple price of $800 or more. Undercutting $500 is harder, and might not be worth the effort.A report today in Taiwan's DigiTimes,Unexpectedly low Apple iPad price forces notebook vendors to re-evaluate their tablet PC strategies, notes that "starting a price war at below US$499 raises concerns that any profitably will be driven out of the nascent tablet PC market, before it even has a chance to take off. Vendors are currently evaluating their strategies hoping to avoid price competition, the sources noted."Asus had been expected to show its Eee Pad tablet at the Computex 2010 trade show in Taiwan in June. It's based on the nVidia Tegra chip and was expected to cost less than $500. MSI's 10in touchscreen tablet is also based on Tegra; yesterday, DigiTimes published a photo of it taken by its reporter, Monica Chen (MSI plans to launch an US$500 tablet PC in 2H10).Apple uses Taiwanese contract manufacturers such as Hon Hai (Foxconn), which also makes Xbox 360s for Microsoft. Rival contract manufacturers such as Pegatron, which has been spun out of Asus, may not find it easy to undercut its prices, especially if manufacturers include things like USB ports and SD card slots that the iPad lacks. Much of the differential would come out of profit margins.Another problem is that the iPad's sales volumes are uncertain. Earlier this week,DigiTimes reportedthat "Positive watchers predict shipments to top as many as 8-9 million units, but those who are less optimistic look to shipments of merely 1-1.2 million units":"the skeptics pointed out that sales of the MacBook Air have not measured up to expectations, meaning that not all Apple-branded products can expect guaranteed sales."All this leaves sales of me-too tablets even more uncertain, though there might still be worthwhile marketing opportunities in parts of the world that Apple barely reaches.
Yes, I've been banging on aboutMass Effect 2 quite a lot recentlybut it really is a very special game. Narrative, characterisation, combat, gorgeous synth soundtrack - Mass Effect 2 is a masterpiece. Ok, a masterpiece with annoying loading times and the occasional graphical glitch but a classic all the same. The sci-fi RPG is finally released today (in Europe) and who knows? It may even knockJust Danceoff the top of the charts next week.If romping with aliens and commanding starships isn't your thing then you may be out of luck if you fancy buying a new release today. That is unless you like the sound of a new PC title called er,Forklift Truck Simulator 2009. Assuming then that you are a 360 or PC owner and would rather spend your gaming time giving orders in theNormandyrather than shifting boxes in a warehouse are you planning to get Mass Effect 2 today? Or waiting until the price comes down? Or actually, just not interested.Those that are getting this weekend make sure you post your impressions below - spoiler free, of course.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Tech industry financial results continue to flood in, with bothAmazonandMicrosoftdoing well. Jeff Bezos and crew arein rude healthwith $384m profit off $9.5bn in sales - though stillno word on how many Kindles have been shifted. Steve Ballmer, meanwhile, might have a smile on his face asWindows 7 pushed his company to the first sales increase in a year: $6.6bn of net income on revenue of $19bn.&bull; The push-and-pull about theiPadcontinues, with no let up in the stream of arguments about whether the name is a bit funny, and whether anyone wants to buy one. But it's Friday, I'm now declaring that stuff officially boring. Instead, here are some more interesting pieces to ponder: first off, a look atwhat's really in the A4 chip that powers the iPadand secondly some thoughts fromAdobe on the lack of Flash support.&bull; And here's something that gives pause for thought - not just because of the tragic nature of the story, but also some of the implications. In the sentencing of a 17-year-old American woman who was the drunk driver in a car crash that killed her boyfriend, a New York judge took into accountFacebook photos posted a month after the accident: that's worth thinking about.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Apple makes huge strides forward, yet Steve Jobs's strides stay ever the same. There they are again, those mid-blue Levis, at the launch of the iPad, the iPod, the iEverything. Despite appearances, it is a look that is about as far from casual as can be. Those jeans aren't just mid-rinse, they are mid-everything. They don't look new and don't look old, they're buttoned (never belted) above the hip but below the waist. His black turtleneck is studiedly more than a round neck, less than a polo neck. Just like other stalwarts of a single look (Anna Wintour and dark shades, Giorgio Armani and the navy T-shirt), it says not that he doesn't care what he looks like, but that he cares so much he can't let go.
It's interesting to imagine what the conversation was like at Apple HQ when they were naming their new product. Did they play any word-association games? Did eager employees sit around a giant table, shouting out words synonymous with "pad", while a colleague scrawled "note", "knee", "launch", and "to tread very lightly" on a white board? And were there no women there? Did no one raise their hand with a weary grimace and say, "You know what, guys, this is kinda  obvious, but this word has other  associations for me . . . Namely blood. Menstrual blood. Oh, and cramps. Also, painkillers. And sometimes shame. Don't forget the shame."Who knows? Perhaps the associ­ation of the word "pad" with "sanitary protection" just never came up. But as soon as the name was announced –  and Steve Jobs described the product as "so much more intimate than a laptop" – the jokes began. And quickly became an avalanche.Within hours, the term "iTampon" was trending on Twitter, and these quips were circulating: "Will women send their husbands to the Apple store to buy iPads?"; "If I order this, will my boyfriend and I have to worry if it comes late?"; "Meh. I'll wait until they come out with the iMoonCup". Mock ads were created, including one featuring a sanitary towel with the Apple logo and slogan, "Like a tampon. Only more expensive." And a 2006 clip(above)from the US sketch show,MadTV,featuring a product much like an iPod – but considerably more absorbent – went viral. It turned out that those sketch writers had had the idea for an "iPad" a full four years ago.Some have suggested that these jokes are a disaster for Apple; others have pointed out the enormous success of the Nintendo Wii – another product with a questionable name. And still others have implied that the geniuses behind the brand had all this free publicity in mind when they named the product. Are they really that clever? Or did they just go with the flow?
I had no plans to buy an iPad – I have no plans to ever buy an iPhone, and if I do you are authorised to strike me in the face with something sharp and rusty – so I didn't really follow the frenzy of speculation on what we until very  recently referred to as the "Apple Tablet" might contain. Still, I'm taken aback by the immediate and vocal lack of enthusiasm for Steve Jobs's new product. What does it lack? What was everyone hoping for that did not  materialise? What miracles, envisioned in the fevered imaginations of so  many cultists and devotees, were not made manifest?This is a very rough analogy, but the iPad is a lot like Barack Obama:  everyone was able to project their own fantasies and aspirations on a product with which they were mostly unfamiliar, only to sour on it once they realised that it did not live up to their impossible expectations. Only, with the iPad, it took about seven minutes for the disappointment to set in. I think this says something about our accelerated culture or how we confuse hype and excitement for the tangible realities of life. Our ability to trick ourselves into imagining that we'll get exactly what we want is being outpaced by the swiftness of our disgruntled reactions when things don't turn out how we planned.But maybe we should have some hope (there's that word!): look at Obama's State of the Union address on Wednesday night. An energetic, authoritative leader stood in front of a national audience and managed to remind so many people of what they admired about him in the first place. It's possible that the celerity with which we cycle through our emotions might yet lead to a more measured resignation. Sure, Obama may not be everything we thought we were getting, but we will probably stick with him, given the alternatives. If Obama is your new iPad, Sarah Palin is your old Kindle. And Steve Jobs is going to win that battle every time.Alex Balk is a journalist and co-founder oftheawl.com
Yes, I've played - and rather enjoyed -Galaxy on Fireon the iPhone but there is only one space trader/combat game that counts. Yes,Elite could finally be arriving on the iPhone/iPod Touch. Ok, so it's the C64 version rather than the BBC and nothing is confirmed yet but this could be good news for retro gamers everywhere.  One worry is how the controls will map to the iPhone.  After all this is an emulated version of the C64 version rather than a new and updated port for the iPhone. Another worry is the one that troubles all retro games - once the nostalgia wears off are you actually left with a game that stands up today. Personally I'd rather see a version of Elite sequel Frontier on the iPhone but the original will certainly do for now.Other titles supposedly available on the emulator include International Karate and (yes!)Microprose Soccer. The latter was especially fantastic and combined well with Emyln Hughes International Soccer at the pinnacle of football games in the late 80s. Then Kick Off and Sensi arrived, but you get my point - for its day Microprose was very good indeed.Anyway, what about you. Excited by the possibility of playing Elite and other C64 classics on your iPhone? Or think retro games are best left to the past?
If you want to realise a dream by publishing your own book, there are lots of companies willing to extract upwards of $500 from you for the privilege. At the other end of the spectrum is Amazon's digital text platform, which allows you to upload your pre-prepared files to itsKindle readerand then set your own price.The catch? Amazon takes 65% of the income from sales. Ouch. Fortunately, there are lots of other options – of which more later – for budding authors. What you get out of them is subject only to the limits of your imagination.It doesn't have to be an embryonic bestseller because self-publishing is best suited to limited editions. Anything over 1,000 copies and you would be better off going to a traditional printer to take advantage of economies of scale. I know a lot people who are self-publishing a record of their own lives together with memories of their parents and grandparents as a bit of family history. That's not vanity publishing, just a great way to preserve memories for future generations and add to the archive of local history. Self-publishing is ideal for that.Others publish their blogs or photo albums. Every year I try to put the best photos of the past 12 months from a photo site (Flickr.com in my case) so we have the equivalent of the traditional photo album which will last longer than my Flickr subscription and my hard disk. You could equally download an out-of-copyright book from the not-for-profitGutenberg archiveor from the millions of books Google has scanned (maybe for your book club) or extracts from the Wikipedia – and it's all legal.For years I have written poems as a relaxing pastime – rather like other people collect stamps. I couldn't face the prospect of collecting rejection notes from agents and publishers so decided to self publish. The first book I did by paying for 1,000 copies to be printed in the traditional way (because it was only a little bit more expensive than printing 500). Expensive mistake.By the time a second book was ready new technology came to the rescue. I used Lulu.com, which enables you to upload files and cover designs for nothing, and launched it in the virtual world Second Life (at no extra cost to a member). For marketing, I experimented with "product placement" by attaching poems to photos or paintings on Flickr and other sites thereby generating discussions that you wouldn't get with traditional publishing where the author is remote from the reader.Through a chance meeting on Facebook, the Glasgow indie group A Band Called Quinn is recording a number of the poems for a CD, includingTruth which can be experienced here on YouTube. My new book I hope to publish on Lulu and an iPhone app, if I can find a decent one. The point about all this is that new technology offers new and cheap ways both to publish and promote your books and we are only at the start of the learning curve.Which self-publishing site to choose? There has been a lot of change recently. This is partly because of Amazon entering the market (and now Apple as well) but also because the process is becoming simpler and the operation more vertically integrated. Amazon has boughtCreatespaceand Lulu has purchasedWe Read, a social book club with a presence on Facebook and other social sites with a claimed 3 million readers. This could help it towards reaching the nirvana of self-publishing: to become the iTunes of books.I've had mixed feelings about Lulu in recent years. In principle, it is a breath of fresh air being an open source site that claims to put the interests of authors above all else (unlike the increasingly proprietary Amazon). In practice, there have been problems – not least ludicrously high postage costs (sometimes more than the cost of the book) delays of weeks before delivery and issues about payments which readers have told me about.They seem to be through these problems, however, and  now print in the UK so delivery takes days rather than weeks and postage is down to more reasonable levels. The proof of my latest book arrived while writing this column, five days after pressing the final button.If you use their template, publishing is remarkably easy – you upload your manuscript in PDF form, drag photos across for the front and back covers. It could all be over in 20 minutes (if you don't make silly mistakes as I tend to). It doesn't cost you anything until the first purchase and Lulu lets you keep 80% of the proceeds (after deduction of the printing cost of each book). Lulu expanded by 20% last year and publishes over 400,000 titles a year which it claims is "almost twice as many as by America's entire traditional publishing industry".Lulu is my favourite for text-driven books, but if you are more interested in picture-driven publications thenBlurb.comis the one to choose. It is easy to use – if you stick to the easy templates – and you can easily import photos directly from Flickr other photo sites. The standard of reproduction is impressive (as long as the original resolution is good) and they helpfully flag up photos that they don't think make the grade in terms of quality. Lulu and Blurb aren't the only fruit and, if you have time, it is worth trawling through some of the dozens if not hundreds of minnows that keep popping up – while being on guard lest they are trying to take a quick buck from you. There are various lists of top 10s on the web, or just try your luck with something likeFastpencilwhich looks easy to use though I haven't followed it through to publication orCompletelyNovelwhich is based in the UK.The digital revolution has turned the music industry upside down but it is moving at a more leisurely pace in books where self-publishing hasn't yet taken off in a really big way.The question this week is whether, once again, Apple will change the game by providing an easy way to publish and generate a conversation. There is still a vast market out there for the taking.twitter.com/vickeegan
Apple has surprised would-be buyers of its new iPad touchscreen computer, saying it will not announce UK prices before it launches at the end of March.Although it announced US prices for all six versions of the touchscreen "tablet" device with and without 3G connectivity at the launch on Wednesday night by Apple's chief executive Steve Jobs, the UK office said today that there will be no UK prices offered until the launch, expected in 60 days' time – or 90 days for the 3G versions.However, theMacWorld magazine website takes an "educated guess" at UK pricingfor the iPad, which it predicts will range from £388 to £591 for the Wi-Fi model, and  £490 to £693 for the Wi-FI and 3G model.The iPad is a 9.7in tablet computer with a virtual keyboard which can surf the web, do email, display ebooks and play video. US prices start at $499 for a basic version with Wi-Fi wireless networking but no 3G connectivity, rising to $829 for a 3G version with 64 gigabytes of storage. However iPad users in the US will have to pay separately for 3G data plans being sold separately by Apple's exclusive mobile partner there, AT&amp;T, which already supplies the iPhone there.Mobile phone companies in the UK – O2, Orange, T-Mobile and Vodafone – are looking to strike similar deals in Europe ahead of a launch later in the year. The Guardian understands from multiple source that no choice has been made.Apple initially sold the iPhone through exclusive partners in the US, UK, France and Germany, but for the iPad the British mobile phone networks are not expecting Apple to offer exclusivity. None was willing to comment on the iPad.Andrew Harrison, UK chief executive of the Carphone Warehouse, Europe's largest independent mobile phone retailer, commented: "To me, the really interesting thing is what we are seeing is devices designed with how the consumer uses the internet very much in mind, rather than just a computer that was made for business use trying to fit the consumer."Bloggers and commentators had mixed reactions to the device. It cannot run Adobe's Flash software, used by many advertisers and games companies online to create eye-catching motion on web pages, which some see as essential to web browsing. Many women were dismayed by the name:the San Francisco Examiner pointed outthat "for North American women the word 'pad' means but one thing, a sanitary napkin". But Nick Carr, author of The Big Switch, about the move towards cloud computing, described the launch as "the day the PC died", saying that Apple "wants to deliver the killer device for the cloud era, a machine that will define computing's new age in the way that the Windows PC defined the old age."Without a price ahead of the launch it may be difficult for retailers to judge the public's interest – and so whether the device will sell in large or small numbers. Amazon's Kindle, which includes mobile networking in the price, only launched recently in the UK, and Amazon has never disclosed sales numbers, thoughit is reckoned to have sold only about 500,000to the end of last year.The decision to keep the UK price under wraps is unusual for Apple, which usually announces UK pricing simultaneously with any launch, and could either indicate concern about exchange rate fluctuations, or a desire to keep people intrigued about the device, or that non-US networks are seeking to sell it with some sort of subsidy.Already several UK mobile phone companies subsidise the cost of laptops to persuade customers to sign up for long-term mobile broadband contracts. Anyone signing up to a two-year mobile broadband deal with T-Mobile at £40 a month, for instance, gets a free Sony Vaio laptop worth £499.However, Apple has forced AT&amp;T to give up persuading customers to sign long-term contracts in order to subsidise the iPad; instead, it will effectively be available on what in Europe would be seen as a 30-day rolling Sim-only contract such as those offered by O2 and Vodafone."It does not look as though it has the traditional subsidy model," said Harrison. "If you put Wi-Fi and 3G in it, it is actually more expensive not less expensive."In a note relating AT&amp;T's financial prospects following the news, Jonathan Schildkraut, analyst at Jefferies &amp; Co investment bank said the tariffs are "in line with the current data add-on options available with voice packages, and well below the roughly $60 plans currently offered by wireless carriers for a laptop card. The prepaid plan can be activated directly from the iPad and, because there is no contract, can be canceled at anytime."Meanwhile anyone who already has a wireless broadband "dongle" under a long-term contract and is thinking about installing its SIM card into an iPad will be disappointed. The iPad is the first mass-market mobile device to use micro-Sim cards, which are smaller than the current range of Sim cards and were designed for small consumer gadgets such as Birmingham-based Lok8u's range of wireless-enabled wrist watches.The iPad is also likely to prove a major headache for makers of similar devices, especially Taiwan's Asus which recently announced plans for its own tablet, and Nokia which last year unveiled a "booklet" computer with built-in 3G. There are also understood to be several tablet computers running Google's Android software in the works, with France's Archos rumoured to be planning to release one in March.
More than half of the companies running critical infrastructure such as electrical grids, gas and oil supplies have suffered cyber attacks or stealth infiltrations by organised gangs or state-sponsored hackers, according to a new study by the US Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS).The attacks are part of a "cyber cold war" that is going on silently all over the internet, the study suggests. And a growing number of executives at the companies believe that foreign governments are behind the attacks – with the worldwide poll finding that the US and China are believe to pose the biggest threat through cyberattacks.The study, released at the Davos World Economic Forum meeting and commissioned by the computer security company McAfee, puts the cost to the world economy of the attacks at £1.4bn annually, or £3.6m per day – but it is the threat to the stability of essential services that needs to be dealt with urgently.The report comes after Google revealed that it and more than 30 other western companies in the financial and industrial sector had been targeted by Chinese hackers. The attack, dubbed "Operation Aurora", was alleged to be targeting valuable intellectual property and personal details, having broken into the companies' networks using "highly sophisticated" hacking techniques.Google implied – without ever specifying – that the hackers were acting for the Chinese government. That quickly led to an international row after the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, urged China to investigate the break-ins, and made a speech critical of internet censorship as practised by China. China rebuffed suggestions that it was behind the hacking. McAfee was the first company to identify the flaw in Microsoft's Internet Explorer that was used to attack Google.Separately, earlier this week theChristian Science Monitor newspaper revealedthat three Texas-based oil companies – Conoco, ExxonMobil and Marathon – were alerted by the FBI that their systems were penetrated in 2008 and that "bid data" about oil reserves and potential drilling sites was stolen.For the McAfee study, the Center of Strategic and International Studies surveyed some 600 IT and security executives from the energy, transport, water and sewage, government, telecoms and financial sectors in 14 countries."In most developed countries, critical infrastructure is connected to the internet and can lack proper security functions, leaving these installations vulnerable," McAfee said.Some 37% of firms believed the threat to critical infrastructure is growing, and two-fifths expect a major cyber security incident within the next year, the survey showed, while one out of five has been a victim of financial extortion.The recently identified Operation Aurora was the largest and most sophisticated cyberattack targeted at specific corporations, but it could have just as easily targeted the world's critical infrastructure," said Dave DeWalt, McAfee's chief executive. "The attack announced by Google and identified by McAfee was the most sophisticated threat seen in years making it a watershed moment in cybersecurity because of the targeted and coordinated nature of the attack."Greg Day, McAfee's security analyst, said the biggest surprise in the study was the scale and scope of attacks. "It is happening at such a major scale and we will certainly see more and more sophisticated attacks," he said.
The amount of user-generated hype for Apple's new tablet computer was so vast that almost anything was likely to be a let-down, so the immediate backlash (ipad sucks) is hardly a surprise. The iPad turned out to be, at bottom, an iPod Touch with a big screen. It failed to offer a magical new 3D interface, or an OLED screen, or a built-in projector, or any other revolutionary features. Indeed, it doesn't even have basic features such as a webcam, microphone, USB port, SD card slot, HDMI port, or a standard mobile phone SIM slot, though some of these will be provided at extra cost, via adaptors.As Bobbie Johnson has already pointed out here inApple iPad: what it doesn't have, the new tablet also lacks Adobe Flash support (which means that, like the iPhone and iPod Touch, it can't handle some websites) and multi-tasking. No Flash means no Farmville or similar Facebook games.Gizmodo, the influential gadget blog, has a post -8 Things That Suck About the iPad– that says No thanks! and gives the device the thumbs down. The list currently includes 11 things, though a rider adds: "This post does not necessarily reflect the opinions of others at Gizmodo."One aspect of the iPad was that some saw it as Apple's answer to the netbook – a cheap form factor that millions want but Apple won't supply. CNet argued that the iPad wasn't the answer, in10 Things Netbooks still do better than an iPad. It fails to mention that you can get netbooks that offer higher screen resolution than the iPad, as well as the usual netbook features (hard drive, keyboard, webcam etc).InThe Case against the iPad, Timothy B Lee wrote: "I'm not impressed. I'm a lifelong Mac fanboy, so I'm not averse to buying Apple stuff. But I don't understand who this product is marketed for, and I'm disappointed that Apple has decided to adopt the iPhone's locked-down platform strategy."The iPad name also attracted derision because, as theExaminerpointed out, "For North American women the word 'pad' means but one thing, a sanitary napkin":"So flabbergasted were women, and a good many men, at the name that not only did iPad quickly become a trending topic on twitter but so did iTampon. And the jokes were flying through cyberspace ..."Jezebelquickly compiled The Internet's Best Period-Related iPad JokesSilicon Alley Insider had so many negative posts that it headlined its link postWow, Did Apple Just Blow It?The stories includeApple's iPad Is This Decade's Newton, andThe Truth About Apple's iPad: It's A Big Yawn.Fake Steve Jobs (actually, Newsweek's technology editor Dan Lyons) summed it all up in hislive-blogof the launch:11:01– and i know what you're thinking – we came up with a new device and all we could think to do with it is run the apps that run on your iphone, and have a clone of Kindle, and now run iWork apps? um, yes. that's all we could come up with.11:04– good lord, did i really say this is the most important thing i've ever done in my life?As software developer Dave Winer says inApple's jumbo Oreo:"Finally, Apple went too far, and the emperor is totally naked for all of us to see. Ridiculous product. Absolutely completely ridiculous."But not everyone took such a negative view. Some reckoned it really was a new type of device, and the Wall Street Journal'sWalt Mossbergargued that ultimately the iPad would be about the software and media, rather than the hardware.After an attention-grabbing (but silly) headline,The PC Officially Died Today, Nicholas Carr claimed: "we've entered a new era of computing, in which media and software have merged in the Internet cloud"."With the iPad, Apple is hoping to bridge all the niches. It wants to deliver the killer device for the cloud era, a machine that will define computing's new age in the way that the Windows PC defined the old age. The iPad is, as Jobs said today, 'something in the middle,' a multipurpose gadget aimed at the sweet spot between the tiny smartphone and the traditional laptop. If it succeeds, we'll all be using iPads to play iTunes, read iBooks, watch iShows, and engage in iChats. It will be an iWorld."However, he was not blind to the iPad's obvious limitations, or to the risk of entering an Apple-dominated world. Jobs's "overriding goal is to establish his company as the major conduit, and toll collector, between the media cloud and the networked computer. Jobs doesn't just want to produce glamorous gizmos. He wants to be the impresario of all media." Carr concluded.At The New York Times, David Pogue'sThe Apple iPad: First Impressionssaid the iPad bashing "will last until the iPad actually goes on sale in April. Then, if history is any guide, Phase 3 will begin: positive reviews, people lining up to buy the thing, and the mysterious disappearance of the basher-bloggers.""My main message to fanboys is this: it's too early to draw any conclusions. Apple hasn't given the thing to any reviewers yet, there are no iPad-only apps yet (there will be), the e-bookstore hasn't gone online yet, and so on. So hyperventilating is not yet the appropriate reaction."True, but it's not as much fun.Maybe the iPad will find a market among marketing people, old people, parents, as some have suggested to Dave Winer. "What they're really saying is that it's the computer for idiots. I agree. Idiots with $500 burning a hole in their pocket. Like me. I'll almost certainly buy one. But unless I'm missing something, I'll still travel with the Asus that I'm typing this review on."
The Apple iPad will probably never replace television, but it is likely to cut a big piece out of it. Chad Evans of MLB.com, the official website of US Major League Baseball, is leading the attack.Last August, MLB.com announced that it was to stream full-length live games for the iPhone and iPod. Now, it is taking that to the iPad."We couldn't just take our existing iPhone app and make it bigger," Evans said proudly when presenting his iPad app. "This big display really allows us to create a much more immersive experience."Alongside the live full-screen video will be onscreen stats and data: You can scroll through a team's lineup on the bottom, click on players to get specific data, and there is a scoreboard on the top.Emerging media producer Gary Hayes says about this new the digitalisation of television: "We are finally entering an era where the second and third screen – the PC and the mobile – are truly converging." The increasing links between social media and TV are now embodied in a single device.Live sport wherever you go is likely to be the iPad's most attractive video offering, but it won't be the only one. A generation has grown up used to watching TV series and movies on laptops, and the iPad might be a more handy alternative. "The larger and shareable display of the iPad means on-demand TV and streamed web video/TV can retain its 'scale' and integrity while finally becoming portable, but more importantly become a viable second 'networked' screen actually in the TV room itself," says Hayes.iTunes has a TV and movie store with a catalogue of over 50,000 TV episodes and 8,000 films, 2,000 of them in high definition video – as Steve Jobs proudly demonstrated with a clip from Pixar's animated film Up. And both might be taken soon somewhere else."The device though opens up many possibilities for interactive producers such as rich, synchronized web pages and apps alongside broadcast TV and the 'friendly/social' non-laptop device will encourage more 'group' activity in the same room," says Hayes.
Steve Jobs has fired the starting pistol in the race to bring the iPad to the UK, with several mobile phone operators and retailer Carphone Warehouse interested in selling Apple's new tablet computer to consumers this side of the Atlantic.Jobs announced on Wednesday that a version of the device that can access 3G mobile phone networks as well as Wi-Fi will start shipping in the US in April under a deal with AT&amp;T, which already supplies the iPhone in North America. Mobile phone companies in the UK – O2, Orange, T-Mobile and Vodafone – are looking to strike similar deals in Europe ahead of a launch later in the year.Orange, owned by France Telecom, has taken an early lead in the race to bring the iPad to the UKand has already held talks with Apple. But it has been in this situation before. It was very close to an exclusive deal with the iPhone but was beaten at the last minute by O2.Vodafone and O2 have yet to begin discussions with Apple, according to sources, but are interested in the iPad. Neither company, however, reckons the iPad will be offered exclusively in the UK. Orange, in contrast, reckons it might be able to get an exclusive deal if it can offer the right sort of subsidy for the phone, which might make it cheaper for British users.However in the US, Appple has shown little interest in getting it's phone subsidised by it's wireless partner there, AT&amp;T. Instead it seems to have preferred offering consumers the chance to dip in and out of wireless broadband, rather than being tied to a ling term contract.T-Mobile is understood to be talking to Apple at group level rather than specifically in the UK, meaning it is likely to be trying to put together a deal in more than one European market. Orange is likely to want to clinch a deal for France as well as the UK and T-Mobile in Germany. Vodafone, meanwhile, will also be looking for a deal in Italy, according to sources.Andrew Harrison, UK chief executive of the Carphone Warehouse, welcomed news of the Apple device, adding: "To me, the really interesting thing is what we are seeing is devices designed with how the consumer uses the internet very much in mind, rather than just a computer that was made for business use trying to fit the consumer."Carphone Warehouse, Europe's largest independent mobile phone retailer, was Apple's exclusive third party retail partner for the iPhone and Harrison obviously hopes to repeat the experience with the iPad."Our perspective is we play in the world of connectivity and particularly mobile connectivity and this device fits well within that; we think there will be a whole range of them. This is an extension of a smartphone perhaps even more than it being a smaller PC. It is much more in the territory that we operate in," he said"We have done a phenomenal job with the iPhone and smartphones in general and bringing connectivity is something we would be delighted to talk to Apple about."But the AT&amp;T deal shows that Apple may be approaching the involvement of mobile phone operators with the iPad in a very different way from the way that it uses them for the iPhone.Traditionally, mobile phone companies "subsidise" the up-front cost of hardware – usually mobile phones, but increasingly laptops – in return for persuading a customer to sign up to a long-term contract. The operator assumes it will make the subsidy back over the life of the contract. That is how the iPhone is sold in the US and Europe, while even Google followed this model with its Nexus One, signing a deal with T-Mobile in the US which sees the phone's $529 price tag fall to $179 in return for signing a contract. Vodafone is expected to sell the Nexus One in the UK at roughly the same price point as the iPhone.Already several UK mobile phone companies subsidise the cost of laptops to persuade customers to sign up for long-term mobile broadband contracts. Anyone signing up to a two-year mobile broadband deal with T-Mobile at £40 a month, for instance, gets a free Sony Vaio laptop worth £499.But with the iPad, Apple has forced AT&amp;T to give up on persuading customers to sign long-term contracts. Instead the iPad will effectively be available on what in Europe would be seen as a 30-day rolling SIM-only contract such as those offered by O2 and Vodafone.Customers have two pricing options in the US, a mere 250MB of data for $14.99 a month, or unlimited data for $29.99 a month. That means that while the basic version of the iPad – without wireless capabilities – will start at $499, the 3G version of the device will start at $629. Under the traditional operator model, the 3G version of the device would have been cheaper."It does not look as though it has the traditional subsidy model," said Harrison. "If you put Wi-Fi and 3G in it, it is actually more expensive not less expensive."In a note on AT&amp;T following the news, Jonathan Schildkraut, analyst at Jefferies &amp; Co investment bank said the tariffs are "in line with the current data add-on options available with voice packages, and well below the roughly $60 plans currently offered by wireless carriers for a laptop card. The prepaid plan can be activated directly from the iPad and, because there is no contract, can be canceled at anytime.""Given the prepaid nature of the service associated with this product, including the no contract/cancel at any time feature, we expect that AT&amp;T would not have to subsidise the device. We would view this as a significant positive – given the large subsidy associated with the iPhone (estimated at up to $400). Additionally, this would imply better overall economics around the device (without the initial margin dilution of an iPhone sale)," he said"The flip-side, of course, is that the usage patterns of this type of device are unknown. However, given the multimedia capabilities, and the video functionality in particular, we would assume that iPad could be another network hog. This could drive incremental congestion issues on AT&amp;T's already strained network – leading to further network dissatisfaction, and potentially a need for ongoing higher levels of capital spending".In other words, not getting people to sign a contract gives the operator very little chance to factor the potential cost of future infrastructure investment into its pricing plans. Then there is the worry that applications which allow internet telephony – such as Truphone and Skype, which are already available on the iPhone and will port to the iPad – will further erode the network's profitable voice and text traffic.Apple initially sold the iPhone through exclusive partners in the US, UK, France and Germany, but for the iPad the British mobile phone companies are not expecting Apple to offer exclusivity. None of the mobile phone companies was willing to comment on the iPad.Incidentally, anyone who already has a wireless broadband "dongle" under a long-term contract and is thinking about buying an iPad and putting the SIM card from their laptop card into the iPad will be disappointed. The iPad is the first mass-market mobile device to use micro-Sim cards, which are smaller than the current range of Sim cards and were designed for small consumer gadgets such as Birmingham-based Lok8u's range of wireless-enabled wrist watches.The iPad is also likely to prove a major headache for makers of similar devices, especially Taiwan's Asus which recently announced plans for its own tablet, and Nokia which last year unveiled a "booklet" computer with built-in 3G. There are also understood to be several tablet computers running Google's Android software in the works, with France's Archos rumoured to be planning to release one in March.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
