I had a friend - three times married, alcoholic, an intermittent pot-smoker - who left a liberal newspaper to become a leader writer for the Daily Mail, where he was paid pretty well to inveigh against almost all his own vices and pleasures, at least when they were practised by the lower classes. I enjoyed his company, and I enjoyed his hypocrisy, too; but he didn't think of it as hypocritical at all. "It's all right when we do it," he would say, and point to the fact that his children had all found work of one sort or another, and that he and his wives had always worked hard (the wives, I suspect, harder) to mitigate the effects of family breakdown.Similarly, he had only tried cocaine once, because he recognised that it was a drug he simply couldn't handle at all: his reasoning was that all other drugs made him feel inspired, but in the morning he could see that what he had written with their aid was nonsense. On cocaine he had written quite brilliantly, and he knew that any drug so apparently benevolent must exact a terrible price for its help. That at least made him wiser than Sigmund Freud and far wiser than most of the people who tried it.My friend argued that the feckless poor, who could not be trusted to look after their children after divorce, nor to eschew cocaine because it improved their prose style, could not be granted the liberties he claimed for himself. I think he was probably happier writing leaders for the Daily Mail than the Independent or even the Guardian.I thought of him the other day when I was upgrading Adblock Plus, the one indispensable plugin for Firefox. If ever there were an example of a vice that is all right when we do it, but far too good for the great unwashed, adblocking is it. This isn't merely pop-up blocking, now accepted as perfectly normal. But Adblock Plus will block absolutely anything. I have it set to block all animated ads of any sort, as well as most banner ads, Google ads on blogs and anything obtrusively large anywhere. Once you are used to Adblock, using an unprotected browser feels like walking from a library into an amusement arcade. With Adblock Plus, even Ryanair's site just looks like the remains of a big night out frozen on to the pavement, rather than the inside of filthy migraine.Adblock only works with Firefox, although Opera can quite easily be configured in the same way and the last time I checked, only 340,000 people had downloaded it from the main Mozilla site. So I suppose it is all right when we do it - and, boy, do I do it: there are 127 sites blocked in my Adblock file. But if a hundred times as many people used it there would be no money to be made from the web at all. Even Google would be hurt: though I let its text ads through on the main site, I don't see them on blogs. I specifically block all ads from the papers I read most - the Guardian and the FT - and this is in principle fantastically spiteful behaviour, since if no one saw the Guardian's ads, I would go a whole lot hungrier. Yet I can't resist. I will however pay for content online, which is unusual: I have an annual subscription to the FT. But I won't put up with ads that I can't ignore.This looks one of the most unexpected moral dilemmas of the internet. Using Adblock Plus violates the categorical imperative, since I certainly wouldn't want everyone to act as I do: on the other hand, the internet or even the economy would not be in the tiniest bit improved if I stopped using it. And - if using it is so dangerous - should I really be writing an article which will lead all sensible readers to download it and try it out?But there is a simple, depressing, and completely unphilosophical solution to this conundrum: it turns out that most people can't be bothered to modify their browsers. Unless Adblock Plus were given away by someone with the reach of Microsoft or Google, it will remain of interest only to the nerds. And, of course, neither Microsoft nor Google would do anything so destructive of their own ecosystem. Even Opera, which had the feature first, never advertised it at all. There isn't really a parallel to my old friend on the Daily Mail, because - hard as it is for a geek to believe - most people get more pleasure out of sex and drugs than from fiddling with their web browsers.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
Telltale continues to rule episodic gaming through a combination of clever pacing (a new instalment every two months) and the consistent hilarity of its hero detectives, Sam and Max. The final instalment from season two is another slick point-and-click adventure bristling with slapstick attitude, one-liners and unpredictable cartoon cameos. The plot features a journey to Hell to save the soul of maverick cornershop inventor Bosco, so expect familiar faces, new characters and lateral puzzles, with lashings of laconic wit and top-notch production values. It's over far too soon, but why this masterful duo hasn't been snapped up for TV or movies yet is anyone's guess.
We've got an article today onHow The Sims put non-gamers in the top slot, which correctly points to the huge success of this modern version ofLittle Computer People.What hasn't been so successful is The Sims Online, which was recently renamed EA-Land. Yesterday, Electronic Arts'EA-Land blogsaid:It is with mixed emotions that today we are announcing the EA-Land experiment will soon draw to a close. Since 2002, EA-Land / TSO has attracted a very special group of players (of which you are one) and we certainly appreciate your participation in the EA-Land community. The lifetime of the game has drawn to an end, and now we will be focusing on new ideas and other innovative concepts in the games arena. We'd like to thank everyone who has taken part in this online community as a unique experience in the virtual world.The announcement has caused lots of anguish because it involves destroying a real online community, for all the fact that it's virtual. Also, from the comments, some people seem to have invested real money in the game. Any EA-Land/TSO players care to comment?
Gartner says it has surveyed 4,770 consumer Internet users across 18 countries, three regions, three educational levels and three income levels only to find that most people use it for email and search. After that, "the third Internet interest worldwide was online banking, with emerging markets being the only major exception."Shocking stuff.... But there's more:However, Gartner found that there is one demographic group that is bucking the trend, with 13- to 18-year-olds enjoying the most divergent internet interests, ranging from downloading music and playing games online to blogging and social networks.Gartner says:"Rather than being considered as contrarians, this group should be regarded as the precursors of what is to come," said Elroy Jopling, research director at Gartner. "The internet has become a utility for most consumers, who use it for communicating, gathering information and performing financial transactions. However, a new 'trickle down' phenomenon, where teenagers lead the evolution of consumer internet applications, heralds a new era where Internet applications will mimic life -- communicating, entertaining, socialising, informing, transactional, either in a fixed location or on the move."Well, perhaps teenagers led the way insocial networking(which could be considered a spin-off from dating), but what else? Seems to me that plenty of non-teenagers do other stuff on the net. Also, asSt Paulmight have observed, when these teenagers grow up and have children and jobs, they may well make more use of email and online banking etc, and waste less time on MySpace/Bebo/Facebook.Thereportitself, of course, costs money.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
The BBC has done a couple of new items about the World Wide Web reaching its 15th birthday. In the first, Sir Tim Berners-Lee says the Web is "still in its infancy". The story also quotesRobert Cailliau, who worked on the early development at Cern, and both of them feature in a round-up:Luminaries look to the future web. This has short statements from 10 people, including publisher Tim O'Reilly (whodidn'tcoin the term Web 2.0),Mitchell Bakerfrom Mozilla, and uberblogger/TwittererRobert Scoble.The University of Southampton gets prominent billing. This is presumably connected with the fact that Sir Tim occupies aChair of Computer Scienceat the University of Southampton's School of Electronics and Computer Science.Incidentally, this is not the first time the BBC has celebrated theWeb's 15th birthday. The last time it did it was in August 2006, withHow the web went world wide. This said:One key date is 6 August 1991 -- the day on which links to the fledgling computer code for the www were put on the alt.hypertext discussion group so others could download it and play with it.We look forward to helping the BBC celebrate moreWeb's 15th birthdaystories in the future.
For many, computer game development is a dark art: come up with a great interactive idea, add lots of pizza and high-energy cola, bang out a few lines of code and – hey presto – out pops an AAA blockbuster.In the old days – a golden era dominated by a few teeny development houses (based in bedrooms) and a handful of publishers (also based in bedrooms) who produced products for a small base of Commodore 64 players – you could have done it on your own in about a week. Nowadays, the recipe's the same, but each game takes at least 40 people several years to make, with budgets that stretch into the millions.Yet on the outskirts of the mainstream, the solo entrepreneur lives on. Several hundred prolific independent developers regularly create award-winning interactivity for a few hundred quid. The British indie games scene is spreading like wildfire, supported by more than 165 accredited game development degree courses, the open source movement and the steady increase in accessible development tools. And because there is no bottom line to dictate which brands are successful and which games should be made, it's in the indie circuit where creativity really thrives.Among the hundreds of outlets for homegrown titles are conferences like theIndependent Games Festival, competitions likeDare To Be Digital, showcase events like Kokoromi'sGamma256and web resources likeManifesto Games. The commercial names are getting in on the act too; all the consoles have facilities for independent developers to distribute their games on their platforms.Interactive fantasiesIt's a great time, therefore, to exercise those interactive fantasies. As luck would have it, the Guardian's Gamesblog is launchingSpaceship!, a game development experiment where the players get involved even before any code has been written.Spaceship! is a text adventure that offers fledgling developers the opportunity to put their storytelling, design and programming skills into practice, and to create a game in three months that will be published and distributed to the world. Staying true to the ethos of independent game development, this is a project borne of the desire to make something enjoyable and interactive, and is completely free of corporate chains."I imagine an Aardmanesque contraption capable of devouring and processing any of the incongruous chunks of creativity thrown into it, spitting out neatly wrapped mystery packages," explains Craig Davies, one of the key bloggers behind Spaceship!. "Expect to have fun, to get creative, and most of all, expect to learn."Davies and a handful of other game development novices made a stab at making an independent game last year. The result, Contamination, was a sprawling experiment that taught the participants a lot more than they'd imagined about game development."It's been great for me to start learning basic programming techniques, which is something I plan to devote more time to in the future. I also learned about planning your game designs, writing a plan of campaign, mapping out locations, and how to anticipate a player's thoughts and desires," explains Davies.All-important puzzlesSpaceship!'s storytellers and designers will work on the concept, developing the content of the game. They are instrumental in devising the all-important puzzles that the player must navigate to reach the end. The programmers make their dreams playable using the Open Source language Inform6. The idea is that a lot of people contribute a little bit, andthe websitehas been designed to encourage participation."You need a combination of traditional and agile development techniques [for a project of this kind to work]," says Davies, who admits that developing Contamination has changed his attitude towards games. "Before working on the project I always came down on theludology side of the narration (story) vs ludology (play) debate, but having spent a short while exploring the genre and seeing how the games work I can see that both can co-exist in harmony," he says."Additionally, I'm probably less likely now to buy the latest blockbuster hit. Instead, I'll download an [indie] title ... I'll still be getting GTA IV though."&middot;If you'd like to get involved, the team would love your help. Development starts today at http://textadventure.org.uk, and the final product will be launched in August 2008. Pizza and soda will be provided.
Lots more gaming stuff up today. First up Peter Molyneuxfinally admitshe was given undue credit in the past."Not so much these days, because the role of a designer is much, much more understood. But for a very long time, I was way, way over-credited for many things."Then there is a look at advertisers trying toreach gamers. Plus a closer look at howgames can be used in schools. I can only assume things have come on since the mid 80s when "games in school" meant Chuckie Egg on the Beeb...I've stuck my oar in too, and havetaken a lookat World of Warcraft and the potential competitors it may face this year. Warhammer or Conan anyone? Expect more game stuff later this week too.In case the link is broken or you can't be bothered to click, here is the WoW article. Think I missed anything out? And can WoW - and its successors - ever be toppled?Orcs, elves and 10 million paying subscribers: World of Warcraft is a PC gaming phenomenon. Three years since its release and the online game is still riding high, but could 2008 finally see it face some competition?Blizzard, the creators of WoW, and their cleverly designed virtual world have blown the Massively Multiplayer Online (MMO) genre wide open. Previously a niche gaming offshoot, it is now worth more than $1bn in the west alone.World of Warcraft is primarily responsible for this growth, adding polish and accessibility to the rough template originally developed by pioneers like Everquest. "With World of Warcraft we tried to maximise the fun, pick-up-and-play aspects, and make an MMO that was as approachable as possible without losing that lasting depth," said the game's lead producer, J Allen Brack. "That resounded with players on a much greater scale than we'd ever anticipated."A new expansion pack, Wrath of the Lich King, is due out later this year and is likely to shoot to the top of the charts. But by this time WoW will face the first batch of credible challengers to its online gaming crown.The biggest is Warhammer Online. The game has a similar look and feel to WoW but has far more emphasis on player versus player battle. This large-scale combat will see groups of opposing players battling it out for land and virtual bragging rights. Throw in the Games Workshop licence and you have a potentially worthy competitor. Oli Welsh, MMO editor of Eurogamer.net agrees: "Warhammer will probably get a little closer to World of Warcraft because it specifically appeals to hardcore fans who are pretty bored with WoW at the moment."Another challenger due at around the same time is Age of Conan. This grittier take on fantasy allows players to build and conquer cities, and boasts a more dynamic combat system than the online gaming norm.Elsewhere, NCsoft's Aion has the potential to add more depth to the usual conflict with three factions - two playable and one computer-controlled - battling for control.There is also a substantial new update due for Lord of the Rings Online, which was originally released in 2007 and has quietly built a decent reputation - even if the subscriber numbers are dwarfed by WoW. "The Lord of the Rings Online isn't just combat," says Ed Relf, who heads up the project for publishers Codemasters. "The focus is on faithfully recreating the fantasy world of Middle Earth in an online universe."The consoles will also provide some belated competition when NCsoft launches its MMO title for the PS3 in 2009.Publicly, at least, most of the competitors see WoW as a positive for the market. "World of Warcraft has been a blessing for the genre and has opened up massively multiplayer gaming for millions of people all around the world," said Erling Ellingsen, product manager at Conan developer Funcom.And Blizzard itself is magnanimous: "Rather than look at the new wave of titles as competitors, we see them as games that will further broaden the overall appeal of online gaming - and we're looking forward to playing them too," said Brack.But while the market currently remains dominated by swords and sorcery the real growth is likely to be in less fantastical settings. "I expect The Agency (spies), All Points Bulletin (crime) and Lego Universe to do really, really well," says Eurogamer.net's Welsh. Titles aimed at casual and younger gamers are another growth area. Disney's Club Penguin and Toontown Online have been successful in attracting the pre-teen audience - and the latter has over a million subscribers. Jagex's Runescape, which takes the more traditional role-playing setting and repackages it for a younger age group, has a similar number of paying players. Relf recognises the trend: "One of the biggest growth opportunities within the online gaming space is represented by the relatively untapped younger or more casual gaming audience."Welsh sounds a word of warning though. "There's no such thing as a casual MMO player. Successful MMOs turn casual gamers into hardcore gamers - it's how they work, economically."So what happens next in online gaming? Ellingsen thinks diversity is key. "If the message the market receives is that you need to create World of Warcraft in order to be successful, no one is going to dare do it. I truly hope that we will see a lot more niche online games that will get a healthy number of players."Welsh argues that price is the real driver. "The growth of the free-to-play market in the west will really help grow the audience for this kind of gaming."Diversity, price and big brands like Lego will all help widen the online gaming market, but Relf urges caution to any potential entrant. "World of Warcraft is the iPod of the MMO genre. It's a phenomenon that may never be replicated again in this space."
Grand Theft Auto IV may not just be the most profitable game of the year, but the biggest release in any media, full stop. In terms of the bottom line, it could over-shadow any movie – at least in a fiscal sense.In other ways, though, it'll fall short. For example, ask the average gamer in the midnight queues for GTA IV who its designer is, you're likely to receive a shrug. Compare that to asking a cinema crowd who directed the film they're about to watch. GTA IV is the biggest game in the world and, as far as most are concerned, it's made by a blank developer's logo.Rockstar North is far from alone in this anonymity. The known names are exceptions and exceptional: Shigeru Miyamoto, Will Wright and Sid Meier, creator of Mario, the Sims and Civilization respectively. Two things to note. Firstly, there's only a handful. Secondly, they are all long-standing veterans. Why so few? And where's the next generation?Peter Molyneux, the Brit-development linchpin who is currently at work on Fable 2, has his suspicions.Fable: at work on a sequel"I don't think publishers like there to be people attached to a certain franchise," he says. "I don't think they want Peter Molyneux known for the Fable franchise and they don't particularly want a famous person attached to any franchise – because if that famous person leaves, they can take the franchise with them."Molyneux also thinks the few new names prove a point. For example, CliffyB rose to prominence with the success of Xbox 360 hit Gears of War. The difference is that Epic, its creators, is an independent company. With the decline of the indies, who are being absorbed into larger publishers, there are fewer names around: instead, the talent shines beneath the publisher's bushel.Molyneux thinks it's a shame."Behind the scenes, I think it's more true than ever before that a director or producer - or a 'vision holder', if you don't want to think of it in film terms - is pushing a franchise forward," he says. It's because how mainstream games have grown, from the single bedroom programmer into teams which, at their operational peak, can have well over a hundred people working."It's not as if these teams are run in a communistic way, where everyone has their view and you can't point and say well, this game is being driven by this person," he says. "It's just not true. You can't have 100 people working on a project without there being really clear creative leadership. Games aren't done in that sort of way – no creative vision is".Not that all teams will necessarily publicly agree - the flip of publisher paranoia are the internal politics of the development team, which don't necessarily like the idea of a creative visionary."For a long, long time I've been credited unduly," he says, "Not so much these days, because the role of a designer is much, much more understood. But for a very long time, I was way, way over-credited for many things."Extreme methodsOther companies take extreme methods to avoid this. Independent developer Valve – creators of Half-life, Portal and Team Fortress – don't even give job titles in their credits, merely listing them alphabetically. Molyneux favours other methods than this show of team-wide egalitarianism: the Lionhead team appear in video diaries online, giving them a public face.With opposition from both above and below, it begs the question what would  allow new public faces. Molyneux sees two sources. Firstly, from the publishers."They have to feel safe to promote their team members," he says, "Rather like the film studios talking about their big directors. They had those people on contract, so they felt safe they weren't going to leave."Molyneux argues that with the age of consolidation into a few megapublishers, they'll feel more confident and then realise that a figurehead is a good way to separate their game from the competition."This produces twice as many column inches in a magazine or online... and suddenly they can literally quantify the benefit from getting stars out there," he says.The second onus is on the creators. While there are huge teams, the actual core team is a tiny group."I think you'll get more people sticking up their hands saying "I was here from the first moment to the last moment, I was in on every single meeting, I understand the game.""I think more and more they'll be recognised as the spokesman or the visionary of a game."
There are a few common reasons why advertisers want to use videogames to reach consumers.One is the belief that videogames are a place to recover the waning audiences of television advertising. The highly desirable, seemingly elusive 18-34 male demographic is often, unfairly, assumed to correspond directly to videogame players. What better way to retrieve these "lost" consumers than to inject billboard and video advertising into their sci-fi shooters and fantasy role-playing games?Would an orc order pizza? Does a dystopian planet from the future need a pacer drink? In most videogames, advertisements become parodies of themselves. An alternate version of this principle swaps young men for middle-aged women, and console games for casual puzzle games, where branded objects replace abstract tokens.Another motivation is advertisers ongoing interest in targeting children. People assume videogames are for kids (as well as young adult males). Everyone, from greedy candymakers to hopeful science educators to earnest charitable organisations, wants to reach kids early with messages to buy, to learn, or to become aware. What better way to speak to the kiddies than via Mario platformer lookalikes or custom virtual worlds that extend a favorite franchise?Unfortunately, kids advergames and educational titles underestimate the sophistication that children exhibit at play. Titles like Pokemon, Animal Crossing, or Zoo Tycoon require patience, deep knowledge and sophisticated reasoning.Yet another reason revolves around visibility. No matter the intended audience, games get attention. These days, every musician, politician, and non-profit cause has a MySpace page, a Facebook profile and a YouTube channel. Videogames offer a sure-fire way to attract new attention in a noisy world. Major press outlets will cover a game without ever playing it, so quality matters less than curiosity. In fact, an entire genre of computer-enabled games played partly in real-world environemnts, known as Alternate Reality Games (or ARGs), have been funded almost exclusively by advertisers as a way to garner the kind of front-page news stories money can't buy directly.But the features of videogames that make them powerful communication tools cannot be found in their demography, or their puerility, or their peculiarity. Rather, they are located in the very way they make meaning. In games, players take on roles constrained by rules. In play, we become other people, in a different situation, and try out life in their shoes. This is a powerful idea that has the potential for both commercial and social benefit.For a long time now, advertisers have sold desires rather than competing for needs. They have lured us into buying products that represent the lives we aspire to but don't actually lead. They do this by plastering our world with images of these fantasy lives in the hope that we will buy untold products and services in a vain attempt to bridge the endless chasm between lives of mundane, suburban debt and lives of lithe, hypersexed outdoorsmanship.But videogames don't just project images; they simulate experiences. For the first time since the quaint sponsor spots of the golden age of television, we have in the videogame a medium that can actually make claims about the features, functions, benefits and drawbacks of products and services. Or of public policies and causes, for that matter.This untapped potential of games upsets the very foundation of advertising as we know it. Instead of surrounding us with images that reflect lives unlived, games can allow us to try out hypothetical lives with new products, people and ideas. To realise this potential, advertisers of both goods and viewpoints must stop blindly inserting their billboards into games or creating feeble copies of the cornerstones of videogame pop culture. Instead, they must start simulating the products, public policy positions, charitable interventions and other worldly ideas in new games – games worthy of our attention.In a videogame marketplace overflowing with sports, fantasy and war, one need only look to The Sims, which recetly sold its 100 millionth unit, to see the untapped potential of games to be about real lives instead of fantasy ones.Ian Bogost is a professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology and author ofPersuasive Games
The boss of computer games retailer Game Group expects the latest version of Grand Theft Auto to outsell its predecessors, helping to boost an industry that has already outpaced the music sector.Announcing a 156% rise in Game's annual profits to &pound;75.5m, Lisa Morgan said Grand Theft Auto IV, released with a huge media campaign yesterday, will be one of this year's hottest titles. "The last version - Grand Theft Auto San Andreas - sold about 600,000 copies in its first weekend in the UK and we would expect Grand Theft Auto IV to exceed that," she said.San Andreas has gone on to sell 3m copies in Britain, but analysts reckon that the new version of the game, eagerly awaited by gamers, will be an even higher seller.The game, in which players are encouraged to cut a swath of carnage across Liberty City, is likely to reignite concerns about violence in video games.Morgan stressed yesterday that her company provides parents with information about the content of age-restricted games and will not sell to anyone underage. Grand Theft carries an 18 certificate in Britain, but the retailer is powerless to enforce it once the title is purchased.It was a theme picked up by the Commons culture, media and sport select committee yesterday, which was taking evidence from representatives of the gaming industry in its inquiry into harmful content in games and on the web.Jason Kingsley, chief executive of Rebellion Group, the developer of games including Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six, told the committee that before attending the meeting he had looked round a few retailers."I watched people purchasing games and you clearly get a 12-year-old child picking up a game that is unsuitable for them, going up to the counter and then being told they cannot purchase it and then their guardian comes up and says 'oh I'll buy that' and that disappoints me because the labelling is very clear."It appears that parents are perhaps not taking responsibility the way they should be and I think that is something for wider society rather than any one section of the media."Video-gaming itself has expanded from a niche industry into a multibillion-dollar concern, which was last year worth &pound;3.2bn in Britain, more than recorded music and three times larger than the cinema industry.Recent devices such as the Nintendo Wii and DS have greatly expanded the demographic profile of gamers. Over Christmas, for instance, one in four of Game Group's shoppers were women.The Wii console has been particularly successful in persuading families to play games. Game Group has already sold out of the latest version - the Wii Fit, which acts as a personal trainer - since it went on sale last Friday, with more than 200,000 sold in Britain last weekend.In fact since the end of January - the end of Game's financial year - the company has continued to see strong growth. In the first 13 weeks to April 26 group like-for-like sales were up 20.1%. In Britain like-for-like sales jumped 25.6%.
Fake Steve Jobs has postedan amusing videoshowing the Apple AirBook and the ThinkPad X300, protesting that "No way will Lenovo ever win a cool kid contest with us". Sure, that's true. If you don't actually need a decent computer, the MacBook Air probably wins as a fashion accessory ;-)
Just a couple of links to finish off a Rockstar-flavoured 24 hours. The Guardian's Arts &amp; Architecture blog has a different take on GTA IV, with Peter Lyle referring to the game asArt for Alpha Males- a strange, lop-sided insult, considering the 'legitmate' art world is an unashamed patriarchy in which the, yes, crude, unmediated and violent imagery of, say, the Chapman brothers or Gilbert and George is fêted as genius. Still, Lyle is interesting and makes some acidic sense - apart from falling into the all too familiar trap of commenting on something he has no first-hand experience with.And finally, the Daily Mailpiped upwith a story concerning a seemingly random piece of street violence which occurred while gamers queued to purchase copies of the game last night. From the piece:The content is unadulterated violence. Players assume the identity of Niko Bellic, a shaven-headed veteran of the Bosnian conflict who arrives in 'Liberty City' as a gangland novice. He makes progress by killing people to order, robbing banks and dealing drugs with the help of an almost inexhaustible arsenal.It ends with a quote from (drum roll) MP Keith Vaz who ladles on his usual ill-considered syrup about the dangers of the game falling into the wrong hands. "This kind of violence should be deplored. It's highly likely that younger children are going to get access to this game," he shrieks. It's like the Byron Review never happened.If Vaz is so concerned about children gaining access to unsuitable adult pleasures, perhaps he should turn his attention to the vastly more troubling issue of under-age drinking. Despite many expensive government initiatives, minors are still destroying their livers with easily accessible booze. But of course, that's a much harder hobby horse to ride.
On this week's specialgames edition of Tech Weekly, we welcome Guardian gamesbloggers Keith Stuart and Greg Howson into the pod to dissect the hottest news of the week: the release of Grand Theft Auto IV. A GTA skeptic, Keith is profoundly impressed by thisnotorious title, but you'll have to listen to find out just how much.We also gaze into the crystal ball of gaming futures in our Elevator Pitch with Alternate Reality Game designer Adrian Hon. Cross-media applications dominate the discussion - and the team debate the reality and the impact of taking games away from the consoles aninto the world.All this and more on Tech Weekly. Listen up and be amazed.·The podcast feed URL·Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes·Visit our Facebook group·The Tech Weekly archives
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
OK, so it was inevitable. While we didn't intend to focus much time duringThe Guardian'sGames Weekon the release of what theToday Programmecalled 'the entertainment event of the year', it would be a careless oversight if we didn't mention it. Therefore, on the wire for today's special gaming series are two excellent articles and one podcast about the GTA phenomenon. And most importantly, how to cope with the rest of the world's perceptions.Keef continues histhoughtful gushingonTech Weeklyin what is probably the closest we'll get to a review. And inthis piece, he examines the game's role in the continuing debate sparked by last month'sByron Review:While many saw the release of the fair-minded Byron Report as a benchmark moment in the relationship between violent videogames and mainstream moral thought, this is the real litmus test. This is where we find out how far games have crossed into the mass consciousness. You see, while the latest title in Rockstar's gangster adventure series is forecast to make $400m in its opening week, it's still amazing how few people seem to understand what the games are about - or how slyly clever they are.He's right, you know. And Naomi Alderman agrees. Inthis piece, she aptly describes the attitudes of the people who aren't close to this industry, and have therefore never heard of the Byron Review:Mention the GTA series to non-gaming friends, though, and I will hear that it's horrifically violent, verging on pornographic, and that a majority of the gameplay is taken up with finding creative ways to murder prostitutes. And, although I'm a female gamer, they insist the typical player is a teenage boy just one all-night session away from becoming a serial-killer.Is it likely that an innocuous game will ever reach the headlines and steal as much attention away from the major news stories as this one does? Possibly, if we have more attention on the good things games can offer.And to provide that counterpoint is John Kirriemuir's thought piece about the place of computer games in schools:Research for nigh on a decade has shown, albeit in academically wordy ways, that games - used by a teacher who wants to use them - can be beneficial in classroom learning.Teachers are starting to blog their experiences, and more should be encouraged to share, in a teacher-usable way, their good and bad experiences. Derek [Robertson from Learning Teaching Scotland] is producing results from his Scottish school trials with handheld games such as Nintendogs, Phoenix Wright and Brain Training."Serious games" initiatives, especially in the US, are highlighting a cascade of successful examples of video game use in the education, health and business sectors. Teachers, governors and parents alike have, increasingly, the body of evidence to make informed decisions on the value and relevance of video games to curriculum-based education.But unfortunately, We aren't there yet. As John explains, "The quality of debate on games in education is, and has been, poor."Ah well. I still remain hopeful for the future.
Entertainment product of the year? Saviour of the universe? Such was the pre-release hype surrounding Grand Theft Auto IV that it was hard to tell. Luckily the game – mostly – lives up to the hype.GTA IV is a fantastic achievement that mixes the traditional free-roaming play and character-driven story with the most realistic virtual environment ever created. It even has an emotional side – relationships are more important than ever – though traditionalists needn't worry. Despite some innovations such as the GPS and mobile – the latter used to organise missions and stay in touch – GTA IV feels reassuringly familiar, albeit more polished and ambitious than ever.The driving – still the meat of the game – has been vastly improved, with a weightiness to the vehicles and a far better sensation of suspension. Car chases and the inevitable pile up are viciously exhilarating. Characters fly through windscreens, blood is plentiful. Despite this graphically - and physically - improved depiction the carnage retains the lighter touch of previous incarnations.The game looks fabulous – especially when driving at night.  But while previous iterations – particularly the franchise's previous peak, Vice City – had a slightly cartoon feel, GTA IV is an altogether darker affair. The city feels grimy and lived in. Running over pedestrians packs more of a moral punch this time around.In the midst of mayhem the storyline could easily be forgotten so it is to GTA IV's credit that the plot and dialogue are sharp enough to make you care. And – brilliantly -  managing relationships and staying friendly with the right people is just as important as keeping your ammo topped up.But as always with a GTA game the really entertaining stuff are the adventures of your own making. Antagonising the police is as enjoyable as ever, especially as this time round they appear to be smarter. And then there are the multitude of activities such as bowling, drinking and visiting comedy clubs.The game world is smaller than San Andreas – the previous title in the series – but far the better for it.  The tighter focus means there is always something to do or see – just watching the city inhabitants do their thing is amusing enough. But don't be fooled. The game is still huge with at least 30-40 hours of entertainment. And that's before you go online.  For the first time GTA can be played with and against other players.GTA IV isn't perfect though, even if some of the series' flaws – such as weapon retention when dead - have been addressed. The lack of in-mission saves is still frustratingly absent. Likewise the cover and targeting lock-on are occasionally unhelpful. Also the odd bit of graphical pop-up – as buildings appear in the distance – do lessen the glorious illusion.  But these are relatively minor failings. GTA IV is more evolution than revolution but in 2008 this is as good as gaming gets.
The SAI 25 is a new list ofthe world's most valuable digital startupsfrom the famousHenry Blodgetand anSAI25 Advisory Board..The site says: "The SAI 25 is not a static brag-sheet, updated and published once a year. On the contrary: it changes as facts and markets change -- and, in this industry, they change fast. Private company values change in real-time, just like public-company values, and so will the SAI 25 (If you want to see the up-to-minute value of your company, just clickhere)."It's guesswork, of course, and in some cases, notional at best. For example, Wikipedia would presumably be worth $7 billion if it were run as a commercial company, which it isn't. Nor is the Mozilla Foundation. Still, here's the Top 5Rank Company Valuation 1. Facebook $9 billion 2. Wikipedia $7 billion 3. Craigslist $5 billion 4. Betfair $5 billion 5. Mozilla Corp $4 billionThere's a page for each company, so if you want to argue about theFacebook valuation, say, you know where to go.....
Wall Street expects Microsoft to enter a protracted period of "trench warfare" in its attempt to buy Yahoo after the failure of its three-month-long attempt to bring the online company's board to the negotiating table.It is expected to launch a proxy battle and try to oust the Yahoo executive team while encouraging investors to accept its original $31-a-share offer, with the first shot fired possibly as early as this week.With the passing, on Saturday, of the deadline that Microsoft had set Yahoo to enter into negotiations without any comment from either side, shares in both companies declined yesterday, valuing Microsoft's bid at about $42.7bn.Microsoft's chief financial officer, Chris Liddell, warned last week that if Yahoo had not started talking by Saturday the company would examine its alternatives. "These alternatives clearly include taking an offer to Yahoo shareholders or withdrawing our proposal and focusing on other opportunities," he said.The vast majority of Wall Street followers of the giant software company do not believe that the company will walk away. Scott Kessler, a technology analyst at Standard &amp; Poor's in New York, said he expected Microsoft to name a slate of proposed directors to Yahoo's board within days, kicking off an intensive battle for shareholders' votes."This is something Microsoft has been thinking about and working towards for the better part of two years," said Kessler, who sees no reason for the Seattle-based company to back down on its explicit threat to seek control. "Microsoft's the kind of company that says what it does and does what it says."Disappointing earnings figures from Microsoft last week prompted questions about whether the Windows software firm is in sufficiently hearty health to succeed with a hostile bid. But conversely Kessler said Microsoft's sluggish performance made the takeover all the more crucial."Yahoo's more critical to Microsoft than people might have thought," he said. "I think they've been surprised and pretty frustrated by the fact that they've really got nowhere."Jupiter Research analyst Michael Gartenberg said Yahoo's management would be vulnerable if no deal materialised: "Yahoo is going to be under extraordinary pressure to deliver,  having turned down an opportunity such as this."Yahoo has a possible defence in the form of a "poison pill", a mechanism that would trigger the bargain sale of new Yahoo stock to other shareholders if any company were to build a stake of over 15%.This was introduced by Yahoo in March 2001 as a "stockholder rights plan". Last year it said that because the poison pill would dilute the share ownership of a predator, it "could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without first negotiating with our board of directors".
Some snapshots from British schools and colleges: Joy Thompson used a business simulation game to teach maths to year 5 and 6 children with special needs. Tim Rylands used Myst with the same age group to encourage literacy, speech and writing. Martyn Thompson provided dance mat games for indoor and lunchtime PE us, and Stephen Fessey used School Tycoon, with 10 and 11 year olds, to develop their spatial thinking, fiscal skills, numeracy and social awareness.In the much-praised American TV show The Wire, one character – the cop-turned-teacher "Prezbo" - reinforces the principles of probability by letting street corner kids continue their dice games in the classroom.But he can only do this when the curriculum reinforcement inspector has left. "Games" are associated with fun, play, challenge, imagination, enjoyment, lateral thinking and experimentation - concepts that, for many, sit uneasily with study, concentration, silence, obedience and checklist (or curriculum) teaching.It's the lack of control that puts many potential teachers off using games. Perhaps pupils will use cheats. Perhaps they will play but not learn. Or perhaps they'll repeat the part of the game they enjoy repetitively, or pay more attention to the screen than the teacher.Commercial games, especially, are designed for profit and not for the classroom, the curriculum or education. And for the "traditionalists" still bitter at the loss of slate and chalk, these bright and loud digital games represent all that is wrong in the modern world.The quality of debate on games in education is, and has been, poor.Here in Scotland, Derek Robertson is among those funded by Learning and Teaching Scotland to trial various computer games in Scottish schools, a side-product of which are appearances on the TV sofa across from games sceptics. And they are truly sceptical: games cannot replace teachers; games are not a panacea to cure all ills, they say.Correct - but these were never claims made by teachers who use or researchers who research video games in curriculum-based education.Good teachers use good resources in good ways. A video game is, like a whiteboard, textbook, or piece of slate, just a tool. As many teachers have proven through their own successful classroom use of video games, the correct portion of a game - used in an appropriate way - is helpful.Proof of value is slowly appearingSo why aren't most, or all, teachers using games in the classroom?Though interest is growing, the proportion of users is still tiny compared to those who use other digital technologies. This is for two reasons: the aforementioned negative connotations with games, and the apparent lack of hard, unambiguous proof that games "work". Such proof is often needed, not initially to persuade school budget holders that certain games are required, but to cover the teacher's back if cornered by a school governor fighting to "preserve" values in education, or parent wanting to know why Timmy is playing games instead of learning. And it's also noticeable that many technologies widely used in education, from digital whiteboards in schools to Virtual Learning Environments in universities, have not undergone the rigorous "proofing" demanded of video games.Nintendogs: among games being used in schoolsBut proof is appearing. Research for nigh on a decade has shown, albeit in academically wordy ways, that games - used by a teacher who wants to use them – can be beneficial in classroom learning.Teachers are starting to blog their experiences, and more should be encouraged to share, in a teacher-usable way, their good and bad experiences. Derek is producing results from his Scottish school trials with handheld games such as Nintendogs, Phoenix Wright and Brain Training."Serious games" initiatives, especially in the US, are highlighting a cascade of successful examples of video game use in the education, health and business sectors. Teachers, governors and parents alike have, increasingly, the body of evidence to make informed decisions on the value and relevance of video games to curriculum-based education.The case studies, examples and proof are there; let the games begin.&middot; John Kirriemuir is an independent researcher examining the use of games and virtual worlds in libraries, information science and education. Heblogs from his homeon the Island of Berneray (population: 126) in the Outer Hebrides
A rocket-propelled grenade whooshes down a New York street, leaving a twirling vapour trail in its wake. Its target is a speedily incoming police car, its source is… you.Grand Theft Auto is back, and if you didn't queue outside your local game shop to get your hands on it tonight you probably know someone who did – it's just that they might not have told you. Or, indeed, anyone.While many saw the release of the fair-minded Byron Report as a benchmark moment in the relationship between violent videogames and mainstream moral thought, this is the real litmus test. This is where we find out how far games have crossed into the mass consciousness. You see, while the latest title in Rockstar's gangster adventure series is forecast to make $400m in its opening week, it's still amazing how few people seem to understand what the games are about – or how slyly clever they are.And that goes not just for the tabloids and their readers, but for the industry itself. Following the huge success and cultural impact of GTA Vice City in 2002, almost every major videogame publisher hastily commissioned their own 'gangsta' series. At the E3 exhibition in 2005 there were almost a dozen on show with names like True Crime: New York, Crime Life: Gang Wars, Fear and Respect and Final Fight: Street Wise.True Crime: clones failed to understand GTA's subtler touchMost of them bombed. One – Midway's Fear and Respect - was canned before it even assaulted the shelves, despite boasting the collaboration of Boyz N The Hood director John Singleton. Saint's Row is the only wannabe still touting its simplified gangland fare, with a sequel due out later this year.None of the titles caught on to the subtleties of the GTA franchise. Beneath the ramrod violence this is a deeply satirical series, lampooning machismo brutality more than celebrating it. In GTA IV, for example, you're not dealing with criminal masterminds or cool gangland alpha males, you're sloshing around in the cesspit of low-level criminal culture. One of the most exciting early missions is a bank heist with three Irish brothers who bicker incessantly throughout the build-up and into the disastrous robbery itself. There are suggestions at least one has IRA affiliations but the script hints at the truth – it's all bluster and self-mythologising.You'll also need to carry out a hit for a character named Brucie, a tracksuit wearing medallion man who runs a garage and fantasies about performing the assassination himself. His tough guy demeanor is quickly spiked in a funny cut-scene where he attempts to play wrestle with Niko and is humiliated when the lead character blocks his moves and forces him to his knees.The game continually jabs at macho posturing – "war is where the young and stupid are manipulated into killing each other by the old and bitter", says one character when he learns of Niko's military past - a sly dig at the prevalent culture of celebratory shooters like Call of Duty and Medal of Honor. Videogame scripts don't often as a rule, hint at anything, let alone the vacuity of heroism.Not just enemiesGTA IV also has new things to say about kinship in videogames. In other gangster titles, you'll need to build an army of faceless hoods to perform your drive-by bidding. Here, you must forge and maintain friendships – no missions are earned from strangers, and everyone you work for is personally introduced by a colleague. Your progress through the game is dictated not just by your actions with a machine gun, but through a spider's web of poisonous associations.Whenever you meet a character, their name goes into the contacts book of your in-game mobile phone. When you feel like it you can take your handset out and call someone, anyone, and invite them to a pool hall, to a comedy club or strip bar – whatever you reckon takes their fancy. In this way, slowly, but surely, you earn their trust and their friendship; get it right and they'll do favours for you, providing everything from free cabs to new weapons.But there are moments you'll let them down; a friend in need may call while you're in the middle of a tricky mission and so you ignore it, only to find out they've been kidnapped… or worse. Of course, the examination of touching relationships within the criminal fold is nothing new to TV or film, but its odd indeed for a videogame to reference Donny Brasco and The Wire rather than the latest high concept shoot fest or sci-fi SFX blow-out.Niko: a Vito Corleone for the 21st centuryIt is also one of the few games to have presented sex and relationships with such candour. Through its cast of hookers and miscreants, Vice City reveled in the misogynistic excesses of its inspirations, Scarface and Miami Vice; San Andreas toyed with a daft interactive sex scene that prompted the ridiculously frenzied 'hot coffee' scandal - and the scorn of Hillary Clinton. In GTA IV, you meet women (or men) only through an internet dating site on the game's own version of the web. Here, as in modern life, relationships are virtualised through mobiles and online social networks.At the heart of it all, there is a modern interpretation of the American Dream as immigrant experience. Lead character Niko Bellic is a Serbian national with a violent military past who arrives in Liberty City via a rusted container ship. He is the archetypal outsider, striving to start a new life in the Land of the Free; a Vito Corleone for the 21st century. There are also themes of ethnicity, race and identity in contemporary America, of heritage and culture, of the struggle to fit in. When Niko arrives, he's quickly forced to assimilate into an Eastern European criminal underworld. For him, there is no escape from the old life, the old country.Of course, all this stuff lurks in the background and doesn't have to interfere with the anarchic action. Plenty of people might play the game without ever realising its true complexity - but it might give you something to think about the next time you launch an RPG down a crowded Liberty City street.
I live and die in my email, receiving hundreds of non-spam messages every day. If I'm stationary and not actually feeding or playing with the baby, chances are I've got my laptop open somewhere nearby, online and downloading mail. It's my alpha and my omega, my version control system (if I want to find an old version of a document, I just find the copy I emailed to someone earlier), my address book, my journal and my confessor. I have over a million archived pieces of email, going back to 1991.What's more, my inbox is almost alwaysempty.I've spent more than a decade tinkering with my email workflow, perfecting it so that I can manage whatever life throws at me through my inbox. I've come up with a few tips and hacks that never fail to surprise and delight my friends and colleagues when I show them off, and here they are, for the record:Sort your inbox by subjectThis is my favorite one by far. If something big is going on in the world, chances are lots of people are going to be emailing you about it, and they'll generally use pretty similar subject lines.When my daughter was born, the majority of congratulatory emails began with the word "Congratulations." When I'd asked my friends to help me find an office, most of the tips I got began with "office."Best of all, if some spammer manages to get a few hundred copies of a message through my filter and into my inbox, they'll all have the same subject line, making them easy to bulk-select and delete.Foreign-alphabet spam is also a doddle, since non-Roman characters will all alphabetise at the bottom or top of your inbox; if you don't read Cyrillic, Korean, Hebrew or Simplified Kanji, you can just delete them all with a couple of key presses.Colour-code messages from known sendersSomewhere in the guts of your email client is a simple tool for adding "rules" or "filters" for the mail you send and receive. Here's a simple pair that have made my mail more manageable: first, add to your address book everyone who receives mail from you; second, change the colour of messages from known senders to a different tone from your regular mail (I use a soothinggreen).This lets you tell, at a glance, whether a message is from someone you've seen fit to send a message to in times gone by. This is particularly useful for picking misidentified spam out of your spam folder: anything from a known sender that your mailer mistakenly stuck in there is probably worth a closer look.Kill people who make you crazyIf there's someone – often a stranger – who has found you via the Internet and taken it upon her/himself to make your life a living hell by sending you pointless, argumentative messages, don't rely on your own iron discipline to keep from reading and responding to these mean little darts.Instead, create a filter called "killfile" and add the email addresses of these anti-correspondents to it, then instruct your mailer to either delete or tuck away these messages somewhere you won't have to look at them.Half-resign from mailing listsMany of us are obliged to join up to mailing lists for social or work or family reasons, even though most of the messages are irrelevant to us -- for example, a list for planning an annual event in which you play some small part. Resigning from these lists isn't an option, but you can't read them all, either. A nice middle ground is to write a mail-rule thatfiles all mailing list messages in a "mailing list" folder, *except* for those individual messages that contain your name ("If subject line contains [name of list] and body does not contain [your name] then..."). That way, you'll be able to respond immediately whenever someone brings you up in conversation, and the rest of the messages will be safely tucked away for you to refer to.5. Keep a pending listI have a little text-file on my desktop called WAITING.TXT that lists every call, email, parcel and payment I'm waiting for, in simple form (e.g. WAITING EMAIL Fred on dinner 1/5/8 or WAITING MONEY £32.11 Refund from John Lewis). Once or twice a day, I cast my eye over the list and see if there's anything that I should have heard on but haven't, and send a reminder. This has saved more dinner dates, money, and time than anything else on the list.
Grand Theft Auto IV is released today, and I'm excited. Mention the GTA series to non-gaming friends, though, and I will hear that it's horrifically violent, verging on pornographic, and that a majority of the gameplay is taken up with finding creative ways to murder prostitutes. And, although I'm a female gamer, they insist the typical player is a teenage boy just one all-night session away from becoming a serial-killer. But GTA is so much more entrancing than this caricature would suggest, and it's not meant for most teenagers. Like the entire GTA series, today's release is a game for grown-ups, and all the better for that.With its gangland setting, it features the usual mixture of fights and shootouts. But these violent moments aren't what make the GTA games enjoyable, at least for me. I'm hopeless at finding my way anywhere at the best of times. While playing GTA: San Andreas I often found myself getting utterly lost, unable to find the rendezvous for the armed shootout with a rival gang. But it doesn't matter when the depth and realism is this astonishing.I've enjoyed just wandering the streets of the game city, San Andreas, climbing up hills to  watch as the sky changes from dawn, to midday, to dusk. I've run to the beach, hearing the sound of my character's steps change when he hits sand, and dived into the ocean for a swim so well-rendered I felt I could almost smell the ocean. GTA IV's level of graphic detail is greater, as is the level of immersion. It even features a comedy club where the player can attend a Ricky Gervais stand-up set specially created for the game.In this way, GTA is like a made-for-adults version of Sim City, a game often touted as "educational". In that game, players can enjoy creating a perfectly ordered miniature town, or, in a different mood, destroying it with a vast volcano. Interestingly, doing the latter doesn't seem to turn people into arsonists.The GTA series works in just the same way: sometimes I admire the beautifully-rendered star-filled sky, and sometimes I drive the in-game car into a lamp-post, just to see what happens. It is play, just like "cops and robbers", just like daydreaming, just like writing a novel.
GTA IV is finally - finally! - here. Phew. Some of you are probably already playing, others may be waiting till morning and/or contemplating a sickie. So what do you think so far then? Is it as good as you hoped? Which version did you go for - PS3 or 360? GTA IV then - does it live up to the hype?
New Scientist ispointing out, though perhaps we didn't need to know, thatspam is 30 on May 3. Lordy, yes - the first unwanted email message inviting (all) 393 Arpanet users to a product presentation by Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC). It's dead. Spam proved more hardy.Usenet spam, which for a while looked like it would be the real problem, surfaced in 1994. I remember it - I wrotea fewof the stories. And thebook review.One place I was wrong(ish):[Canter &amp; Siegel's newsgroup spam] meant users had to make more effort sorting the worthwhile messages from the rubbish. Only a tiny bit, in this case, but big oaks that obscure the view grow from little acorns planted by immigration lawyers. If every company, from tiny to huge, decides to post "For sale" and "Your chance to get rich!!" notices to every newsgroup, I for one will quickly seek out other, advertising-free sources, on or off the Net. The advertisers will have defeated themselves.Sure, Usenet is a smoking ruin, but there are plenty of places with advertisers around where people are happy. Aren't there?But it's been email spam - and more recently blog spam - that has been impossible to get rid of.Anyway, the fascinating thing that the New Scientist blog post turns up is that some people have kept archives of every spam they've ever received. Apparently it's a world that's split into BV and AV - where the V stands for the brand name usually applied to sildenafil. In AV (which starts June 1998), things really took off.Quoth NS: The best archives - likePaul Wouter's,Bruce Guenter'sandRichard Jones's- stretch as far back as 1997. (There's a ratherbig page of spam graphson Paul Wouter's site, from which the yearly spam pic at the top is taken.)Pity Bill Gates turned out to be wrong in 2002 about spam being dead by 2006, eh. Which would you rather have had, though - all the spam we've got, or billg saying "told ya so"?
The day before the release of quite possibly the biggest entertainment experience of the year, is a good one to burybadnews. So it's weird to find an influx of hopeful, hype-generating announcements.First up, Ubisoft hasconfirmedthat it's working on a new Prince of Persia title, due out on PS3, Xbox 360 and PC this winter. The game will apparently boast a whole new gameplay twist and a new art style. Naturally, the Montreal studio will be handling dev duties. A DS-exclusive PoP title is also on the cards.Platform hero Crash Bandicoot is also set to make a return this year. Developer Radical Entertainment ispromisinga 'free-romping' family adventure with new moves, co-op multiplayer and comedy voice acting. Crash is apparently also now able to capture enemies and utilise them as his henchmen. It's sub-titled 'Mind Over Mutant'.Finally, EA and Maxis have unveiled plans to release the 'Spore Creature Creator' on June 17. This editing application lets players build and personalise their own beasts for the full game, which isn't coming out until September. There will be a free demo version available from theSpore websiteas well as a retail version with more customisation options. You'll be able to post videos of your unholy creations on YouTube, although to really work in this format they'll need to be singing badly, falling of a skateboard or pretending to be a confused 15 year-old-girl with a, like, totally genuine video diary. Perhaps that'll all arrive on another download.So, which of those game announcements excites you most?
Hitwise today said that "Over one third of all UK Internet traffic comes from Google websites". Or, to be specific:A custom category consisting of the 100 most visited web properties in the UK that are owned by Google Inc accounted for 36.55% of upstream traffic to all categories of websites in the UK during March 2008, up from 30.19% in March 2007.Most of this ( 27.48%) came fromwww.google.co.uk.The top 10 Google sites in terms of UK visits are in the table below (click for larger version):
After all the hoo-hah about thefabulously peripatetic Psystar, at least one person says he has taken delivery of one of the machines, a PC chassis running Mac OS X 10.5, aka "Leopard".Jason Chen at Gizmodo has thevideo(which doesn't seem to be embeddable). And it is a computer that's not a Mac that does seem tothinkit's a Mac.The lucky recipient is a guy (we think) going by the user handle of whiskeyfrown, who noted that he'd got it onGizmodo yesterday- only to be leapt on (figuratively) by people accusing him of lying. He posted a YouTube video, but that went down (huh), but now the machine has come back again - not that that has stopped people being extremely dubious. Honestly, some internet commentators, eh?Still, whiskeyfrown seemed happy enough:To follow up, I used this machine all day today at work without a hiccup. So far everything is working perfectly (something I can't say about my G5 it's replacing) Photoshop, Firefox, VMware Fusion (I know...ironic) as well as the OS itself all performed as expected.These guys may have made some mistakes, and are obviously treading on very thin ice regarding Apple's EULA, but they ARE shipping plain vanilla PC's that run OS 10.5.2 like a champ.Say what you will, but the black boxes they are using are not ugly (and who really gives a rats ass if it works).We'll have to wait and see how long it will take for these to hit some of the bigger outlets (particularly MacWorld and CNet, which both I think plonked down real money for theirs), and what they think. Obviously it would be dicing with brick-ness to use software update on them - but then, plenty of iPhone owners have managed to live without obeying the nagging button of Updatealiciousness.For now, though, Psystar may just have a real product and a real chance of profit. Unless and until Apple chooses to sue it for breaking its EULA. Then things would getreallyinteresting - we're sure there's a pro bono lawyer out there willing to act for Psystar to see whether one can install Apple's software on any machine (ie end tying). Isn't there?Update:we shoulda watched the whole video. As John Gruberpoints out, "Check out the fan noise once the guy turns the thing on. Sounds like a vacuum cleaner."And meanwhile, Apple hasupdated its iMac line- the top-level one now goes up to 3.06GHz. And is presumably slightly quieter, though you'd have to put the two side by side to know...
I'm talking to you, you self-righteous politicians and newspaper columnists, you relics who beat on computer games: you've already lost. Enjoy your carping while you can, because tomorrow you're gone.According to the UK Statistics Authority, the median age of the UK population is 39. Half the people who live here were born in 1969 or later. The BBC microcomputer was released in 1981, when those 1969ers were 12. It was ubiquitous in schools; it introduced a generation to computers. It introduced a generation to computer games.Half the UK population has grown up playing computer games. They aren't addicted, they aren't psychopathic killers, and they resent those boneheads – that's you – who imply that they are addicted and are psychopathic killers.Next year, that 1969 will be 1970; the year after, it'll be 1971.Dwell on this, you smug, out-of-touch, proud-to-be-innumerate fossils: half the UK population thinks games are fun and cool, and you don't. Those born in 1990 get the vote this year.Do your worstThree years from now, that 1969 will be 1972, then 1973. Scared yet? You should be: we have the numbers on our side. Do your worst – you can't touch us. We've already won.15 years from now, the prime minister of the day will have grown up playing computer games, just as 15 years ago we had the first prime minister to have grown up watching television, and 30 years ago to have grown up listening to the radio. Times change: accept it; embrace it. Don't make yourself look even more 20th Century, even more public school, than you do already. You've lost! Understand? Your time has passed.This anxiety you sense, this fear of what you don't comprehend: hey, it's OK. Parents who didn't play computer games do feel alienated, do feel isolated from their children; they do feel frightened, and naturally so, because they can't keep their children safe if they don't understand what they're keeping them safe from.It's transient, though. Upcoming parents played games themselves, or if they didn't, their siblings did, or their friends did. They're no more concerned about "moral decay" or "aggressive tendencies" or any of the other euphemisms for "ohmygod I don't understand this" than you are about soap operas. They're the present, not you: you're the ever-more-distant past.Ignorant ravingsGamers vote. Gamers buy newspapers. They won't vote for you, or buy your newspapers, if you trash their entertainment with your ignorant ravings. Call them social inadequates if you like, but when they have more friends in World of Warcraft than you have in your entire sad little booze-oriented culture of a real life, the most you'll get from them is pity.In March, the Byron Report came out. How pleased the government must have been with itself! By appointing a parenting expert to lead it, they were practically guaranteeing they'd get 266 pages of ammunition to use against computer games. Just thinking about the popularity boost from cracking down on this evil would have had them salivating with glee!Except Dr Tanya Byron was born in 1967. When the Sinclair ZX Spectrum came out in 1982, she was only 15. She knew what the government didn't: computer games are here to stay. So long as parents understand the dangers, they can make informed decisions. She didn't recommend lining computer game designers up against the wall and shooting dead every last one of them. Her report was balanced and fair. She suggested education as a solution. That's a level of reason rarely seen in the context of UK government.So we've won: accept it. Huff and puff if you must, but your audience grows smaller by the day. Your views are mortally wounded, and soon they will be dead.Games are mainstream. Drown, or learn to swim.Richard Bartle, the creator ofMUD, is a teaching fellow at theUniversity of Essex
Oh gosh are you gamesbloggers in for a good week. Between now and next Monday, there is going to be a veritabledelugeof games-related goodness across the entirety ofThe Guardian's website, plus more more more across the paper every day of the week. Why? No,notbecause GTA IV is released tomorrow, but because The G thinks games are great. And I promise you that by the end of this week, if you weren't already certain of this, you're going to too.There are literally dozens of articles (what's big in Japan?), profiles (legends of the UK games industry and more), exposes (have working conditions changed since ea_spouse?) and interviews (Will Wright, Peter Molyneux), plus the launch of thenew game development project,GameCamp08on Saturday and a special game-yTech Weeklypodcast released tomorrow. Today, we've kicked it off with some serious clout:First up, take a look atRichardBartle'sbutt kicking opinion pieceabout game culture, and those people who dare to detract. A juicy quote:Dwell on this, you smug, out-of-touch, proud-to-be-innumerate fossils: half the UK population thinks games are fun and cool, and you don't. Those born in 1990 get the vote this year.Three years from now, that 1969 will be 1972, then 1973. Scared yet? You should be: we have the numbers on our side. Do your worst - you can't touch us. We've already won.Then, if you've not got enough,find outwhy the film industry should be quaking in its boots when a new game is released. You can alsolistento Bobbie Johnson talking games up here (plus extra bonus information from meme-tastic conference ROFLCon, held in Boston, MA last week), and Charles Arthur's take on the matterhere.Finally (for the moment), headhereto get inside Sony's London studios - the folks who've made series as varied as SingStar, EyeToy and Driver.Suck Guardian game feedshere, and keep your eyes onthe website. This is seriously massive.
As well as revisiting Wii Fit after a few days absence - hopefully not a sign of things to come - this weekend saw me trying someMythos, the new free to play - hurrah! -World of Warcraft meetsDiabloMMO. This is an old school looting/hacking/levelling adventure that Diablo fans in particular will love. RSI sufferers who hate clicking the mouse every few seconds will be less happy. Despite this I enjoyed the few hours I spent playing, mainly because Mythos is already nicely polished despite being in beta. It does lack that sense of place - the isometric visuals are pretty enough mind - and that coherent world feel that something like WoW nails so perfectly. But shake those WoW comparisons - admittedly difficult at times given the look and feel - and you've got a game full of addictive leveling/character advancement stuff that could easily suck you in for hours. In all honesty though I'll probably wait until the full release later this year. Partly because I'm still ploughing through Lost Odyssey on the 360. But most importantly there is the little issue of GTA IV. Less than 24 hours to go till GTA then - how did you fill your lastNiko-free weekend of gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
The deadline for Yahoo to accept Microsoft's "friendly" takeover offer has now passed, and unless Yahoo says something soon, Steve Ballmer faces a big choice: get hostile or walk away. In this case, a good way to get hostile would be to put up candidates to be elected to Yahoo's board, replacing the current members,ifthey get enough votes. The new board could then accept the offer.The possibilities are discussed inIf Microsoft goes fully hostile on Yahoo, on Marc Andreessen's blog. The analysis is based on input from "expert corporate attorneys -- Michael Sullivan and Ed Deibert at Howard Rice Nemerovski Canady Falk and Rabkin in San Francisco".A third option would be for Ballmer to increase the size of Microsoft's offer, which would enable Yahoo's current board to accept while saving face. Since Microsoft is already offering more than anybody outside Yahoo thinks it's worth, this may not be likely, but it's certainly possible.Microsoft walking away could be a good bargaining tactic. Yahoo's share price would probably crash, shareholders would beat up Yahoo's management, and more of the remaining talent would leave. Life inside Yahoo would not be nice. However, Microsoft would, in effect, be damaging the thing it wants to buy.Microsoft walking awayand meaning itwould be another good tactic, since Microsoft's senior managers appear to be the only people who actually want a takeover. I suspect the rest of us don't think that buying Yahoo would make any difference in the long run. It would create a more competitive landscape for web advertising in the short term, but sooner or later, Google is going to get an 80- 90% market share, or thereabouts. That's what happens in IT. Anybody who hasn't recognised that phenomenon is an idiot.Microsoft has managed to overturn 80-90% market shares before -- CP/M, Lotus 1-2-3, WordPerfect, Netscape, Palm, PlayStation etc -- but usually the companies involved have helped with their own downfall. Google looks far too sharp, and has far too much community support, for that to happen in the foreseeable future.Charles Arthur adds:for Eurojohn and others, here's the interview I did with Newsnight when the takeover was first mooted back on Feb 1st. Note: Robert Scoble also audible in places.
An F-Secure note about aMass SQL Injectionhas put Microsoft's IIS (Internet Information Server) in thefiring line, which is a bit unfortunate as it's not particularly insecure.The attack is serious, and as F-Secure notes: "Performing a Google search results in over 510,000 modified pages." However, this is not the same as 500,000 web servers.Also, as F-Secure notes, it's actually an "SQL injection attack", not a flaw in IIS. It adds:We've received some questions on the platform and operating systems affected by this attack. So far we've only seen websites using Microsoft IIS Web Server and Microsoft SQL Server being hit. Do note that this attack doesn't use vulnerabilities in any of those two applications. What makes this attack possible is poorly written ASP and ASPX (.net) code.It's not good for Microsoft, clearly, but as far as we can tell at the moment, it's not IIS6 that's at fault. Indeed, it might be better if it were....For a bit of history, IIS version 5wasaffected by several security problems, and Microsoft quickly brought out a rewritten version, IIS6, that has an excellent reputation for stability and security. Anyone still using IIS5 should have stopped using, it in 2003 or soon after, and is asking for any suffering they get. IIS6 is now being replaced with IIS7 in Windows Server 2008.Secunia provides a pretty good database of programs and their insecurities, and you can look up an index of softwarelisted by productor by vendor. Being practical, it highlights the number of unpatched flaws ahead of the raw number of advisories. So, for example, the record for IIS6x tells you that there have been five Secunia advisories, on which none (0%) remain unpatched. That's one security vulnerabilty per year, and none of them were in the red zone. Swiss cheese?Here are the numbers for the IIS and Apache Web servers:Microsoft Internet Information Services (IIS) IIS 7.x 0% (0 of 1 Secunia advisories) IIS 6.x 0% (0 of 5 Secunia advisories) IIS 5.x 6% (1 of 16 Secunia advisories)Apache 2.2.x 29% (2 of 7 Secunia advisories) Apache 2.0.x 11% (4 of 37 Secunia advisories) Apache 1.3.x 5% (1 of 21 Secunia advisories)For comparison, here are the Secunia numbers for Apple's QuickTime bugware:Apple QuickTime 7.x 0% (0 of 18 Secunia advisories) Apple Quicktime 6.x 0% (0 of 7 Secunia advisories) Apple Quicktime 5.x 0% (0 of 4 Secunia advisories) Apple Quicktime 4.x 0% (0 of 2 Secunia advisories)
Welcome to Games Week here on the Tech site - as well as our wonderful Gamesblog, we'll have special content about the world of games and how we got here (and where we're going).But, mindful of Bobbie's piece in the paper today about how the games industry - particularly the release of Grand Theft Auto: IV this week - iseating the film industry's lunch, I had to pass on this quote which I came across in the Financial Times.Stand up Paul Dergarabedian, chief executive of Media by Numbers, which (says the FT) tracks the box office performance of films. He thinks the release of GTA4 couldhelpIron Man, the would-be blockbuster released this week. Here's how he squares it:Gamers buying GTA IV are going to be talking about the game and they're going to be talking about the movies and the movie they will be talking about is Iron Man.I had to laugh out loud when I read that. Beautiful example ofsyllogism. No, I think that Keith nailed it last week, when he examinedwhy gaming will survive the credit crunch:videogames represent excellent value for money. If you buy a decent adventure title - a Resident Evil, Metal Gear Solid or Legend of Zelda - you're looking at between 20 and 40 hours of gameplay at least, and many times that if you get lost, make mistakes or pause once in a while to admire the scenery. With titles like Call of Duty 4 you can also add in hundreds of hours of online multiplayer gaming; if you have a headset you can invite your friends and chat while you're playing - see, you're also saving on phone calls. And with Wii Fit, you'll even be getting some exercise in.Also, for the price of a decent family game - something like Buzz Quiz TV (out next month), Rock Band or pretty much anything on Wii - the whole household is entertained. A game costs £40 - take the family to the cinema, throw in a couple of fizzy pops and a trough of popcorn and you'll spend more than that in a night.I know that our family has gotten more than 40 hours' value out of Super Mario Galaxy for the Wii. We had a great time when we saw The Incredibles at the cinema, but it cost us about the same, and SMG has us talking a lot more.
NOTE: contains explicit language
LOLcatsicanhascheezburger.comA heady mixture of cute cat pictures, anthropomorphised with badly spelled captions written in an innocent kitten-like tone, which has spawned a sub-language, LOLspk. The most popular website, I Can Has Cheezburger, now gets more than 2m hits a day.Dancing hamsterswebhamster.comOne of the earliest memes to hit the web, featuring crude animated hamsters dancing to an irritating yet catchy dance music soundtrack.Cats that look like Hitlercatsthatlooklikehitler.comEvery cat has distinctive markings, but a surprising number seem to have a small black moustache reminiscent of the Nazi dictator. This website is where images of such beloved pets are shared.Sneezing pandayoutube.com/watch?v=FzRH3iTQPrkA 20-second webclip which took offices around the world by storm last year. It is impossible not to be charmed when a baby panda sneezes - taking its mother by surprise.I Kiss Youikissyou.orgMahir Cagri, a Turkish photographer, became a phenomenon after his over-enthusiastic homepage - featuring the slogan "I Kiss You!!!!!" - was seen around the world. Said by some to be the template for Borat, though Sacha Baron Cohen's comic character was invented several years earlier.Chuck Norris factschucknorrisfacts.comBizarre one-liners describing the toughness of the martial arts film star. "When Chuck Norris does a pushup, he isn't lifting himself up, he's pushing the Earth down," reads one.Laughing babiesyoutube.com/watch?v=5P6UU6m3cqkThousands of family videos detail the cacophanous laughter of easily amused infants. It's impossible to remain stony-faced while watching their infectious giggles, and these clips now pepper YouTube.Million Dollar Homepagemilliondollarhomepage.comBritish student Alex Tew came up with an ingenious plan to sell every pixel on his website for $1. Drawn by the novelty and hope of publicity, advertisers flocked to the scheme and made him rich.Star Wars kidyoutube.com/watch?v=HPPj6viIBmUA video of a young Canadian boy pretending to battle the dark side with a stick instead of a lightsabre. It is said to be the most popular viral video of all time, but the reluctant star sued his schoolmates for the harassment he endured as a result.Stuff White People Likestuffwhitepeoplelike.wordpress.comA sizzling parody of middle-class liberal values, detailing the cliches of modern life. Nothing is too mundane for the author's witty deconstruction: popular entries include expensive sandwiches and dinner parties
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Boston usually plays host to the world's leading scientists, Nobel laureates and technological pioneers. But at the weekend it was overrun by more than 500 self-professed "internet geeks".They were attending ROFLCon, a web symposium which attempted to answer conundrums such as why so many people like watching animated hamsters dance, and what is so funny about photographs of cats with misspelt captions.Described as a conference of "internet microcelebrities", it offered an insight into those people who have found a sort of fame - and in some cases, a great fortune - by thinking up the most popular gags, jokes and fads on the internet.These phenomena - known as internet memes - are spread from one person to another in a similar way to viral emails. Even web surfers who do not know what a meme is may have unwittingly acted memetically by passing on a video of a sneezing panda to their friends, for example.Not all internet memes are simple, however. Some can become highly complex and surreal. One recent craze involved "rickrolling", the practice of tricking people into watching a video of 1980s pop singer Rick Astley.As strange as they may seem to non-webbies, the reaction that a meme creator can get is remarkable, as Randall Munroe, the creator of xkcd.com, a popular stick-figure comic, discovered.Standing in the foyer of an MIT lecture theatre, waiting to enter a discussion about how to survive internet fame, he was approached by two girls who held out their clenched hands towards him. "Excuse me," they said. "Can you sign our friendship?"Bamboozled, Munroe signed his autograph on their skin. Later, he was asked what the weirdest request ever made of him was. "Well, there were these two girls earlier ...", he said, and you could hear a joyful squeal from the back of the audience.But groupies are not the only perk for those who attain microcelebrity. Matt Harding, a 31-year-old video game developer from Seattle, took a career break to go travelling and filmed himself dancing badly in the exotic locations he visited. After his video was posted on YouTube, it turned into a web phenomenon and has now been watched by 10 million people. He has since been sponsored by a chewing gum firm to undertake a second trip, and is in the process of making his third video. He says the appeal of the biggest memes is simple, basic humour."What I do is not mainstream, but it's more tailored to the mainstream because it isn't ironic," said Harding. "It's the persona of a man smiling and dancing around the world - there's not much more to it than that."For some of the participants, internet fame has led to a complete change of life. Ben Huh, a journalism graduate, is now CEO of I Can Has Cheezburger, the cat-captioning phenomenon that is so successful it employs an office full of people in the Seattle area.Others have seen success on a smaller scale. Christian Lander started his blog, stuffwhitepeoplelike.com, in January and has already given up his day job to write a book and cash in on the enormous success of his site.Sometimes being famous on the internet has its downsides. Among those at ROFLCon was 47-year-old Jay Maynard, better known on the internet as "Tron guy" owing to his simple website showing pictures of himself in a home-made replica costume from the 1982 science fiction film Tron.Being part of a meme has brought him fame and notoriety, he said. "I will never again be truly anonymous - there will be pictures of me in this costume somewhere on the net, as long as there is a net. That's something I've come to accept."It is not only would-be comedians and internet celebrities who are aware of the power of memes, though. Since these crazes can draw millions of internet users, advertisers and marketers are increasingly desperate to understand what makes a meme successful so that they can replicate it for profit. Stories of advertising agencies ripping off memes were rife among the ROFLCon crowds.Those at ROFLCon were happy to be in a place where everyone got the joke about internet microcelebrity; when the proceedings had finished, most of these web stars were returning to ordinary lives rather than being hounded by the paparazzi. For many, that was part of the appeal - doing things on the web for fun allowed them to be part of pop culture and stay outside it at the same time."Internet fame is great, because we have a lot more control over what we do," said Harding. "Our shows can't get cancelled and our movies can't bomb."
Visually, Sony's London Studio is indistinguishable from any other game developer: vast floors house densely packed cubicles, whose occupants have customised their spaces with toys, action-figures and computer-generated art.But without any knowledge of what goes on within, it's still possible to discern that the London Studio isn't just any other developer. For a start, it's situated on Great Marlborough Street in the heart of Soho – development studios are more usually found in ugly industrial estates. And it extends over six floors, each packed with teams beavering away on videogames.The London Studio is one of the biggest development studios in the UK, with a king-sized reputation to match. It is, these days, the jewel in Sony's development crown, and has produced a catalogue of games which combine vast sales with technological innovation – most notably The Getaway (whose recognisable London setting was ahead of its time), Eye Toy (which eliminated the gamepad long before Nintendo had conceived the Wii) and SingStar, the mass-appeal karaoke game.Mike Haigh, director of the London Studio, is our host, and he explains how it originally arose from two local studios: "One in Soho, which had two or three teams working on sports titles mainly, and another group in Camden. That was in 2001-2002. This building was owned by British Steel.""When we first saw it, each floor had literally two or three people working on it, and we were amazed to find a massive wine-cellar downstairs." Jamie Macdonald, Vice President of Worldwide Studios at Sony adds, from his eyrie on the sixth floor: "At first, it was quite a challenge, because the two studios had really different cultures. I don't think I'm being unkind to Camden if I say it did not have a culture of making hit games."PS3: EyeToy soon?"But we were lucky enough, in the first years, to have The Getaway and Eye Toy Play, and then we followed that up with SingStar, so we got the momentum going. Once you get that, it's a virtuous circle, in the sense that talented people want to come and work for you."Macdonald and Haigh used to comprise a triumvirate along with Phil Harrison, the unfeasibly tall former President of Worldwide Studios. He was the ultimate head honcho of Sony's in-house development, but recently jumped ship to Atari.Sony also has studios in Liverpool and Cambridge. So, is London top dog these days?"Recently, we've been more about sharing," Haigh says, diplomatically. "We, for example, have people helping out with products like LittleBigPlanet and Killzone 2, along with people from Cambridge, and the external development team at Liverpool.""We're feeling far more like a cohesive group than we've ever felt – which is necessary bearing in mind the number of people that are required to develop for the PS3. When we first started, we had groups of 20 to 30 people, but now we're talking 70 internal people, then maybe 20 or 30 externally. That's really Phil's legacy – he encouraged the studios to work with each other."Haigh leads us on a tour of the London Studio, starting on the second floor, where the Eye Toy team resides. Sony hasn't yet confirmed it is making a version of Eye Toy for the PS3 and its new PlayStation Eye camera, but heavy hints are dropped, suggesting that in the "medium-term" just such a game will be released, and we see some interesting technology demos that use a torch and polystyrene ball as a pointing device, and also recognise pictures that you draw – this, the team points out, would let you use Eye Toy to create your own landscapes and environments.Moving up from floor to floor, we see Eight Days – which is just ramping up to full production. To get an idea of the scale of development required on next-gen consoles, the team, currently numbering 63, will expand to about 80 witha further 40 or so outsourced workers. A small team is working on pre-production for the next iteration of The Getaway, in preparation for being joined by the bulk of the Eight Days team when the latter is completed."The idea is to have two pre-production teams and one production team, which flips onto whatever product, at that point of time, is ready to have that team working on it," says Eight Days senior producer Phil James.The SingStar team demonstrates how integration with the Internet has turned development of certain games into an ongoing process – it constantly works on taking newly licensed music tracks and uploading them to the SingStore.The team shows the process involved in importing a new track, which can take as little as half an hour for a straightforward commercial pop track, or up to three days for a track with complex vocal harmonies or raps (apparently The Sugarhill Gang's Rapper's Delight took longer than any track so far).So, does Macdonald get a kick when one of his games outsells one from one of Sony's American or Japanese studios?Laughing, he replies: "No, no, no, no – yes! Of course – we're all in the industry to make great games.""One of the things that I've liked about pioneering the social games here is that I've finally been able to show what I do to my sisters and my mum. That's probably the thing I'm proudest of: being part of that movement to take the games out of the bedroom and making them part of the wider cultural experience.""Of course, that's been taken on very well by Nintendo now, but we're still doing it, along with others, which is great. And now, with Home, we want to take the same approach to the online experience, and for it to be very much a PlayStation experience – I think everyone knows what we mean by that – not a PC wired into the back of a TV. So you turn it on and intuitively have an enjoyable social time."
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday May 1 2008In the article below (about the release of Grand Theft Auto IV) we said about 6m copies were expected to be sold in the first week of release, making in excess of $1bn profit for its creators. That is the estimated profit over the lifetime of the Grand Theft Auto series, not for initial sales of this episode.Critics of ultra-violent video games will not be the only ones watching carefully as the latest instalment of the Grand Theft Auto series is released tomorrow: the suits in Hollywood are anxious that it may dent the profits of their summer blockbusters.Grand Theft Auto IV, the latest in the 18-rated crime series, which sees players take on the role of eastern European tough guy Niko Bellic, is expected to break sales records. Millions of fans of the GTA series worldwide are expected to shell out about &pound;40 each for the game, making it one of the biggest moneyspinners in the industry.While the series is known for causing controversy, thanks to its adult content and uncompromising attitude, it has become a favourite of gamers who lust after its realistic graphics and tongue-in-cheek humour. The effect on the games industry has been dramatic, with more than 70m copies sold in just over a decade.The latest instalment is likely to sell 6m copies in its first week of release, which would make in excess of $1bn profit for its creators and cement it as one of the biggest entertainment franchises of any kind.Experts say the numbers underline the growing power of the games industry, which - with forecasts of $14bn in games sales for the three major consoles in 2008 - is eclipsing other major entertainment industries, including cinema. In fact, GTA IV is expected to earn more during its first few days of release than the $400m made by the third instalment of Pirates of the Caribbean, the Hollywood record holder, in its opening weekend.The film magazine Variety has suggested the game's success could affect interest in this summer's blockbusters, which may struggle to compete for the same audience of young men.Iron Man, the high-octane movie based on the comic book character, which is expected to be one of the year's biggest action films, is just one of those which could be harmed by going on release the same week as Grand Theft Auto IV.The idea that the film industry is threatened by the popularity of games is not new. An executive at Warner Home Video, Ron Sanders, told Variety recently: "Video games are a major source of competition for the disposable income of young males. We avoid releasing big titles on dates that appeal to young men."Fears of an economic downturn could see the battle develop further. Piers Harding-Rolls, an analyst at Screen Digest, said games were seen as "a safe haven of growth in the entertainment industry". "The games industry isn't that impacted [by recession] because people like to sit indoors when they haven't got much money," he added. "Games are seen as good value, whereas box-office receipts can go down."For those looking to get hold of GTA IV tomorrow, a word of warning: it may be too late. Millions of copies have been pre-ordered by fans, and it is likely that stocks will quickly run out.
You can easily spend 20 minutes being mildly amused by viral videos. Alternatively you could spend 20 minutes being entertained while learning something that might change your ideas, or your life. You could be watching someone famous, such as Al Gore, Richard Dawkins, Stephen Hawking or Peter Gabriel. Or a technogeek such as Jeff Bezos (Amazon), Jimmy Wales (Wikipedia) or Larry Page and Sergey Brin (Google). Or it could be someone you've never heard of - like Hans Rosling - who turns out to be brilliant. They're all onTED.TED (Technology, Entertainment and Design) is the name of an annual conference that started in 1984. The idea was to gather some of the world's leading thinkers and doers in Monterey, California, and get them to speak (usually now for 18 minutes) to an elite audience of about a thousand people. Elite? It's by invitation only. However, you can apply for TED Conference membership, which costs $6,000 per year, if you can show that you're somehow remarkable.TED was a cosy little conference until an Englishman calledChris Andersontook it over in 2001. I met him in the 1980s when he started a couple of magazines for Amstrad computer users, such as Amstrad Action and 8000 Plus. He rapidly developed this operation into the mighty Future Publishing in Bath, after which he moved to San Francisco, built another empire with the IGN games portal and magazines such as Business 2.0, and survived the dot-com crash.Part of the deal with TED was that attendees got videos of all the sessions. In 2006, Anderson gave the conference a global impact by putting lots of them on the web for people to watch or download, free. There are now more than 200 on the TED site, plus selections on Blip.tv, YouTube and iTunes. If you're a blogger, you can embed your favourite talks on your site. Not everybody can go to TED, but everyone can participate online.Today there are TED Global Conferences, TED prizes and a TED blog. And although the talks still have to be interesting, there's now a cutting edge that comes from Anderson's desire to make the world a better place. So a TED talk can now be from someone involved in organising Tiananmen Square protests, working in Africa or, like venture capitalist John Doerr, making an impassioned plea for action on global warming."A few people thought I had ruined something very beautiful, and got very grumpy," Anderson told The New York Times. But talks like the two by Hans Rosling on global population growth, life expectancy and child mortality showed that you could be really entertaining while still making some serious points.Either way, there's lots of variety to choose from. My favourites include an early Ze Frank talk about the web, Jeff Han on multi-touch computing, Malcolm Gladwell on spaghetti sauce, Seth Godin on sliced bread, and Larry Lessig on how the copyright system is killing creativity. I'm sure you can find your own.
This is the place where we do have theroom that we don't in printfor all your letters and blog pingbacks. Click through to read on..FASTER, ADSL, FASTERI read with interest (but a deep sigh) Michael Pollitt's article on the front page of the Guardian IT supplement of 17 April. Why the sigh ? I am a disabled 84 year old long-time customer of BT's monopoly copper-wire-based connection to ADSL broadband at home. Years ago, when I first got broadband, it was amazing, wonderful, a joy - even at 1 Mbps. Fairly reliable, even though my home is about 2 miles from the Woodcote telephone exchange. With the passage of years however, two bad things have happened. Age and disability have made me more and more dependent on Broadband for food shopping, banking and communications. Simultaneously, Broadband service reliability has steadily declined as more and more local home and business users have signed up to use it. This has now reached the point that it is rarely available at weekends, and access on weekdays is hit and miss. Even at this very poor level of service, I am more and more dependent upon it. I have given up on complaining to BT about this, because last time I complained, the response was "OK, if it's that bad, we'll disconnect you". I protested, and BT relented, though warning me that it has "no present plans" to upgrade my exchange to cure the problem. So, I sigh wistfully to read of BT's grand and costly plans to raise the speeds of service (for some customers) from 8Mbps to 24Mbps. How I wish that instead BT would spend a fraction of that sum on upgrading rural exchanges to allow me and thousands like me to enjoy once again the wonderful benefits of 1Mbps broadband. John Arnold Stoke Row, OxonHACKINTOSH?I found your article on buying a non apple pc and running Leopard on it very interesting, but I wished to point out a few things. Firstly, although I do not condone breaking apples EULA, it is possible and actually quite easy to install it yourself. There are manyplaces that will tell you how to do it. It is illegal but possible, and I have seen it done. Benjamin Baruch, LondonHolding on to your money is not an option. You should send your money and see what Psystar is offering. Adam Hassan, ManchesterXP'S AGEJack Schofield is half right (Technology Guardian, 17 April). Companies are not going to rewrite 25 years of in-house programmes just because Microsoft are in Year Zero and always working on newer, even more bloated versions of Windows. The implicit assumption that we should only skip one upgrade is, however, a misplaced one. Most companies, like most home users, don't use more than a fraction of the power of their PCs and can do everything they need with older, smaller and cheaper machines. XP is for most users a good compromise, robust and good VFM. Upgrading only when PCs die or step-change hardware technology emerges [for example, USB 2.0 over 1.1, or DVD writers] makes much better sense for business and home users alike. We have all (me included) got caught up in the "new OS good" minset, and have junked perfectly good kit for shiny toys, but some of us are changing as we get more technologically savvy. [Jack, we should instead make working life better for employees and ourselves by spending the money on better monitors, with a minimum of 19-20" screens, ideally ones that rotate like my HP L2045sw. You very rarely deal with this in Technology Guardian - maybe a piece on the ergonomics and useability of the new generation monitors would be useful?] And as I have pointed out before, you don't need 4GB for XP. An Asus Eee runs XP and most of Office on 2GB. John Kanefsky, Morchard BishopKOREAN SLOTH &gt;&gt; remind me to never move to South Korea. I think I'd probably stop eating and sleeping and die a slow horrible death.mixx.com/stories/219289/TINIER STILL...Rob Carthy confuses a couple of issues in his letter. The point of tinyurl.com is to reduce the length of unmanageable, largely unintelligible, database driven, URLs so that they are easier to read. The original intention was to make emailing URLs easier, but it also assists in the print world. Saving characters in the domain part of a URL is not the same thing. And saving two characters in the "www" subdomain prefix does not mean that you could save the two character ".co" subdomain within a fully qualified domain name. The .uk top level domain is managed by Nominet. It is split into several subdomains (including .co.uk for UK commercial ccompanies). Nominet do not allow regstration directly into the .uk domain. So it would not be possible to register "companyname.uk" as an alternative to "companyname.co.uk". It is, however, perfectly possible to use "companyname.co.uk" as an alternative to "www.companyname.co.uk" on a website. The "www" subdomain is merely a convention adopted to signify a website. Mick Morgan, TharstonTIN WHISKERY?I believe there are several inaccuracies in Kurt Jacobsen's article "Within a whisker of failure." He cites the Swatch watch company as recalling a "huge batch" of watches that amounted to a huge monetary loss, when in fact Swatch was denied their request for a RoHS exemption, as another supplier makes lead-free quartz movements they could use with no whisker issues. Also, Swatch makes no mention of a recall in their EU request. The nuclear power plant failure example and others are also misleading, as these were failures due to pure-tin formulations that predate RoHS. The new formulations reduce these issues. Here's a good article that refutes the "gloom and doom" predictions, if you're interested:"The Good News is… The Bad News is Wrong". Marcus England (no post town given)
So, anyway, how's that support contract from Microsoft for your company's web server running IIS looking? Because you might need to call on it. According to Brian Krebs on the Washington Post's Security Fix blog,"hundreds of thousands" of Microsoft web servers have been hacked.Among those claimed to have been seeded with malicious code are some run by the UK government. And the United Nations. Though we're more concerned about the UKgov ones. (Further details below.) The weakness is being used to seed sites with malware which will get installed on visitors' machines - perhaps by theIFrame method.How? Through a vulnerability in IIS, acknowledged by Microsoft last week ("Vulnerability in Windows could lead to escalation of privilege" - in other words, if someone figures this out, they rule your boxen). Is it widespread, Microsoft? Apparently yes,affecting Windows XP Professional Service Pack 2 and all supported versions and editions of Windows Server 2003, Windows Vista, and Windows Server 2008.F-Secure, which has a very solid reputation in the security community, reckons thatmore than half a million servers have been hacked. F-Secure's quick explanation of the exploit:It finds all text fields in the database and adds a link to malicious javascript to each and every one of them which will make your [hacked] website display them automatically. So essentially what happened was that the attackers looked for ASP or ASPX pages containing any type of querystring (a dynamic value such as an article ID, product ID, et cetera) parameter and tried to use that to upload their SQL injection code.Microsoft's advisory does include a workaround. Let's hope that everyone, especially in uk.gov, is using it.Krebs's conclusion:These types of attacks that infiltrate legitimate, trusted Web sites are precisely the reason I so often recommend Firefox over Internet Explorer. There is a great add-on for Firefox called "noscript," which blocks these kinds of Javascript exploits from running automatically if a user happens to visit a hacked site. Currently, there is no such protection for IE users, and disallowing Javascript entirely isn't really an option on today's World Wide Web. True, you can fiddle with multiple settings in IE to add certain sites to your "Trusted Zone," but that option has never struck me as very practical or scalable.So, now, which UK (gov) sites? Using searches suggested at F-Secure suggests that Faststream (a Cabinet Office service) and the Civil Service Recruitment Gateway were affected, but my own checks just now suggest that script is gone.Among non-government sites, Powerhouse Fitness has noticed and taken its pages down; Greenfield School in Surrey hasn't (just emailed them); nor has the Faroe Islands Tourist Board (with their "diffirent experience" - and diffirent dicktionary?).I hope the reasons for my not linking to the sites is clear - I can't be sure that the malware really is gone, so don't want to put people in harm's way.OK, so let the games begin with "IIS has more holes than Swiss cheese" stuff. Kneejerk, certainly. More important, why don't companies protect better against SQL injection, which is now a standard mode of attack? Is it just the law of large numbers - that with Windows so widespread, you'll get people who've never heard of an SQL injection attack looking after them?The strings to search for (at present) are nmidahena.com, aspder.com and nihaorr1.com. If the page pulls in code from there, you've got trouble.There's a good explanation athackademix, including everyone's favourite XKCD cartoon ("little Johnny tables, we call him" - if you don't get the joke, you'll not follow how this exploit works.)(The image? It's what seemed nearest to appropriate when I did animage search for "fail" on guardian.co.uk. Why do you ask?)Jack adds: Microsoft's Bill Sisk has now commented at theMicrosoft Security Research Center. He says: "our investigation has shown that there are no new or unknown vulnerabilities being exploited. This wave is not a result of a vulnerability in Internet Information Services or Microsoft SQL Server. We have also determined that these attacks are in no way related to Microsoft Security Advisory (951306)." Instead, he points developers to a page from 2005,How To: Protect From SQL Injection in ASP.NET. There's a similar comment onBill's IIS blog.
Earnings at Netherlands-based TomTom NV have fallen by 83% in the first quarter. which "suggests the market for stand-alone global-positioning systems is at a turning point," according toan AP report."What we saw for the first time is that selling prices fell, but volumes didn't improve enough to compensate," analyst Eric de Graaf of Petercam said after the results were reported Wednesday. "It's a signal the market is getting saturated."The three leading suppliers, with 80% of the market, are TomTom, Garmin, and Taiwan's Mitac, which owns the Navman and Mio brands. The 2007 market comprised about 33.9 million units, "almost triple the 11.9 million sold in 2006". However, GPS is also going to become more common on mobile phones. The story says: "By 2010, Gartner estimates, 500 million cell phones capable of navigation will cell [sic] annually, compared to just 95 million pure navigation devices."This is the same as the "most MP3 players will be mobile phones" argument.Frankly, I can't imagine most car drivers trying to navigate using a mobile phone rather than a dedicated satnav device. On the other hand, navigation an obvious function to integrate into the car's standard dashboard, so I don't see much long term future for the stick-in market either.
Wall street made an interesting discovery last week. Apple, the iPod and mobile phone company, also makes computers! Shock! Horror! This elementary fact had hitherto escaped the notice of investment analysts, hypnotised as they were by the glamour of the iPod, the implosion of the music industry and the belief - ably fostered by Dell &amp; Co - that making computers was a low-end, commoditised business.What prompted the discovery was the release of Apple's latest results, which showed soaring revenue, sales and net profit. For the quarter ending 31 March, the company reported revenues of $4.36bn and a net profit of $410m. The comparable figures for the same quarter last year were $3.24bn and $290m respectively. Yet the market rewarded Apple's sterling performance by marking down its shares by 3.4 per cent (though they finished the day up by 1.7 per cent, at $162.89).Perhaps the initial decline was triggered by the discovery that much of Apple's buoyancy was provided not by iPods or iPhones, but by boring old computers. Well, boring new computers, actually. It turns out that Apple sold 2.29 million laptops and desktops during the quarter, which represents a 51 per cent rise on the same quarter last year. And this is just a continuation of an older story.The market research firm IDC calculates that in 2007 Apple sold 7.8 million desktop and notebook computers, capturing 3 per cent of the global market. The same source reports that Apple sold 4.2 million computers in the US, which amounted to 6 per cent of the market. That was up 34 per cent on 2006 and five times the industry average.So how come Wall Street was so surprised about all of this? In a phrase: iPod mania. 'What always gets lost - because everything is focused on iPhones, iPods, iPills, whatever - is Mac sales,' said Scott Rothbort, a veteran investor in Apple. 'Mac sales, Mac sales, Mac sales - that is the story of this company. The Macintosh is capturing more and more market share.'Apple is always going to be a minority player, but 6 per cent of a colossal market makes for a very nice niche. The best way of looking at it is to say that Apple is the BMW of the computer industry: minuscule in comparison with Toyota, GM and Ford, but a driving force nevertheless because of design, functionality and fanatical customer loyalty. It sets the standards that the others eventually have to reach.The most intriguing hypothesis is that the surge in Mac sales is connected with the ongoing difficulties associated with Vista, the latest incarnation of Microsoft's Windows. Although Microsoft continues to insist that the Vista rollout is going just fine, the word on the street - or at any rate the streets patrolled by this columnist - says otherwise. I've lost count of the number of people who have rolled their eyes to heaven when quizzed about how they're getting on with the new system.The problems appear to be clustered in two main areas - inadequate or missing software 'driver' programs for peripherals like printers and modems; and the fact that old, tried-and-tested applications simply won't run any more. Small wonder that people are 'upgrading to XP' - in fact, downgrading from Vista to the older version of Windows. 'At least,' said one downgrader who sought my advice, 'it's the devil I know.'All of which explains why the date on which Microsoft will cease to support XP has become such a hot topic. Initially, support for the XP Home edition (the one most ordinary customers use) was quietly extended to 'two years after the next version of this product is released' - or two years after the release of Vista. But this has failed to quell user unrest - which may explain why Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer dropped some hints in Belgium last week. 'XP will hit an end-of-life. We have announced one,' he said enigmatically. 'If customer feedback varies we can always wake up smarter, but right now we have a plan for end-of-life for new XP shipments.'Lest anyone accuse me of bias, I should say that Leopard, the latest version of the Mac operating system, has suffered similar problems. Lots of venerable Adobe software (PhotoShop CS, for example) simply won't run on it. When I logged on to the Adobe website seeking help I was told that anyone trying to run CS was 'likely to encounter issues for which there is no resolution'.Translation? You're screwed, sucker. Go buy the latest version.
Cult leaders: 4Chan, xkcd and Dinosaur Comics. Photograph byDoc Searls, used under CC license.Although there was a great deal of security around for the Anonymous panel (presumably in case the Scientologists came along and tried to start terrorising people with free stress tests) there hasn't been a crush to match the one going into 'The Internet Cult Leaders'. Cult, on this occasion, meaning 'the people who are like, really popular? And, like, cool? And do, like comics and things?' Sorry - that was direct transcription from the uber-sorority college girl next to me.The panel, then, are; Ryan North (Dinosaur Comics) Randall Monroe [xkcdand moot [4chan]"Oh fuck," says the moderator, Dr Christopher Kelty, visiting Professor of Anthropology at Harvard. "The internet is here." After introducing the panel, each of whom is greeted with a massive, rousing WHOOP, like, in fact, apparently anything at an American conference - he asks a first question. Do they feel like they're leading anything, do you WANT to be leading anything?Answers and more after the jump...There are a lot of people who email me and say "Oh God, I just didn't think that there are people like me! I wasn't looking to lead anything, I'm just drawing a cartoon".It's a familiar cry that has resonated through the whole conference; 'I'm not trying to do anything, I'm just writing a blog/sticking captions on pictures/drawing a comic' - and it's not that people are trying to disown what they do - with the exception of one person whose cry was a loud and clear 'But I'm training to be a doctor, I don't WANT to be widely known for writing stupid one liners about Chuck Norris!'Many of the questions to begin with seem to revolve around a certain sense of 'Are these based on your own life/relationships/interactions'. Interestingly, Randall explains that though the characters he writes are amalgams of various people.As the microphone roams the crowd, it's hard not to be distracted by the in V for Vendetta masks standing in a line and looming over the audience. You know, just in case the scientologists show up all of a sudden.Or, no, they seem to want to disrupt the comics panel - why would anonymous want to protest a bunch of Internet Cult Leaders; are all the cartoonists secretly scien... oh, you know, I'm not saying it again. What's the point of them doing this? Surely there's a point to Anonymous while they're protesting the thing that they say they are set up to counteract; you know, that 'religion'.Many questions, it must be said, are so far over the border of 'FanBoy' that they're probably technically full-blown fanboy citizens by now."Clearly you're brilliant" comes one xkcd fan. "Clearly anyone in this room would do anything for you. Is there anything you would like everyone in this room to do right now?"He ums, and ahs, and looks all humble for a second, like he can't possibly believe that anyone might actually do anything he asks. Or that's what he LOOKS like he's being humble about. "Well, you could all do a barrel roll?"600 people put their laptops to the floor immediately, stand up out of their wooden lecture theatre chairs and do a barrel roll. While sort of impressive, it's kind of a little creepy. I avert my eyes."The community do what they do, there's only so much I can direct what they do, and there's only so much control anyone can have over the community - it's free will, and it's a wiki, and that's what they want to do"XKCD: "You realise that by bringing that up, Tron Guy, you're just made the problem so much worse for yourself."There's a question bubbling up on the backchannel; 'Moot, do you/4chan take responsibility for Rick Rolling?'Eventually it pops to the surface, albeit in suggested form. "Do you take responsibility for ... anything? Moot?" There is a long pause. He sits looking mischievous. "No?" he says.Right, that's it, I don't care if it actually WAS him or not. Let's get him. He says later on that it's one of his least favourite/favourite meme that has come out of 4chan.As Randall expands: "Once the meme gets out of the little community it originated in and gets out in the wider world, the people who originated it are bored of it. But then, that's what's cult about cult things. Once EVERYONE starts liking it, suddenly the cool people will always say it's not as good anymore. "Oh, yah, like, I totally liked that before it 'sold out'."Mook talks about Anonymous a little, and about their wider remit for being 'internet terrorists' and generally causing chaos - and actually that people might get annoyed by that. But while people might be annoyed by Anonymous, it seems that they're even MORE annoyed by Scientology; so what better way for Anonymous to be acceptable than to focus their contempt on the only thing that people might have even more contempt about.The question of women surfaces again. It's been a recurring theme, that people are aware of the lack of women represented in the panels and how that is a BAD thing. Someone asks this panel what they think of that."Um. It's difficult being preachy and funny at the same time" Says Randall.They are questions that need to be asked on a wider level, but its a difficult topic to throw at a panel of people who do 'internet funny' - if not for a living then certainly on a pretty magnificent scale - as Randall Monroe (I'm trying so hard not to call people 'xkcd' or the like; this is a real person, not a meme, apparently...) sums up "Gender and society is one of the most complex issue I've ever dealt with, and I've studied Quantum mechanics.""I suppose it's really a very misogynist comic, there's a tyrannosaurus, and then there's like, another dinosaur, and" Ryan North stumbles through a dissection of his own work in terms of gender politics and, in doing, makes a good point of how this possibly isn't the place to ask why white-guys and guy-guys make up the vast majority of people on the panel.Perhaps if this conference happens again next year, it will have to be on the agenda - it certainly was this year, it just wasn't on the schedule.And then the 'live comment box session' begins. People can queue up and say anything, about anything; the only rule is that the first person can only make the comment 'FIRST!'This is either going to be genius, or just plain horrible.
I was travelling through the Philippines by jeepney - the Second World War jeeps converted to take passengers. On this leg of the trip to Tinglayan, the number of passengers wishing to board the vehicle was stretching the laws of physics. At one point a little old lady got on and plonked herself down on my lap. Finally, we departed. I was entranced by the exquisite landscape of rice terraces perched on vertiginous hillsides. At every stop a man with a large suitcase jumped out selling plumbing supplies. Nobody was in a hurry, but after nine butt-crunching hours we arrived in Tinglayan. I walked down the only street of the village. 'Hello sah,' shouted children swimming in the river. I found a guesthouse and, longing for a shower, turned on the tap. A gurgle of air emitted. Clearly the plumbing salesman hadn't made it this far. So I ran into the river and bathed with the kids.&#183;Do you have a memorable journey? Send it to us onjourneys@observer.co.uk
Renault Twingo&pound;8,375Miles per gallon:49.5Seats:4Good for:Young onesBad for:The oldiesWe've all been there. The overnight train to the south of France, the bleary-eyed walk across a parking lot, the smirk on the Avis employee's face as he hands you the keys to the cheapest car in the pound. And then your snigger of disbelief as you are confronted by a Twingo - a Shetland pony among shire horses... But weren't they great fun! Tiny and full of beans, the Twingo had the vim and verve to turn the world into a theme park - and handing back the keys at the end of the week was always a bittersweet moment.The Twingo has been winning over tight-wad holidaymakers and French urban-dwellers since 1993. In those 15 years, 2.4m have been sold, but in all that time, Renault never saw fit to introduce a right-hand model. Maybe they thought its bubbly charms would be lost on us, that we wouldn't get a car that looked like a child's painting brought to life. Or that it was so small it didn't really matter which side you sat on.However, the rise and rise of the small city wagon, from the Fiat Panda to Citro&euml;n's C1 and any number of Japanese toy cars, means the market for dinky vehicles is now stronger than ever - and Renault has decided to unleash its Twingo on this side of the Channel. And just as the French seem to have the edge on us when it comes to glamorous rugby players and model-marrying presidents, so they know how to load plenty of zip and sparkle into their teeny-weeny cars.The Twingo seats four in a surprising amount of space; a useful sliding arrangement for the back two seats means there is plenty of leg room, though moving the seats back does eat into your boot space. Up front, the car is clean, open and straightforward. A centrally placed digital dashboard looks great but means the little Puritans in the back can chirp over your shoulder: 'Daddy you are going 32mph - and that is against the law.' The steering-wheel-mounted rev counter is awful, and I'd have thought it would be the first thing to go when the Twingo is next tweaked by its designers.The name Twingo, which sounds like a chocolate bar, is in fact a portmanteau derived from the words swing, twist and tango - a dance-step compilation which would soon have Brucie and Tess down at the osteopaths. But the name does give you a good idea of what the car is like to drive. It is neat and nippy, and the feistier GT version is quite at home on the motorway. And as you'd hope with a 1.2-litre engine, the consumption is high and the emissions are low.Renault's entry-level car is very much aimed at the younger market. It comes with an MP3 socket so you can plug in your iPod - something you'd think would be standard but the motoring industry has been slow to get to grips with. The car also comes with tinted glass and a silver rear spoiler, if so desired, and a choice of decals. Mine has a fetching white racing stripe, but I was tempted by the 'freestyle tattoo' and 'poppy door handle' graphics. And you'll no longer have to worry about giving it back at the end of the week.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Don't get mad; get email. That was Tessa Martin's way of getting over a string of broken love affairs. She didn't cut up her ex-boyfriends' trousers, write off their cars or seek inspiration from Glenn Close's character in Fatal Attraction. Instead she decided that revenge is a dish best served online.Martin's blog is called 'Ex-Girlfriend's Revenge' and has the subtitle 'Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned'. In her first entry, she gave notice: 'What I am ... is a chick that doesn't "let it go" and a chick that, once wronged, will not forget and will welcome an opportunity to be vindictive. This is the reason for my blog ... revenge on all the bullshit I was force fed by some yanking dumb fuck ... revenge for all my girlfriends that had to endure countless evenings waiting by a phone when the asshole that should be calling them is out meeting some chick that responded to his post on Match.com.'Martin let rip in a series of posts that mercilessly mocked her exes with scabrous humour and toe-curling candour. She did not name the hapless men but published their photographs so they were easily identifiable. Under the heading, 'This is the beast,' she exposed a wannabe male model whose hobbies include 'poorly trying to juggle several girls at a time' and 'cheating, lying, conning, deceiving'. She wrote: 'A Gross Truth: He made me touch his butt on our first date to show me how in shape it was. I dry heaved.''Ex-Girlfriend's Revenge' put out an appeal to other women to come forward with their horror stories about relationships and was soon inundated. It is now one of countless blogs and websites dedicated to exorcising the ghost of lost loves. Some are a form of therapy as the broken-hearted, often anonymously, try to write the pain out of their system and comfort each other in online chatrooms. Others are more bellicose, listing their ex-lovers' faults, releasing embarrassingly explicit photos and serving up a character assassination to warn off other prospective partners.The rise of the vengeance blog is changing the nature of privacy, turning the washing of dirty linen into a global spectacle and challenging psychologists and lawyers to speculate on the long-term consequences of Googling your spouse's romantic CV, warts and all. The humiliation potential was all too clear earlier this month when millions watched British actress Tricia Walsh-Smith deride the sexual performance of her husband, Broadway producer Philip Smith, in a six-minute video on YouTube.'It is a therapy,' said Martin, 32, now a happily married mother of twins in Florida. 'I had a bad break-up and it was great to write it all out, put it to bed and move forward. Before it I was angry, but afterwards I could just laugh about it. When I was doing it I felt it was a public service to all women to stay away from these guys. There's something nice about knowing it might flash up on some stranger's computer screen, rather than writing a letter to your ex and throwing it away. I never understood that as a form of therapy.'Among the most eloquent bloggers is Penelope Trunk, a columnist at the Boston Globe who posts on a wide range of issues including the breakdown of her 15-year marriage and bringing up a child with autism. In one entry she describes going to visit what she thinks is a marriage counsellor who will ease her marital problems, only to discover that this is in fact a divorce lawyer and that her husband is feeling inclined towards a permanent separation. The post attracted 183 comments, many heartfelt and poignant.Meanwhile a divorcee in New York, who gives only her first name, Laurie, was sued by her ex-husband over her podcasts at DivorcingDaze.com because he argued they included statements that were 'obnoxious, derogatory or offensive' and violated the terms of the divorce settlement that she would not 'harass' or 'malign' him. A court upheld her right to podcast on grounds of free speech.Technology has made it easy for any lonely blogger to set up an online diary and pour out their feelings, but also for the accused to hit back, taking arguments that raged in the marital home and divorce court into cyberspace as they strive to have the last word. Most disappear into the digital undergrowth among billions of other web pages. But like much else on the internet, hurt has spawned groups and social networks, professionalised services and, inevitably, ways of making money.Thea Newcombe set up SoYouveBeenDumped.com on a shoestring budget after her third break-up in four years. Visited by about 8,000 people a month, it claims to be the number one site dedicated solely to break-up support and advice. Its forum includes a 'Dumped Zone', where users seek closure by sharing their tales of anguish, and a 'Revenge Corner' where a sample entry reads: 'I am kinda sorta waiting for my ex to get engaged to the girl he started going out with after me, so I can use the line I've been saving up: "Well, I hope it goes better than her last two engagements."'A social network with a sting in the tail is Don'tDateHimGirl.com, which has more than 46,000 profiles of men, many posted in anger by ex-girlfriends keen to name and shame their former sweethearts. One man has been blacklisted by 11 women. The site is based in America but estimates that one in every four entries is British. An example reads: 'This guy is nuts, certifiable, completely crazy, lying, cheating dirt bag ... He will tell you that you are "the one", have you met his kids (a couple of them ... he has a baby with a girlfriend that you will only find out about accidentally).'Recently a blog called 'STD Allstars' was forced to close when its male subject complained. Such is the damage potential of a poisonous blog that it is now possible to hire experts in online firefighting. ReputationDefender charges anything from $10 a month to $250,000 'per engagement' to search out and destroy everything on the web that threatens disgrace. Michael Fertik, its chief executive, said that he deals with cases of post-relationship rancour 'all the time'. 'People use the web as a tool for vengeance,' he said. 'It tends to the case that guys are vicious when it's an unrequited love, whereas women are vicious when there's been a break-up. That's a general rule of thumb.'In one case the company was called in when a man put his ex-girlfriend's contact details in a chat forum about pop stars, saying that it was the home of 50 Cent. She received calls at all hours and CDs were sent to her office. In another case, an airman who separated from his partner suddenly discovered his profile appearing on gay dating websites.But even ReputationDefender admits it is almost impossible to erase something from the web completely, although it has methods of pushing material down the Google search results list. Unlike a letter written in haste and never sent, or kept only between two people, a vengeful blog is written in indelible ink and within a few mouseclicks' reach of your employer, future spouse and children.Hell hath no fury like ...nakedjen.com: Jennifer Neal on her marriage to David Salsi woke up this morning and found my husband in the living room sitting cross-legged on the floor.i asked him what was up and he said he had been up most of the night. thinking. about us.he's done.he says he loves me, he thinks i'm the most amazing woman he'll ever know, i am his best friend, he can't imagine his life without me in it, but he's done. and he doesn't know what his path is, he just knows that being married to me is not it.my heart, to put it bluntly, is absolutely shattered. i feel like the biggest fool. for trusting him. for believing that he really wanted to be my husband. for being the best wife i could possibly be and having it just not be enough.i feel like he's broken one of our most sacred promises. and i know i always say that marriage happens every day. that we wake up each morning and say, 'today i choose to be married.' and i understand that dave no longer chooses to be married.nakedjen.comKnee Deep in Knightsbridge: an anonymous blogger on a custody battle with her exI texted him asking if he would be looking after our son next weekend. He sent back a text so extraordinary it quite took my breath away. He said: 'I will be unavailable until noon next Saturday. Therefore it may be sensible for you to have him.'Sorry? What? This is the man who has insisted on a whole load more hideously expensive litigation against me so that he can be with his son more. And then I realised why. There's a Chelsea game against Manchester United at 12.30. No wonder he can't be arsed to drive to Oxford.kneedeepinknightsbridge.com/serendipityPenelope Trunk's Brazen Careerist: On her first day of marriage counsellingMy husband thinks things got bad because taking care of our son who has autism is extremely difficult and we take it out on each other. There is truth to what  he says: 80 per cent of parents who have a child with autism get a divorce. But I don't want to blame my failing marriage on my cute little five-year-old. Not that I don't want someone to blame. I do. But I think it is more complicated than that.I explain how my career is going great. I tell the mediator I have a busy speaking schedule and a six-figure contract for my next book. I even talk about my blog, and the estimated 450,000 page views a month, even though you can trust me on this: our divorce mediator from Middleton, Wisconsin does not read blogs.At this point, I think my husband is going to tell the mediator about how he gave up his career for the kids and me and he is totally disappointed. But instead he says to me, 'A lot of people I talk with say that I am being abused by you.'blog.penelopetrunk.com
