Woohoo, it's Monday. So, what did you play this weekend? I've made a modest start on Mass Effect 3, aware that I'm not getting the total experience thanks to my lack of an ME2 save. Nevermind, it's still a pretty amazing, though slightly intimidating experience. How about you?
This 3D update ofMetal Gear's most testing chapter is oddly timed – only last month, the same game got the &nbsp;high-def treatment for home consoles. Still, being chronologically the first episode in the saga, it's a fitting&nbsp;introduction to Nintendo's new(ish) handheld.Set during the cold war, the story revolves around Naked Snake, who has to rescue a defecting Soviet missile expert from a jungle base. It's gripping spy-fi, but while the story excels,Snake Eaterisn't without flaws. The lack of twin thumbsticks makes controlling Snake awkward at best, and while the use of 3D is the best seen on the system to date, everything is terribly dark – all but impossible to play away from home.There are some interesting quirks – taking photos with the 3DS's camera to create your own in-game camouflage, for instance, but it's simply too fiddly for portable gaming.
Wii owners have been starved of decent content recently, so the arrival of such a fine and absorbing RPG asThe&nbsp;Last Storyis to be heartily welcomed.Taking place on the quasi-European island Lazuli, the game follows young mercenary Zael through a fairly typical anime-inspired adventure. No real points for originality, but the game shines none the less. Directed by Hironobu Sakaguchi, it has the air of a creator freed to experiment in ways he&nbsp;wasn't able to in hisFinal Fantasydays.&nbsp;Zael and his allies engage in real-time battles, guarding and parrying&nbsp;enemy attacks in a rejection of&nbsp;the expected structure of Japanese role-players. It's actually rather simplistic yet surprisingly engaging, with strategy elements adding depth to&nbsp;the action.The Last Storylooks and sounds a treat, too, and in offering a lengthy and engrossing quest, this is likely to be one of the last great Wii games.
The Earth is on fire. Countless alien craft rain down, annihilating the fortunate few and turning everyone else into enslaved abominations. Which is fantastic news. It means thatMass Effectis back.The dreaded Reaper Apocalypse is nigh. Despite having warned about it for most of the previous two games, now all Commander Shepard can do is dodge, roll and shoot his (or her) way through the smouldering ruins, muttering: "I told you so."So begins a familiar, yet significantly upgraded adventure. Fans will recognise much, and newcomers will be quickly assimilated. The formula is the same, but the stakes are even higher: Shepard has to convince the various alien races of the Citadel Council to stand together against the Reapers while dodging bullets from his previous and clearly disgruntled employers, Cerberus.It has never been entirely clear whetherMass Effectis an action shooter, an RPG or an interactive story. This time out, it's all three. Choose to fight without troubling yourself with dialogue choices, or opt for the classic fighting and talking set-up. You can even play the entire game as conversations and cut-scenes only, which is a little perverse given how good the cover and combat system is, improved even from the excellentMass Effect 2.Shepard returns to the Normandy, now once more an alliance warship – moodier, and with a war room to marshal the meagre forces scattered across the Milky Way, which wait to be found with a significantly streamlined scanner. Just try not to alert the Reapers when you use it…Pretty much everything is improved. The graphics are sharper, and so are the enemies. Levelling up is slightly more flexible, and weapons are vastly more customisable. Mercifully, Shepard can now get many secondary missions simply by jogging past the relevant conversation. And the story is truly epic.This is a triumphant finale to Shepard's saga. Loose ends are tied up, side quests feel less diversionary, favourite colleagues return and there are still some significant surprises.Mass Effectis the best space trilogy since the originalStar Warsfilms. AndStar Warsdidn't even have multiplayer.
The booming app market has long been a boon for homebrew developers, ripe for low-cost, high-originality thinking – but it's also encouraging a deluge of cheap marketing devices. Often, these free "spam" apps are dross dreamt up for promotional purposes and swiftly deleted from one's iDevice, but just occasionally they can offer something worthwhile.The Ikea-sponsoredHappy to Bed(free, Apple App Store) takes advantage of the modern obsession with sleeplessness to try to sell us some Swedish flat-pack furniture – but also offers a useful tool that previously would have cost 69p in the form of the Sleep Cycle app. Enter the time you need to wake up and then the number of hours of sleep you would like; placed next to the pillow the app then measures your body's natural sleeping rhythm and calculates your sleep cycle from it. Subsequently, it is able to advise the best time to go to bed. It's a nifty tool and comes with a host of handy tips for things to do to help you wind down and get a good night's rest. It's certainly not an original idea, but it saves a few pennies.Of course, for every app doing something helpful there are a million useless ones clamouring for attention. For example, the recent HeinekenSerenadeapp (Facebook, free) tried to tie Dutch lager to Valentine's Day by offering the chance to create a personalised song for a loved one. The "official" Spam app is surely just around the corner.
Price from £13,999MPG 40Top speed 125mphCrouching on the pavement outsideGS Jet Techon the South Woodford high road – the twilight zone where London becomes Essex – is a brace of Can-Am Spyders. They look like transformers taking a breather from their contortions. Ian, the good-natured bear of a man who owns the shop, makes most of his living by selling high-end quad bikes and spivved-up jet skis to the bleached, bronzed and Botoxed boys and girls who live around here. But it's the futuristic Spyder roadsters that really get him excited."In France they've sold 4,000 since their launch in 2008, but in the UK we've only managed 400," he says, clearly baffled. "They're fantastic. Best thing I've ever ridden, but the thing is, people don't really know what they are." We digest this thought while looking at the undeniably striking trikes. Well, I&nbsp;ask, what exactly are they? Ian says: "They're motorcycles for people who've always wanted one, but who don't want to die…" There's a pause while we consider this, then Ian laughs: "Actually, don't say that – just say they're bikes you can't fall off."The problem facing Ian is that there is something inescapably uncool about tricycles. They come from the motoring section marked: "Only for men with ponytails." They're also dangerous. A powerful three-wheeler is all very well in a straight line, but they can't stop and they can't turn.The Can-Am Spyder, however, is a&nbsp;very different beast. Contrary to most motor trikes – oh, that does sound so awful – the two wheels are at the front. This unique Y-shaped footprint is not only eye-catching but it means the Spyder has the road holding of a prop forward coupled with the fleet-footedness of a full back. The two-seat Spyder also comes with anti-lock braking, stability and traction control. And the aerodynamic fairing means that over 20mph you won't get wet in the rain, as the droplets are sent spinning past your cosy air envelope. At higher speed, the envelope creates a wind ball at your back which acts as a brace so that even at speeds of up to 125mph you feel planted in your saddle. It's as if you are sitting in the eye of a storm.Rarely have I sat on anything that&nbsp;attracted so much attention from passersby. Drivers slowed to let me pull out; a group of schoolkids gawped and cheered. Ian told me that he recently pulled into a garage to be greeted by a driver who'd been following and filming him. And all of them seemed to voice the question Ian hears all the time: "What is it?"The Spyder is built by BRP, the leisure arm of Bombardier – the firm more usually associated with train carriages – and it's a classy product. Everything from the leather seats to the heated grips and retractable windscreen feels well-considered.In keeping with its dual bike/car heritage, it contrasts the best of both its parents: an exhilarating ride, but also sensible storage cubbies; heart-stopping acceleration (0-62 in 4.5 seconds), but also an electronic parking brake; helmet-free thrills, but also an iPod connection and satnav.Returning to Ian's shop and seeing the Sea-Doos and Ski-Doos in the window, I suddenly realise what the misunderstood Spyder actually is –  a jet ski for the open road.And now for a second opinion… by Rufus LoveThe day I went to test the Can-Am, my 15-year-old son came along for the ride. This was his report of the trip…Emerging from an underground station, my eyes still squinting against the harsh light, I always feel slightly alien or at the very least, foreign. So it isn't surprising that as Dad and I rose to survey the unknown expanse of South Woodford in the faraway galaxy of Zone 5 (to my Oyster card's bafflement), this feeling of the unfamiliar was heightened. Popping up in the style of the stars at Meerkat Manor, we looked around for the car that was to pick us up. But car it was not. Neil Armstrong-esque, we approached the estranged vehicles. Straddled by two men clad head-to-toe in leather and sporting outrageous sunglasses, the Can-Am Spyders reclined in the corner of the car park. They were the cool kids at the back of the school bus; complete with three wheels, they were jet skis for dry land with an unmistakable smugness across their flawless, Canadian-manufactured complexion.No words were required to seduce us on to the back of our respective trikes. The purr of its engine was enough for me, and before I knew it I was astride the feline mobile, helmet on and secreted dribble rapidly drying cold on my face as we cruised through the (Zone 5!) streets. The high street was chock-full of artsy little establishments – cafés and restaurants drowning in enough exposed brick and log-burning fires to rebuild Manchester. So when we pulled in at the Can-Am dealership, well, it stuck out like a sore thumb.The X Games had been concentrated into a room about 20 metres squared. An adrenaline junkie's Santa List materialised in front of me: wakeboarding, wind sailing, abseiling, jet skis, water skis, ATVs, quads, trikes and a motorbike collection that could knock a Hell's Angel back up to heaven. This place truly had it all. Its mere existence made me ponder what other mad obscurities thrived in Zone 5 (I took a mental note to look out for a sweet shop). After a brief tour of the shop accompanied by the modest owner to a subtle backdrop of some of Slipknot's finest metal, we again took to the roads.Sadly, I am still too young to take the wheel of the trike, so I had some thinking time in the back seat. I lay back on my cushion of air, induced by some ingenious aerodynamics, and relaxed to the very audible stereo of the trike (my driver was obviously not ashamed of his Marvin Gaye love affair). Although thinking isn't easy when you are driving through seismic waves of "WOOO"s of onlooking girls (and some boys) and slow profanities uttered by men suffering the realisation that they are travelling home in a Fiat Punto – four wheels, how mainstream! Unlike their bald patches, some inadequacies cannot be covered by copious amounts of hair products.With their single-file seats, the Can-Ams aren't the most sociable methods of getting around, but as the passenger I felt obliged to construct some kind of conversational platform. "So. Do you, errr, like these? Things?" Pathetic. My transparent visor did me no favours hiding my embarrassment. The leather minotaur's waist rotated slowly, but to an alarming degree. It made me think of an owl's neck, and the huge yellow eyes with bulging pupils on the top of his helmet supported this. Marvin Gaye continued to groan out sexual invitations. My driver hadn't looked at the road for at least 10 seconds – I wondered if he hadn't passed out behind his dark helmet. He cleared his throat: "How could they be better – it's all the fun of biking for people who don't want to die!" Marvin let out a throaty "woaah-oh" in resolute agreement. I considered his point, and due to the fact that I was still alive when there had been a good 30 seconds of unsupervised driving, I acquiesced.So under the instruction of Marvin himself: "Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, baby. Stop beatin' 'round the bush, hey", I can indeed confirm that there is life in Zone 5.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
Unless you have been holidaying on Mars, you will have gathered that Apple launched a new version of its iPad lastWednesday. They're refusing to call it the iPad3 but everyone else is. I'd be more inclined to call it the iPad2S, following the nomenclature the company has adopted for its mobile phones. That's because, no matter how the Apple Reality Distortion Field spins it, the latest iPad is really just an evolutionary advance on its predecessors.Granted, it has a significantly better display, a more powerful processor (therefore better graphics performance), a better camera, which will record HD video, and a wider range of mobile connectivity options. But otherwise, it's the mixture as before – though that didn't stop the Apple website being swamped on Wednesday evening, presumably by folks anxious to pre-order the newest new thing. (Memo to Apple: why not set up a system whereby customers' salaries are paid directly to the company and they are then issued with food stamps and other necessities as the need arises?)The presentation was led by Tim Cook (above), Apple's new CEO, who had one fascinating slide. It showed that in the last quarter Apple had sold 15.4 million iPads. In the same quarter, Acer, Dell, Lenovo and HP – the world's four leading manufacturers of PCs – sold 9.8 million, 11.9 million, 13 million and 15.1 million PCs respectively. This demonstrates, Cook declared, the extent to which we have moved into a "post-PC" world – a world which, he implied, would continue to be dominated by Apple. As evidence, he claimed that sales of post-PC devices (iPad, iPhone and iPod) accounted for 76% of Apple's revenue during that quarter, and that it had sold more than 172 million of these gizmos in total last year. In comparison, all PC makers combined shipped about 350 million PCs in the same period.So are we indeed entering a "post-PC" world? Most of the attention at the moment is focused on trying to predict the "crossover point" – when the graph of rising tablet sales intersects the curve of declining PC sales. Estimates of when that will happen range from 2013 to 2017 or even later. But even when the crossover happens, it still won't signal a post-PC universe, for a variety of reasons.Sales of new devices, for example, ignore the fact that there is a colossal number of PCs in the world, most of them owned and operated by businesses whose purchasing decisions are very different from those of individuals. To date, the iPad frenzy has been mainly a consumer phenomenon. That doesn't mean  companies aren't buying and deploying tablets, just that they're not doing it at the same pace as consumers are. And their huge investment in what Apple might disdain as "legacy" systems – large networks of PCs running Microsoft Windows – means that a move to tablets would require radical changes in their IT infrastructures. Companies won't make those changes lightly in a tough economic climate, especially if their boring old PCs are providing a "good enough" service – which most probably are.Besides, there is another variable in the equation that wasn't much talked about last week. Microsoft released the public beta (ie test) version of Windows 8, the latest version of the venerable operating system. Why is this relevant? Well, history suggests that whenever Microsoft releases a major upgrade to Windows it triggers a spike in PC sales, as companies use the release as a trigger for system upgrades. Some industry observers think that Microsoft will sell more than a billionWindows licencesover the next three years. If that happens, we might see a temporary reversal in the decline of PC sales – thereby pushing Mr Cook's crossover point further into the distance.Predictions of a post-PC world are just the latest example of what the computer scientist John Seely Brown calls "endism" – the idea that a new technology signals the end of an older one. The reality is more mundane. While the newcomer does indeed disrupt things and take over parts of the ecosystem, the established species adjust and retreat to the habitats where they have significant advantages.The iPad is great for some things, but hopeless for others. I've had one since its launch in 2010 and I use it every day. It has a terrific battery life, springs instantly to life when opened, is robust and portable and, when fitted with a sim card, provides good connectivity on the move. One could, I suppose, try to write a book, edit a movie or build a big spreadsheet model with it – just as one could, in principle, dig the garden with a teaspoon. But you'd be mad to try. The truth about computing is like the truth about steeplechasing: it's always horses for courses.
"I started to write an album that would try to reach out to these kids and, in some ways, to be a father to these kids, because they were parentless," said Ben Drew, aka singer/songwriter Plan B.The aim of his early music, he added, was to "expose gun culture for what it really was – the grim reality. Because 50&nbsp;Cent is very lucky. The reality is that if you are shot once, you are going to be dead."The controversial actor and soon-to-be film-maker's appearance was one of the most eagerly anticipated at the TEDx Observer festival of new ideas  at the Sadler's Wells theatre in London. Thousands also watched a simultaneous broadcast on screens at parallel events around the country.The forthright performer, who grew up in the East End of London before he found musical success as a rapper, was introduced by the DJ Goldie. Explaining his creative journey, Drew said: "I got tired of defending hip-hop, the music I loved, and I got tired of the politics of it. Although I knew it was the only music that would reach these kids."Footage from Drew's uncompromising filmiLL Manors, which is out later this year, was screened after the singer explained how a sense of injustice has fuelled much of his work. Creative endeavour as a route out of frustration and social alienation was not just an appealing idea, Drew suggested, but a growing political imperative.The theme of the day was "where inspiration meets action" and the audience was treated to a huge range of variations on it. Whoops rewarded the contributions ofPauline Pearce, the community worker who walked into London's riots last summer on her way home from work and then did her best to dissuade looters.Barnstorming performances by South African musician Hugh Masekela, Mali's Amadou and Mariam, who were introduced by singer Cerys Matthews, and later by Lianne La Havas,  Rosemary Nalden, the choir Only Boys Aloud and Plan B, all won cheers of appreciation, while, as befitted the historic London venue, dance also enjoyed its moment in the limelight too. There was an uplifting appearance by psychologist and dancer Peter Lovatt and Alvaro Restrepo, who brought stories of his inspirational work from the barrios of Colombia, where he is using dance to build the self-confidence of deprived young people.Martin Bostock, a London public relations expert said: "The whole TED concept is fantastic, I think, but I found Giles Duley's talk awe-inspiring. It was a unique story."The photographer opened the morning session with his extraordinary account of his brave, outward-looking response to suffering a terrible injury. Last year Duley was on assignment in Afghanistan when he stepped on a land mine and lost both legs and his left arm in the explosion. "My body was a living example of what war can do to somebody," he said. Duley's response was to focus on the difficulties of those around him, something he now felt better able to understand.Robin Dunbar, the director of the institute of cognitive and evolutionary anthropology at Oxford University, showed the audience how he had scientifically unwrapped the sentiment and cant surrounding modern ideas about friendship and the enhancing role of social networking technology. Internet tools such as Twitter and Facebook do nothing, it seems, to increase the number of people that we interact with in a meaningful way. In other words, you will not have more friends simply because you tweet. The maximum number of people in an average "social cognition circuit" was 150, a figure now known as Dunbar's number. (Ironically, as Dunbar pointed out, it was Facebook that first gave him this uninvited kudos).TED began in California 23 years ago. Speakers address the key themes of technology, entertainment and design. Saturday's event also paid a lot of attention to new analysis of human behaviour and trying to make it work for society, rather than against it.Observereditor John Mulholland, who presented the Londonevent, said: "One of the most important things, it seems to me, that becomes clear from the ideas being talked about today is just how vital it is to harness what young people can do. And repeatedly, it is the more creative attempts to do this that appear to work and to be the most worthwhile."Many of the speakers had taken their innovative ideas straight out into the field, from Lebanese farmer and food activist Kamal Mouzawak to Rosemary Nalden, a New Zealander living in London who gave up her flat to go to run a music project in Soweto for young children called Buskaid. Nalden calls compromise "the dirtiest word in the English language" and she is convinced about the value of what she is doing. "Music is a huge agent of transformation."Some of the younger contingent in the crowd may have been drawn to the event by Ben Drew's name, but others were attracted by the idea of TED itself. They appeared to go home satisfied by a day of huge variety and stirring debate."There is a massive mix of ages and of background here," said student Olivia Grosvenor, 22. "I recently got into TED online and I knew my friend would love it too, so I persuaded her to come along too, even though she had never heard of it."The Observer TEDx event was supported by venue Sadler's Wells and ethical caterers Squid &amp; Pear  squidandpear.com
Block 19.03am:A very good morning to you from Sadler's Wells in London, where excitement is mounting ahead of the second TEDx Observer day of inspirational talks, performances and films.Last year, among others, we had Goldie and Jude Law, Sarah Brown and Geoff Mulgan.This yearpromises to be an equally diverse and intoxicating mixture, as thinkers, musicians, campaigners and inspirational people from all walks of life join forces to explore the theme of "where inspiration meets action".The doors have just opened... Let the fun begin!Block 29.19am:First up today we haveGiles Duley, an erstwhile photographer of celebrities who, years ago, shifted his attention to the third world and travelled to countries including Sudan, Angola and Ukraine in a bid to tell a different kind of story. Last year, he stepped on a landmine in Afghanistan and became a triple amputee.My colleague Kate Kellaway interviewed him in October last year, when he was lying in a hospital bed. You can read ithere.Oh, and by the way: for Twitter followers, the hashtag for today's event is #TEDxObserver.Block 39.27am:Lest anyone accuse us of being too London-centric, let's take a moment to look atwhat's going on todayin the rest of Britain.Block 49.55am:A warm, witty and wise talk from Duley, who spoke of the importance of telling stories: that of the young man, Nick, who self-harmed; the street kids of Odessa, with whom he lived; that of himself, who stepped on IED and lost three of his limbs.My body was a living example of what war does to somebody.But photography had become his way of telling stories and making a difference- something he said everyone was able to do if they found their "tool."We can all be cogs in a wheel of change...If we want to make a difference we can.Block 59.57am:On stage now is Tali Sharot, a neuroscientist currently based at the department of cognitive perceptual and brain science at University College London.She's the author of The optimism bias, or, why some of us look on the bright side. You can read an extracthere.Block 610.15am:Interesting. I've always been one of those people who assumes that lowering your expectations is a sure-fire way to stay more content. Turns out, according to Sharot, I'm misguided.It's a very good theory but it turns out it's wrong.Not only because anticipation of good things enhances your well-being (the I'd-prefer-a-snog-from-George-Clooney-in-three-days-rather-than-this-morning-please test) but also because high expectations, Sharot says, can act as self-fulfilling prophecies. (The higher your hopes, the more you put in, and therefore the better the result.)So how do we face reality while at the same time remaining hopeful?"The key here is knowledge," says Sharot.In other words: be a penguin with a parachute.Block 710.15am:Up now- I'm very excited about this- is Pauline Pearce, the heroine of Hackney. I've only ever seen her oratory on the street corner- but it certainly was effective.Loud applause for Pearce.Block 810.25am:Wow. Louis Armstrong isn't a patch on the heroine of Hackney, it turns out. Pearce just gave Sadler's Wells a brief rendition of It's A Wonderful World.And she had this message for Britain, six months after the riots that made her so furious with her own community.Six months on, if they start again I'd do it again. We need to get some love out there... It was heartbreaking to see. I really want people to reach out to their neighbours and give support where support is needed.Block 910.44am:Introduced by Yottam Ottolenghi ("miracles do happen over a plate of hummus"), the culinary activist Kamal Mouzawak just spoke wittily and eloquently about the ideas behind hisSouk el-Tayebfarmers' market.The son of a farmer, he grew up in a Lebanon torn asunder by civil war. When, finally, it ended, he set about trying to discover the parts and the peoples he had never known- only to find, he said, that they were just like him.With its diverse faiths and ethnicities, Lebanon is a country with a fragility that sees it veer between catastrophe and celebration, he said. Which was why he decided to embark on a "common project, a common dream" that would help overcome those differences.Block 1010.50am:We've just been watching ashort filmabout the 220 years of the Observer- the world's oldest Sunday newspaper. And now for Amadou and Mariam!Block 1111.04am:A stunning performance now fromAmadou and Mariam, the Malian musicians who have become international superstars and wowed the west with their intoxicating music.In a brief interview before they took to the mic, the couple (once known as 'the blind couple of Mali') explained the thinking behind their Eclipse show, a show premiered in Manchester last year and performed in the pitch dark. According to a translation, Amadou said:Our aim was to allow people to reflect on music in the same way as we do...We wanted everyone to be on the same starting block.He also reflected on the implications of great success.Once you have success you have responsibility.If you missed today's performance, or just want more, here's a session that Amadou and Mariam recorded at the Guardian last month.Block 1211.17am:And...it's a break. Time to check out what people are saying about this morning's talks so far.Of course, I'm a bit impartial. But it's all seeming rather positive so far.Really enjoying#tedxobserver. The speakers and performers sharing their stories of what a diverse and wonderful world this is.— Janet Wilkinson (@Jw3x3)March 10, 2012Wow, wonderful musical interlude fromAmadou &amp; Mariam. Pretty much made my morning.#TEDxObserver— Sonya Thomas(@writehandmedia)March 10, 2012First session at#tedxobserveralready worth the tickets. Very moved by Giles Duley's talk and laughed so much at Pauline Pierce's Q&amp;A.#fb— Sam C (@kintarasan)March 10, 2012Block 1311.37am:The wild thyme breads (courtesy of Kamal Mouzawak) have almost all gone, and it's back to the auditorium. Up next is Daniel Kish, a teacher and campaigner who uses a technique called echolocation to 'see' his way around the world- even though his eyes were removed at the age of 14.His talk is entitled: "What do you mean, you have blind vision?"Block 1411.46am:Well, someone's certainly promising great things later today (although maybe Pirate Party founder Rick Valkwinge's just suffering from the optimism bias).Preparing to present at#tedxobserverin London. This is going to be one of my best presentations ever. I'm on at 17:24 today.— Falkvinge (@Falkvinge)March 10, 2012Block 1512.10pm:What a fascinating, interactive talk from Kish. Despite having only prosthetic eyes, he is able to distinguish an SUV from a pick-up truck, a tall building from 1000 ft and can even ride a mountain bike. How does he find his way around by sonar?I click- that essentially asks two questions of the environment. The two questions are 'where are you?' and 'what are you'?But the really big issue for him, he says, is helping not only blind people but all of us feel that we can work our way through darkness in our lives.What can we do to find a way through that darkness because there is always a way.Block 1612.26pm:We've just been laughing along to Professor Robin Dunbar as he took us through his take on technology and relationships (some funny, some not so funny- like the fact that for every romantic relationship you begin, you lose a friendship. No punchline there).Due to a slight technological hitch my end I'm afraid I missed the first few minutes of his talk. But I did make it for this bit: Dunbar reckons that we are basically capable of nurturing an 'inner core' of five close friends and that, while women keep up relationships best by chatting, men prefer to talk little and do lots together.Dunbar- who is, of course, the man who came up with 'Dunbar's number' - the number of people with whom we can hold meaningful friendships (150)-  also says that that face-to-face talking, and Skype, are the best ways of interacting- not least because they let you see someone's smile breaking out during the telling of a joke.For a basic sum-up, see this tweet:Men do, women talk. Social group size correlates with brain size. Laughter is universal. Robin Dunbar's wiseness.#tedxobserver— Charlotte Beckett(@londoncharlotte)March 10, 2012Block 1712.40pm:Loud applause for Lianne La Havas, the up-and-coming British singer/songwriter who debuted on Jools Holland last year. The Observer explained why it reckoned she wasone to watchlast year.Block 1812.53pm:I should imagine there are a few not-so-dry eyes in the house after Simon Eccles's talk, who took us through the efforts of theFacing the Worldcharity and its attempts to tackle facial childhood disfigurement in the third world.The easiest thing about the work, he said, was the operating itself. The most difficult thing was choosing who should be operated on. From Mohammed, the little boy who suffered from the flesh-eating disease Leishmaniasis, to Landina, the girl who suffered severe wounds to her head and face when a hospital collapsed on top of her in Haiti, the world provides them with a never-ended supply of tragic cases to deal with.Block 191.09pm:It'sMiguel Torres's dream that one day the wine industry will be regarded as a friend to the environment, which is why he's been trying to implement changes at his own prestigious winery to help tackle the effects of climate change.At Torres, the decision has been taken to reduce CO2 emissions by 30% by 2020. Already, he said, levels have decreased 5.9% since 2008.But making the changes at just his winery was not good enough, he said. He needed to get the rest of the industry on board. So last year the first summit was held for wineries against climate change in Barcelona, and so far 140 of them have signed up to a manifesto for change.And he's optimistic:Maybe we'll be followed by France, maybe other countries, maybe other industries.Block 201.29pm:Wow. Well, I'm pretty sure that even if he hadn't already got the audience up on their feet,Peter Lovattwould have got a standing ovation for that: the weirdest, wackiest talk yet.A psychologist at the University of Hertfordshire and professionally trained dancer, Lovatt has married his two passions in the Dance Psychology Lab in order to explore how dance can affect the brain.And he was determined to show us today. Sadler's Wells has seen many an experimental performance in its time, but I'm not sure it has ever seen the entire auditorium do a Mexican wave or do the John Travolta snake hips.For dance to have a positive affect on the brain and the all-important, memory-enabling hippocampus, Lovatt told us, it had to have a social (interactive) element, a physical element, and bit of a cognitive challenge in there too. And then we were off. I don't want to see the videos.But it seems to have gone down well with my fellow guests.Just danced with 300 others! What fun! Thanks peter lovatt!#tedxobserver— Ekta Kaul (@ekta_kaul)March 10, 2012Block 211.39pm:After our collective exertions, it's time for a well-earned lunch.Here's that "Observer at 220" film in the meantime- embedded for your viewing pleasure.Block 222.04pm:As Observer editor John Mulholland mentioned earlier, we've had some great talks in the simulcast events going on in other cities too.Up in Edinburgh,gang-busting Glasgow copKaryn McCluskey appears to have gone down a storm.@lizzy_daviesKaryn McCluskey was fantastic up in Edinburgh#tedxobserver— Robert Drummond (@robertd1981)March 10, 2012In Bristol, veteran Labour politician Tony Benn has been in conversation with Paul Stephenson, the civil rights activist and campaigner who led the successful boycott of the Bristol Omnibus Company in protest at its refusal to employ black or Asian drivers or conductors.And in Manchester, comedian, actor and writerRobin Inceseems to have wooed the crowds.Robin Ince at the Manchester simulcast. V funny and engaging#tedxobserver— Alex Hazell (@lexyloodle)March 10, 2012Block 232.30pm:Legendary South African trumpeter Hugh Masekela is due to make an appearance next. While we wait, here's a reminder of his musical magic.Block 242.40pm:Masekela was given his trumpet at the age of 14, says Observer editor John Mulholland, and was inspired to make music by "South Africa's unique agonies".He's now performing to a rapt Sadler's Wells.Block 252.57pm:Well, that was rather special.Fabulous music aside, Masekela says he is envious of our royal weddings: to him they are events of pomp and circumstance through which British people recognise their heritage.He is worried that African heritage is being lost, particularly in the continent's urban areas, and that people have been convinced their own heritage is somehow "backward" and "barbaric".It's a great worry for me because when I look at my grandchildren, when they are asked who they are in 20 years, they will say, 'we used to be African'.People come to Africa and are escorted to see the wildlife and the waterfalls, he said, when they should also be coming to see the diverse heritage of the continent.Now, he said, he's "on a crusade" to fight back, working on a heritage restoration project.There's no place that needs to see it come back more than the African disapora and the African continent.A lot of people ask him why he's concerned with dragging people back into the past, he said.I say to them: If you don't know where you're coming from, you're not going anywhere.Block 263.13pm:Alasdair Blackwell, the founder ofDecoded, has been speaking to us about the need for computer coding to be taught to children.No, I don't really understand what it is either, but that makes me precisely the kind of ignoramus who is failing my generation and the next.Blackwell, whose venture says it can "teach anyone to code in a day", is a passionate believer in the need for children to be taught programming from the age of six and for a GCSE and A-level to offer a more formal route through education for interested teenagers.Crucial to this, says Blackwell, is not only that the negative perception of coding is overcome ("geeks in their pants listening to techno") but that wetap into the open culture of the web- on which, he says, we can hang a curriculum.At the moment, he says, we are not equipping children with the ability to tell computers what to do.You can read my colleague Carole Cadwalladr's experience of learning to codehere.Despite it having been read out to the whole of Sadler's Wells, I doubt she makes any apology for the first paragraph.Block 273.27pm:We've had a rather entertaining brief interlude looking at how videos go viral (it involved Rebecca Black, Adolf Hitler, and Rebekah Brooks; make of that what you will.)Now on stage is Rosemary Nalden of Buskaid.Block 283.46pm:Wow. On stage at the moment are musicians from the Buskaid Soweto String Project, an inspirational school in South Africa set up by Nalden. They really are fab.Rosemary told the story of school, from its initial construction as an institution for under 40 children to its current status as a flourishing music academy which takes more children but has to turn away thousands more.At the school, she said, almost all pupils are also given teacher training to give them the possibility of becoming a teacher later in life. The building is full of "beautiful sounds and positive energy". She added:Music is a huge agent of transformation.She was frank about many of the pupils' difficult backgrounds, but said the school made no allowances for their problems, insisting they realise their full potential no matter what the challenges.Compromise, to me, is the dirtiest word in the English language.She's clearly doing something right: one of her pupils, on stage just now, has gone on to study for a degree at London's Royal Academy of Music.Block 294.02pm:Plan Bis on now, playing the hall a bit of his next single.Earlier he was explaining the challenges behind his latest venture, the film- or "hip hop musical"- iLL Manors which he described as a film for "parentless" kids in some of the poorest parts of London. Desperately looking for children to play roles in the video, he contacted local schools to ask them for their pupils to apply. They said no. He asked them to send out a letter to let them know they had the opportunity. They- almost all- said no. The one school that cooperated, he said, is now closed.But out of it he found "some real gems".I couldn't have thespians...I needed the real thing.Block 304.19pm:Ben Drew, aka Plan B, ended his talk with a plea.There's a person out there- everybody knows someone that they can help...I'm not talking financially, I'm talking with knowledge...plant a seed.And he referred to a project by Andrew Curtis, a hairdresser who was trained by Vidal Sassoon but who turned down a job- Drew said- to set up a training academy for under-privileged youngsters called The Hair Project.Curtis, he said, was one person who had taken his talent and used it to "change lives". Now, he said, it was the turn of others.For him, the next step would be an "umbrella organisation" that would bring in money and then "disperse" it among various communities. The world waits.Block 314.28pm:Reaction is coming in thick and fast to Plan B's talk- and to Goldie's unscheduled introduction of the younger musician.Plan B introduced by Goldie just now at#tedxobserver- eclectic downplays this line-up considerably. Plan B's story should be listened to.— Brian Nolan (@BanceNolanLtd)March 10, 2012Block 324.37pm:The Colombian dancer, choreographer and social entrepreneurÁlvaro Restrepois up next to tell us about his work with disadvantaged children from parts of Cartagena.Alvaro'sColegio del Cuerpotakes pupils from poverty-stricken backgrounds and teaches them not only to dance but to realise that they can lead their lives in a creative, fulfilling way.Block 335.01pm:While we wait, here's what people are saying on Twitter.Blown away by Hugh Masekela - a true legend. The words, the music, the soul#tedxobserver— Amisha Ghadiali (@amishaghadiali)March 10, 2012Fave insight @#tedxobserver: you can, and will, only obey the rules of society if you feel like you're part of it... Courtesy of Plan B— Robbie Dale (@aogw)March 10, 2012@aliblackwellAgree 100% w ur talk at#TEDxObserverWhat age do ur courses start from &amp; r there any workshops for kids over Easter holidays?— UrbanExplorer (@UrbanExplorer)March 10, 2012Block 345.05pm:Ah, change of schedule: it'sRick Falkvinge, the founder of the Pirate Party, Europe's fastest-growing political movement.He starts with a laugh, and an admission that his life has taken him in a direction he hadn't quite expected.Hi. [Deep breath.] I'm Rick. I'm a politician.Block 355.20pm:An interesting talk from the Swedish radical, who was definitely the only politician I've seen quoting Futurama to explain his motivation.(It was this bit, FYI: 'When push comes to shove, you gotta do what you love- even when it's not a good idea.')Falkvinge added:What kind of idiot thinks they can change the world with a political party? This kind of idiot.Increasingly angry with what he saw as mainstream politicians' trampling on civil liberties and freedom of speech, he quit his job in 2005 and "decided to change the world". Since then the movement has gone from strength to strength, articulating what he says are the key values for the 17-year-olds of today: freedom of speech and openness.If the old politicians understood that the laws they're making are equivalent of putting microphones under every cafe table they would be horrified. But they don't. They don't live on the net.If the older generation of politicians sees the whole generation below them as a problem, he said, "then maybe it's the politicians who are the problem."Block 365.34pm:On stage now are dancers from Alvaro Restrepo'sColegio del Cuerpo.Alvaro told the audience that, while Cartagena is in many respects a "tourist paradise", 70% of its inhabitants live below the poverty line.When he came up with the idea of a dance school for children from some of the city's poorest areas, he said, he went to the writer Gabriel Garcia Marquez to ask his opinion.He told me: "It's a great name. It sounds like the title of a book of poems".Block 375.44pm:Wow. What an amazing example of the creativity of TEDx.On stage now are musicians from the Soweto String Project(see 3.46pm)and dancers from Restrepo's school in Colombia.The result- well, judge for yourself, but to my eyes, and ears, it's quite magical.As John Mulholland said at the end of the performance, if today's broad theme was youth and creativity and how to engage young people from disadvantaged backgrounds, you'd have to look pretty far for a better example than this.Block 385.55pm:Right now we're watching a TED talk- not TEDx and for those of you who don't know the difference check out Carole Cadwalladr's handy primerhere.Given by YouTube trends manager Kevin Allocca, it's exploring how and why videos go viral.Block 396.02pm:Ah, now as a (half) Welsh Valleys girl this is close to my heart.Tim Rhys-Evans, founder of the male voice choirOnly Boys Aloud, has just introduced the singers- 200 of whom, between the ages of 14 and 19, have sung in the choir in the past two years.De-industrialisation had left the Valleys of South Wales struggling with high levels of unemployment, said Rhys-Evans, and of the many problems that that can bring, "the biggest and most destructive is a lack of aspiration".By encouraging "the lads" to come and have "a damn good sing", he said, he wanted to give them something to aspire to.I believe passionately in the transformative power of community singing.Now, though: why only boys?Because of the tradition of male voice choirs, he said, but also because of the disparity between the number girls and the number of boys wanting to sing.There are pressures on the latter, he explained, to do seemingly "macho" things with their lives. But through the choir he hoped to prove that there was great beauty in men singing together.Block 406.21pm:Oh! We've had collective dancing; now we're collective singing."We're not in the land of song any more, boys," remarks Rhys-Evans as we belt out the notes. Harsh. But undoubtedly fair.Still, that was really rather terrific. What a finale. I think I may have lost my heart to the Valley boys.Block 416.29pm:John Mulholland is thanking everyone involved in the day's talks- all the speakers and everyone else who made it all happen. Carole Cadwalladr- herself thanked vociferously by John- is now doing her own thanking of the regions.Last word goes to Goldie, who praises the Ted spirit of inspiring people to make change happen.So that's that. The bar is open, and no prizes for guessing where we're off to.  It's been a brilliant day of inspiration and ideas, of conversation and conceptualising- and even a bit of a boogying, too. See you (fingers crossed) next year!
Mass Effect 3, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Relieved of command of the Normandy and with Earth in imminent danger from an ancient species of warrior robots intent on eliminating all life from the galaxy, Commander Shepard starts with his (or her, depending on your choice) work cut out.Sent to find help for the faltering defenders of humanity, Shepard's mission is one of shotgun diplomacy, luring, badgering and bribing other species into helping mankind before it's too late. You're offered the option to play as an action game, reducing conversations to non-interactive movies; a story, where conversations become the focus, or as a role-playing game, which is similar to past Mass Effect episodes. The plot is leaner and conversations less sprawling, giving an effective impression of being in your own extended space opera. Like Assassin's Creed: Revelations this outing is the apotheosis of the series' fighting, collecting and conversation mechanics even if its slightly peculiar looking characters and Kate Beckinsale-grade acting wring out much of  its emotional impact.Electronic Arts, £49.99See last week's ME3 featurehereUnit 13, PS VitaUnit 13From Zipper Interactive, the folks behind the unloved and largely ropey SOCOM third person shooter franchise comes Unit 13, another game about military personnel shootin' for'ners. The difference here is that levels have been designed to provide tidy little bite-sized engagements which are ideal for small-screen use. Stealth sections aren't intrusive and even elite missions, where there are no checkpoints and typically only one or two places to recharge your health, initially feel like a pretty well-balanced challenge, testing your ability to exploit its cover-based return fire mechanics. Movement and aiming work well using the Vita's analogue joysticks and the level of aim assistance is better judged than the distinctly wobbly-feeling Uncharted: Golden Abyss. Eventually though, the fun starts to be sapped by brutally spaced checkpoints that regularly force you to repeat lengthy sections in order to progress, a process that after your 10th attempt starts to feel like a repetitious chore. It's a real shame because Unit 13's firefights are undoubtedly the finest currently available on a portable device.SCEE, £34.99Games newsStreet Fighter X TekkenAlso out this week areStreet Fighter X Tekken(PS3, Xbox 360) as well as aSpecial Edition, which adds an arcade cabinet money box, comic book and gem power-ups to Capcom's crossover beat 'em-up …The Sims 3: Showtime(PC) lets your Sims take to the stage and tour friends' towns. There's also a Katy Perry-themed special edition …Calvin Tucker's Redneck: Farm Animal RacingTournament (Wii) is a freakish budget-priced oddity …Jane's Advanced Strike Fighters(PC, PS3, Xbox 360) supplies slightly limp flight simulation for aficionados of the ejector seat, whileStone Quarry Simulator(PC) delivers all the thrills and spills of opencast mining …Finally, theMass Effect 3 Vaultis a themed plastic case for Xbox 360 and PS3, devices that readers might notice already come in perfectly serviceable plastic cases, albeit ones without backlit insignia and a superfluous joypad holder.
The fastest-selling cultural product in history was created by people you've probably never heard of. While this year's Oscars honoured films in which the movie business sweetly congratulates itself on its own birth –The Artist,Hugo– the most dollar-hoovering entertainment release ever is not a film, still less an album; it's a video game. Coming out last autumn,Modern Warfare 3– a&nbsp;blockbuster military shooter made by a Californian game studio calledInfinity Ward– took just 16 days to gross $1bn, beating by one day the previous record set by a film aboutblue people in space. And it wasn't a freak accident. Global annual sales of video games now dwarf cinema box-office and recorded music: in 2010, games grossed $56bn, film tickets $32bn and music $23bn. (The film industry as a whole still made more, at $87bn.) Even social games on Facebook are enormous business:Zynga, the firm behindFarmvilleandWords With Friends, is responsible for 12% of Facebook's revenue. Hollywood is old-school now. And one company in particular has played a pivotal role in this media revolution over the past decade:Rockstar Games.Rockstar's bannerGrand Theft Auto serieshas sold a total of 117m copies. And it's a cute irony of cultural globalisation that the most convincing digital simulation of New York yet made was built by a gang of Scots. In 2008, the $1bn-grossing video game Grand Theft Auto IV recreated in spectacular fidelity Manhattan and its environs as the setting for the adventures of Niko Bellic, an eastern European migrant intent on upward social mobility in the criminal underworld. Later this year, Grand Theft Auto V – whoserecently released teaser trailerhas, like that for a hotly anticipated film, already attracted millions of views and countless pages of badly spelled fan speculation on the internet – will move the action to a virtual Los Angeles. Yet all the main episodes in this monster fun franchise are created in the UK by Rockstar North, an Edinburgh-based studio that began as a&nbsp;plucky startup in the bedroom-coding home-computer revolution of the 1980s.Once upon a time, Rockstar North wasDMA Design, founded in 1988 by a group of friends in&nbsp;Dundee. Their first big hit wasLemmings, a puzzle game in which you guide a troupe of the suicidally trusting furry creatures through a series of sadistically booby-trapped levels. Lemmings became a guilty hit in offices around the country, and with sequels and spin-offs had by the early 1990s sold more than 20m. But the cartoonish violence of squished lemmings transmuted into&nbsp;something much edgier when DMA brought out their next game, Grand Theft Auto.The first GTA began production in 1995 under the working title Race'n'Chase. At first you could play either a policeman or a criminal, but the team soon realised that enforcing the law was not as much fun as breaking it.Dave Jones, one of DMA's founders, now explains: "It was just so much more fun doing all the crazy wrong stuff. There was no way we could get as much fun from being the good guys. Eventually, we just dropped the two-sided approach and fully embraced the dark side." Visually, GTA was essentially a cartoon, with a vantage point like that of the satellite view of streets you get today inGoogle Maps. You drove your car around the city grid, stopping off at payphones to receive instructions – rob this bank, destroy that vehicle – and mowing down cops or civilian pedestrians, whose tiny pixilated forms would squelch bloodily under your tyres. Bonus points were awarded for killing an entire orange-robed conga line of Hare Krishnas.Max Cliffordwas hired to advise on the PR for the game's 1997 release. Cannily, he advised DMA to feed the tabloids the most outrageous details possible. "It was scary and impressive how he laid&nbsp;out his plan to manipulate the media and the politicians," Jones says. "It culminated in a two-hour feature on breakfast TV debating the game. At this point, the politicians lambasting the game&nbsp;had not even seen it – I think they were disappointed when they did, given the cartoony look." The tabloids duly issued calls to ban this sick filth, the British Police Federation said it was "sick, deluded and beneath contempt", and the game became a hit. Grand Theft Auto the countercultural phenomenon was born.At the time, DMA's games were published by&nbsp;BMG Interactive, a London division of the German music group, where a young Brit calledSam Housertook a close interest. WhenI talked to him on the release of Grand Theft Auto II in 1999, Houser was bullish about the controversy over the first game. He recalled talking to the New&nbsp;York Police Department, who apparently didn't mind that youngsters were killing cops in&nbsp;GTA: "Well, you know what?" he recalled them&nbsp;saying. "There's a lot of people out there trying to kill cops, and we'd rather they did it in your game than on the street."Houser is now president of the New York-based game-publishing powerhouse Rockstar Games, which heco-founded in 1998 with his brother Dan, among others. DMA Design became its wholly owned subsidiary Rockstar North, one of several Rockstar studios around the world. (Max Payne 3, due out in May, is created by Rockstar Vancouver.) And Houser himself has been the GTA games' executive producer since the third outing, 2001'sGrand Theft Auto III, which was a technical revolution for the series – it no longer offered a flat, aerial vista of the city, but a perspectival, street-level point of view. The carjacking, shooting and running-over was close-up and visceral, and yet the game was also very funny, and had a rare depth beneath the lurid mischief. "It is a beautifully designed game with glorious cascading systems," saysSte Curran, creative director at British game studio Echo Peak and host of the video games radio showOne Life Left. "The location is fun – it looks like a city, feels like a playground – and events unfold differently on every replay. That's what keeps the game interesting."And then, of course, there are the prostitutes. Invite one of GTA III's streetwalkers into your stolen car, and in exchange for some cash you would regain some of your "health", after a chaste interlude of bouncing suspension. One designer, however, who tried beating the prostitute to death immediately after the transaction, got his money back and kept the health increase: win-win. GTA III was released on&nbsp;another wave of controversyabout how it was the&nbsp;game in which you killed prostitutes. Some commentators pointed out mildly that you didn't have to kill prostitutes; but the designers did make it possible – as they did not, for example, make it possible to rescue kittens stuck up trees. But then, that wouldn't have fit with the game's swaggering aesthetic, what Curran describes as its "perfectly pitched Molotov cocktail of pop culture and grimy, streetwise theft and thuggery". An employee at the time, who spoke on condition of anonymity, remembers that while the atmosphere within Rockstar was playful ("table-tennis tables and beanbags and toys on the desk and all that kind of Generation Y stuff"), the top people were also "very driven". Their laudable "passion for the games" also led to office shouting matches and a "face-time culture", with people routinely expected to&nbsp;"stay late even if they'd finished their work".The next game in the series,Grand Theft Auto: Vice City(2002), was a milestone in Houser's ambition to make "cinematic" video games. Stylistically, it was a loving tribute to the filmScarfaceand the1980s TV series Miami Vice.Ray Liotta,Peter FondaandDennis Hopperwere cast as voice-actors. Vice City was the first successful "period" video game, showing that the medium had become mature enough to riff on a concrete historical period rather than a pseudo-Tolkein alt-middle ages or a quasi-Blade Runner sci-fi future. Dave Jones, one of GTA's original creators, had left DMA after the release of the second game ("It&nbsp;was not my company any more"), and is now a creative director working with several studios. So what does he think of how Rockstar brought up his baby? "I thought it was great," he enthuses. "GTA III, and especially Vice City, for me were the pinnacles of the series. They kept a&nbsp;lot of the non-serious side of the game, which I&nbsp;personally still feel is the best treatment for it."The sequel that followed, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (2004), was less whimsically amusing, but even more provocative, set as it was among drug and prostitution gangs in LA during the 1990s. It was progressive in having a black lead character, almost unheard of in video games at the&nbsp;time. But San Andreas also became the most notorious game yet of the series. During the game's development, as a new book on the history of the GTA games,David Kushner's Jacked, relates, Houser had been pushing hard to feature porny scenes, including representations of "blowjobs", "dildo sex" and "whipping". He was eventually convinced by his partners that this would be commercial suicide, since big retailers such as Wal-Mart would refuse to stock it. Right before the game's launch, the offending parts from the game's complex code were hastily "wrapped": they would never appear when you played the game, but they were still there, deep in the data on the discs. Inevitably, an enterprising hacker discovered them and released on to the interneta software patch to let other players unlock them, too. This became known as the "hot coffee" modification – so called because in the deleted scenes the main character's girlfriend invites him into her house for "coffee". Moralists on both sides of the Atlantic went apoplectic.Rockstar's anonymous employee vividly recalls the epic all-nighter when Rockstar was scrambling to re-release a new version of San Andreas purged of the sex scenes: "Pretty much the entire company got pulled in to help with the testing process in order to get a new version of the game out as quickly as possible to appease the American censors. That meant we had to work round the clock in shifts, sleeping on sofas to sustain us through the night so we could shoot imaginary gangsters and hoodlums in the head."WhenBobby Kotick, the amiable CEO of rival major publishersActivision Blizzard, was asked at a 2008 industry conference whether games had to be as violent as Grand Theft Auto, he defended Rockstar. "Fifty per cent of the audience that plays games is over the age of 18," he pointed out. "We're a broad-based medium today, we're going to appeal to the broadest possible consumer base, and you're going to see all sorts of product, and that's going to include gratuitously violent product." In&nbsp;any case, violent games have only ever been one part of the wider video-game story. As well as theCall Of Dutyseries of military shooters (which includes the Modern Warfare sub-brand), Activision Blizzard also publishes the hugely successful elf-bothering online roleplayerWorld Of Warcraft. Just as with films, different video games are made for different audiences. Another big publisher,EA, meanwhile, produces popular sports games featuring snowboarding or football and the life-simulation gameThe Sims.Rockstar, in particular, wants its games to be taken as seriously as films are. It certainly pours a&nbsp;comparable level of resources into production, pushing games into what Ste Curran terms a "mega-budget era". For GTA IV, say, the budget was around $100m, it took three years to create, and used a cast of 861 actors speaking 80,000 lines of dialogue. Large video-game productions now have staff (like permanent film crews) numbering in the hundreds; they commission symphonic musical scores, and continue to poach Hollywood talent. (The actorMark Hamill, once a fresh-faced Luke Skywalker, has beenplaying a blinder as the Jokerin the recent Batman games.) A new mini-wave of noir-ish detective games, such as the French designer David Cage'sHeavy Rainor Rockstar's ownLA Noire, is pushing the technique of "motion capture" to new heights, recording actors' facial expressions as they speak and then applying those movements to digitally created physiognomies. (This is howGollum in the Lord Of The Rings filmswas created.) For the moment this has the effect of driving video games even further into what some digital aestheticians call "Uncanny Valley", a strange no-man's-land where the more realistic an artificial person looks, the eerier its niggling departures from reality feel. But David Cage, for one, has predicted that fully "photo-realistic" video-game characters will be possible in around six years' time.So what kinds of pseudo-films are today's most successful video games? If the immensely slick Call Of Duty series were a film director, it would beMichael Bay, all deafening destruction and comedy geopolitics. (The last two Modern Warfare games were predicated on the notion of the Russians mounting a land-based invasion of the US and Europe.) If Rockstar's Grand Theft Auto series were a film director, it would beMartin Scorsese– or at least that's who it really wants to be – but it takes more than an obsessive fan's line-by-line recall of GoodFellas to make art.Reviewing GTA IV for the Wall Street Journal in 2008, the novelist Junot Díaz, a long-time fan, ridiculed the media hype that had compared it favourably to Coppola's The Godfather. "Like the pulps that are part of its narrative DNA," he wrote, "GTA IV operates in broad strokes, crude characterization and over-the-top stereotypes.""Video games tell stories badly," says the game designer and criticIan Bogost, a professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology. (He designed the Facebook gameCow Clicker, a satire on Farmville-style games that itself became a surprise hit.) Even so, Bogost says, bad game stories are "charming", and perhaps even necessarily bad: "Maybe video games are meant to help us shed our obsession with storytelling, show us all the things between the story, like wandering around virtual space and exploring it like virtual tourists."Virtual tourism is, indeed, the aspect of the Grand Theft Auto games that has been much more influential for the medium as a whole than their gangster-movie envy. They made popular and compelling an "open-world" style. If you want to&nbsp;progress through the game's scripted narrative, you must accept specific missions of telegenic spatter-mayhem; but that is not all you can do. Instead, you may just wander around&nbsp;and soak up&nbsp;the sights, which these days&nbsp;are impressive. That video games now provide a place&nbsp;where you can go to relax is itself&nbsp;a sign of&nbsp;their rapidly burgeoning capacity for rich simulation. "We have all been born 100&nbsp;years too&nbsp;early," Dave Jones laments wryly. "I&nbsp;would love to build and play in the kind of environments we see in movies likeThe MatrixandInception." But, he notes, we are still in "the stone age of gaming technology". Jones's own most recent project,APBReloaded, is like a networked GTA: the other people in the city are not scripted, artificial characters, but human beings playing over the internet. His vision for the future is like this, only more so: "I want to be&nbsp;playing in an even more realistic GTA-style environment," Jones says, "with 1,000 other real&nbsp;players in the city." And so&nbsp;the impish simulation of antisocial behaviour promises to&nbsp;become ever more sociable.You may not have experienced a Grand Theft Auto game yourself, but you can hardly pass the day in a modern city without seeing someone playing a video game on their laptop or smartphone. And Rockstar have had a crucial role in gaining mass cultural acceptance for the medium ever since they inspired other game-makers, according to Ste Curran, to emulate GTA's "potent, lucrative blend of mainstream cool and commercial success". Now video games have indeed become as mainstream as music and the movies. We live in an age of ambient play. And perhaps it is not just a coincidence that the recent video-game trend of repurposing cities as zones of&nbsp;anarchic fun has coincided with developments in the wealthy real world such asurban riotsand&nbsp;the Occupy movement. If so, roll on Grand Theft Auto V: we can still reclaim the virtual streets, if&nbsp;not the real ones.• Steven Poole is the author ofTrigger Happy: The Inner Life of Videogames(Fourth Estate, £7.99).
This one seems to be a&nbsp;girl's car. "Brilliant, a&nbsp;Hilux – you've got to&nbsp;give that a good review," my sister-in-law says. Toyota's workhorse pick-up – Europe's favourite, as it happens – turns out to be her favourite, too. Pretty much her favourite vehicle of all time. Not just hers: "Twin cabs are my fave, take me, take me," says a female colleague who – again – I&nbsp;wouldn't have had down as an obvious pick-up truck enthusiast. Only my girlfriend lets her gender down (again). "Urrrgh, it's just big and embarrassing," she says.Its arrival is well timed, though. There's a desk to be taken to my mum's, a chest of drawers off Gumtree to be picked up from Dagenham and some middle-class floorboards to be collected from the reclamation yard to replace the ones that have rotted through. (Those reclamation places are like farmers' markets – you pay twice the price for stuff covered in dirt.) Anyway, the Hilux swallows it all with ease.This obviously isn't a true test of its capabilities; to do that I'd have to load it up with sacks of sand and frankly I can't be arsed, nor do I have sand to hand. I'd also have to drive it up a steep field, possibly in Wales, and I'm not going to do that. Its arrival does coincide with a&nbsp;bit of snow, so the selectable 4WD might be handy. To be honest, we don't actually need it, but it's nice to know it's there.I obviously don't actually need a&nbsp;Hilux, because I'm not a&nbsp;Welsh&nbsp;farmer. I&nbsp;don't have to drive up steep fields, tossing lambs and bales and fangel wurzels, and whatever else it is that&nbsp;Welsh farmers toss, in the back. If I were, I'd be able to reclaim the VAT on the price, as I would if I were a&nbsp;builder. Though it's debatable if many builders need a 4WD pick-up either. An&nbsp;old&nbsp;van would probably be more&nbsp;appropriate.An old van would certainly do me, for my furniture relocation. But I wouldn't be having so much fun doing it. I'm beginning to understand what those ladies were on about: a Hilux is fun. In a van I'd have the Sun on the dashboard, I'd be playing Oasis, I'd be driving like a twat, swearing at other drivers, honking at attractive women. Allo darlin'. All&nbsp;very tedious, very late 1990s.Whereas in this? Well, I'm still a menace on the road, and I have some unsavoury political views, but I've got a more laid-back approach to the job in hand, and I've gotMerle Haggardon the stereo. To be honest, I doubt a Toyota Hilux even counts as a proper pick-up truck in America, but here it's a car to bring out your inner redneck.Toyota Hilux 3 litre D-4D ManualPrice£24,655Top speed106mphAcceleration0-62mph in 12.1 secondsAverage consumption36.7mpgCO2 emissions203g/kmEco rating4/10Cool rating8/10• Sam Wollaston will be appearing at Guardian Open Weekend, held on 24 and 25 March. Festival passes have now sold out, but you can follow coverageonline
This Saturday in Texas, things are going to get real. A little too real."The Upgrade", my memoir about how I spent almost five years living in hotels nearly killing myself with alcohol, is coming out in paperback in the US and my publisher suggested that we launch the book in Austin. After all, this weekend marks the start of the South By Southwest Interactive conference and, not only will the town be full of potential readers, but the book contains an entire chapter about how I made an idiot of myself at the event back in 2008. Perfect, right?Such a shame, then, that I had to decline."The trouble is," I explained to my publisher, "back in 2009 Ivowed never to return to South by Southwest. The conference had grown way too big and had become overrun with social media dickheads,all trying to out-flyer, out-sticker and out-annoy-the-living-shit-out-of-me each other. I can't go back now. People will say I've gone back on my word.""No problem," replied my publisher, through distinctly gritted teeth, "the reading isn't at the conference, it's atBookpeople– the hippest bookstore in Austin. You'll technically not be going back to South By Southwest, but you'll still be able to promote your damn book. Great huh?""Uh..."Arse.The truth is, my reluctance to do a book reading had nothing to do with the conference, or the venue or anything even resembling a principle. Rather it had to do with my fear that, when 5pm on Saturday rolls around, not a single soul will turn up to hear me read. At a stroke my fragile ego will be shattered, my publisher will disown me, my girlfriend will leave me and my dog will run off in search of a more popular and successful master.In theory, I shouldn't be so worried. Over the years I've become something of a master of online-self promotion. I've learned precisely what buttons to press to rally virtual crowds to whatever silly project I've been involved with. Back in 2001, I organised a petition to get Friday afternoon off work for UK workers. Unsurprisingly that one went viral very quickly as lazy office drones signed up in their thousands. Not long afterwards my campaign for a 'Real Christmas Number One' – coinciding with the first time Simon Cowell tried to buy the spot for one of his reality show winners – similarly caught the popular imagination (and got me on the front page of the Daily Star). Slightly nearer the knuckle, but no less popular for it, was 'Think Of The Children', the spoof anti-paedophile site I created during the Soham trial. That was a doozy, despite the fact it nearly landed me in jail due to a hilarious misunderstanding on the part of the obscene publications squad.Then came my gigs as a columnist – here on theGuardian, or onTechCrunchand now onPandoDaily– where, through a combination of foul language, half-baked opinions and shameless piggy-backing on the latest Internet memes, I have been able to build an audience at least big enough to allow me to make rent.And yet, and yet… building an online audience is very different to attracting a real crowd. Online, there are millions of people just sloshing around looking for something to do, all of them just a click away from your virtual "event". And even if you don't attract a single one of them then, well, who cares? In cyberspace no-one can see you fail. Offline, not only is your potential audience restricted by geography but you're also competing with laziness, weather, forgetfulness, traffic and the fact that no-one cares about your damn hotels-and-booze memoir. Real world failure is a vast empty bookstore, an angry publisher and the hideous realization that people would rather line up for a fourth helping of barbecue food that listen to you read from a book about your life.I mean, I've seen it happen to people far more popular than me. I'm no huge fan of Anonymous, but I still felt an involuntary twinge of pity when only a handful of people turned up to their final protest against the San Francisco BART police last August, despite thousands pledging support online. If a protest over the shooting of an unarmed man by transport police couldn't get people out of their houses, what hope does an unprincipled former drunk like me have of mobilizing even a brace of supporters?And so, faced with near-certain humiliation in a few short hours, I'm driven to desperate measures. I could try convincing you that The Upgrade is brilliant and funny and sweary and life-affirming, or that it contains the secret to riches beyond your wildest dreams. But at least four out of five of those things would be a lie. I could resort to begging or to bribery but neither of those techniques brings guaranteed results and would still leave me humiliated and broke. No, my last – only – hope is to appeal directly to Guardian readers' legendary sense of schadenfreude. So here goes...On Saturday afternoon at 5pm, at Bookpeople in Austin, Texas, an arrogant ex-pat British author is going to have the egotistical shit kicked out of him in front of a laughably small audience as he reads from a book about how he swanned around the world getting drunk in hotels, nearly got himself killed on three continents, spent time in jail before ultimately admitting that he was a sad, stupid alcoholic. It'll be an event so epically cringe-worthy that you'll want to tell your grandkids that you were there to witness it. 'There' being Bookpeople. 603 N. Lamar, Austin, Texas at 5pm this Saturday.Please come.You're my only hope.If you're in Austin,here's the map for Bookpeople. Take pictures! - Tech Ed.
Americans are addicted to their mobile phones. The major national mobile phone carriers are well aware of that. This accounts for their routinely deceptive advertising, price-gouging, and too-frequently shoddy service.That dismal reality helps explain the rise of several new carriers that essentially rent service from several big national companies, such as AT&amp;T and Sprint, and resell it in different ways to retail customers. These smaller operations are known in the trade asmobile virtual network operators(MVNO). One of them is calledTing, which has made a mission of doing business in a more straightforward way than the big guys.(A disclosure: Ting is owned by Canadian internet companyTucows. I've known the CEO, Elliot Noss, for many years, and think highly of him and the way he runs his businesses. Before he launched Ting publicly, he invited me to be a beta tester. I did, and was sufficiently impressed that my wife and I shifted our service there from AT&amp;T and T-Mobile, respectively.)We pay the same price for Ting services as any other customer. What we get for our money is a refreshing change in attitude, not to mention a considerably better deal for the services we use.One of Ting's best features is a no-nonsense data policy. The company doesn't charge us an additional monthly fee for using our phones as mobile hotspots. Ting's common-sense view, unlike most of the major carriers, is that data is data – whether we're using it solely from the phone or using the phone as a hotspot. There are no lies about "unlimited data" – we pay for what we use, at reasonable rates.Ting's overall pricing is a series of tiers offering more or less minutes, data, texts, etc, for more or less dollars depending on usage – and you can choose among graduated plans for each. If you use less than you've signed up for, Ting drops you into the lower-priced tier, giving you a credit for what you don't use; if you use more than expected, it bumps you up to the next tier. The company offers anonline calculatorthat clearly shows the actual costs and potential savings.Our combined bills had been north of $160 a month. Now they are about $75 for considerably more usage and flexibility. We're on a month-to-month contract, which we can cancel at any time.One reason for that differential is part of the Ting method: the company doesn't play the subsidized device game, where a carrier claims to sell a device for a low price, or no charge, but more than makes up for the "subsidy" with overpriced service. Like other Ting customers, we bought our two phones outright, for a total of about $800. We'll get that back in the first year of service, based on the monthly cost differential.Most Ting devices are less expensive than the ones we chose, though the phone selection could be a lot better. All phones run the Android operating system (Ting also sells several hotspot devices), and they all run on Sprint's network. Both of our phones can use Sprint's "4G" network in the cities where it's deployed. There's no international roaming, but my habit has generally been to turn off my mobile or buy local SIM cards when out of the country, in any case, due to the way carriers rip off their customers when traveling abroad.Like other MVNOs, Ting is somewhat at the mercy of the carrier from which it's leasing the airtime. This means, among other things, that it has to charge for text messages, a service that creates almost pure profit for the carrier. There are ways around standard texting, of course; and one of these days, the carriers are going to discover they've gouged enough people for long enough that they lose that profit center entirely.Ting's reliance on Sprint – and its ability to be a price and service innovator – faces another long-range issue. Sprint operates its national network in a US mobile market dominated by Verizon (and, to a lesser degree, AT&amp;T); its strategy to position itself as an airtime and data wholesaler is a smart move.Even if we are not there yet, at some point is may become the case that even a better deal on a thoroughly second-rate network is not a tradeoff worth making. Forcing AT&amp;T to back out of its anticompetitive buyout of T-Mobile's American network was helpful, but the regulators haven't begun to solve the problem of increasing market concentration, as I'll discuss in an upcoming column here.Meanwhile, however, I'm exercising what small liberties I still have in the mobile market – in this case, to pay for a service that's straightforward, less expensive and tailored to my needs. AsCNET's Rafe Needleman observed, Ting is striving to be "less evil"than the competition – a mission that, in today's market, is an utter no-brainer.
A man was arrested on Sunday on suspicion of hacking the website of Britain's biggest abortion clinic.The 27-year-old, who police say claims to have links to the loose hackers group Anonymous, was detained by Scotland Yard's e-crime unit on suspicion of offences under the Computer Misuse Act.The arrest in the West Midlands follows claims made on Twitter on Thursday that the names of patients who used theBritish Pregnancy Advisory Servicewould be made public on Friday.A BPAS spokeswoman said there were about 26,000 attempts to break into its website on Wednesday night, adding that there was never any danger that medical or personal information relating to women who had received treatment was had been accessed.BPAS, which treats about 55,000 women a year for a range of services from abortion to contraception, said "no client records" were stored on the website but it took the attack very "seriously" and praised the police for a "swift response".The firm obtained an injunction on Thursday preventing any information that could have been hacked being put into the public domain.BPAS  first noticed the site had been hacked early on Thursday morning and it became apparent quite quickly that it was under a sophisticated and co-ordinated attack, the spokeswoman said."There is no suggestion that the security of our site is weak, but this is a wake-up call to everybody to what could happen," she added."It was the kind of thing we've seen happen to the Pentagon, but targeting a health charity is very different to what's gone on before."She added that the incident appeared to reflect the "escalating" and "aggressive anti-abortion" protests BPAS is experiencing outside its clinics and "some of the language used was redolent of the political language being used such as accusations that woman are being 'coaxed into abortions' by counsellors".Detective inspector Mark Raymond from the Metropolitan police's central e-crime unit confirmed the website had been compromised but stressed that the stolen data did not contain medical details of anyone in touch with BPAS or who had had an abortion."We have taken rapid action to identify and arrest a suspect involved in hacking. This was done to prevent personal details of people who had requested information from the BPAS website being made public. It should be stressed that the stolen data did not contain the medical details of women who had received treatment or why individuals had contacted the BPAS," he said.
A 'blind' robot that touches your face to build up a digital representation; a talk on supernatural adventure game, Dear Esther; an exhibition on African science fiction... Here's another bunch of interesting events taking place over the next couple of months, which should be of interest to gamers.Take a look and if I've missed anything interesting, let us know in the comments section!Would Anyone Miss You?Where:SXSW festival, Austin, TexasWhen:10-14 MarchLast year, the polymath London studio, Hide&amp;Seek, produced a movinginteractive websiteto accompany the release of Carol Morley's stark documentary,Dreams of a Life. Next week at the SXSW festival in Austin, H&amp;S will be exploring similar themes of isolation through a sort of playful ARG, namedWould Anyone Miss You?. Run partly through itsTwitter feed, the game will seek to get festivalgoers talking to each other and sharing experiences. According to the press release, "it involves polaroids, and handsome strangers, and secret rivals, and finding out what's under other people's beds. Also, stickers!" Sounds interesting, and I'm hoping they'll bring it to a festival in the UK. GameCity, perhaps?Play and the CityWhere:London Transport MuseumWhen:16 March, 6.30 to 8.30pm (£9.00 adults, £7.00 concessions)The last event in the London Transport Museum's 'Sense and the City' exhibition considers how mobile devices and social media have had a huge impact on the way we use and explore cities. According to the press info, artists will share how smartphone GPS tools can transform a city into an interactive playground. It's arranged in partnership with digital arts organisationonedotzero, which always curates really interesting challenging stuff. There's bound to be lots in here for those interested in augmented reality interfaces and ARGs.Robots and AvatarsWhere:FACT, LiverpoolWhen:16 March - 27 May, free entryThis wide-ranging and ambitious exhibition (which will be travelling around Europe - see its dedicated websitehere) looks into questions of robotics and virtual spaces. International artists, designers and architects have all contributed installations and experiments, ranging from Louis Philippe Demers' Blind Robot (which touches your face and creates a digital representation) toKarina Smigla Bobinski's ADA,a giant kinectic sculpture, which looks like a spiky version of the bubble guards in The Prisoner.  Co-curated by London agencybody&gt;data&gt;spaceit promises to be a fascinating look at virtual worlds and virtual beings.GameCity NightsWhere:Antenna, NottinghamWhen:29 March, from 6pm (£5, £4 students. Book in advancehere)Every month, the organisers of the excellent GameCity festival hold a special event at the Antenna club in Nottingham, showing off brand new indie game projects and inviting speakers from around the industry. Tonight it's the always fascinating Dan Pinchbeck, lecturer in video game design at the University of Portsmouth and founder of leftfield developer, The Chinese Room. Dan will be talking about his latest title, the utterly surreal and spookyDear Esther. There will also be a discussion with State of Play's Luke Whittaker about his gorgeous handcrafted title,Lume.Superpower: Africa in Science FictionWhere:Arnolfini, BristolWhen:5 May – 1 JulyPumzi, 2010, Wanuri KahiuNot strictly video game-related, but this exhbition seeks to explore the recent influx of sci-fi movies based in Africa – as well as SF works produced by artists and filmmakers from the continent itself. Screenings will include Neïl Beloufa's 'science fiction documentary',Kempinski, and Wanuri Kahiu's post-apocalyptic film,Pumzi. It's interesting for us because game designers are increasingly looking toward Africa for inspiration, with Resident Evil 5 and Far Cry 2 both based there (the former provoking much controversy as a result), and the forthcoming Medal of Honor title using various African nations as settings. It doesn't look as though this parallel trend is reflected in the exhibition content, but as science fiction is such an enormous influence on game design, Superpower should be an interesting visit nonetheless.
A selection of 17 apps for you today:Zuma's Revenge HDThere are hundreds of mobile games pretending to be ball-popping puzzler Zuma, but this is the real deal, from EA's PopCap division. It includes 60 levels of sphere-firing action, including six boss battles.iPhone / iPadGuardian CrosswordsThe Guardian's first crosswords app has gone live for Android as a free trial, providing the daily Guardian Cryptic crossword on weekdays, and the Quick crosswords on Mondays to Saturdays. Social features are built in for competitive types. It's free for now, but payment options are coming in the future, asmay be an iOS version.AndroidPeter Pan: Disney ClassicsDisney's famous animated retelling of Peter Pan has spawned a new book-app, where the classic Neverland story is complemented with mini-games, digital colouring and a virtual Pan flute.iPhone / iPadBiologicWell, this is certainly a new take on social apps. Biologic represents your streams from Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn as "microbiological cells", with updates/tweets wiggling inside them. It could be seen as a gimmick, but developer Bloom Studio says it has big plans, with this first app being just the start.iPadTank Hero: Laser WarsAndroid game Tank Hero has done well over 5m downloads so far, and now it has a paid follow-up: Laser Wars. It's a puzzle-action game with tanks and lasers – you probably figured that out from the title – with boss battles and split-screen deathmatches thrown in.AndroidHackney Hear: London FieldsSpawned by the award-winning Hackney Podcast, this location-based app encourages people to wander around Hackney listening to interviews, stories and music triggered by their current location. The stories come from local residents, but also writer Iain Sinclair, poet Shane Solanki and photographer Tom Hunter.iPhoneZombies Ate My CityDeveloper Chaos Created is bringing location-based gaming to Windows Phone with its new zombie game. The idea is to complete missions based on physical locations in your town, with video in the mix too.Windows PhoneBarbie FashionistasMattel's latest Barbie app for iOS focuses on fashion, with a range of virtual hairstyles, clothing and accessories to dress Barbie in, and the option to save the results as a picture for sharing or printing.iPhone / iPadMobile FarmerNo, not the latest FarmVille clone. This app is for actual farmers in the real world: an app giving them access to their data and other useful information while out in the field. Well, fields.AndroidBen 10 Game Generator 2Young fans of cartoon Ben 10 will love this new iOS game, which has 50 levels of puzzles to explore. It uses a top-down perspective and includes bags of traps obstacles and enemies to get past. Better still, though, a Create mode gets players to make their own levels and share them with friends.iPhone / iPadFunny or Die's The OccasionalComedy website Funny or Die has launched a digital magazine promising that "We have no idea what we're doing... bear with us as we absolutely blow your mind with whatever this winds up being. It'll come out every other month and we'll be sure to fill the pages with something that'll make you laugh".iPadPapyrusThis is a neat and stylish news aggregation app for Windows Phone, sorting stories into specific colour-coded interests, which can then be pinned to the device's homescreen.Windows PhoneBitdefender SafeboxThe latest cloud storage service with an Android client comes from Bitdefender, which is offering 2GB of free space for photos, videos, music, documents and other files.AndroidFeed Me So'moreI've still got a bunch of notebooks somewhere from the days when my wife and I diligently noted down the times of feeds and nappy changes for our sons. Naturally, there are now apps for that, including this new Android one. Track naps, feedings and nappy-changes for multiple children, with "minimal typing required" – a definite plus given the context.AndroidMultiplication: Invasion of the Moon MonkeysThis educational app for children aims to teach multiplication through a blend of space-monkeys and retro shoot 'em up mechanics. Launched by eduGame, it helps kids practise their 1x1 to 12x12 times tables.iPhone / iPadSonalight Text by VoiceAimed at drivers, this Android app reads out incoming text messages, then enables you to respond by talking rather than touching the screen. The idea being to "drive more safely" – if you're confident that mentally composing a text message won't distract you from the road, mind.AndroidPokemon Drinking GameWe sense Nintendo won't approve of this drinking-game app for Android, which helps you get completely Watchog-whimperingly Croagunked off your Jigglypuff on booze.Android
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGetting around in Windows 8 &gt;&gt; Windows Team blogHere you go:A common thread we've seen in the feedback so far about Windows 8, on this blog or elsewhere, positive or negative, is that people using Windows 8 for the first time might need a little help getting their bearings.First question to be answered: "Where di the Start button go?" You're going to be hearing - and explaining - that one a lot in 2013.Keyboard shortcuts for Windows 8 &gt;&gt; Windows Team blogPrint it out and pin it up. Not quite post-paper.'Personalized Medicine' Hits a Bump &gt;&gt; WSJ.comA tumor's genetic makeup can vary significantly even within the same tumor sample, researchers said, a finding that poses new challenges to the personalized-medicine movement in cancer. One big implication of the new research, being published Thursday in the New England Journal of Medicine, is that analyzing only a single sample of a patient's tumor--the current practice--may miss important genetic mutations that affect the course of the disease.Genetics already complicated treatment. This complicates it much further. (Subscription may be required.)Q&amp;A: Ray Ozzie on startups, Microsoft, and what he's dreaming up next &gt;&gt; GeekWireRay Ozzie - who took Bill Gates's chief software architect job, but left Microsoft in displeasure:We know right now, there's no denying that we're in a great transition. People argue about, are we in a post-PC world. Why are we arguing? Of course we're in a post-PC world, but that doesn't mean the PC dies. That just means that the scenarios that we use them in, we stop referring to them as PCs, we refer to these other things. But it's still general computation. In other scenarios there are also other post-worlds. For example, in productivity, the PC era was defined by documents. Documents are the core of how we have thought about productivity. But if you count the words that everyone here types on a computer, increasingly in Facebook, in Twitter, in this blogging package and tis and that, by addressable market of words types, the classic document, is decreasing as a part of that, and what productivity is the meta level around documents, as much as the documents. So we're actually into a post-doc world, as much as we're heading into a post-PC world.Microsoft in dispute with OnLive over Windows desktop-on-iPad licensing &gt;&gt; ZDNetMary Jo Foley:Now we know why Microsoft officials refused to discuss whetherOnLive -- the company offering iPad and Android tablet users a hosted Windows desktop app-- was in violation of Microsoft licensing terms. It seems Microsoft believes they are.Very complicated, relying on the question of whether you can connect to an OnLive-owned Windows 7 licence if you don't have one.Google throws Android under the bus with Google Play &gt;&gt; Kristofer LayonAn iOS and Android app developer who doesn't like the "Google Play" moniker:I'll end with an observation. Last week, several people at my company just spent a lot of time doing video production for a demo of our mobile app. The script noted that the app can be found in Apple's iTunes App Store and Google's Android Market. Now we get to redo that work. But this is more than just sour grapes. Now the demo, for a higher education mobile application, will need to say "to keep in touch with your university courses, classroom discussions, faculty and classmates, and campus news, download our mobile app at Google Play."But the "Google Play" name does at least suggest that you'll be able to get entertainment there - a big change.Facebook says it had 432m mobile users in December 2011; 13% are mobile-only &gt;&gt; Inside FacebookFacebook has updated its S-1 filing (quick, someone do a diff):The company estimates that 58m users accessed the social network solely through mobile apps or the mobile website during December 2011. It did not note what percent of these users are on feature phones versus smartphones, nor did it provide any demographic information about these users. In India,for example, many people access Facebook from phones when they don't have personal computers. The remaining 374m mobile MAUs accessed Facebook from both PCs and mobile devices during that month. The social network says it has 845m total MAU.That's impressive.On the FBI Raid &gt;&gt; Barrett BrownOn Pastebin, where everyone writes their best work. He got a knock on the door the day that Sabu (of LulzSec) was formally fully charged; Brown's involvement has always been a mystery.As to the various stunts [Sabu] pulled in the months since his arrest - including but not limited to the unnecessary release of credit card information for Stratfor customers - we may never know to what extent such things were encouraged by his "Justice Department" handlers in an effort to discredit this movement. But I digress, lol. At any rate, the Feds came back a couple of hours later with a search warrant for my mom's place - they fully intended to take a certain laptop, and did.We look forward to knowing what was on that laptop. As you may expect, he really doesn't like Sabu. At all.Countering the Google Plus image problem &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comPerhaps conscious that G+ really isn't wowing the media, Vic Gundotra gets on the line to the NYT."This is just the next version of Google," Mr. Gundotra said, noting that he sees Google Plus as a social blanket that envelopes the entire Google experience. "Everything is being upgraded. We already have users. We're now upgrading them to what we consider Google 2.0." In Google's eyes, citing the amount of time people spend on Google Plus would be like judging a takeout restaurant by how many people sit down to eat at a table, even though a number of people take food to go. But Nate Elliott, a vice president and principal analyst with Forrester Research, said the numbers just are not adding up correctly. "I don't know how you can have a social layer without having a social network that people use," Mr. Elliott said in a phone interview. "If Google is saying that someone who once signed up for Google Plus makes them an active user, then that's not entirely convincing."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Trials HD is one of the greatest downloadable console games ever made. Like Angry Birds on mobile, it is almost perfect because it utterly and completely understands how to deliver depth in a limited environment. Even if you have no interest in riding motorcycles over ramps, the game grips you with its perfect physics model and then keeps you engaged through several thousand painful-looking face plants. It is essential and in many ways unimprovable.But somehow developer Red Lynx has improved it, and the result isTrials Evolution, due to hit XBLA this spring.Why Evolution? Why not Trials 2? Well, what this game does is keep the core gameplay experience absolutely untouched, while enhancing everything around it. You're still riding a bike over rampy tracks, using the analogue stick to alter your rider's position while the vehicle is in the air. But this is now happening within a much richer world.Evolution features a whole new structure, which replaces the list of anonymous tracks from Trials HD with an epic series of skill games, tournaments and license tests. Players can pick and choose what they want to attempt, but to open a new batch of challenges they need to accrue a certain number of bronze, silver and gold medals. It's a familiar format but it suits the fast-n-dirty nature of Trials and it means you're always discovering new stuff.The license tasks are there instead of a conventional tutorial mode and do the job they do in Gran Turismo, teaching players how to use their ride properly. In this case, it's about perfect jumping and landing, how to accelerate without falling off... all the things you need to stay on two wheels and not on your face.More impressively, trials has busted out of the original warehouse. Now each level gets a different location with its own themes and features. There's a D-Day map, where shells explode around your bike as you power through. On Downhill Domination, there are enormous jumps down a steep hillside, which would have been impossible in the first title.This track also showcases a graphical addition – curving tracks. At points, your bike will go round a corner, and though the action remains 2D, it gives you a sense of environmental depth missing from the utterly flat original. There are other tricks like this. On one level, Elevation, you're riding through industrial machinery at a road construction site, when you ride onto an elevator which transports you on to an unfinished overpass hundreds of feet above your initial start point. Red Lynx is really pushing the graphical parameters of the Trials universe.Better yet, there's actually a level that pays tribute to sombre XBLA adventure Limbo. The whole thing is played out with a silhouetted bike in a stark monochrome environment, and it even features the spiders and birds from Playdead's wonderful game (the two studios know each other well, apparently).But I'm teasing really. The key thing - the amazing, hilarious, utterly engrossing thing - is the new online and local multiplayer mode. Here, four participants get to race against each other on a series of swooping tracks. Points are awarded for first, second and third positions, but then removed for any falls during the race, so while speed is important, so are skill and care.Brillaintly, when you get near the finishing line, you can hit a button to bail from your bike. If timed correctly, this gets you to the finish a few seconds quicker - the Trails equivalent of a sprinter sticking their chest out when hitting the finishing line. Except here your athlete flies through the air, and then lands heavily in a spraw of ragdoll limbsl. It's amusing, ultra competitive stuff, and at the Xbox Showcase event last week, journalists had to be physically grappled from the demo console to let others play. Evolution multiplayer is going to be your new post-pub game of choice for months to come.For creative types, the Trials map editor has been utterly overhauled and extended. There's a Lite editon for less ambitious designers to play about with; but the Pro version gives you absolutely all the tools needed to create tracks as detailed as the official ones (indeed, it's the editor Red Lynx actually used). It offers 1500 objects to place in the game world as well as intricate control over physics events, which can be triggered during the game. So if you want a bunch of barrels to fall down when the player hits a certain point, that can be constructed.Indeed, every element of a circuit, from terrain type to lighting and sound effects can be scaled and modified. But the one thing the player doesn't have to draw from scratch is the environment - instead, they can use a god mode to explore the entire 4km x2km map, then choose a start point and an end point for their level. It means all your editing time can be spent on tweaking the gameplay rather than the backdrop.And of course, your amazing tracks can be uploaded to a sharing site, where the community is able to rate new levels. Red Lynx will also make its own weekly selections of cool new offerings. The selection is also easily searchable – visitors are able to define the sorts of tracks they want to play, so they're not just seeing a mass of options. Apple might want to take a look for the App Store.Crammed with ideas, packed full of content and put together with considerable love and care, Trails Evolution should be – no will be - an absolute blast.Trials Evolution is due out on Xbox 360 in the spring
It's Friday! Buying any games today?
I've come late to the feast for the post-apocalypticI Am Alive(Xbox 360/PS3). The download-only title was released on Xbox Live earlier this week to absolutely no fanfare whatsoever. It was a quiet, almost apologetic launch, accompanied by few&nbsp;adverts and met with only a handful of reviews. Those who did review it differed wildly in their assessments. Greg Miller, of the games&nbsp;website IGN, gave it a measly 4.5&nbsp;out of 10, labelling it "a flat, frustrating game that isn't worth your time or money". Yet this paper's own Nick Cowen awarded the title an&nbsp;emphatic five stars.Why such contrasting verdicts? For&nbsp;me, it's a question of genre. Judge&nbsp;it as an action game, shooter or&nbsp;horror and you're bound to find little&nbsp;to get excited about. Each of those genres comes with expectations the game simply doesn't attempt to fulfil. You'll never – as you might at the climax of an action game – bring down a helicopter gunship armed only with a rusty foot-pump and a child's bottle rocket, or battle an all-powerful demon in a final struggle for the fate of&nbsp;mankind. What you will do is spend&nbsp;a great deal of time trying to work out how to survive. Because despite the jumping, running and shooting on show in the trailer, I Am Alive is, at base, a puzzle game.Not your traditional puzzler, of course. That's obvious from the scenery alone: there are no precarious wooden towers with green pigs in them, no multicoloured gems to spin or physics-defying portals. Instead, there's a haggard and dusty dad walking the empty streets and scaling the ruptured skyline of the fictional city of Haventon. This is our hero – unnamed at first, but (major spoiler alert!) later revealed as an Adam – a&nbsp;rugged everyman who enters the city&nbsp;armed only with a camcorder, a pair of climbing gloves and a heroic head for heights.Adam's here to find his wife and daughter. Caught halfway across America when the mysterious and generic apocalyptic thing happened, he has trekked for a year to make it home to them. Alas, when he arrives at their old house only 15 minutes or so into the game, he finds that they have left for an unknown refugee camp. His wife's note is no help in finding them. All it reveals is that she forgives him: for what, we're left to guess. The rest of the game is Adam's repentance: a redemptive quest to save a lost little girl and her mother. As puzzle game plots go, you'd at least have to admit it beats "birds get annoyed with pigs".There are two types of puzzle in the game, climbing and combat, both seamlessly integrated and delightfully intense and cerebral. Climbing is a puzzle because you cannot climb indefinitely. Every leap and shimmy burns stamina: fail to reach the next resting place in time and Adam plummets to his death. Platform game reflexes are required here and there, but by and large scaling the city's ruins is done with the head and not the hands. Skill with a joystick gets you nowhere; smarts, everywhere.Combat is a little less clever, but still&nbsp;much more of a puzzle than a scrap. Many encounters can only be survived in a single way. One false move and our hero gets it. Adam carries a pistol but bullets are in short supply. Only late in the game does he ever have more than one or two. So when four or five thugs advance on you it's a question of identifying the tough guy, downing him, then waving the empty gun menacingly at the others. If you've got it right, they will throw up their hands, drop their weapons and back away.Both those aspects of the game are worth raving about. Each is a fresh and original take on a gaming staple. This is the first post-apocalyptic game that I have played – and there have been a few – that has really felt like a struggle for survival. It is also one of very few intelligent puzzle games – only Portal springs to mind – to take advantage of the capacity the games have for rich, emotional storytelling.Its chief flaw is that it doesn't dare to be as fiendish a puzzler as it could, dissolving lazily into a more generic action game in the anti-climactic final&nbsp;stages. It may be far from a perfect&nbsp;game but it is the first and therefore the best survival-action-puzzler out there. It may be the end of&nbsp;days, but I'm hoping this is only the&nbsp;beginning.
Google's privacy policy is too vague for users to control how their information is shared, according to Britain's data protection boss.In his first public comments since Google's revised policy came into effect on 1 March, deputy information commissioner and data protection head David Smith said he was concerned that information was now being shared between some 60 Google services, including mail, calendar, Android phone call logs and search histories."Google's privacy policy is too vague," said Smith. "The requirement under the UK Data Protection Act is for a company to tell people what it actually intends to do with their data, not just what it might do at some unspecified point in future."Being vague does not help in giving users effective control about how their information is shared. It's their information at the end of the day."Last week the French watchdog CNIL, acting on behalf of Europe's national regulators, asked Google not to introduce its new policy on the grounds that it breached data protection laws. The company pressed ahead regardless, saying that after publicising the change for a month that a reversal would confuse consumers.For the first time Google plans to share data amassed by separate services, but the company, which controls 80% of European searches, 30% of European smartphones and 40% of online video globally, has not spelt out in detail what will be shared and with whom. One of the examples given is that if other users already have your email, or other information that identifies you, Google may show them your publicly visible Google profile information, such as your name and photo.CNIL warns that Google will be able to display ads on YouTube that relate to a user's recent search activity or data collected from an Android phone. Advertising could in future be tailored to the location of meetings logged in a user's Google calendar service. The company says this is not currently happening and users will be warned of changes.Google said: "The most important product-specific privacy explanations have been incorporated into our main privacy policy. And there are lots of ways to communicate more about our product-specific privacy practices without creating formal privacy notices."For example, we use our privacy centre, help centre articles, in-product notifications, published FAQs and our good to know website to explain what information we collect and how we use it."Smith said that he wanted to see search engines like Google included in European legislation being drawn up to give consumers a "right to be forgotten" by the internet. The "Facebook fired" phenomenon has seen a wave of employees lose their jobs because of information revealed about them in social media."Google can't just say: I'm just a messenger, I have no responsibility at all for the messages I carry," he said. "Given their dominant role and their huge influence here they have a responsibility to ensure they operate in a fair and reasonable way."Where things are drawn to their attention and it can be established they are delivering content which is defamatory, where it is harmful to individuals and there is no public interest justification Google have a responsibility not to serve up that information."The law for now protects Google from prosecution over defamation. The high court recently ruled that the company could not be sued for allowing damaging comments about a Conservative councillor, Payam Tamiz, to be published on its Blogger.com service.The CNIL will report its preliminary findings on whether Google's privacy policy breaches the law at the end of March, and national regulators have vowed to take co-ordinated action.Smith said depending on the findings, the information commissioner could order Google to stop sharing information "in a way which hasn't been properly explained" or which people had not consented to. The commissioner's sanctions include fines and criminal prosecutions."We have to keep these massive tech giants in check," said Georgina Nelson, a lawyer for the consumer group Which?. "People need to be reassured that they are dealing with their data in the right ways."• This article was amended on 8 March. The original said that "According to Google, Android's servers collect and store phone call logs with numbers dialled and the time, date and duration of calls." This is not the case, and has been corrected
Q: What is the new iPad called? Is it iPad 3, iPad HD, iPad RD (retina display), or what?A: Just "iPad". It's "the new iPad". It doesn't have a generational name. Once something gets to a third generation - as here - Apple doesn't seem to bother with names. Except of course it does with the iPhone.Q: What's different or new in the physical object?A: A "retina display", LTE/4G networking capability, a battery with much more capacity (the screen and LTE systems are both power-hungry), a new chip (the "A5X"), 5 megapixel back camera, Bluetooth 4.0, 1080p video recording and stabilisation.Q: What's happened to the iPad 2?A: That carries on - with a price drop, from £399 to £329 (£429 for the 3G model) but only available in the low-end 16GB capacity.Q: What's new in the software on the iPad?A: • Voice dictation - which is Siri-lite, so the voice-to-text without the action;• face detection in still pictures;• iPhoto, an iOS version of its desktop app, but where you can now manipulate images directly;• some tweaks and improvements to Garageband ("smart strings" - you can be the string section - and multiple recording across more than one iPad);• improvements to iMovie (costing £2.99) which let you cut film footage directly into "trailers" - because, as one of the demonstrators pointed out, these days nobody is going to cut a film of five minutes of shaky camera with Dad on the beach. (Note the image stabilisation too - and expect that in the next iPhone iteration.)Apple also released a software update, iOS 5.1, on Wednesday night, which has various bugfixes and improvements, mainly to the iPhone, though it also lets you delete photos from iCloud's feed - a much-requested feature.Q: What is the retina display like close up - and what does retina display mean, anyway?A: Even close up, it's virtually impossible to see individual pixels. The point of the "retina display" is that at arm's length you absolutely cannot see them, so that you have an effect that's the same as print: your eye isn't distracted by the subconscious realisation that you're seeing something composed of individual lit pixels. This is going to have significant effects on peoples' ability to read text on iPads.Here's why: the idea of the super-pixel-dense display is something that Jakob Nielsen of Nielsen/Norman Group has been predicting for absolutely ages; getting screens to a pixel density where it can fool the eye should, in theory, mean that you can read as fast there as on paper. (On standard resolution, including the Kindle, you read only about half as fast as on paper.) (Update: that may be an overestimation:this 2001 papersuggests the difference is that reading on paper is "significantly - 10%-30% faster than reading on screen." There doesn't seem to be a great deal of research more recently into this topic.)Once a display starts having the same effective resolution as paper, you should be able to read more quickly. There are problems with the fact that the iPad screen uses transmitted rather than reflected light - that will slow down reading a little - but it should be noticeable.For pictures and other display objects, the improved resolution is - from our limited experience - a bit like the change from standard TV to HDTV. You notice the change as a dramatic leap at first, then get used to it. It's on going back that you notice what's missing.Q: Does anyone else have a retina display?A: Asus's newest Transformer tablet may qualify - judging by the specifications that were announced at Mobile World Congress. But it won't actually ship until summer, so it's impossible to know. The new iPad ships on 16 March, which gives it a significant lead.Update:thanks to many in the comments pointing to smartphones with equivalent pixel-per-inch layouts. (Wikipedia page with simple listing.) As is pointed out, many other manufacturers may have equivalent pixel density (around 300ppi) but aren't marketing them as such.Q: What use is LTE in the UK?A: At present, none at all, because the phone networks are all wrangling amongst themselves about who has the right to which frequencies. Ofcom's attempts to auction off the spectrum keep running into court challenges, which at least shows that the networks hold 4G (or perhaps its potential revenues) as valuable, but doesn't get us connected any sooner. Orange/T-Mobile is carrying out some tests in Cornwall and London, but to be honest for most people the LTE networking isn't going to be any use soon. Also, there are two different models of LTE connectivity, so there's going to be a risk for people who buy on one network and then think about going to another: particular iPads are set up for particular LTE systems. (This wasn't a problem for Motorola's Xoom, because it only offered LTE through Verizon's network in the US.)Q: What else is new?A: Apple has started moving away from Google in its maps. The iPhoto application uses OpenStreetMap maps, according to ISM's Jonathan Bennett, whosaid in a postthat "we're rather pleased to find they're the latest to switch to OpenStreetMap". Apple's growing antipathy towards Google - initially over Android, then in its competition for mobile advertising attention, and then for pretty much everything, suggests that the company may be looking for other providers. But given that maps are a prime method for mobile advertising (Google has certainly begun monetising them), Apple is definitely going to be interested in doing its own mapping.The Maps app on iOS still uses Google - but some people have wondered how long that will last.Q: Where does this leave other tablets?A: Some analysts reckon this will increase Apple's share of the overall tablet market, even though that is growing. "Apple to seize more than 70% of world tablet PC market in 2012 with new iPad 3" said the (slightly breathless) email from IMS Research - which pointed out that Apple had 62% of the market in 2011 (white box makers 8% - one infers they're the cheap Chinese Android versions), Samsung 7%, Amazon 7%, Asus 3% and all the rest together taking 13%.But with the new product, IMS Research forecasts that approximately 70m iPads will be shipped in 2012, which would represent a 71% year-on-year growth. Gerry Xu, the company's PC market analyst, says: "There is a large customer base loyal to Apple products that have been waiting for the latest tablet. Many owners of the iPad 1 are also expected to upgrade to the latest release. In addition to this consumer demand, growth is also forecast as a result of sales into enterprise and education".The same opinion came from other analysts at the event; the data says that the tablet market presently breaks down to Apple, Samsung, Amazon and lots of also-rans. Gartner's Carolina Milanesi doesn't expect Windows 8 tablets to get any traction this year, so Apple has an open goal. No Android tablet comes close to the specifications (quad-core, sure, but retina display? No) or ecosystem (apps, yes, but music and films no, at least in Europe so far), and with the European tablet market having been a rout last year - given no Amazon Kindle Fire, and lots of legal issues for Samsung in Germany, one of the biggest markets in Europe - it's hard to see that changing. Add to the mix a cheaper iPad 2 which will hit some manufacturers at just the point where they were hoping to get an edge - price - and you can see that Apple replaying its iPod playbook, when it sliced and diced the competition by staying ahead in its ecosystem, and then through pricing, and then product mix. (In which case you might anticipate a smaller "iPad mini" at some point. But don't get your expectations up. Apple will definitely be happy with its iPad 2 and "new iPad" lineup all this year.)Q: What about Apple TV?A: AsJuliette Garside points out, the improvements in Apple TV - 1080p video, a more app-like interface, and even "apps" for things like Netflix content - point towards the company readying itself to do more. Also iCloud has been updated so that any movies that you buy or rent from the iTunes Store will be available across any device you use. (You might as well just watch them on a new iPad - the display would be amazing.)So the Apple TV that everyone has been buzzing about isn't here - yet. But analysts, again, are itching with the certainty that something is on the way - noting Tim Cook's closing words at the presentation that "Across the year you're going to see a lot more innovation. We are just getting started." (Then again, that's a common signoff from Apple executives, and often just means "more computers on the way" or similar.)Q: What's the take-away thought, then?A: First: Apple has pulled ahead of rival tablet makers with the retina display. Second, it has cut the pricing legs off those which hoped to sneak under with lower specifications and prices. Third: Apple has begun ever so quietly to cut its ties with Google. Fourth: unless Samsung and others can come up witha tablet withan OLED touchscreen, it's going to be a torrid year for many unless they can get Windows 8 tablets to a competitive price - but given that the Windows licence is going to cost them around $50 each, it's hard to see how that will happen. In fact, the happiest company apart from Apple after Wednesday's announcements is, without a doubt, Amazon: the Kindle Fire and Kindle e-reader remain untouched. Expect them to keep selling well.
British music startup Songkick has raised a £6.3m ($10m) funding round led by Sequoia, the US venture capital firm whose previous investments include Apple, Google, YouTube, PayPal and Dropbox.It's the first time Sequoia has invested in a startup headquartered in the UK, according to Songkick's chief executive Ian Hogarth, who says the funding will give his company the resources "to continue to innovate" in the months ahead. Songkick's existing investors, who include Index Ventures and Y Combinator, also participated in the new round.Songkick was set up by Hogarth and two friends, Michelle You and Pete Smith in 2007, with the aim of building a business around live music. Its service maintains global listings for music gigs, enabling fans to be alerted when their favourite artists announce a concert near them.The site now attracts 5m monthly unique visitors, which Hogarth says makes it the second biggest live-music site in the world behind Ticketmaster."We set this company up as three friends in an attic with the simple idea that fans would go to more concerts if someone made it really easy, and focused on the bands rather than just the venues," he says."We've since gathered proof that it makes a meaningful difference to people's lives: when people start using Songkick, they go to almost twice as many gigs the year after."Songkick has tried to stay neutral since launching, working with ticketing firms including Ticketmaster, TicketWeb and Eventbrite on an affiliate basis: it doesn't sell tickets itself, but points its users towards those companies' sites.Meanwhile, Songkick also has partnerships to provide its concert database to services including YouTube, Spotify, MTV, Vevo and SoundCloud. It also has a popular iPhone app, and was also one of the launch partners for Spotify's desktop apps platform in November 2011.Securing investment from Sequoia is a big deal for Songkick, but also for other startups in London – or for that matter, the UK and Europe.Alongside Shazam (which counts Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers and Institutional Venture Partners among its investors) and SoundCloud (also KPCB, as well as Index and Union Square Ventures), Songkick shows that companies on this side of the Atlantic can attract investment from the biggest Silicon Valley venture capital firms."They've invested in us despite where we are," says Hogarth, chuckling. "The bar is much higher if you want to get investment from a west-coast Valley VC if you're in London. But Sequoia are a phenomenal venture capital firm, and [partner] Greg McAdoo is really aligned with our belief in connecting artists and fans."Songkick isn't saying much about its plans for the funding round, although Hogarth talks about ongoing work on new features and products that will launch later in 2012.There is competition, though, including from one of Songkick's key partners: Ticketmaster. The company has been adding more social and editorial features to its service in the last year or two.It also recentlylaunched an iPhone appwith a library-scanning feature similar to Songkick's own app, while its parent company Live Nation has justacquired startup Setlist.fm, which has built its own database of concerts and set lists.Could Ticketmaster eat Songkick's lunch? Hogarth chooses his words carefully. "Our relationship with Ticketmaster is that we're a partner of theirs trying to sell more tickets for them as an e-commerce company," he says."We're trying to be a great partner for those guys, but what's been a bit challenging for us to parse is what their strategy is. Every day they release something that is closer to what Songkick looks like than to what Ticketmaster used to look like. We have to try to read between the lines."Hogarth is bullish about Songkick's plans for new products later this year, though. In the meantime, he thinks other startups in the UK can take heart from his company's funding round, and what it says about Sequoia's openness to investing in other British companies."Hopefully now they have one investment in London, it may make it easier for them to make another one," he says.
The boom in mobile app development and smartphone proliferation has brought a whole new generation of developers into the mobile world. The choice of applications has never been better.A downside is that the dramatic increase in network usage can have a negative impact on the user experience of connected applications.A good user experience is essential to the success of any application, mobile or otherwise. Mobility introduces additional challenges. For example, making a user wait for a connection while one isn't available would be a poor experience.On the other hand, giving the user other options whilst the connection is unavailable might improve the experience. With increasingly faster networks and faster devices, it is common to see developers assuming that "anything goes", in terms of development, as if the power of the network and device were unlimited or approaching that of desktop environments.This isn't the case. App users are a lot more sensitive to a poor experience on mobile devices and are a lot less forgiving. Developers should pay attention to all aspects of the application design that will have a positive or negative impact on the user experience, which includes thinking about the network connection.Network-friendly design is a principle of being a good "network citizen". Connected applications share the same network resources as other connected applications in a given geographical area (ie within the coverage area of a mobile cell). The behaviour of one connected application can impact other connected apps within the same geographic area.Whether you are using a DSL, fibre, LAN or mobile networks, each of these networks has different characteristics for maximum throughput, end-to-end delay (latency), signalling overheads and available capacity.Developers could just ignore these characteristics and hope for the best, but delivering an optimum experience for users (the people that matter the most) requires that they understand these characteristics and build the intelligence into their applications to accommodate them.It's also worth remembering that mobile operators across the world are gradually switching to "data caps" - ie maximum megabytes per day or month. This places a responsibility on developers to optimise application traffic volumes.Every MB saved is a direct saving from the customer's usage bundle. And they'll love that, especially if they choose to roam abroad.This is an excerpt from the BlueVia guide, Developing Network-Friendly Applications. The full guide is available to read online or download for free at theBlueVia blog.
Finnish startup Rovio Entertainment has confirmed the details of its new Angry Birds Space game, which will launch on 22 March on iPhone, iPad, Android, PC and Mac.The company has been working with NASA on the launch to spectacular effect, getting flight engineer Don Pettit to introduce the game from the International Space Station, in avideo posted online.The game will launch with 60 levels, six new characters and superpowers, and gameplay features based on its zero-gravity setting. Rovio says new levels will be added as free updates, as in previous Angry Birds games, but also as in-app purchases.National Geographic Books will publish an official companion book for Angry Birds Space, while there will also be animation and retail elements to the launch. Rovio says information on other gaming platforms beyond those listed above will be available "later"."This collaboration began with a simple Twitter exchange about birds and pigs in space, and it has grown into a tremendous outreach and education opportunity," says NASA's associate administrator for communications David Weaver."Games are fun and entertaining, but they also can be inspirational and informative. This ongoing collaboration with Rovio and Angry Birds is an exciting way to get people engaged with NASA's missions of exploration and discovery, and get students energized about future careers in science and technology."The actual Angry Birds Space game is being shown publicly for the first time on 9 March at the SXSWi conference in Austin, Texas. Not on an iPhone or iPad, though: Rovio will be demonstrating the new game on Samsung's Galaxy Note, as part of its marketing partnership with the device manufacturer.Rovio is hoping its latest game – the first new Angry Birds title in a year – will continue the franchise's phenomenal success. It has so far generated 700m downloads across all platforms, while the company has sold 25m plush toys and signed deals for more than 20,000 licensed products.In aninterview with The Guardianat Mobile World Congress in February 2012, Rovio's marketing chief Peter Vesterbacka outlined the company's ambitions for the new game."It's the first time we have everything available on launch day: animation, toys, books, candy, everything. It's massive: most Hollywood movies don't have this. And this is just the first phase of our space programme. There is more to come."Here's that International Space Station announcement:
Well, that's a turnup for the books: Google's Chrome browser has been the first to be hacked at the annual Pwn2own competition. Having seen its product being untouchable for the past two years, the company may have become a little overconfident - andoffered up to $60,000to anyone who could hack it at all, up to a limit of $1m.It was a challenge which a French team, Vupen, was very happy to take - and break. In fact, they hacked Chrome during the first five minutes of thecompetition, and (under thenew rules) took 32 points.It also earns them $20,000 from Chrome for using bugs in Chrome itself to gain "full unsandboxed code execution".Note:A representative for Pwn2own tells us that "Vupen did not compete in the Pwnium competition and therefore will not receive any money from Google.Also: Google hasupdated Chrome to fix the holeexploited by the hack. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)The hack was carried out on the Windows version: according to Justin Schuh, of Google's Chrome team, the exploit "didn't break out of the sandbox… it avoided the sandbox".Update:Pwn2own says that the sandbox-avoiding exploit "is true for the competitor in Pwnium. Vupen's was a full sandbox escape for Pwn2own."TheTwitter feed for the contest(which began at 12 noon Pacific time on Wednesday) indicates that Safari was the next to fall - again by Vupen.Vupen has attracted some controversy by discovering and then selling vulnerabilities and exploits to government customers - a business that one might think is both lucrative and risky. Chaouki Bekrar, the co-founder and head of research,told ZDNetthat "We had to use two vulnerabilities. The first one was to bypass DEP and ASLR on Windows and a second one to break out of the Chrome sandbox."In factthe Vupen team had achieved this last May, though too late of course for the March-timed Pwn2own. At the time they said thatThe user is tricked into visiting a specially crafted web page hosting the exploit which will execute various payloads to ultimately download the Calculator from a remote location and launch it outside the sandbox (at Medium integrity level).No trickery is needed at the contest, of course, because the teams can direct the browsers to whatever pages they've set up to exploit vulnerabilities. Vupen said that they have come armed with vulnerabilities which will exploit each of the browsers on show - Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome and Safari. But they decided to go after Chrome first, Bekrar told ZDNet: "We wanted to show that Chrome was not unbreakable. Last year, we saw a lot of headlines that no one could hack Chrome.  We wanted to make sure it was the first to fall this year."Equally he was complimentary about Chrome, generally seen as possibly the most secure browser because of its hefty sandboxing. "The Chrome sandbox is the most secure sandbox out there," Bekrar told ZDNet. "It's not an easy task to create a full exploit to bypass all the protections in the sandbox. I can say that Chrome is one of the most secure browsers available."An interesting point for Vupen is that all of the hacks used at Pwn2own are meant then to be disclosed publicly - which implies that they have either sold them already to customers (who will have been told to make use of them by this date, or may be feeling a little narked), or that they're just polishing their reputation by hacking everything in sight. With day one over, Vupen looks to be far ahead of the rest.Update:Pwn2own tells us that "Everything Vupen displays at Pwn2own was created especially for this competition. The exploits were not previously sold to customers."There's apage with the progress of the Pwn2own competition. Vupen is miles ahead of everyone at present with 124 points. The competition ends on Friday 9 March.The competition, which has beenrunning for a number of years, has usually seen Apple's Safari being the first to fall (usually at the hands of fabled ex-NSA hacker Charlie Miller), with Firefox and Internet Explorer surviving longer. The advent of Chrome in the past few years has changed the landscape: its sandboxing and general security model has made it proof against repeated attacks. (The browsers run on the latest, fully-patched versions of Windows or Mac OSX; this year, it's Windows 7 and Lion.)
A (slightly late, apologies) quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWarning: 200,000 US-based WordPress web pages compromised by hijack injection attack &gt;&gt; DaniWebSecurity researchers are warning that some 30,000 WordPress websites, 85% of them based in the US, have been compromised by a mass-injection hijack attack which sees visitors to any of more than 200,000 individual pages redirected to a Trojan infected rogue AV scam.Look for code linking to a script from rr.nu.Samsung Galaxy S2 to get Ice Cream Sandwich on 15 March &gt;&gt; CNET UKIce Cream Sandwich is coming to the Samsung Galaxy S2 this month. It may be later than hoped, but it seems the S2 will update to the latest version of Android on 15 March. That's according to a post on Samsung's official Facebook page in Israel -- which has since been deleted. Fingers crossed, folks...We'll be interested to hear from people whose device does get updated from 2.x to 4.x about how they like the change. It can jar at first.An electrostatic haptic display for the visually impaired &gt;&gt; National Science FoundationThis project uses electrostatic stimulation of the fingertips (static cling) to display computer graphics to the exploring fingertips. The tactile patterns are felt as a variable sensation of texture or vibration.Fascinating. But what sort of mad fool would think that Apple would include something like this in the iPad? Oh, hang on.Google Play: The new name for Android Market &gt;&gt; Pocket-lintWe didn't cover this as we were busy with LulzSec/Anonymous the other day:From Monday, you'll no longer download apps from the Android Market, but instead, from Google Play. Over the next few days the firm will push out an update to Android handsets that changes the name of the app you were using. This might confuse some, especially as Market updates tend to happen more automatically than most. Nothing much changes though. The name is to reflect the new multimedia store that sells not only apps, but music, videos and ebooks too. This was something that Android Market did before, with sections for apps, movies and books growing out of the original offering which was solely for apps. Google is also hoping that this new name, and some minor tweaks, will make people spend more money. That might be true, but we can't see anyone being prepared to cough up £4.49 to rent "The Scorpion King 3: Battle for Redemption".Eben Upton of Raspberry Pi interviewed &gt;&gt; Nottingham Science BlogEben Upton, one of the trustees of the Raspberry Pi Foundation, kindly agreed to an interview with NSB recently. It was a fascinating discussion, touching on how the number of people studying Computer Science has dropped over the last 10-15years, tips for youngsters who want to enter this field, and what it has been like to develop the Raspberry Pi device. A transcript of the best bits is shown below. Enjoy.This has been one of the most eagerly-awaited pieces of British technology we can ever remember. And we have long memories.We Need to Talk About Android &gt;&gt; Fraser SpeirsI spoke at a conference near Cardiff recently and in Q&amp;A, I got The Question. I love getting the question. What's the question? This: "What's wrong with Android?" I realised, giving my answer, that I've never written down my objections to Android. Before we get into this, let's understand that I'm primarily talking about "what's wrong with Android from the perspective of someone planning a long-term 1:1 deployment in a school".Though one would have thought that you could replace "school" with "enterprise". Though perhaps enterprises have more money for customising things such as backup. Note one of his conclusions: "You're either buying into a platform or you're buying gadgets."Inside the mind of a hacker &gt;&gt; Fox NewsFox had the scoop on Sabu. This however reads a bit like A Doctor Writes in Private Eye:There has been no indication thus far that Monsegur is a methodical criminal who has amassed a great fortune.  Nor has anyone suggested that he is a cyber-terrorist attacking entities that oppose his political or religious ideology (though time will tell).  Instead, the data at hand would suggest that chaos, in and of itself, is the reward he seeks--busting things up, bringing them down, causing people to suffer as the structure they rely upon to organize their thoughts and intentions dissolves.Note that it also hits Godwin's Law a few paragraphs later.Was Anonymous' hacker-informant Sabu a tool of FBI entrapment? &gt;&gt; ForbesObvious question:criminal defense lawyers for those accused hackers are no doubt poring over [Sabu's] communications with their clients, and looking for evidence of entrapment: the defense that the U.S. government, with an influential member of Anonymous as their pawn, pushed hackers into the same illegal acts for which they're now prosecuting them. Months after Monsegur [Sabu's real name] began cooperating with law enforcement, his Twitter feed (with 45,000 followers) continued to rally his hacktivist "brothers" to attack governments and private corporate targets. A message he wrote in late December asked for fellow hackers to give him stolen documents so that they could be published under the banner of "Antisec," the sub-movement against the security industry in which he was a vocal organizer. "Leakers, security researchers or hackers who have vulnerabilities or leaked docs contact us," Monsegur wrote.One would hope the FBI had that figured out already, given it was monitoring his communication 24/7.Google looking to unload Motorola's TV set-top box business &gt;&gt; NYPOST.comIt's the New York Post, a tabloid, but then Fox News had the Sabu scoop earlier this week:This just in: The TV set-top box is on its deathbed. Google is looking to unload the set-top box business it will inherit from Motorola Mobility even before it closes on the $12.5 billion acquisition, The Post has learned. The move appears to be an about-face from last August, when Google CEO Larry Page, in announcing the deal, suggested the business would play a role in his plans for revolutionizing the living room. Google isn't the only player looking to get out of the business. As The Post reported exclusively last month, Cisco is also seeking to sell Scientific Atlanta, which along with Motorola has had a near duopoly on the set-top box business.Point being that the set-top box business is the only profitable part of MMI.Microsoft and Apple should hit Amazon, not Google &gt;&gt; The RegisterMatt Asay:Amazon'sfork of Google's Androidis a far bigger threat to Apple's iOS than Samsung or other Android licensees ever were, because it comes backed by an entire ecosystem of Amazon-supplied content. This hurts Apple, but it also minimises Google's benefits from Android, as well, as Amazon's Kindle Fire comes with an Amazon browser, not Google's. And Amazon, not Google (or Apple) cleans up on content purchased through the device.Apple Special Event March 2012 &gt;&gt; AppleWednesday's introduction of "The New iPad", and associated things. If you're one of those strange people who prefers to actually see the presentation rather than read the liveblog. But really, who does that?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
This sounds like faint praise, but the biggest news for developers from theunveiling of Apple's new iPadmay be the company's decision to lop £70 off the price of the previous model.Selling the iPad 2 for £329 in the UK ($399 in the US) has the potential to expand the userbase for Apple's tablet, in the same way that the still-available iPhone 3GS and iPhone 4 have done for the company's smartphone.For developers still mulling whether to invest more in making tablet apps, the price drop could be the tipping point.That said, be wary of any claims that the cheaper iPad 2 will suck developers away from Android. The two most interesting Android tablets for many developers – Amazon's Kindle Fire and Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook Tablet – start at $199 in the US.Anyway, what about that new iPad, and its implications for developers? The most obvious impact is for games, as shown by the two titles demonstrated at the launch: Namco's Sky Gamblers Air Supremacy, and Epic Games' Infinity Blade Dungeons.Developers with the necessary resources will be licking their lips at the prospect of making use of the new iPad's Retina display, quad-core A5X processor and rumoured 1GB of RAM for beefier, better-looking games.Expect the phrase "console-quality" to be hurled around a lot in the coming months. The new iPad won't be the only quad-core tablet by any means, but the key here will be its reach – the quicker it reaches a significant install base, the more developers will be able to justify the investment required to make these kinds of games.An important point: these are only a certain portion of the iPad games market. Apple's own chart for thetop 25 all-time paid apps on iPadin the UK is stuffed with games like Angry Birds, Scrabble and Monopoly, Fruit Ninja and Cut the Rope, which have always been about accessible gameplay rather than graphical horsepower.These kinds of games will sharpen up for the Retina display, of course, but that's evolution rather than revolution for their developers.The fact that Autodesk's SketchBook Ink was the third new app demonstrated at the new iPad's launch shows potential for art and creativity apps with the new screen and beefier processor, too. "Professional and everyday artists are going to love this device, and it's going to inspire them to create beautiful pieces of artwork," said Autodesk's Chris Cheung at the launch.Remember that debate about iPad (and, indeed, tablets in general) being just for consumption rather than creativity? We'll see more apps coming out that will continue the process of laying that notion to rest. Look at the push made by Adobe into tablet apps in recent times, and think about what it might do now with the new iPad and comparable devices.Infinity Blade Dungeons shows off the new iPad's graphical heftI was interested in the fact that all three of these apps were specifically referred to as iOS exclusives at the event, and wonder whether this is something Apple is pushing for more overtly in its dealings with developers. Then again, exclusivity may simply be what's required to get a slot on-stage during an Apple keynote.It's too early to say what impact the new device will have on apps from the media industry. Will that Retina display make new iPad owners more likely to subscribe to digital magazines and newspapers, or use apps like Netflix and BBC iPlayer?Another area – tablet-based augmented reality – should also benefit from the much-better rear camera in the new iPad. But this is very much a niche for now.Of more practical use to most iOS developers is the news that emerged after the launch event, that Apple hasincreased the download-size limiton apps downloaded over a mobile network (as opposed to Wi-Fi) from 20MB to 50MB.Even so, the big takeaways from the launch are more about the wider competitive landscape: not just how the iPad compares to its closest Android rivals, but where it sits in the context of computing as a whole.Apple chief executive Tim Cook took a direct swipe at Android during his presentation, criticising "blown-up smartphone" apps for Twitter and Yelp on Google-powered tablets, and comparing them to the slicker versions on iPad.It was a well-aimed blow: those tablets are easily capable of running the better versions, so why aren't developers providing them? Note, though, that Cook didn't show, say, the Kindle Fire version of Twitter, which is better.The big thing for developers to chew over is what Cook describes as "the post-PC revolution" – an idea that book-ended the launch event."A world where the PC is no longer the centre of your digital world, but rather just a device," said Cook. "We're talking about a world where your new devices, the devices you use the most, need to be more portable, more personal and dramatically easier to use than any PC has ever been."It's this shift – which is not just an Apple thing – that is disrupting the businesses of established software firms and providing big opportunities for new startups and developers.With that in mind, all eyes will now be on Apple's WWDC conference this summer, as well as corresponding events from Google, Microsoft and others, for more pointers on how this post-PC shift is guiding the evolution of their platforms.Or, to put it another way: it's fun to chew over the implications of the new iPad hardware for developers. But the real meat will come with iOS 6, Android 5, Windows 8 and other software in the months to come.
A selection of 12 new apps for you today:iPhotoUnveiled at the launch event for Apple's new iPad, the iPhoto app is now available on the App Store. It's a super-slick app for browsing, editing and sharing photos, with tactile touchscreen controls, a range of editing effects, and a feature called Photo Journals to share themed collections with friends and family, via iCloud.iPhone / iPadBelkin Mobile TV PlayerGadgets-maker Belkin has a new iOS app for watching and controlling your home TV from your iPhone or iPad, wherever you are in the world. It works with a specific Belkin Mobile TV device back in the home, though. The link above is for the iPad version, buthere's the iPhone app.iPhone / iPadmiCoach TennisAdidas' latest iPhone training app focuses on tennis, using – as in previous miCoach apps – the separate Speed Cell sensor that's attached to the user's trainers. In this case, the app and sensor measure speed, rallies and distance covered, with tennis pro Andrea Petkovic providing tips.iPhoneGoogleGoogle has revamped its official search app for Windows Phone, with new features including autocomplete sand voice search, and the ability to use the device's location to find local results.Windows PhonemyTrainsKnown for its tube-map apps, mxData's latest iOS release focuses on train times in the UK, drawing on data from National Rail Enquiries. Live departure and arrival information, platform details, a journey planner and the ability to set your home station or find the nearest one to your current location.iPhone / iPadGO Weather WidgetThis is the latest widget for the Go Launcher EX Android app, offering a way to check out the latest weather in a host of cities on your device's homescreen. It includes a choice of widget sizes.AndroidCoco LocoCoco Loco is the latest game from Chillingo, which sees you sending marshmallow characters flying through the air into chocolate forts. Any resemblance to other famous games involving sending things flying through the air into fort-like structures is, of course, pure coincidence.iPhone / iPadWubbzy's Pirate TreasureAlready available for iOS, this app for kids is now on Android, starring Wubbzy – a character from a show on the Nick Jr. channel. Its piratical storyline is complemented by narration, interactivity and music videos.AndroidFacejackerI picked up on this a few weeks ago, but Widebeam Digital's second-screen app for Channel 4's Facejacker series is now officially out, to co-incide with the show. Unlock content including videos, ringtones and soundboards while watching the episodes.iPhone / iPadVertigo ComicsVeteran comics publisher DC Comics has launched a new iOS app for its Vertigo imprint, offering comics and graphic novels from its archives. As with previous apps, it's using ComiXology's platform.iPhone / iPadVideoScribe.tvThis Android app is all about creating animations and videos without needing to be a professional: "Whether you want to introduce people to your business, tell a story, explain a process, illustrate a talk or simply want to be creative..."AndroidHighway HoboGood news for anyone who's been wishing Frogger had more of a drunk tramp element. This Android game is the work of developer BrainDeadApe Games, and is the first mobile game with a special weapon called "the apocalyptic burp". Probably.Android
It's Thursday. How is everyone today? Any gaming fun last night?
Google is celebrating International Women's Day with a doodle with symbols of women replacing its familiar logo.The "G" in Google on the search engine's homepage has been replaced with the female symbol while one of the "o" has been substituted with a flower.Clicking on the doodle brings up a search results page for International Women's Day.International Women's Day has been observed since in the early 1900s. This year's event - the 101st – will be marked by thousands of events worldwide that celebrate women's progress or rally against inequality.World leaders including Barack Obama and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon are lending their support to the event. British prime minister David Cameron&nbsp;is to call for the elimination of violence against women and girls.Celebrities involved in the day's events include former Eurythmics singer Annie Lennox, Oscar-winning actor Reese Witherspoon and Sex and the City star Kristin Davis, and model and photographer Helena Christensen.Last year's Google doodle for the hundredth anniversary of the event incorporated an interactive map inviting users to join thousands of people worldwide to show their support for women's causes.
Wednesday's iPad3 launch had a wider purpose than introducing an upgraded tablet. It was Apple's most coherent effort yet to bind its family of screens closer together, in a way that lays the ground for the world's largest technology company to disrupt the world's most important entertainment medium – broadcasting.Tim Cook introduced his concept of the "post-PC era". With growing numbers of tablet computers, smartphones, the humble desktop computer is no longer the centre of our digital world. All our screens have become computers, and that revolution is coming to the television set.A quarter of TV sets being sold today have an internet connection.Apple has yet to reveal a TV set of its own, contenting itself today with an upgrade to its set-top box, know as Apple TV, which has been on sale for some years now but hooks up to your existing screen rather than an Apple-made display.Some of the improvements to Apple TV and the iPad3 are about preparing for that event.First of these is high definition. Real HD sets have 1080 lines of vertical resolution. Apple TV's resolution has been improved, from 720p to 1080p. The iPad 3 will be able to take 1080p video and photos.The second is an expansion of the iCloud media storage service. This holds any content purchased from iTunes, or uploaded from your PC, in Apple's servers. The advantage is that your library of photos, videos and music are available on any Apple device, from phones to the television set.The service already stores photos, TV shows and music. From today it will also store movies bought on the iTunes store.Another binding technology we already know about is AirPlay, included in Apple's latest operating systems. This streams images from a phone, PC or a tablet onto a TV set.The Apple devices are increasingly able to produce and share high definition content, the kind of material that looks good on the biggest screen in the living room.Apple TV is a rare misfire, it came to market in 2007 and has sold just over 4m units. Paltry compared to 55m iPads in two years. After its latest upgrade, Apple TV can now be seen as a sleeper device, a hint of its maker's vision for the reinvention of broadcasting, and a test-bed for bigger things to come.Correction: this piece was originally wrongly credited to Charles Arthur. The author is Juliette Garside.
Wednesday's iPad 3 launch had a wider purpose than introducing an upgraded tablet. It was Apple's most coherent effort yet to bind its family of screens closer together, in a way that prepares the ground for the world's largest technology company to disrupt the world's most important entertainment medium – broadcasting.Tim Cook introduced his concept of the "post PC era". With growing numbers of tablet computers and smartphones, the humble desktop computer is no longer the centre of our digital world. All our screens have become computers, and that revolution is coming to the television set.A quarter of TV sets being sold today have an internet connection. Apple has yet to reveal a TV set of its own, contenting itself with an upgrade to its set top box, known as Apple TV, which has been on sale for some years now but hooks up to your existing screen rather than an Apple made display.Some of the improvements to Apple TV and the iPad3 are about preparing for that event.First of these is high definition. Real HD sets have 1080 lines of vertical resolution. Apple TV's resolution has been improved, from 720p to 1080p. The iPad 3 will be able to take 1080p video and photos.The second is an expansion of the iCloud media storage service. This holds any content purchased from iTunes, or uploaded from your PC, in Apple's servers. The advantage is that your library of photos, videos and music are available on any Apple device, from phones to the television set.The service already stores photos, TV shows and music. From today it will also store movies bought on the iTunes store.Another binding technology we already know about is AirPlay, included in Apple's latest operating systems. This streams images from a phone, PC or a tablet onto a TV set.The Apple devices are increasingly able to produce and share high definition content, the kind of material that looks good on the biggest screen in the living room.Apple TV is a rare misfire: it came to market in 2007 and has sold just over 4m units. Paltry compared with 55m iPads in two years. After its latest upgrade, Apple TV can now be seen as a sleeper device, a hint of its maker's vision for the reinvention of broadcasting, and a test bed for bigger things to come.
Apple has stepped up its assault on the tablet computer market with a string of new features for the iPad.The next-generation iPad will feature a high-definition retina display – which Apple said boasts more pixels than a high-definition TV – and an improved camera, dubbed "iSight". The slightly heaver device will feature improved photo and video taking, with a greater resolution camera and an HD video recorder. It will be able to connect to high-speed 4G networks and run an Apple-built A5X processing chip.The technology giant heaped pressure on its rivals with a cheaper iPad 2 priced at $399 (£254). Apple also increased its presence in the living room with an enhanced set-top box, Apple TV.At a launch event in San Francisco on Wednesday, Apple's chief executive, Tim Cook, described the iPad as "the poster-child of the post-PC world". He claimed that rivals launched more than 100 copycat tablet computers last year alone."The iPad is about post-portable computing. And it's outstripping the wildest of predictions," Cook said. "We think the iPad is the poster child of the post-PC world. The momentum behind iPad has been incredible and has surprised virtually everyone. Across the year you're going to see a lot more of this innovation – we are just getting started."Phil Schiller, Apple's vice-president of global marketing, said: "This is the best mobile display that has ever shipped and it's a real revolution."Apple held back from announcing a branded TV set, but film fans will be able to play high-definition content for the first time, with Apple TV. The new Apple TV will cost $99 (£62), the same as the previous version.Movie fans will be able to wirelessly store films on multiple devices with Apple's improved iCloud storage system.Cook, who took over from Steve Jobs in August last year, said that Apple sold 172m "post-PC" devices in 2011, accounting for 76% of its total revenue in the final quarter of that year.The announcements fell short of what some commentators were expecting from the technology giant, which is the world's most valuable company by market capitalisation."Apple has so far played the TV game half-heartedly," said industry analyst Mark Mulligan. "If Apple gets it right it can transform the internet experience in the living room and make the first bold step to removing the distinction between the TV experience and the internet."The nascent internet TV market is expected to have more than 61m users worldwide by the end of 2012, according to research firm Gartner. New releases from Apple and other electronics firms will grow that market to 82m subscribers by 2014, generating $27.3m in revenue.The new version of the iPad will cement Apple's position in the fast-growing market still further, according to Salman Chaudhry, mobile computing analyst at IT research firm Context."Despite strong showings from Samsung, with Apple accounting for 89% of the market in western Europe, we expect this dominance to remain following the new iPad launch," he said."Competitor tablets have failed to launch with a unique selling point. The biggest threat we see to the iPad comes from Amazon, with the upcoming Kindle Fire's low price point reinforcing a trend towards a two-tier industry: sleek, well-designed premium tablets on one side and cheaper tablets on the other."Apple sold 15m iPads in the final quarter of last year, 58% of the total market and more than double the number it sold in the same period in 2010, according to the latest research from Strategy Analytics. Google Android tablets made up 39% of the rest of the market in the four months to December last year.Carolina Milanesi, smartphones and tablets analyst for the research company Gartner, forecasts total tablet sales will hit 118m sales barrier this year, making it almost a quarter of the size of the PC market, whose growth is slowing rapidly.Sales are also shrinking in north America and Europe. Last year the worldwide PC market was under 360m, and growth is expected to be slow this year too despite the launch in autumn of Microsoft's next version of Windows."We see it as Apple, and then a long way back Samsung and Amazon, and then other companies are selling thousands rather than millions," Milanesi said.• This article was amended on 8 March 2012. The original contained duplicated paragraphs. This has been changed.
Block 1Apple's Tim Cook has invited a number of the US press to San Francisco, and in Europe there's a gathering of 200 media in the bowels of Kings Place in London. Our Apple mole tells us that's twice as many as it had for the launch of the iPhone 4S last October – which in turn tells you that whatever's happening today is seen as a very big deal indeed.What should we expect? Well, the invitation says that there's something to "see. And touch". The "see" bit is being taken to imply aretina display(where you can't distinguish individual pixels). Although couldn't that equally well be a reference to something to do with TV? Hm? Couldn't it, given that everyone and their dog isexpecting Apple to move into the "smart TV"space? (The dog likes watching TV, but it also likes thatYouTube video of the talking dog. That's why it's expectant.)OK, how about "touch"? My theory is that it's going to involve haptic feedback – most likely from a Finnish company called Senseg, which uses electric fields to great effect togive the impression of texture on touchscreens. (If I'm wrong, then pretty much the whole of the rest of the web, which has copied the idea, is wrong too. Apart from Matt Panzarino on The Next Web, whocame up with the idea independently, and so will be wrong too, but in parallel.)And the other important question that needs answering? Well, probably whether anticipated co-presenter Phil Schiller (interests: Apple, Sports, Cars, Science, Rock &amp; Roll;breakfast: Special K and 2% milk)is going to livetweetahead of the announcement. I think we can safely say that there's no more important question in the world today. Over to you, Phil.Block 25.58pm:And we're off with Tim Cook in California though the music here in London is still playing. Oh no, we're live. WE ARE LIVE. Oh well.Block 35.59pm:He's talking about the post-PC world. "At Apple we have three post-PC blockbuster products. The iPod. The iPhone. The iPad." Oh, OK, never thought of the iPod as post-PC, but fair enough.(Oooh, hello commenters. We're not yet post-rude, eh.)Block 4An Apple logo at Yerba Buena Center in San Francisco Photograph: Kimihiro Hoshino/AFP/Getty Images6.01pm:Apple sold 172m post-PC devices which made up 76% of its revenues. "We have our feet planted in the post-PC future." It plays to Apple's strengths, "it's what we want to do."Retail stores (are they post-PC future? I thought that was 19th-century old). "That's even more important for the buyer of an iPad or an iPhone or another post-PC device." The way Cook says "post-PC device" has a real Texas drawl to it. "Pawst-pee-zee devoice." Roll it around.Showing pic of Grand Central Store opening (in Grand Central Station) which had a sort-of enormously busy opening. "Take a class before your next trawyn." Cook is leading this presentation.Block 56.06pm:62m iOS devices sold in the last quarter. Focus on Siri: showing all the languages from around the world. Nice easy "demo" because you don't have to worry about it not working. Clever.Block 66.08pm:App Store. Ah, yes, we know about this. 600,000 apps in the store - "an amazing number, and it's an amazing virtuous circle" - leads to downloads, more apps, more downloads.25 billionth app downloaded earlier this week by person in China.On to iCloud. "Take a photo on your iPhone and beum, it's pushed to your Mac or iPad." Yes, that's how he pronounces it. Cook is younger than Jobs was, but sounds older.iCloud will now support movies.. You can re-download stuff downloaded on other devices. A hint ahead to an Apple TV? This is big - at least, for people who can.Block 76.10pm:New Apple TV that supports 1080p.. Streamlined interface.But... this doesn't seem to be the amazing internet TV that we were expecting. Or is it? Hasn't had the right runup. Eddy Cue coming to show off the interface. Screensavers."All-new UI. 1080p, looks gorgeous." Movies, music, TV shows, "now with iTunes Match you have access to your iTunes music library". Also "computers".But no internet?Block 86.12pm:...and when I say "internet" I mean "no going out on the wider internet" in the manner of Google TV. This just seems to sit in the place where a DVD player would - it's not trying to take over your TV stream.List of movies you've already bought. Hmm. "My favourite movie this year Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close." We pause while he waits for the spinning wheel.(Actually, looks like a fun movie - got terrible crits.)Eddy Cue shows off the new Apple TV. "We think you're gonna love it."Well, that was not the reinvention of the TV at all. $99, available next week.Block 96.15pm:Cook again. "That brings us to iPad. We think the iPad is the poster child of the post-PC world. We sold 15.5 million iPads in the last quarter alone... more in the fourth quarter than any PC manufacturer worldwide. We think that gives you an indication of the potential for this product."It's showing up "all around the world, in tens of millions of people." Quotes PC World saying "it's hard to imagine a time without it." Less than two years old, Cook points out."When we set out to create the iPad, we set out to create not just a new product but a new category. For things you do most often, like checking the web or browsing email."Favourite device for email among smartphone/notebook/tablet users. Favourite e-reader. Favourite web browser. Favourite gaming device (even among console owners.) That's quite some sample. People liked it for loads of things.(There's a certain amount of "huh?" among the journalists here at how the Apple TV was kicked to the kerb so quickly. Yeah yeah iPad yeah WHAT ABOUT THE APPLE TV AND THE REINVENTION AND WHAT STEVE JOBS SAID HUH?)Block 106.19pm:Ooh, now he's starting to hate on Android. Specifically, on Honeycomb - showing Twitter. "It looks like a big version of the smartphone app. That's because it is." On the iPad? Clean and designed. Yelp - ditto."This is a key reason why momentum on iPad continues to build and competitive tablets aren't gaining traction.""Now... everyone's been wondering who's going to come up with a new product that's better than the iPad 2 with its big screen....A5 chip... well, stop wondering. We are."(Yeah, we sort of guessed it.)"Today we're announcing the new iPad. And it is amazing. We've taken it to a whole new level and we are redefining the category that Apple originated with the original iPad. Rethinks features while retaining everything that people love about it."Yay! Phil Schiller in da house!Block 116.23pm:Schiller:"first thing... retina display. Until you see it you can't understand how amazing this is."First on the iPhone 4.. "nobody has matched that on any mobile device.. and we are going to bring it to the iPad."But has better resolution than the entire screen on which it's all going to be shown. "Everything you do is going to look amazing... on that gorgeous big display."This will help people in character-based languages such as Japanese. Yes, 2048 x 1536... 3.1m pixels."Or you have an HD TV.... the iPad has more pixels. One million more pixels than the HD TV at home."You think this use of the HD comparison is by accident?Block 126.25pm:Schiller: "when held at arm's length your eye can't distinguish the pixels... your retina cannot discern the individual pixels." (There is "real math" to back this up.)Four times the number of pixels.. so needs lots of graphics horsepower. A5 on the iPad 2; "we needed even more horsepower".It's.... A5X. "Quad-core graphics". For the retina display to drive four times as many.What do others use? Nvidia Tegra 3 - A5 was 2x faster, A5X four times. (I'd just like you to know it's dark in here and very hard to type A5X. I'm leaping in the dark to hit the keys. Each time is a little victory.)Block 136.28pm:Schiller: "the second feature... an iSight camera. Good enough for everyday photos. 5MP sensor, backside illumination, 5-element lens. Apple software for image signal processing."Some pictures. A flower on a beach! A ladybird! Auto-face detection! A boat on a beach! A dog! "That's Derby, the world's largest dog." Schiller has a very dry sense of humour.Block 146.30pm:Third feature: HD video recording. Can believe this might be popular with, well, estate agents or something who need to take pictures and videos of places. (The video looks good.) Also has image stabilisation.(The stabilisation does, indeed, look pretty nifty.)(Side note: some of the people here are trying to liveblog on iPads. Oh dear.)Block 156.32pm:Fourth feature: voice dictation. Um, it looks a lot like Siri. Translates what you say into words. "Supports English, French, German, and now Japanese." Interesting that it's sort of Siri.Fifth feature:"next-generation wireless." Yes, 4G/LTE. Can also do dual-carrier HSDPA which gives you up to 42 megabits per second; and up to 73Mbps on LTE.Now going to compare how completely crappy (not his words) 3G is compared to 4G/LTE. Boom. Just to make us feel rubbish in the UK about the fact that we won't have LTE until, oh, the end of 2013, unless you've managed to wangle your way onto one of the trials by Orange.Block 166.35pm:"On LTE it starts playing right away. It is loading the video faster than we can watch it in real time." The 3G is still trying to get out of bed and rubbing its eyes. Schiller is of course a past master at such bakeoffs - it used to be a feature of Jobs's presentations that Schiller would come on and have to use the rubbish PC against the newest Apple machine, which would rout it in some Photoshop task.Lucky US folk will have two different versions for different networks. That's going to be interesting if you change network. Incompatibility ahoy. Though it will also downgrade to 3G. Slow compatibility ahoy.No mention of what hit that has on the battery. Anyone collected the iPad 2 details.Note also that he's referring to it as "this new iPad". He's not saying the name. Is it going to be iPad HD? Is it? Is it?Also, where is the "touch" thing?Block 176.38pm:Schiller: "so how did it do on battery life. On iPad 2 we claim 10 hours... we're claiming the same 10 hours of battery.On 4G, nine hours." That's pretty remarkable."You're wondering what it's going to cost... the new iPad will be priced at $499."In 16, 32 and 64GB versions.March 16 availability.Preorders start now. "The new iPad". Yes, but what is it called? Also, where's the touch thing? The invitation said "touch". WE WANT TOUCH STUFF."Back to the software, because this is going to be amazing when you turn it on... the team has been working to update the software... iPhone 4 retina display... apps out of the box... things are scaled up."Block 186.42pm:Schiller: "we've asked a few developers to show us what they can do.Games demo. I've seen so many games demos. "Look at the heat haze coming off these jets." Mind wanders to the place where you wonder why you get so worked up expecting stuff. It's so much simpler to expect nothing, then you're never disappointed."Now: Autodesk!" Now: I browse Twitter for a little bit.Block 196.47pm:Hmm, then again, Twitter (well, the bit I watch) seems to think all this is pretty impressive. LTE, Retina Display, high-def video recording, no significant hit on battery life, faster, face detection, voice dictation... that's not bad, is it?Block 206.48pm:Twitter commentby Ian Fogg: "New iPad retina screen will likely increase the size of apps &amp; cause more to be too big to download over 3g/LTE networks (20MB limit now)". Really? Would have thought it's just going to mean some slightly larger images, but nothing that's going to break the data bank.Richard Gaywoodsays: "Still, with a catchy name like "the new iPad", at least it'll be easy to find helpful info on Google in the future." Excellent point, Richard!Another game demo *yawns*.David Chartiernotes: "Folks.  Google just announced a new +1 button. This is pretty hug—wait never mind."Block 216.52pm:Question time from the comments: MrTopsyTurvy says "I think the real story here is how many people are wearing comfortable slacks - Charles is it true this is the greatest concentration of slacks wearers anywhere in the world today?"I think that it might be, and that stores everywhere may be desolate.Meanwhile one of theneckbeardsinteresting game demonstrators just said "Come to Papa". Er, end of demo please.Block 226.53pm:Schiller: "as you may recall when we launched the first iPad we launched some software with it. That included iWork."POSSIBLE MICROSOFT OFFICE FOR IPAD KLAXON. WAKE YOUR IT ADMINSTRATOR.Updated iWork, and free updates if you bought them already.iPad 2 had iLife applications - Garaageband (how he said it) and iMovie.Block 236.55pm:Touchy feely video of people sitting around a table being a band by playing a song on their iPads. Just like all double-dating couples do on the morning after. For some reason they aren't saying "where's the dubstep setting" or "put a doink in it!" All one can say is "get a garage".Schiller: "at the end do you think the guitar player just wanted to SMASH IT" (he mimes a Pete Townshend guitar whack). (See, we told you he was dryly witty.)OK, and iMovie. You can create movie trailers. Do people do this? I don't get it, to be honest. Either make a movie or make a cup of tea. "Let me show you a video of the kind of trailers you can create." Suspecting it hasn't got a setting to give you the VOICE OF GOD. "THERE WAS ONLY ONE THING WRONG IN THEIR LIFE..." You know the kind of thing. The voice you have when you've just had a terrible cold.Block 24First-rate chorus … 42nd Street. Photograph: Pamela Raith/PA7.05pm:And now showing off iPhoto, which lets you do all sorts of cropping, choosing, filtering, sizing, ... it's really hard to describe this sort of thing in words. He's touching his finger in the lower left! And it brings up these controls! And up come the shadows! (In time we are going to have some all-singing all-dancing blog tools - very soon in fact- but for now here's a picture of some people singing and dancing.)Block 257.09pm:..on to effects. It looks really good done on a gigantic screen but it's not quite the same on an iPad, is it?Though the finger control to do things to photos, with the effects, is impressive for sure. Easy when your library is just 11 photos, as this guy's seem to be. What about when you're like me and you have a gazillion of them? What happens when you edit it on the iPad - does that then get uploaded to iCloud, and is it a "destructive" edit (so that that becomes the only image) or is a duplicate kept somewhere - perhaps in the photo itself?Wait, though, we have readers who want FACTS (hello @kevhornby on Twitter). Um, well, it's a fact that in a few years lots of hte people here are going to have sore necks from always looking down at their screens. (Note: transmission delayed by one second. Content may have changed if California has slipped into ocean.)Block 267.13pm:iPhoto price at $4.99, available from today on the App Store.Get out there and download - Phil will. "Don't let anybody tell you that you can't create on an iPad." Ooh, that's a dig at... Guardian commenters? I dunno.Ah, video time. I'm going to try to describe each frame.1: room 2: room 3: room oh dammit.Anyhow, the iPad: "this magical pane of glass that can become anything you want it to be. A more personal experience of technology than anyone has ever had. And now with the new iPad..."What is with this "new iPad" stuff? It seems like the "one more thing" is going to be what the actualnameis. I remember when Apple actually used to unveil things in the one more things. Then again, perhaps "the new iPad" is simply going to be it. Which, as Richard Gaywood points out (see earlier), is going to make shopping online ever so much more fun. Not to say SEO-infected.Hang on, they're going the science stuff about how the screen works. It has very small pixels. Oh.Block 277.18pm:Blimey, has it been an hour already? Anyhow, no sign of Microsoft or Office for the iPad. No sign of a touch technology. Hey ho.Phil Schiller: "we think the new iPad will really change people think is possible.... but we are going to keep the iPad 2 in the lineup."iPad 2 will start at $399 (which is going to undercut all the other tablet manufacturers apart from Amazon). "This is a really big deal." Indeed it is - Apple is doing the same trick as with the iPhone, where it kept the iPhone 3GS on sale when it launched the iPhone 4 and then 4S. This is going to hurt rival tablet makers - the Android companies apart from Samsung and Amazon might as well pack up.Block 287.21pm:Tim Cook: "we have redefined again the product that we defined."Ad time. Focus on the screen. (Still puzzled by why the invitation referred to touch.Cook: "I'd like to thank all those employees at Apple and all those who support Apple... the most innovative on earth.. only Apple could deliver this kind of innovation in such a beautiful, integrated and easy-to-use way, It's what we love to do and what we stand for. And across the year you're going to see a lot more of this kind of innovation. We are just getting started."And with that, he's off. It's done - "the new iPad". Not iPad 3 or iPad HD.Has high-res retina display; LTE networking (in different flavours to cope with the different versions of LTE); iPhoto; same battery life.The key takeaway though is that the iPad 2 will continue on sale, which means that Apple is going to sweep up the bottom end of the tablet market, apart from the chunk that Amazon is carving out with the Kindle Fire. It's interesting to compare this with the iPhone - where the price stays much the same and the older ones get cheaper, but it's not able to make any substantial headway because Android phones are getting cheaper and cheaper. Here, Apple is calling the shots. And with the tablet market expanding by about 40%, and looking to be roughly equal to getting on for a third of the PC market this year, it will be Apple's game to lose.Block 297.32pm:So thanks all for joining us. No haptic feedback (we're really puzzled now about Apple's invite). No actual name for the iPad. No amazingly whizzy Apple TV product to compete directly with Google TV and the rest in the smart TV market. But Apple is still slaying the tablet market, and it's probably going to be perfectly happy about that.Until the next time...
The Italian branch of the hacking collective Anonymous took down the Vatican's website on Wednesday in retaliation for the "corruption" of the Roman Catholic Church.TheVatican websitewas still inaccessible on Wednesday evening, although a spokesman said he could not confirm the crash was caused by the hackers group.The action comes the day after the FBI issued charges against an individual alleged to be a member of Anonymous, and four people alleged to be principal members of its sister hacking collective LulzSec.In a statement on its Italian-language website, the collective accused the Catholic Church of being responsible for a long list of misdeeds throughout history, including the selling of indulgences in the 16th century and burning heretics during the Inquisition."Anonymous decided today to besiege your site in response to the doctrine, to the liturgies, to the absurd and anachronistic concepts that your for-profit organisation spreads around the world."This attack is not against the Christian religion or the faithful around the world but against the corrupt Roman Apostolic Church."It also accused the Vatican of being "retrograde" in its interfering in Italian domestic affairs.Anonymous is a group of online "hacktivists" – individuals from around the world who engage in hacking attacks and other actions in the support of various causes, including targeting private security firms, Middle Eastern regimes, and the Church of Scientology.The group rose to prominence after a string of "denial of service" attacks – a simple hack which temporarily takes websites offline – after the release of diplomatic cables by WikiLeaks. It targeted politicians who had denounced the leaks, the US department of justice website, Visa and Mastercard for blocking WikiLeaks' payment streams, and others.The group had previously been better known for online pranks and mischief-making, particularly based from the internet bulletin board site 4chan.
The transformation of mobile phones into wallets could come as early as this summer after the UK's three largest networks submitted plans to Brussels for a joint venture they hope will allow them to make money from the technology in Europe.Vodafone, O2 and Everything Everywhere, which owns T-Mobile and Orange, have applied to the European commissionto form a company that would create a mobile wallet platform and an advertising sales house that could reach every subscriber on their networks.The project is designed to pitch telecoms groups against the likes of Google, Apple and Facebook, with all of them hoping to use "data mining" - amassing detailed information on the finances, consumption habits, location and demographics of customers - to create new forms of highly targeted advertising and services."If approved, the joint venture will benefit UK plc as a whole," the partners said in a statement. "It will promote competition by bringing together the necessary scale to offer a credible alternative to the established online payments and advertising platforms offered by large US-based internet players."Customers would be able to store debit and credit card details on their phones and pay for goods or transport either online via their mobile or by tapping the handset on a special reader at the till or ticket barrier, using Near Field Communication (NFC) technology.They could also receive coupons from advertisers, sent to their phones and redeemed in shops and venues, in exchange for sharing personal information.The joint venture, codenamed Project Oscar and announced last summer but until now stalled in negotiations between the partners and the commission, would be the first of its kind in Europe.Project Oscar represents an attempt to shape the future of a key mobile technology, which is already being piloted in the United States, with Google Wallet having moved to a public trial late last year. Google had been hoping to bring its wallet to the UK this year, but has yet to do so.The service will be open to all users on "terms which do not discriminate between them and the companies funding the joint venture". The wallet technology will be open to any bank, to virtual mobile networks such as Virgin Mobile or Tesco Mobile, and to retailers and transport companies.Companies will be charged a fee to use the service, but the owners will not levy commission on individual transactions such as card payments.If approval is granted, the backers, which will own exactly a third of the venture each, are planning to launch their first services this summer. They will invest tens of millions in Oscar, forming a stand-alone business that would be based in London and create new jobs as well as absorbing staff from the partner companies.The EC's competition directorate received the application on Monday night and has 25 days to either agree, require amendments or extend its investigation. The Office of Fair Trading could also ask for the application to be referred back to the UK.It may be pressed to do so by 3, the smallest UK network, which has been left out of the joint venture. 3 has around 10% of UK mobile subscribers and was offered a stake in line with its market share before Christmas, but negotiations stalled. It has already complained about Oscar to the commission.Stephen Lerner, regulatory affairs director at 3, said: "The proposed joint venture should not be permitted in its current form. It will control and sell access to over 90% of UK mobile subscribers and their data thus allowing [the partners] to neatly do away with the inconvenience of competing with each other."The use of confidential information is also likely to be a source of controversy. Google is already being challenged by European watchdogs over its newly revised privacy policy.A spokesperson for the venture said consumer protection would be a matter for individual networks, because Oscar would not have a direct relationship with customers. It has no plans to issue privacy guidelines, such as whether customers will be automatically opted in to mobile advertising unless they actively reject it.
2.39pmBSTAnd that&apos;s a wrap for this key details piece as well. Yes, we were just as unimpressed as you with this &quot;Apple event&quot;.2.39pmBSTSo, here&apos;s a roundup of the new iPad&apos;s features:- Retina display (3.1 million pixels in a 9.7-inch space)- A5X chip with quad-core graphics- 5-megapixel iSight camera- HD video recording in 1080p- 4G/LTE connectivity (but you still get 10-hour battery life)2.39pmBSTThe new iPad is alreadylive on the Apple websitebut theApple Store is still down(though the &apos;pre-order now&apos; button is active, so soon hopefully).2.39pmBSTAnd that seems to be everything that Apple had to announce today. Sadly, &apos;one more thing&apos; seems to have died with Steve Jobs. And bafflingly, the new iPad is called just that - &quot;the new iPad&quot;.2.39pmBSTiPad 2 models will continue but there will be a $100 price drop for the Wi-Fi models. So the 16GB will now cost $399 (£254).2.39pmBSTiPhoto has also had an update and can now handle images up to 19 megapixels. Lots of built-in tools, so cropping, red eye reduction and other enhancements are now only a few swipes and taps away.2.39pmBSTThere are new versions of the iMovie, GarageBand and iWork apps as well.2.39pmBSTBut what is this new and improved iPad called? Still no answer.2.39pmBSTPrices as follows: the 16GB model will cost $499, 32GB $599 and 64GB will cost $699. The 4G variants will be $629, $729 and $829 respectively.2.39pmBSTBut the good news is that the new iPad will be available in the UK on the same date as US - March 16 - along with Canada, France, Germany, Switzerland and Japan.2.39pmBSTAnd super speedy 4G/LTE connectivity.As Charles Arthur points out in our live blog, that won&apos;t help those of us in the UK as there won&apos;t be LTE here until the end of 2013.2.39pmBSTNot very different from iPad 2 in the looks department, the new iPad has a home button (the launch invite led some to speculatethere wouldn&apos;t be one), retina display (2048x1536 pixels - a lot!), HD video recording and quad-core graphics.2.39pmBSTAnd there is a new iPad as well!2.39pmBSTSo the Apple TV rumours turned out to be true. A new version that supports full 1080p has just been announced. Priced at $99, it will be available next week with orders starting today (presumably only for US buyers).2.39pmBSTTim Cook, the Apple CEO, is on stage now running through some of the recent highlights for Apple, including the number of &apos;post-PC&apos; devices it has sold in 2011 (172 million), the opening of Apple&apos;s Grand Central Store, Siri and 25 billion app downloads.2.39pmBSTApple is expected to launch a new iPad today (which may or may not be called iPad 3 or HD or 2S) and possibly an update to Apple TV too. We&apos;ll bring you the key details from the launch event being held at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco from 6pm GMT (1pm EST).As with any Apple launch, there are lots and lots of rumours doing the rounds. Here iswhat the Guardian readers think will happenand here isour evaluation of all the Apple TV rumours. And of course, you can follow our minute-by-minute coverage on thelive blog.
The next iPad? It's going to be called iPad 3, there will be just two versions (with mobile broadband, and just with Wi-Fi), and no 7 inch version.And the technology giant will renew its assault on the internet TV market – but will hold back from launching an Apple-branded TV set, instead choosing to launch an app-enabled set-top box.That's the opinion coalesced from a crowd of more than 6,000 Guardian website visitors who took part in a "wisdom of the crowd" exercise on the blog.Apple is preparing to unveil two new versions of its flagship iPad which will be dubbed "iPad 3", according to a survey of 6,000 Guardian readers.In the poll, which ran for just over 27 hours, morethan three-quarters of voterssaid Apple would stick with a single iPad, with both Wi-Fi and 3G versions. There won't be a 7in version.The name? Though "iPad HD" has been gaining currency elsewhere, people seem to think "iPad 3" will be the moniker.And though speculation is mounting elsewhere on the web thatthe next-generation iPad will include haptic technology, a display operated by a heightened form of touch sensation, only 4% expect the new iPad to introduce haptic technology. Most – 25.1% – said the upgraded tablet computer would come with a "retina display", offering four times as many pixels as the iPad 2. And it'll have a quad-core processor (19.8%) and versions of its photo processing programs. Microsoft Office for the iPad? An outside chance – 9.3% backed it.Apple has remained typically tight-lipped about what it will unveil at a press conference in San Francisco on Wednesday, scheduled for 10am Pacific time (6pm London time).The new iPads will be available from 16 March,according to the Apple-watching website 9to5mac.com. The website said that Apple stores across the US are gearing up for an event on that date next week, which will include the opening of a new store at Harrods in London.Apple has been tipped to preparing its own TV set, a radical move that would complete Apple's move from the computer to the living room. (In the poll, although only 58.8% expect a move in TV, 71.2% expect a set-top box rather than an actual set.) And the new Apple TV? App-enabled (35.9%), able to connect to all of the internet (29.6%) and including plenty of hard drive storage (22.6%) instead of the current 8GB.Guardian readers have done well in previous iPad crowdsourcing: ahead of the original launch, in 2010,the crowd reckonedthat there would be one model (correct), with a screen size below 10.3in (correct), called the iPad (correct), weighing about a kilogram (it was a bit less). Then again, people thought it would play Flash content (wrong), have USB and ethernet ports (wrong), an OLED screen (wrong), and cost about £800.Meanwhile interest from online retailers in Apple's announcement has peaked in the past 48 hours,after a new category named "Catalogues"appeared in the company's app store. It has been speculated that Apple will encourage well-known retailers to digitise their entire product catalogues for iPhone and iPad-users to be able to purchase items direct from the store.Earlier on Wednesday, Apple was crowned the world's most valuable brand, valued at $70.6bn (£44.8bn), according to the Brand Finance Global 500 studypublished on Wednesday.The annual study said Apple rose seven places in the 12 months following the launch of the iPad 2, the iPhone 4s and a new operating system for Mac computers."The meteoric rise we have witnessed over the last 12 months is nothing short of staggering," said David Haigh, chief executive of Brand Finance."Today's release of the third generation iPad is critical to Apple maintaining its stronghold of the tablet market and many people wait with baited breath to see if this version will be about evolution or revolution."According to the Brand Finance Global 500 released on Wednesday, Apple has a brand value of $70bn (£44.44bn), ahead of Google ($47.5bn), Microsoft ($45.8bn), IBM ($39.1bn) and Amazon ($26.7bn).A spokesman for Apple declined to comment.
Last July the Guardian was investigating the elusive, mysterious individuals behind LulzSec and Anonymous – the loose hacker groups who had suddenly become front page news, as they led a wave of cyber attacks against a range major corporations and law enforcement. One individual, or one hacker name, stood out: Sabu, a proflic hacker often referred to as the leader of the groups.Getting to Sabu was not easy; he was well aware of the illegal nature of his activities. But that month, the Guardian had a stroke of luck. Sabu objected violently to a piece we had carried,examining – and shooting down – allegations from a rival pro-US hacker that Sabu was using Anonymous and Lulzsec to push an extreme Islamic agenda.He asked me to join him in an off-the-record internet chat – a conversation that happened seven weeks after Sabu, now unmasked as Hector Xavier Monsegur, had already been picked up by the FBI.Given the latest revelations about Sabu's activities, that he worked as an informer from after his arrest on 7 June until just a few days ago, I think it is appropriate to publish a few extracts from our conversation.Sabu – and we cannot even be sure that our correspondant was the real Monsegur and not a US agent – was not representing himself accurately to the newspaper. If anything, he was testing the Guardian out, openly flirting with the notion that he worked for the CIA – and then inviting me to knock him down.Less than three weeks later, Monsegur pleaded guilty to 12 counts relating to computer hacking in secret, which carry a maximum sentence of 124 years and six months. But there is no sign in the logs of a man under pressure.Sabu began by denouncing the Guardian's publication of the vague allegations of the supposed Islamic links of the hacker community. Then he switched tack, asking why the paper hadn't published rumours linking him to the CIA, arguing that would amount to an equivalent and equally inaccurate allegation. Given what we know now, the swerve is particularly noteworthy.In case it is not obvious, my online name is &lt;jamesrbuk&gt;.&lt;SABU&gt; OK. I'm waiting for the article discussing the potential of me being the leader of a CIA blackops operation and me denying it.&lt;SABU&gt; can we work on it now?&lt;SABU&gt; I'll begin my message&lt;SABU&gt;  &lt;jamesrbuk&gt; : I thank you for brining up this serious allegation but I deny being part of the CIA or any black operations unit/organization.&lt;SABU&gt; I am an activist and security researcher. Not a CIA operativeMoments later, I strayed even closer to what had become Sabu's emerging double life (remember, the indictments released yesterday refer to Monsegur only being a member of Anonymous until 7 June 2011, the day of his arrest). I linked arecent Guardian story– unaware of any ironies – suggesting the FBI had managed to recruit a full quarter of all US hackers as informants:&lt;SABU&gt; The CIA has done more blackops and terror operations than al-qaeda could ever do&lt;SABU&gt; so, lets be realistic&lt;jamesrbuk&gt; Something we covered: http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2011/jun/06/us-hackers-fbi-informer&lt;SABU&gt; That has literally nothing to do with what I'm talking about&lt;SABU&gt; and I must say if your article is correct - the FBI is doin a very bad job at recruiting informants.&lt;jamesrbuk&gt; Well, you were mentioning CIA blackops/etc. It's related.&lt;SABU&gt; No it is notAt the time, I was bemused if not baffled by our exchange – and totally unable to see any motivation for Sabu's keenness that we start publishing what seemed to amount to little more than conspiracy theories about the operations of Anonymous and Lulzsec.With hindsight, I wonder whether Sabu was trying in some way to set out a warning, or red flag to other hackers. Or perhaps he was goading me to see if I actually believed he might be a turncoat. Either way, these were signals I missed at that the time.My other thought, looking back on the logs, is whether Sabu was thinking aloud as to why he was being asked to become an FBI informant rather than being publicly prosecuted. Here's more; here Sabu says some are claiming he had been working "with the CIA" although having closely followed the debate at the time this is not an allegation I can recall having seen aired:&lt;SABU&gt; When can I expect an article discussing the idea of me being with the CIA and my denial?&lt;SABU&gt; I'm eager to see this happen.&lt;jamesrbuk&gt; So I see. May I ask why?&lt;SABU&gt; Hmm...? is it not obvious?&lt;jamesrbuk&gt; Not totally. And I'd prefer to hear rather than jump to wrong conclusions&lt;SABU&gt; There is no wrong conclusion if you have been a part of this conversation&lt;SABU&gt; You just said there was a claim that I may be a terrorist. You "researched" it and wrote the article&lt;SABU&gt; There re claims I am with the CIA pushing to get tighter / stricter cyber-laws passed&lt;SABU&gt; its literally the same shit, two different extremes.Then, intriguingly, he goes onto say that UK and US goverments have been involved in covert operations, before going to say that he could not be linked to terrorism. Anonymous or LulzSec would not carry out their operations so publicly if they had an ulterior motive.&lt;SABU&gt; The people are aware that our governments in the UK and the US have involved themselves in black operations in the past. it makes a lot of sense if lets say a rogue group of hackers suddenly began attaking national interests -- spawning a massive overhaul of internet security, theoretically.&lt;SABU&gt; you're telling me thats not worse than some random jihadist who barely knows how to use a computer in the first place, "hacking"/&lt;SABU&gt; Also heres where your entire point is flawed into oblivion&lt;SABU&gt; why would a terrorist release and dump 90,000 INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MILITARY PERSONELL PASSWORDS AND EMAILS when they can just intercept military intelligence communications for the next year using this data ?&lt;SABU&gt; Why would osama bin laden go through all the work of hacking booz allan [a US government and defence consultancy], just to post a pastebin with an ascii art mocking the security of federal contractors.&lt;SABU&gt; Be realistic.&lt;SABU&gt; Think.Even as an FBI informer, Sabu would not be in a position to have evidence to back up his theories that the CIA were angling for a tightening of US cyber laws. Those co-operating with the authorities to mitigate their sentancing are rarely handed US government secrets. Instead, what's interesting is Sabu's internal reasoning for why – hypothetically at least – a compromised organisation (as we know now LulzSec was) might be allowed to continue.One factor in the decision to make some of this public was an unusual comment towards the end of the conversation, in which Sabu advised me to make sure I kept a log, or transcript, of the chat for later use:&lt;SABU&gt; AS FOR THE LOG I don't do interviews or usually paste chatlogs so I'm keeping it privately&lt;SABU&gt; so I suggest you do the sameAt this stage, surely Sabu would have known, or at least suspected, that his agreement to turn evidence against other members of Lulzsec would eventually become public. Re-reading this now, one wonders if he was hoping that some of our conversation would eventually become public too - an interview, in effect, at the point when he couldn't speak for himself.Just over a fortnight after these published exchanges, we now know that Monsegur – aka Sabu – secretly pleaded guilty to 12 counts of computer hacking.From June to March this year, he – and his FBI handlers – were party to details, often in advance, of hacking attacks including the interception of an FBI conference call, and the seizure of 5m emails from the servers of UK intelligence firm Stratfor, which are currently being published by WikiLeaks.On Tuesday, charges were lain against five individuals alleged to be core members of Anonymous and Lulzsec – and the man behind Sabu was finally publicly unmasked as a 28-year-old unemployed Puerto Rican living in New York.
Peter Molyneux has revealed that he will leave Lionhead after the completion of the studio's current project, Fable: The Journey. The veteran games designer will also give up his position as creative director of Microsoft Games Studios Europe.Ina statement to US game site, Kotaku, he said:"It is with mixed emotions that I made the decision to leave Microsoft and Lionhead Studios, the company that I co-founded in 1997, at the conclusion of development of Fable: The Journey."I remain extremely passionate and proud of the people, products and experiences that we created, from Black &amp; White to Fable to our pioneering work with Milo and Kate for the Kinect platform. However, I felt the time was right to pursue a new independent venture."A messageon Molyneux's Twitter account reads simply, "I have left the lovely amazing Microsoft and lionhead. Now for something really amazing, scary and brave a new company called 22 Cans."There are no further details on the new studio, or what platforms it will develop for. We contacted Molyneux's spokeswoman earlier who said he'd remain quiet about future projects for a while.Awarded an OBE for services to the games industry in 2005, Peter Molyneux has been a key figure in British development for over twenty years. His first major title, Populous, is credited with, if not creating then certainly popularising, the whole 'god game' genre. He formed Lionhead in 1997 after leaving his original studio, Bullfrog, following its purchase by Electronic Arts.At Lionhead, Molyneux went on to oversee the development of ambitious fantasy sim Black &amp; White, before launching the first of the best-selling Fable adventures. Designed for Xbox and PC, the franchise would quickly become a major series for Microsoft's console. Lionhead was purchased by Microsoft in 2006.A question mark now hangs over both Lionhead and Fable. According to Kotaku, the studio's co-founder Mark Webley will now take charge.This isn't the only senior departure from the Fable titles. Last summer, Simon Carter, who along with his brother Dene devised the Fable concept while working at their own studio Big Blue Box, left Lionhead to start up his own studio. It was recently announced that Simon and Dene had now set up Another World, to work on digitally distrubuted games.The news has been well hidden until this point. Peter Molyneux attended last week's Xbox Live Showcase event in San Francisco and gave a passionate talk about Fable: The Journey. Although his ambitions have often exceeded the reach of his titles at times (generating much controversy in the process) he remains one of the greatest communicators about the thrill of game design. Whatever his next project is, it will be closely watched by the industry.
Speculation is mounting ahead of Apple's iPad announcement later on Wednesday that it will include some sort of haptic technology - thinking which has been driven by the including of the words "And touch" in its invitation.The suspicion is that the company which has provided the technology is Senseg, a Finnish startup whose executives have in the past few days become increasingly reticent about discussing any contact that they might or might not have with Apple. So what is the company, and how does its technology work - and might we seen be seeing it in all sorts of devices?In the officeSenseg's team works out of a small suite of offices on a floor in one of Helsinki's high-tech buildings. When I went to see them there was snow on the ground - it was January, and a storm had momentarily inconvenienced the city. But the products on show more than made up for it.Senseghas what seems like a breakthrough in "haptic" feedback - those which give the sensation of touch without using anything physical.Their demonstration tablet, an unnamed Android one, has a screen which looks and, initially, feels completely normal: smooth and glassy. Then the demonstration starts running. First it shows what looks like a circular channel in the screen, with a couple of balls in it. Touch the screen, and you can push them around the channel. The sensation is peculiar yet convincing: even with your eyes closed, your fingers are convinced there's something there, that you're pushing a physical object. They call the technology "E-Sense".Another demo divides the screen into four areas. Put your fingers on them, and in one you feel ridges; in another, a sand-rough texture; in another, a more bumpy texture; in yet another, a more cloth-like feel. I identified them all first time - which clearly pleased Ville Makinen, co-founder and chief technology officer.Just in case you're wondering - yes, it is covered by patents,including the US. (They've also patented a version forsteering a vehicleandgeneral application. ("And we have several more in the pipeline," adds Petri Jehkonen, the technical marketing manager.)Diagram from Senseg's US patent application for the E-Sense technologySenseg was founded in 2008, but the idea for the technology grew out of medical technology studies that Makinen did for his PhD in cognitive science, examining how we perceive stimuli, and the body's reaction and interaction with electric fields.Forceful movesThe technology uses theCoulomb force- the one which means you can rub a balloon against your hair and get it to stick. If you have two (fairly) nonconductive objects and you create a charge difference between them, there will be a measurable electrostatic force pulling them together. (When you rub the balloon on your head, electrons transfer from your hair, leaving your hair slightly positively charged, and the balloon negatively charged. Opposite charges then attract.)In the case of Senseg and the tablets, the effect is generated by high-voltage electric fields effectively running in a grid across its surface. (The grid is actually embedded underneath the surface during the manufacturing process.)"The Coulomb force pulls the finger towards the surface," says Makinen. "Humans are basically large conductive objects. We use a high voltage - about one kilovolt - but zero current." That means it's completely safe: despite what signs by electricity pylons say, it's current, not high voltage per se, that kills.However, static forces are very weak, and so very difficult for humans to feel. So making the fields tangible requires an extra step. "We modelled systems to create frequencies that the hand is particularly sensitive to," he says. Turning the electric field on and off at between 10Hz and 1KHz (Senseg keeps the figure a trade secret), alerts the sense of touch: "it's effectively a modulation of the friction of the screen." At its strongest, "we can make a finger stick and almost stop." But, he adds, "that might not be a pleasant feeling."Development has taken some time, but venture capital investors include the founders of Skype and the Finnish government. "We had the technology before there were tablets," explains Makinen. "And then a clearer use in touch screens emerged. There's a huge need but we weren't ready. But there was a demand to create touch sensations without mechanical movement."Anyone who usedRIM's BlackBerry Stormwill have experienced the muddle of mechanical haptic feedback. Push on a button and you'd experience a click. It was deeply unsatisfactory and even a little off-putting."What we have been able to do is to take this phenomenon into something that not just scientifically interesting, but has clear user benefits," says Makinen. "We make touchscreens come alive."Subconscious reactionIn the past, he notes, haptic feedback has meant physical movement - "which is good for a phone ringing or event notification." (That's your phone vibrating when someone calls; the vibration is caused by the rotation of an asymmetric weight inside the device.) "In nature, vibration is an alarm. So that's good for alerts. But that isn't how we experience touch." Subconsciously, if something actively vibrates when we touch it, that's bad; the subliminal message is that something bad has happened."Rather than that, we're looking at how your hand explores the world - so that you can experience ridges on a table, for example. But going from a functional prototype to production is a long road."So when would production be achieved? Speaking in January, Makinen said that "we expect that we will be in a consumer product by this Christmas." What sort of product? "A tablet-sized device," he hedged. However, he was more forthcominglast June in an interview with Trusted Reviews, when he said that Senseg was talking to a "tablet maker in Cupertino". There's only one of those.Apple's teaser invitation to a 7 March event in San Francisco, apparently showing a detail of the much-bruited iPad. So is Senseg supplying the "touch"?Senseg has also been talking to mobile phone manufacturers, but "that requires more investigation". The need is less obvious - and less pressing. "We have a lab version for mobile phones, but it takes more time to make it work."The killer app? "Is that it's like a normal touchscreen - there isn't any extra layer. And you can use it for many purposes. You can believe that you can feel an object on the screen. So you can feel if you're doing the right action - say, moving your finger through a channel, because you would "bump" into the sides. "Once you start using a system with these haptics, then you become so used to it that you feel lost if you're using a system without it."Press any keyThat's a key point - and, if Senseg's technology is incorporated into future products from any company (but especially an ambitious one looking to corner a fast-growing market) then that could turn into a key distinction. One key criticism of tablets at present is that it's hard to type accurately with the onscreen keyboards; if the keys, or the key edges had a tangible presence, that would make an enormous difference to accuracy. if you're reading this on a desktop or laptop, try closing your eyes and running your fingers over the keys: feel the edges? Now imagine a version of that on a smooth screen.)"We're bringing tactile interaction to the screen," says Makinen. "We don't know how far it will go; but what we're saying is that it's a totally new technology that you can mass manufacture. There are no mechanical moving parts."That's all well and good - but how would developers take advantage of it? "There are Senseg libraries and an API," says Makinen. He suggests that they're available for Android, iOS, Linux and Windows through a chip that Senseg has produced. "We get a couple of requests per day for an API for people to start coding against."And what about the physical components that have to be added to the screen? "That adds perhaps a micrometre to the thickness and needs maybe a couple of steps to the manufacture. From our perspective the problem has been that these were gesture devices that you made. So you needed a lot ouf there. We have a lot of pull because a lot of people think that it's pretty cool. But look what might have happened if we'd chosen to go with one manufacturer. If we had just gone with HP and they'd used it on the TouchPad, then we'd have been screwed." (HP abandoned manufacture of the TouchPad within weeks of putting it on sale, and has all but abandoned the product.) "Which is why it's important to find a successful use."Will Windows 8 tablets be a potential application? "That's the most likely. The user interface is very much touch-based. Today we are generic code, Android is applicable. We can have native applications. We have two paths - more complicated to define solid API support for haptics. There's thousands of APIs in Android for haptics. We aren't exactly sure what the boundary is in terms of how deep or shallow the integration should be into the OS." That's because developers, device makers and OS creators have to allow for the fact that a program might be running on a haptic-enabled tablet - or might not. Should programs always insist on it? How should the OS or device notify an app that it has haptics enabled? And what if they're different?Costs: manufacturing and battery lifeNow on to the hard questions: how much does it cost, and how much battery life do you sacrifice for it? "Manufacturing cost depends on volumes," hedges Makinen. "Touchscreens and displays are already pretty expensive. It would probably add less than 10% to the cost."But doesn't generating an electric field eat up the battery? "It uses less than 5% of typical battery capacity," Makinen says. So rather than 10 hours' life (not a figure he offered), you'd get 9.5, though more if you didn't spend much time swiping the screen, the battery hit might be less.What about rivals? "There are other haptic systems about" - he mentions"Tesla Touch", which was working on the same topic inside, of all places, Disney - "but they require a total restructure of the screen rather than an intermediate manufacturing step. This is cheaper than technologies such aspiezoelectricsystems, which actually bend the screen."Will Senseg's technology be part of the next iPads? Even if it isn't, it's a promising and intriguing system which deserves wider use - to improve typing on tablets, if nothing else.Charles Arthur's trip to Finland was paid for byFinnfacts, an independent media service organisation that provides contacts between international media and Finnish business.
This was always going to be a tough gig for Valve.Counter-Strikeis a PC legend; it is the game that turned first-person shooting from a sub-genre into a graceful virtual sport played by millions of dedicated enthusiasts. It is one of the most important titles in the FPS canon.But a lot has happened since Counter-Strike 1.6 hit mainstream gaming in 2003. Call of Duty and its contemporaries have introduced a new, more visceral strand of first-person action, not only with cinematic single-player modes, but also boasting highly regulated and feature-packed multiplayer. Suddenly, we had different classes of soldier, ranking, sprinting, kill streaks, automatic healing and the ability to aim down iron sights. The systems became more complex, more diverse while gameplay, conversely, became more instinctive, more twitchy.Then last year, Valve announced Counter-Strike: Global Offensive, a new take on the series for Xbox Live, PlayStation Network and PC. The game is being developed in conjunction with Hidden Path, the co-developer of 2004's CS re-build, Counter-Strike Source. And the big quandary is – do they go with the classic CS feel and appease hardcore fans at the expense of a mainstream audience, or do they make concessions to modernity and start adding stuff like sprinting, iron sight aiming and crawling around on the floor?Well, having played a demo at last week's Xbox Spring Showcase event, I can say it's a mix, definitely a mix – but the mix is weighed hugely in favour of the past.The set-up is super simple. Players get into two teams of five – terrorists vs counter-terrorists. One side has an objective it must complete, the other has to kill all the enemy operatives before they get to carry it out. In every session, teams play five rounds as terrorists and five as counters. The scores are added up for the overall winner.The action is fast and clinical. There are no re-spawns; if you're hit, you watch the rest of the game as a spectator (unless you have bots on your side, in which case you can choose to take over one of those). You can't crouch, you can't sprint. There is no down-the-sights aiming: hitting left trigger merely puts your character into a slightly lowered aiming stance. If you played Counter-Strike a lot five years ago, the muscle memory will exert itself within minutes. If you've grown up on Call of Duty, boy, are you going to struggle.The big new addition, perhaps, is the Arsenal mode. Based around the popular CS mod, Gun Game, players are given a better weapon after every kill, instead of purchasing equipment at the beginning of every round as in the classic CS format. Arsenal comes in two flavours, Arms Race, where it's just about taking out the enemy and Demolition, where there's an objective to complete.Interestingly, though, CS:GO reverses the usual arms escalation – here, you downgrade after every kill, working your way from assault rifle, through the P90, the shotgun and the Desert Eagle pistol and on to the lowly knife. "This mode really simplifies the game," says Chet Faliszek. "You're not buying weapons before rounds, you start with the best weapons and then you degrade, based on how well you're doing. So if you're not getting kills in the early rounds it's going to end up as you with an AK-47 versus a guy with a knife..."Faliszek sees this as a leveller – a way of appealing to new players, without necessarily adding a lot of eye-catching fresh features from contemporary titles. The Arsenal mode also features its own new maps, which are designed – perhaps with a slight nod toward Modern Warfare - for tight, fast play."The maps arereallysmall," says Faliszek. "You can almost see the enemy from the get-go, so it's not about map knowledge, which is usually an advantage to veterans. If you play the classic map Dust, those guys know where to stand, where to fight – so we removed that advantage from Arsenal. These maps are so tight, you're really quickly into the action. Within ten seconds you're firing."Indeed, I played the Lake map, which features a lakehouse and a semi-built property next door, all condensed within a confined area of flat grassland, boasting a couple of rocky outcrops for cover. The terrorists have to get the bomb to a room on the first floor of the house, and there are several entry points, including via a boathouse at the bottom, as well as through the building and up via an external staircase.It's all about securing the best positions within the house as soon as possible, with four terrorists gaining an over-watch of the exterior and the staircases, allowing the guy with the explosives to plant 'em in peace. Pinpoint planning and execution are key. "At Valve, we've seen that it's all really quick," says Faliszek. "It's like basketball, where you make place calls about what you're going to try to do, 'we're going to sweep right', or 'we'll come through this entrance'; it all happens really fast. And you quickly pick up on how it works."Meanwhile, the Classic mode will feature several familiar maps such as Dust and Inferno. "We have two modes per map," says Faliszek. "One is casual, it's sort of a laidback environment so you can play a match with friends; the other is competitive, and that has skill-based matchmaking."When we made Counter-Strike Source we had a problem with how we could add a bunch of difficulty for the really skilled players without ruining the experience for newcomers. So the skill-based matchmaking ensures that, while you're learning, you're not playing against people who already know. But as you get better, you compete against more skilled players - it lets us have a higher skill ceiling and a lower skill floor."Again, then, CS:GO is about tweaking the structure of the classic gameplay to help new players, rather than adding modern elements to make them feel more at home. Faliszek did say that there would also be a training element in the game, but re-iterated that it would be more about gently easing gamers in with well-balanced matches.As for progression, there will be no ranking up, but successful competitors will be able to earn awards for performance, as in Team Fortress 2. "Players like to know how they're doing, how they're improving" says Faliszek. "So we have these things we're introducing, they're like mini-achievements that get ranked up and scored. But those don't effect what weapons you get - they're just for you to take a look at to understand how you're improving."Boasting 16 maps, some new, some fresh, and that interesting matchmaking system, CS:GO is due out in the summer-ish. "We're letting the beta drive that," says Faliszek. "We also have a lot of the pros playing it and we're making adjustments based on their feedback." It seems that while classic maps aren't going to be changed, the structure of the game is definitely being tweaked as a result of the ongoing beta play. Originated as a fan modification, CS has always been about community feedback.Visually, Global Offensive sort of reminds me of Battlefield 1943 – I don't mean in terms of actual look, I mean as a modernised take on the graphical fidelity of old. Character models are detailed, and landscapes are cluttered with props, but we're not getting cutting edge lighting and texture effects here. The game has a stately, serious look, befitting its past, its heritage.Counter-Strike: Global Offensive is, well, Counter-Strike. Until recently, the most played first-person shooter online, and still surely the professional competitive game of choice. As Faliszek says, it's more like a sport than a game, and you don't change the rules of a sport that often; players need to learn to compete within its confines. And from the looks of things, many, many hours of engrossing education await you.
The third coming of the iPad is upon us. Details of its new features are beginning to leak, from high-definition zoom to the disappearance of the home button and the appearance of Siri, iPhone's speaking personal assistant.Whatever the commandments written into Apple's latest tablet, "thou shalt have the option to purchase a subsidised iPad 3 from your mobile network" is unlikely to be among them. The first iPad appeared in February 2010, and dozens of Android-based tablets have launched since, but UK network operators have not embraced them as they have the smartphone.Why have the likes of O2 and Vodafone shown so little interest in promoting devices designed to run on their networks, which could in theory lure customers to spend hundreds of pounds more each year on data plans?The simplest answer is that while phones have made Apple rich, they have begun to eat into the fat profit margins of mobile networks. Tablets only reinforce that pattern. As one network executive put it, with the iPad, "all you are doing is subsidising Apple".The iPad has found 55 million buyers worldwide without help from the networks so far. The market has been created without their help.Phone calls and texts are good money earners because they run on the old 2G networks, long since built and paid for. But smartphone customers are swapping calls and texts for internet services. These run on 3G networks, which require a big investment each year to accommodate the explosion in traffic – up 250% over the last two years.And the speeds offered are still much slower than home broadband. Until networks spend billions more upgrading to 4G, using a tablet for watching films or playing video games, and all the other data hungry media it was designed for, will be a more enjoyable experience on Wi-Fi until truly fast mobile broadband is up and running some time at the end of 2013.Tablet customers have no need at all for calls and texts. So there is limited profit to be shared with the customer in lowering the price of the device.O2 does not subsidise tablets. Vodafone stocks two brands, Apple and Samsung. Its iPad 2 costs £229 upfront plus a two-year contract at £27 a month. The Vodafone price adds up to £877 over two years, for 2GB of data a month.At that price, it's obvious there is no subsidy in Vodafone's offer. In fact buying direct from the Apple store is cheaper. The basic 3G tablet is £499, while 2GB of data will set you back £15 at month at O2, adding up to £859 over two years.Three's deal, from £229 up front and £15 a month and a 15GB data allowance, is the only true subsidy. That adds up to a cheaper than the rest £589. But Three happily admits that most of its iPad customers are bringing their own kit to the network. Apple does not cut networks any special slack on wholesale prices. The networks make money selling the data plans, not the hardware.There is also customer reluctance. Technology changes so quickly, people are reluctant to sign two separate 24-month contracts, one for the tablet and another for their normal phone. What they want is a single data subscription shared between all devices – from the laptop dongle to the phone.So far, of the big players only Orange has stepped into this new tariff zone. It will sell both devices – an iPad and iPhone – for an initial £99, plus £65 a month for two years for 2GB of data, 600 minutes and unlimited texts. That amounts to a racy £1,659 over the two years. But its multi-device offer is limited to a small range of products including Apple's.The word on the street is that multi-device plans are coming from other operators this year, but until they do, tablets are likely to remain peripheral. Given the expense of the 3G data plans, most consumers will find it easier to connect to the internet on their tablets via Wi-Fi.The danger then is that as urban availability of free or cheap Wi-Fi spreads, a new generation of customers could grow up with a new generation of devices that don't rely on mobile phone masts to stay connected. The network operators could themselves become peripheral.
Angry Birds is the most popular paid iPhone app of all-time in the UK, while Facebook is the top free iPhone app, according to charts published by Apple to celebrate the 25 billionth download from its App Store.Apple's own Pages word-processing app is the top paid iPad app of all-time in the UK, while the BBC's iPlayer is the most popular free iPad app.The charts have been published on the App Store page for Apple's 25bn downloads promotion, covering top free and paid apps for iPhone and iPad. The charts are localised: iTunes users see the lists for their own country when visiting the page.WhatsApp Messenger is the second top paid iPhone app of all-time in the UK, followed by Doodle Jump, Fruit Ninja and Angry Birds Seasons. In the free iPhone apps lists, Facebook is followed by Skype, eBay, Google Earth and Google Search.On iPad, Angry Birds HD, Scrabble, GarageBand and Monopoly follow Pages in the paid chart, while ITV Player, Skype for iPad, 4oD Catch Up and eBay for iPad follow iPlayer in the free list.The charts show some interesting trends about the habits of British iOS users. For example, those three catch-up TV apps in the upper reaches of the all-time free iPad apps chart.Meanwhile, 16 of the top 25 paid iPhone apps chart are games, showing the continued importance of iOS as a gaming platform. Games also accountedAll four lists are based on sales/downloads, rather than revenues: Apple has not published charts for the all-time top grossing apps.The full lists are below:iPhone – Top 25 All-Time Paid Apps1. Angry Birds2. WhatsApp Messenger3. Doodle Jump4. Fruit Ninja5. Angry Birds Seasons6. Cut the Rope7. TuneIn Radio Pro8. Monopoly9. Angry Birds Rio10. FatBooth11. Flight Control12. Scrabble13. Tiny Wings14. The Sims 315. Where's Wally? in Hollywood16. Sleep Cycle alarm clock17. Moto X Mayhem18. Color Splash19. Camera+20. Flick Kick Football21. The Moron Test22. Sonic the Hedgehog23. Alarm Clock Pro24. Sleep Talk Recorder25. Pocket GodiPhone – Top 25 All-Time Free Apps1. Facebook2. Skype3. eBay4. Google Earth5. Google Search6. Twitter7. Paper Toss8. Bump9. BBC News10. Shazam11. Talking Tom Cat12. Pac-Man Lite13. Sky Sports Live Football14. Angry Birds Lite15. Amazon Mobile16. Waterslide Extreme17. Touch Hockey: FS518. Sky News19. iPint20. Facebook Messenger21. Met Office Weather22. Movies by Flixster23. Temple Run24. Viber25. SolitaireiPad – Top 25 All-Time Paid Apps1. Pages2. Angry Birds HD3. Scrabble for iPad4. GarageBand5. Monopoly for iPad6. Numbers7. Angry Birds Seasons HD8. Keynote9. Fruit Ninja HD10. FIFA 12 for iPad11. Angry Birds Rio HD12. Star Walk for iPad13. Cut the Rope HD14. Real Racing 2 HD15. GoodReader for iPad16. Jenga HD17. Tiger Woods PGA Tour 12 for iPad18. Penultimate19. Need for Speed Hot Pursuit for iPad20. TuneIn Radio Pro21. SimCity Deluxe for iPad22. Tetris for iPad23. Grand Theft Auto 324. MyPad+ for Facebook &amp; Twitter25. Plants vs. Zombies HDiPad – Top 25 All-Time Free Apps1. BBC iPlayer2. ITV Player3. Skype for iPad4. 4oD Catch Up5. eBay for iPad6. Angry Birds HD Free7. Calculator for iPad Free8. Kindle9. Sky Go10. Sky News for iPad11. BBC News12. Google Earth13. The Times14. Watch TV Free Live with TVCatchup15. Twitter16. TV Guide for iPad17. MyPad for Facebook and Twitter18. TripAdvisor19. Facebook20. Fruit Ninja HD Lite21. Talking Tom Cat 2 for iPad22. Angry Birds Rio HD Free23. Temple Run24. The Sun for iPad25. Crime City HD
A selection of 13 new apps for you today:South Park LiveSouth Park gets a second-screen app for iPad, albeit only in the US for now. The idea: "Visit this kick-ass app and play along with new episodes as they air! Compete against your friends, connect with fans, and fly up the leaderboard quicker than the Human Kite".iPadCBeebies On The GoAnother app that's not yet available in the UK – as a reminder, Apps Rush is about what's going on in the global apps world. This is BBC Worldwide's app to complement the CBeebies international preschool channels, with mini-games starring characters from shows including Kerwhizz, Numberjacks, and Charlie and Lola.iPhoneFlick Nations RugbyFull Fat's Flick Golf, Flick Soccer and Flick Quarterback games have been excellent, but now the developer is turning its attention to rugby. Boot conversions and kicks-to-touch. The link above is for iPhone, buthere's the Android version.Android / iPhoneSSX RiderNet by EA SportsEA has launched an "official companion app" for the latest game in its SSX snowboarding franchise. It helps players track the scores and times of their friends, send messages and monitor standings in global events.iPhoneAppGardenOne app to rule them all? AppGarden is a single Android app with dozens of mini-apps inside: from a dictionary and mortgage calculator through to a stopwatch, a Bit.ly URL shortener and an audio recorder. The Swiss knife of Android productivity tools.AndroidDodonpachi MaximumBullet-hell shoot 'em up Dodonpachi Maximum makes its debut on Windows Phone, with more glowing death-orbs than you can shake a laser at. It's fully plumbed into Microsoft's Xbox Live community too.Windows PhoneMy Day with WH WordsTouch Autism's iOS book-app for children with autism has been ported to Android. It's a "social story" to help these kids learn to talk about Who, What, When, Where, Why and How.AndroidUSA Today ClassroomHere's an interesting venture from US newspaper USA Today: an iPad app aimed at the education sector, with headlines and a digital replica of the daily paper, as well as back issues: "great for classroom research projects and writing assignments".iPadLego App4+Lego's latest app for kids makes the leap from iOS to Android, getting 4-7 year-olds to build their own virtual trucks then drive them around earning coins.AndroidModern Girl by CrowdstarCrowdstar's latest iOS social game is firmly in touch with its feminine side, promising "incredible luxuries, first-class fashion, unforgettable love, and an amazing career... Be a Modern Girl and live the lavish life of your dreams."iPhone / iPadWallitAppWallitApp is an interesting augmented reality app that gets people to "write on walls" – virtual walls, obviously – in real-world locations. It's designed for everything from location-based conversations to digital marriage proposals.iPhoneMafia FarmYou have to hand it to 6waves Lolapps for this social game mash-up: a "massively multiplayer online mafia and farming game". Spy on and fight other players while building up your farm. It's safe to say the horses look a bit nervous...iPhoneTravel Channel Layover Guide with Anthony BourdainCelebrity chef Anthony Bourdain has a new app showing his favourite places to eat, drink and stay in 10 cities: New York, Miami, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Montreal, Singapore, Hong Kong, Rome, and Amsterdam. It includes photos, videos, maps and travel tips.iPhone / iPad
The world's most notorious computer hacker has been working as an informer for the FBI for at least the last six months, it emerged on Tuesday, providing information that has helped contribute to the charging of five others, including two Britons, for computer hacking offences.Hector Xavier Monsegur, an unemployed 28-year-old Puerto Rican living in New York, was unmasked as "Sabu", the leader of the LulzSec hacking group that has been behind a wave of cyber raids against American corporations including Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, the intelligence consultancy Stratfor, British and American law enforcement bodies, and the Irish political party Fine Gael.It was revealed that he had been charged with 12 criminal counts of conspiracy to engage in computer hacking and other crimes last summer, crimes which carry a maximum sentence of 124 years and six months in prison. According to indictments filed in a Manhattan federal court, he secretly pleaded guilty on 15 August last year.Despite that, Sabu carried on with his aggressive online persona as the LulzSec "leader", with the father of two going so far as to deny online – the day after his secret guilty plea – that he had "snitched" on his friends.His online "hacker" activity continued until very recently, with a tweet sent by him in the last 24 hours saying: "The feds at this moment are scouring our lives without warrants. Without judges approval. This needs to change. Asap."In a US court document, the FBI's informant – there described as CW – "acting under the direction of the FBI" helped facilitate the publication of what was thought to be an embarrassing leak of conference call between the FBI and the UK's Serious and Organised Crime Agency in February.Officers from both sides of the Atlantic were heard discussing the progress of various hacking investigations in the call.A second document shows that Monsegur – styled this time as CW-1 – provided an FBI-owned computer to facilitate the release of 5m emails taken from US security consultancy Stratfor and which are now being published by WikiLeaks. That suggests the FBI may have had an inside track on discussions between Julian Assange of WikiLeaks, and Anonymous, another hacking group, about the leaking of thousands of confidential emails and documents.The indictments mark the most significant strike by law enforcement officials against the amateur hacker groups that have sprung out of Anonymous. These groups, which include LulzSec, have cost businesses millions of pounds and exposed the credit card details and passwords of nearly 1 million people.An FBI official told Fox News, which broke the story: "This is devastating to the organisation … we're chopping off the head of LulzSec."But Graham Cluley, a consultant with the security company Sophos, warned news of the arrests, and of Monsegur's betrayal, could trigger a wave of fresh attacks by furious hackers."There are plenty of Anonymous sympathisers out there who will continue to steal information and pass it to Anonymous and WikiLeaks. LulzSec were more sophisticated than most, knew more about computer hacking. But that doesn't mean that there aren't others out there with those skills too."The five charged by US authorities on Tuesday – two in the UK, two in Ireland and one in Chicago – amounted to a sweep of names who are alleged to have carried out all of the most public hacking attacks in the past year.One of the people named in the indictment, Jake Davis, already faces a number of charges in the UK relating to alleged hacking by LulzSec. Davis, of Lerwick, Shetland, was on Tuesday charged in the US with two counts of computer hacking conspiracy.Ryan Ackroyd – a 25-year-old from Doncaster who is said to have used the names "kayla", "lol" and "lolspoon" – was also charged on two counts of alleged computer hacking conspiracy. A statement from the US Attorney's office in New York said that Ackroyd was being interviewed on Tuesday by the Metropolitan police. Each count of computer hacking conspiracy carries a sentence of up to 10 years in jail.Scotland Yard is also running parallel inquiries. One inquiry involves Ackroyd, Jake Davis, and two other people including a 17-year-old boy in connection with their alleged activities within LulzSec.Ackroyd was charged in the UK on Tuesday night with two counts of conspiracy to "do an unauthorised act with intent to impair or with recklessness impairing of an operation of a computer", police said.The 17-year-old boy has been charged with two computer conspiracy offences. It is understood that it is unlikely anyone would be extradited before UK trials had concluded.Four people have now been charged by Scotland Yard in connection with hacking into a number of websites including that of the Serious Organised Crime Agency.LulzSec was a hacker "crew" of about 10 people whose infamous run began with an attack in May 2011 on the Fox.com site, and then on the US X-Factor competition for which they released passwords and profiles of 73,000 contestants. It quickly escalated to an attack against Sony Pictures, followed by a security company and a number of online games companies.But their downfall came after they hacked into InfraGard, a non-profit organisation affiliated with the FBI, and then attacked the websites of the CIA, the US Congress and the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency.LulzSec's existing members began to worry about government retribution. Although they hacked into the News International systems on 18 July, changing the front page of The Sun's website, the police and other hackers were on their tail. One called The Jester – believed to be a former member of the US military – who normally attacks jihadist websites, suggested on 24 June that Sabu was an IT consultant based in New York.The two Irish individuals charged are Darren Martyn, 25, of Galway, Ireland, on two charges of computer hacking conspiracy, Donncha O'Cearrbhail, 19, of Birr, Ireland, on one charge of computer hacking conspiracy and one charge of unlawfully intercepted wire communication, which carries a sentence of up to five years. O'Cearrbhail was arrested by Irish police on Tuesday.The fifth person charged is Jeremy Hammond, 27, of Chicago, US, who was arrested and charged on Monday for alleged offences relating to the December 2011 hacking of global intelligence firm Strategic Forecasting. He is charged with one count of computer hacking conspiracy, one count of computer hacking, and one count of conspiracy to commit access device fraud.
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamReinvigorated Enterprise &amp; Start-Ups - How Finland Brought Down Nokia &amp; Revived Itself &gt;&gt; Trusted ReviewsFrom June 2011:Senseg is a haptics technology company founded just five years ago, the start of Nokia's decline. Unlike haptics until this point, Senseg is working on creating complex textures rather than simply buzzing your fingertips. The aim is to make a corrugated surface feel corrugated, a rough surface rough, a soft surface soft. The first products will ship by the end of this year and again Nokia is not Senseg's first port of call. "We are currently working with a certain tablet maker based in Cupertino," reveals Senseg senior vice president Ville Mäkinen.Since then Makinen has become a lot more reticent. Wonder why?iOS Ebb and Flow &gt;&gt; pxldotI'd like to fill in the picture I began in my recentposton Android fragmentation by examining the changes in version distribution of the other major mobile operating system: iOS. Unfortunately, this was no quite as easy as it was for Android. Unlike Google, Apple does not publish the version distribution of its user base. What we do have, however, is a number of developers who have published the version distribution within their own apps, and if we can collect a large enough sample it may be feasible to use these in lieu of direct vendor-supplied data. Using 50 data points from different developers, we can indeed build an image of version distribution over time for iOS just as we did for Android. Note that these are bundled into major releases. Grouping these into the major releases reduced noise and also matched the groupings more closely to those I used for the Android post -- while it may not be a direct Apples-to-Apples comparison, it is likely the best we can do.Beautiful, beautiful graphics (which suggest that iOS 5 reached 75% of users in less than a month - huh?) but it overlooks the fact that Google really doesn't care about fragmentation. All it wants is to have people connecting to the internet and using its search engine.What to Expect at Apple's Event &gt;&gt; GizmodoMat Honan:And unless you accuse the media of being biased towards Apple products, you should have figured out by now that none of us even care. Who cares. Nobody cares. We are all so jaded and cynical that if cow shit brought in an audience, we would all be sitting in a pasture, DSLRs in hand, waiting breathlessly for the next patty to fall. Or at least, many of us would. We cover what we cover because it's what you want us to cover. And as long as the audience comes in, we'll be there to receive you.Mat Honan may be our favourite commentator ever on technology events.Why it took me five months to write @whensmytube &gt;&gt; qwghlm.co.ukChris Applegate:I was too busy adding the features for @whensmybus, and that's one reason why it took me five months to write its counterpart, @whensmytube, which I launched last week. But there's a stack of other reasons why it took so long. It didn't seem too difficult to begin with. Just like with buses, Transport for London have made their Tube departure data open-source (via a system called TrackerNet), as well as the locations of all their stations. It would be pretty simple to do the same for tube data as it would for bus data, right? Wrong.Fascinating look into the hassle of not-quite-open data.Judge orders Motorola to provide Apple details of Google's acquisition plans, Android developmentThe U.S. Circuit Judge overseeing the patent dispute between Apple and Motorola Mobility has ordered Motorola to provide Apple with details of Google's $12.5 billion acquisition as well as information about the development of Android. In a filing on March 2, Apple requested to obtain the information stating that "the Android/Motorola acquisition discovery is highly relevant to Apple's claims and defenses" in its ongoing patent suit against Motorola, which is also countersuing Apple.Now this is going to be interesting.May 2011: Google chairman Schmidt promises privacy controls &gt;&gt; BBC NewsMay 2011:Google chairman Eric Schmidt has promised that the firm will simplify the process by which Android phone users agree to share their data. It follows questions in the US Senate about how much location information is stored by mobile handsets. Speaking in the UK at a conference on privacy, he also revealed that Google planned to offer web users more control over their online profile. Mr Schmidt insisted that the company took the matter "very seriously".Has this happened, or not? Stories from earlier this week suggest not.I'm Stephen Wolfram (Mathematica, NKS, Wolfram|Alpha, ...), Ask Me Anything &gt;&gt; RedditFascinating and absorbing. Pretty much the first question: why aren't old versions of Mathematica made open source? His answer is smart.Apple's iPad 3 Launch Putting Squeeze on Freight Shipments from China - Mac RumorsOne shipping representative told MacRumors last week that his freight broker in China has been scrambling to find space for his company's shipments, with shipping rates rising 20% in one week as Apple has snapped up available capacity at premium rates. Another shipping manager told us a similar story today, with his company being unable to find space with its usual carrier due to Apple's demand and having to scramble to find alternatives for moving products overseas.Seems incredible. Then again, if you're shipping millions of large-ish objects, perhaps so. Could Apple affect the Dry Baltic Index?At Google, advertising is crowding out search results &gt;&gt; Ed BottEd Bott:For years, Google was famous for its clean, uncluttered layout and its excellent search algorithms. Those days are long gone. Googlegets 96% of its annual revenuefrom advertising. Search results produce no revenue. That has led to some tremendous distortions and a horrifying breakdown in the once-clean Google experience.I present Exhibit A, which I discovered thanks toTwitter. If you're signed in to your Google+ account and you search forpet meds, a little ad module appears at the top of the search results, with your email address already filled in.Less obvious outside the US, but just wait for the EC antitrust decision.Enable Start Orb and Start Menu on Windows 8 Consumer Preview | Windows 8 BetaOne of the biggest changes in the Windows 8 Consumer Preview is the Removal of Start Orb along with the Good o'l Start Menu with it,a move which was said to be necessary to emphasize on the Metro UI and the new Start Screen Page with Tiles making it more touch friendly. But with many likings for the new Metro UI also come many dislikes as well.So for those who don't like to use the Metro UI and those who want to bring back the Start Button along with the Start Menu,ViStart is the way to go.It was initially designed for bring the Windows Vista's Start Menu to Windows XP,but it also works for the Windows 8 versions as well,thanks to the recent updates to the software.We can see the "want the Start orb!" "You don't need it!" wars being a feature of the next few years. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Windows 8 Consumer Preview tip: use compatibility mode for driver installation &gt;&gt; Gadget WritingTim Anderson:I have a Kodak ESP 725o network printer, and was trying to set it up on Windows 8 Consumer Preview. The setup software detected the printer OK, then gave a strange error: "The application called an interface that was marshalled for a different thread." Hmm. The solution is to run the installer in Windows 7 compatibility mode. Doing this in Windows 8 takes a few steps.Presumably will be fixed by the time it's fully-fledged.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
