Lorenz Potthast was a first-year arts student when he designed the Decelerator helmet – a hefty piece of headwear that allows the wearer to experience a slowed-down world. "I didn't just want to design another app to make grocery shopping easier," he says. "I wanted to do something experimental that could give a real experience."The helmet is simply a shiny metal dome that records the view from a front camera and processes it through a small computer to a screen in front of the wearer's eyes. The slow-motion is controlled by a handheld remote. "The first three minutes are just confusing, but then you get a feel for it and you become the director of your own perception," he says. "It's alienating, because you're experiencing time at a different speed to your own surroundings so you can't really interact, but it's also somehow fascinating. People often don't want to take it off again."Despite the attraction, Potthast, 23, has no ambition to market the helmet commercially. "It was never meant as a product," he says, and yet finds himself increasingly in demand from conferences, exhibitions and entrepreneurs worldwide. The most recent was in March, from a physical rehabilitation clinic in Italy, Villa Beretta. The director, Dr&nbsp;Franco Molteni, had heard of the helmet and recognised its potential as a therapeutic aid for his disabled patients."I hoped there could be a real use for it," says Potthast, "so the call from Villa Beretta was the nicest thing that's happened to me so far." After numerous studies with volunteer patients at the clinic, Potthast and the Italian doctors eventually found an intriguing possible use for the helmet. One patient, who had suffered a stroke and could no longer fully open his hands, was motivated to overcome this physical barrier after wearing the helmet during his exercises and seeing his fingers unfold in slow motion. "It's a bit like tricking the brain," Potthast says, "but they're considering developing it into a real research topic." For Potthast and his slow-motion helmet, it seems success has been very rapid indeed.
The government will announce that it is rushing through emergency legislation underpinning the state's right to keep personal data held by internet and phone&nbsp;companies.Labour is expected to accept the bill on the basis that it will simply restore what the government believed to be the law before the European Court of Justice ruled in April that an EU directive on privacy retention had over-reached its powers and amounted to an invasion of privacy.But, as part of the deal, the opposition has won agreement that ministers will launch a review of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act passed in 2000. The act is seen as the source of excessive surveillance by the security services.It is likely that the legislation will be passed through the Commons next week, but the Labour backbench MP Tom Watson said it would be an outrage for such a fundamental potential threat to civil liberties to be announced to the Commons on Thursday when few MPs are likely to be present.The government has been prompted to act due to a high court challenge to its continued collection and retention of personal data from internet and phone companies, in spite of the ECJ ruling. The judicial review claim in the London high court against the home secretary, Theresa May, is challenging regulations from 2009 under which the British government requires internet and phone companies to retain personal communications data for 12 months and allows the police and security services to access it.The urgent legislation is expected to be introduced as an independent bill or as amendments to the serious crime bill now going through parliament.Watson said: "Regardless of where you stand on the decision of the European Court of Justice (ECJ), can you honestly say that you want a key decision about how your personal data is stored to be made by a stitch-up behind closed doors and clouded in secrecy? None of your MPs have even read this legislation, let alone been able to scrutinise it."The very fact that the government is even considering this form of action, strongly suggests that it has an expectation that the few people on the Liberal Democrat and Labour front benches who have seen this legislation are willing to be complicit."Theresa May in the Commons. Photograph: BBC ParliamentThe powers to require internet and phone companies to store the personal communications data was introduced across Europe in the wake of the 7 July 2005 bombings. Two weeks ago, the head of the National Crime Agency warned of the impact the loss of the powers would have on the capacity of the police to combat terrorism and serious crime cases.The ECJ ruling this year said the routine collection of location and traffic data about phone calls, texts, emails and internet use and its retention for between six months and two years meant a very detailed picture of an individual's private life could be constructed.The judges said the blanket collection of such personal data, for a wide range of purposes far beyond serious crime and terrorism and without detailed safeguards, amounted to a severe incursion of privacy.They set out 10 principles that any new legislation needed to include to comply with human rights law. These included restricting data retention to that connected to a threat to public security covering a particular time period, location or specific suspects, and limiting retention periods to what was "strictly necessary".Privacy campaign groups fear the move will simply mean the continuation of "privatised snooping". Jim Killock, the director of Open Rights Group, said: "Forcing ISPs to retain the data of every UK citizen is disproportionate and unnecessary. Rather than rushing through a new law, let's get parliament to look at this and get this right."If the government is to bring forward legislation, it must comply with the 10 principles set out in the ECJ judgment, in particular the ending of the mass retention of our personal data. This is no longer acceptable."Emma Carr, acting director of the Big Brother Watch privacy campaign, added: "It is a basic principle of a free society that you don't monitor people who are not under suspicion. Considering the snoopers' charter has already been rejected by the public as well as by the highest court in Europe, it is essential that the government does not rush headfirst into creating new legislation."The EU's data retention laws privatised snooping, meaning companies were paid by governments to record what citizens were doing and retain that information for a year. We need to get back to a point where the police monitor people who are actually suspected of wrongdoing rather than wasting millions every year requiring data to be stored on an indiscriminate basis."
Ripley, the last survivor of the Nostromo, is signing back on – together with some resurrected crew mates. Sega has announced that its forthcoming Alien: Isolation game will feature several members of the original movie cast; they will appear in two special missions, which will initially only be available to fans who pre-order the game before its release on 7 October.Voice performances and likenesses of Sigourney Weaver (Ellen Ripley), Tom Skerritt (Dallas), Veronica Cartwright (Lambert), Harry Dean Stanton (Brett) and Yaphet Kotto (Parker), and a soundalike of Ian Holm (Ash) will all appear in the downloadable sequences. The first, Crew Expendable, is available to all pre-orders and takes place just after Brett&apos;s grisly death – the player must choose one of the surviving crew members as they attempt to fight off the xenomorph. In Last Survivor, available only through selected retailers, players take on the role of Ripley as she attempts to set up the self-destruct sequence and escape on the shuttle.“Working with the original cast has been an incredible experience,” said the game&apos;s creative lead, Alistair Hope. “It was important to us to have the key original cast members reprise their roles in order to perfectly capture the atmosphere of the movie. For some of the original cast, this is their first appearance in an Alien video game. Seeing them reprise those roles after 35 years was an unforgettable experience.”Set for release on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox one, Alien: Isolation is a horror adventure set 15 years after the events of Ridley Scott&apos;s Alien movie. The player controls Ripley&apos;s daughter, Amanda, as she explores a remote space station, which has gone quiet after picking up the distress signal from the Nostromo. According to its developer, Creative Assembly, the emphasis is on tension exploration and survival, rather than all-out gun battles. The studio has had access to hundreds of blueprints, plans and set photos from the Fox archive.Although the two missions will be restricted to pre-order customers at first, it&apos;s highly likely they will be released to all players at a later date.
A new European law on the "right to be forgotten" online would be technically unenforceable and lead to thousands of misconceived complaints, the justice minister Simon Hughes has said.In an attempt to discourage a deluge of claims from those seeking removal of data from the internet, the Liberal Democrat told a parliamentary committee that he was not in favour of restricting information.EU states are currently negotiating draft regulations that would allow individuals to ask search engines to take down certain categories of personal data, something the European commission has dubbed the "right to be forgotten".Concerns about preserving citizens' rights in the age of internet publishing have been heightened by a landmark ruling by the European court of justice which said that search engines such as Google have to consider requests to wipe links to news stories.Addressing the Lords' home affairs committee, Hughes said: "The government is concerned. We would not want what is currently in the draft [ie the right to be forgotten]. We think it's the wrong position."I don't think we want the law to develop in the way that is implied by the ECJ judgment, which is that you close down access to information in the EU which is open in the rest of the world. We do not agree with the present text."Hughes added: "If politicians think they can delete findings about their expenses, that's not going to … [happen]. If people think they can delete their criminal history, it won't occur. It's not in the public interest. I hope we can discourage a lot of people."The judgment had created a new stream of complaints to internet companies which might eventually find their way to the Information Commissioner's Office and be appealed up to tribunals, Hughes added.He denied that the ICO was already swamped  but acknowledged that thousands of requests had been made since the ECJ judgment, the result of which, he said, had been "unexpected".He said: "There is no right given by the judgment for people to have their personal data deleted from the search engine results. There is no unfettered right. There is no right to be forgotten. Not in the law of the UK, not in directives, not in the judgments of the court."Hughes said a "mischievous" business of online reputation management had emerged since the judgment, offering to assist people trying to request removal of information online.On the practicalities, Hughes commented: "It looks to me as if it may be an unmanageable task. It will be a phenomenal task. It's not technically possible to remove all traces of data loaded on to the internet from other sources. You can't exercise the right to be forgotten. The information system could not be made to do it."Google are being very cooperative. My interpretation is that this is difficult and uncomfortable for them. They are conscious of their global influence. I think they would be very keen for the law to be changed as soon as possible and will collaborate with us to do so."It was probably not a coincidence that a number of requests to remove stories by high-profile journalists had been "on the top of the pile" when Google came to consider removals initially. "That series of events suggests to me that people want to make sure their positions are known," Hughes said.Ministers have estimated that the cost to British businesses of enforcing a new EU law on the right to be forgotten and related regulations would be up to £360m a year.
If you&apos;re an iPhone and/or iPad-owning gamer in 2014, you truly are spoiled for choice when it comes to new titles.This year has seen a steady flow of innovative, creative and above all super-playable games for Apple devices in pretty much every genre, from hardcore RPGs and twitch-action games to casual puzzlers and even ballet. Yup: ballet.Every week, The Guardian&apos;s Best iOS Apps column tracks new releases on the App Store, including games. With July already underway, it&apos;s time for a recap of some of the best iOS games to have been released in the first half of the year.Prices are correct at the time of writing (9 July) but bear in mind they may have changed if you&apos;re reading it even a few days later. IAP means a game includes in-app purchases of some kind: from virtual items and currency being sold through to single-purchase unlocks for full games.This is just my take, though. Do contribute your own recommendations for games that should have been included (or left out) in the comments section. Although please, before posting &quot;Why have you left Game X out?&quot; check that Game X didn&apos;t come out before 2014.One final note: if Android&apos;s more your bag, read the separate40 best Android games of 2014 (so far)feature.Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft (Free + IAP)This official spin-off from World of Warcraft started on desktop and crossed to iPad, where it appears to have found its perfect medium. It&apos;s a card-battling game where you build a deck of characters and spells, then lay waste (in theory) to other players around the world. It&apos;s accessible, but a very deep rabbit-hole to go down once you get into its intricacies. Spellbinding.iPadMonument Valley (£1.49)The word “beautiful” is hugely overused in connection with apps: usually it means “has nice menus”. Monument Valley really is beautiful though, almost as much an artwork as it is a game. Inspired by the art of M.C. Escher, it’s a collection of impossible-architecture puzzles, which you twist to explore.iPhone / iPadSupernauts (Free + IAP)Supernauts was the first game from hotly-tipped Finnish publisher Grand Cru. It&apos;s a little bit Minecraft, in the way you craft buildings from raw materials, with elements of city-building and resource management games added on as you build a space-base, complete Earthling-rescuing missions and play and chat with friends online.iPhone / iPadBoom Beach (Free + IAP)Boom Beach is the third game from Supercell, the developer that has enjoyed huge success with its Clash of Clans and Hay Day games. Like those, this is a freemium game: you have to build an island base and invade those of other players, with a military theme and plenty of potential for strategic planning.iPhone / iPadThomas Was Alone (£3.99)Thomas Was Alone is one of the most buzzed-about indie games this year – and before that, in its browser, PC and PS3 / PS Vita incarnations. You bounce your way through a platform game as a rectangle named Thomas, but with a proper story behind the action. It&apos;s excellent.iPadThrees! (£0.69)Flappy Bird isn&apos;t available any more, so I&apos;ve left it out of this roundup. However, only Threes! could rival it this year for just-one-more-go addiction. It sounds simple: swipe number tiles to make matches, adding 1s and 2s together to make 3s, then adding those. But once you&apos;re sucked in, it&apos;s nearly impossible to put down.iPhone / iPadLeo&apos;s Fortune (£2.99)This is lovely: a platform game with puzzles that&apos;s one of the most well-crafted iOS games released this year. Spread across 24 varied levels, it doesn&apos;t outstay its welcome as you navigate fuzzy ball Leo through the game to recover his lost gold. The extra &quot;Hard-core&quot; mode once you finish the game is worth persisting for too.iPhone / iPadKiwanuka (£0.69)Kiwanuka sat alongside Monument Valley as a lovely puzzler for iOS this year, although the gameplay takes its cues from different sources: Lemmings, for example. It gets you to guide a colourful collection of characters to freedom using a glowing staff: a neon-infused delight.iPhone / iPadFTL: Faster Than Light (£6.99)Space-strategy game FTL is one of the deeper iOS gaming experience to be released in 2014. It’s a super-addictive yet deeply challenging game of resource management, based on a popular PC game – complete with its expansion edition. You have to save your spaceship from disaster, repeatedly.iPadPlunderNauts (Free + IAP)Pirates in space is a theme that&apos;s been tapped by numerous games and TV shows in the past, with PlunderNauts an impressive update of the idea. Your job is to loot galactic booty (so to speak) in your spaceship, crafting weapons and upgrades to keep your fleet in shape, and plotting your space-battle strategy.iPhone / iPadTwoDots for iOS.TwoDots (Free + IAP)Betaworks&apos; original Dots game remains one of the most simple-yet-addictive mobile puzzle games of recent times. Its follow-up, TwoDots, sees you tracing more lines of same-coloured dots. This time, though, it&apos;s more structured: you work through 85 levels with different challenges to complete, comparing scores with Facebook friends. A mighty time-killer.iPhone / iPadBaldur’s Gate II (£10.49 + IAP)Baldur&apos;s Gate is a classic RPG from the PC world ported to iOS devices: a careful conversion of the 1998 game plus expansion kits that see you exploring a sprawling world of monsters, loot and storytelling. In-app purchases are used to unlock extra characters, but the core gameplay is all included.iPadThird Eye Crime: Act 1 (£1.99 + IAP)Third Eye Crime&apos;s developers spent time at Bungie working on the Halo games, but that doesn&apos;t mean they&apos;ve churned out another first-person shooter in their new company. This is a fab stealth-puzzler with jazzy music and a film noir atmosphere, as you creep around enemies over 120 levels.iPhone / iPadBroken Age (£6.99)Known to many gamers as “that Kickstarter project that raised $3.3m” when it was known as just Double Fine Adventure, it’s since been renamed as Broken Age for its release on PC and iPad. It’s a spiffing-looking traditional adventure game, with humour and puzzles.iPadWartune: Hall of Heroes (Free + IAP)Massively multiplayer fantasy game Wartune may be intimidating for casual gamers, but if you relish the challenge, there&apos;s plenty to get stuck into: city-building, battles and careful levelling up. With a dedicated community of players, there&apos;s months of gameplay in store if you get into it.iPhone / iPadAngry Birds Epic (Free + IAP)There are plenty of doubters wondering if the Angry Birds bubble is about to burst, but Angry Birds Epic was an intriguing move into a new genre: RPGs. You have to build up a team of birds, craft and upgrade weapons for them, and then see off pigs through turn-based battles, rather than physics-flinging.iPhone / iPadEliss Infinity (£1.76)Eliss is a puzzle game that&apos;s perfect for modern multi-touch devices, as you fuse and split planets to match them. Eliss Infinity is its latest version for iOS, complete with a new &quot;endless&quot; mode, a revamped version of the original game, and more polish. An excellent introduction to one of the best ways to spend your mobile downtime.iPhone / iPadCard City Nights (£1.49)This was unusual: a game in a genre (card battling) that’s almost always freemium, but which uses no in-app purchases at all. More importantly, it’s really good: a mix of adventure-style storytelling and card battles, with 180 cards to collect as you play. The combo system, where you connect cards up, is a nice twist too.iPhone / iPadGodfire (£2.99 + IAP)Godfire is a visually-spiffing action adventure inspired by console series God of War: expect plenty of monsters, boss battles and mythical storytelling. The animation and scenery looks impressive, and although you may need a bit of practice to get used to the controls, perseverance is rewarded.iPhone / iPadBubble Witch Saga 2 (Free + IAP)Candy Crush Saga remains the biggest mobile gaming hit of the modern app store era, but publisher King is trying to follow up its success with other Saga games. This takes the template of (ace) console franchise Puzzle Bobble and adds social features and in-app purchases. There are lots of critics of King&apos;s approach, but mainstream mobile gamers continue to love games like this.iPhone / iPadFinal Fantasy VI for iOS.Final Fantasy VI (£10.99)Square Enix has been steadily working through its back catalogue of Final Fantasy games to bring its famed RPG series to iOS. This was a pixel-perfect port of the 1994 game in the series, adding in some of the features from its 2006 remake. A great blast of nostalgia if you loved the original.iPhone / iPadTable Tennis Touch (£2.49 + IAP)It doesn&apos;t sound like it should work: table tennis played with a touchscreen. But in this game, it works beautifully: fast, idiot-proof controls, a long-lasting career mode and some very fun mini-games. One of those games you think you&apos;ll just dip into every so often, but find yourself playing compulsively on the sofa.iPhone / iPadBattleheart Legacy (£2.99)If you love a good RPG, you&apos;ll absolutely love Battleheart Legacy: it&apos;s one of the most charming, playable examples of the genre yet on iOS. Released as a follow-up to the (also impressive) Battleheart, it sees you questing through a colourful world battling, looting and levelling up. Looks good, and plays even better.iPhone / iPadBotanicula (£2.99)This is an adventure game from developer Amanita Design, who made the equally-excellent Machinarium. Converted from a critically-acclaimed PC title, it sees you controlling five &quot;little tree creatures&quot; as they explore a beautifully-realised world of seeds and parasites. A joy to explore at your leisure.iPadWord Monsters (Free + IAP)This was the latest game released through Angry Birds maker Rovio&apos;s publishing arm, Rovio Stars. It&apos;s a fun and accessible word game that involves swiping words off the screen, competing against friends from social networks. The monster aspect may appeal to younger players, if their parents don&apos;t mind the in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadNinja Village (£2.99)Japanese developer Kairosoft’s Ninja Village sees you building a ninja clan and sending them into battle, while also building their village into a prosperous settlement. If you’ve loved other Kairosoft games, you’ll love this – they&apos;re famously moreish. For new players, it may be the perfect introduction.iPhone / iPadWorld of Tanks Blitz (Free + IAP)This is a polished wargame from Wargaming.net, based on its existing massively multiplayer online PC game, but created for iOS as a standalone spin-off. It sees you choosing tanks (from the US, Germany and USSR in times gone by) battling other humans across a varied set of environments, upgrading your army as you go.iPhone / iPadKing of the Course (Free + IAP)Tiger Woods may not be the cover star he once was for EA&apos;s golf games, but the publisher isn&apos;t giving up on the genre. King of the Course was its attempt to reinvent the golf game for free-to-play, blending famous courses, neat touchscreen controls and purchasable boosts.iPhone / iPadTrials Frontier (Free + IAP)Finnish developer RedLynx&apos;s Trials racing game series has many fans on Xbox and PC. Now there&apos;s a brand new one for iOS. Whether you&apos;re new to Trials or a hardened fan, it&apos;s great fun, as you race motorcycles across a range of courses and missions. Just-so physics and well-implemented social networking add to the appeal.iPhone / iPadBounden (£1.99)This is a wonderful idea: a game designed to be played by two people that gets you dancing ballet moves. You both hold the iPhone, follow its instructions, and quickly you&apos;ll find yourselves dancing to its classical pieces. Or falling over amid recriminations over who sat on the iPhone. But hopefully the former.iPhoneWayward Souls for iOS.Wayward Souls (£3.99)Expect dungeons, monsters, lots of loot and infinite (thanks to its procedurally-generated levels) exploration in this roleplaying game, with six different characters to master as you progress. Developer Rocketcat is releasing regular updates, and raising the price by a dollar each time, so it&apos;s worth getting in now if you haven&apos;t already.iPhone / iPadVVVVVV (£1.99)Terry Cavanagh is a games developer with a growing following, both among gamers and his peers. Known best on mobile for Super Hexagon, he released VVVVVV this year: a mobile version of a retro platform game available since 2010 on other devices. It&apos;s hard – this won&apos;t come as a surprise if you know his work – but rewarding.iPhone / iPadFamily Guy: The Quest for Stuff (Free + IAP)The Simpsons&apos; freemium mobile game was a big hit in 2013, so it wasn&apos;t a surprise to see Family Guy following suit this year. It starts with Peter Griffin having accidentally destroyed his hometown, leaving you with the task of rebuilding it, meeting characters, completing quests and unlocking animations as you go.iPhone / iPadHitman Go (£2.99 + IAP)Square Enix&apos;s Hitman has traditionally been a third-person shooter on console, but its iOS game this year opted for a different style of gameplay: grid-based puzzling. Assassination remains your main goal, with neat &quot;scale-model style&quot; graphics and well-crafted puzzles making it a surprise joy to play.iPhone / iPadRival Knights (Free + IAP)Jousting: pretty hard, whether in real life or in games – I was frequently brought to tears by the jousting section in Defender of the Crown as a child. Rival Knights manages to make the medieval sport fun though: console-style graphics and gameplay involving unlocking and upgrading horses, weapons and armour before galloping into (mock) battle.iPhone / iPadPanzer Tactics HD (£2.99 + IAP)More war, although this time, the emphasis is very much on tanks, along with other second world war units. This sees you playing as the Soviet, German or Allied forces in 1939, with bags of depth across its 33 missions – some of which are bought using in-app purchases.iPadGreat Little War Game 2 (£1.99)Developer Rubicon Development has won a wide following with its little and big war games. This sequel continued the company&apos;s fine run: turn-based strategy with more than 60 missions to strategise your way through. Or not: &quot;Just jump in and start shooting,&quot; suggested the developer.iPhone / iPadPixel Press Floors (Free + IAP)Pixel Press Floors isn’t the first app to let you create your own games by drawing them on paper, but it’s the most fully realised. It helps you draw levels for platform games using symbols (“glyphs”) for common elements: ladders, moving blocks, coins and so on. There are two themes to start with, plus more on the way, and everything can be shared with the community.iPadSXPD (£1.49)This shooty-racing game is presented in the style of a graphic novel, all monochrome save for prominent red flashes. The idea is that you play and read your way through the gripping tale of the &quot;privately owned 52nd state of America called New Royale&quot;. One of the most inventive iOS games of 2014 so far.iPadHonorBound (Free + IAP)Finally, another RPG, but this one built for the free-to-play model that&apos;s so big on mobile devices in 2014. You build a party of heroes, explore levels, capture monsters and level everyone up to repeat the above. The Pokemon-style collecting complements the main RPG gameplay well.iPhone / iPadThat&apos;s the list of 40, but what iOS games have you loved this year? Make your recommendations in the comments section.•50 best iPhone and iPad games of 2013
Microsoft has announced a release date forProject Spark, a games creation package that promises to bridge the gap between development and play. An open beta test was begun in March and since then over one million PC and Xbox One owners have uploaded their own projects to the dedicated community site. The retail version of the title will be available from 7 October in the US and 10 October in Europe, priced at $39.99 and £29.99.Described by Microsoft as a starter pack, the release will contain ready-made games and levels, as well as a range of useful sound effects and graphics animations. Users will be able to create their own games from scratch or modify the built-in content. So far beta testers have used the package&apos;s range of tools to build everything from puzzle games to racers.Although largely successful, the beta test has not been without controversy. Project Spark uses a microtransaction model that gives players earlier access to premium tools and features if they pay with real money, rather than unlocking advanced elements gradually. The model had to be tweaked just after the launch of the beta when userscomplained about the time-limited accessto certain game features. A &quot;free to play&quot; version of the game will remain available after the retail launch. Some users have complained that the Xbox One version is more tricky to use than the PC iteration with its mouse and keyboard support; others have been frustrated by a lack of documentation and guidance – though a wealth of community-made tutorials are available online and many users are now specialising in developing specific tools and features for other players.When originally revealed at the E3 video game exhibition in 2013, developer Team Dakota also promised an Xbox 360 version, but this has not been mentioned inMicrosoft&apos;s announcement this week.The game is effectively Microsoft&apos;s answer to the hugely successful LittleBigPlanet series on PlayStation, which gives players a similarly accessible toolset for creating and sharing new content. A third title in that series is coming to PlayStation 3 and 4 in November.
LG has unveiled a new tracking device for children that allows parents to locate them in real time using a smartphone or tablet app.The KizON wristband uses GPS and Wi-Fi to pinpoint the child’s location, continually reporting back to the parent over a 2G or 3G mobile internet connection and allowing parents to call the wristband, which will automatically answer.“Children as well as the elderly are ideal customers for wearable technologies,” said Dr Jong-seok Park, chief executive of LG Electronics mobile. “Wearables allow us to stay connected without the worry of losing a device or the inconvenience of having to carry a large item in a pocket.”The band straps to the the child’s wrist like a large, bulky watch and has one button on the top that instantly calls a pre-set number allowing the child to contact its parents in an emergency.A day&apos;s battery life, so yet another thing to chargeThe KizON has a rated 36 hours battery life, requiring a charge each night, but will automatically alert a parent or guardian when the battery falls below 25%.The locator is made of blue, pink or green plastic, is water and stain resistant and has a range of accessories including animated characters to personalise the band and keep the children interested, despite its large size.LG is not the first company to create this kind of kid-tracking band. British company KMS developed a very similar device for tracking children and the infirm last year, which wason show at the CES electronics trade showin Las Vegas in January.Tracking devices for children have split opinion. Some parents seeing it as a great way of keeping tabs on their kids while giving them more freedom to roam, knowing they will be able to pinpoint their location at any time.Others have seen itas part of a dystopian future, where a child&apos;s every move is tracked, judged and tagged like a convicted criminal released back into society.LG’s KizON will be available in South Korea in July with the US and Europe, including the UK, seeing a later third-quarter release for a to-be-announced cost.•LG gets back into the smartwatch game with the Android Wear-packing LG G Watch
Samsung is expected to unveil a virtual reality headset in September that uses a smartphone for a screen and software developed in partnership withFacebook’s Oculus Rift.The Samsung Gear VR headset is said to be similar to Google’s Cardboard virtual reality case for a smartphone that the company announced at its annual developers&apos; conference in June, but made of plastic and built for Samsung’s anticipated Galaxy Note 4 Android phablet,according to technology site SamMobile, which watches developments at the south Korean company.The accessory is expected to be announced alongside the Galaxy Note 4 at the electronics trade show IFA in Berlin at the start of September, a traditional venue for the announcement of Samsung’s Note devices, which saw the unveiling of the Galaxy Note 3 last year.In partnership with Facebook&apos;s OculusThe Gear VR headset will connect to the Note 4 using USB 3.0. The headset will use the smartphone’s sensors to track a user’s head movements and produce the virtual reality effect – which fills the user&apos;s visual field with a computer-generated scene, with slightly different outputs to different eyes to create the illusion of depth. Whether there will be compatibility with other Samsung Galaxy smartphones including the Note 3 and Galaxy S5 is unknown.Elastic straps will hold the Gear VR headset on the user’s head, while the side of the device has a touchpad for navigating the software within the headset. Samsung has developed software in partnership withFacebook’s Oculus Rift team, according to SamMobile, with a dedicated selection of apps built for the headset including Theatre, 360 Player, and Gallery apps.A software development kit for the VR headset will be made available for third-party developers after the announcement.Plastic instead of cardboardGoogle’s Cardboardaccessory for Android smartphones performs the same function, turning a phone into a virtual reality headset. The difference is that Cardboard, as the name implies, can be made by the user following some detailed instructions with some sturdy cardboard and an elastic band, instead of having to buy anything.Samsung and Google are not the first companies to think of turning a smartphone into a wearable virtual reality headset. TheVrase headsetdoes the same thing using iPhones and various Android smartphones, and was successfully funded on Kickstarter in October 2013.•Sony’s Project Morpheus is bringing virtual reality into the mainstream•Oculus Rift - 10 reasons why all eyes are back on virtual reality
Whether you own an Android smartphone or tablet (or, indeed, both) 2014 has been a stellar year for new games. From beautiful puzzlers and frenetic twitch-action games to adventures and social trivia quizzes, the Google Play store&apos;s games category continues to swell.The Guardian&apos;s Best Android Apps column tracks new releases every week, and now we&apos;ve reached July, it feels like a good moment for a recap of some of the best Android games from the first half of the year.Prices are correct at the time of writing (9 July) but bear in mind they may have changed if you&apos;re reading it even a few days later. IAP means a game includes in-app purchases of some kind: from virtual items and currency being sold through to single-purchase unlocks for full games.By definition, this kind of selection is personal, shaped by this journalist&apos;s taste in games. Please do pile in to the comments section to tell me why I shouldn&apos;t have included X or should have included Y: your recommendations for great games from 2014 are more than welcome.One final note: if you&apos;re more interested in iOS, read the separate40 best iPhone and iPad games from 2014 (so far)feature.Monument Valley (£2.49)Starting with one of those beautiful puzzlers: Monument Valley sold 500,000 copies in its first month on iOS before making the leap to Android. It&apos;s a surreal shape-shifting game that involves guiding a mysterious princess through a series of impossible-architecture levels. It&apos;s short, but utterly sweet.The Room Two (£0.99)If you&apos;ve not played the original The Room, it&apos;s well worth a look, but its sequel took the game on a notch or two. “A physical puzzler, wrapped in a mystery game, inside a beautifully tactile 3D world,” as its developer put it, this is a well-crafted collection of puzzles challenging your logic skills.The Walking Dead: Season One (Free + IAP)The Walking Dead: marvellous as a TV show, but just as good as an adventure game. Developer Telltale Games&apos; take on the zombie apocalypse has won widespread acclaim, and for good reason: it doesn&apos;t skimp on plot or characterisation, and will give you the shivers if played at night. One episode is free, with more available to buy in-app.The Walking Dead: Season Two (Free + IAP)Blazed through the first season of The Walking Dead? Head straight into season two, which was released a few months after the first one. Again, it&apos;s a gripping adventure game pitting you against the undead hordes, with one episode available to play for free, and others sold in-game.Clumsy Ninja (Free + IAP)Easily the best character to make his debut on Android in 2014 is Clumsy Ninja: &quot;the most hapless ninja ever to grace a touchscreen&quot; according to developer NaturalMotion. He stars in this virtual pet-style game where you train his skills through trampolining, balloon-popping and ninja-basketball. Superb animation makes this a treat.Boom Beach for Android.Boom Beach (Free + IAP)Boom Beach is the third game from Supercell, the developer that has enjoyed huge success with its Clash of Clans and Hay Day games. Like those, this is a freemium game: you have to build an island base and invade those of other players, with a military theme and plenty of potential for strategic planning.Kiwanuka (£1.79)Kiwanuka sat alongside Monument Valley as a lovely puzzler for Android this year, although the gameplay takes its cues from different sources: Lemmings, for example. It gets you to guide a colourful collection of characters to freedom using a glowing staff: a neon-infused delight.XCOM: Enemy Unknown (£7.14)It may seem expensive by app standards, but if you love your strategy games, you&apos;ll get plenty of gameplay-per-quid out of XCOM: Enemy Unknown. It&apos;s a faithful conversion of the classic sci-fi game, as you fend off an alien invasion with careful tactics rather than unrestrained shooting.Threes! (£1.20)Flappy Bird isn&apos;t available any more, so I&apos;ve left it out of this roundup. However, only Threes! could rival it this year for just-one-more-go addiction. It sounds simple: swipe number tiles to make matches, adding 1s and 2s together to make 3s, then adding those. But once you&apos;re sucked in, it&apos;s nearly impossible to put down.Lumosity (Free + IAP)Lumosity is a popular brain-training game – well, a suite of games really – which claims 60m players already on the web and iOS. It finally came to Android in 2014, with its accessible collection of mini-games intact. Great for stretching your grey cells for a few minutes every day, and tracking your progress over time.Band Stars for Android.Band Stars (Free + IAP)Fancy yourself as a music mogul? Band Stars gets you to form a band and take them to success, hiring and firing members as you go, upgrading their skills and recording hits. Or, indeed, misses. Social aspects and extra features added over time have made this an enduringly-fun game to keep on your homescreen.Broken Sword 5 Serpent&apos;s Curse (£4.99)The Broken Sword games are brilliant: engrossing adventures that have navigated the path from PC to mobile with aplomb. This latest one continued developer Revolution Software’s run, sending you on the hunt for a stolen painting with puzzles and a well-worked storyline to hold your attention.QuizUp (Free + IAP)It turns out people like playing social trivia games on their smartphones: QuizUp has been a monster success on iOS and Android alike. It&apos;s a collection of trivia quizzes covering more than 200,000 questions and 400 topics, built around multiplayer challenges so you can compete with friends.JoyJoy (£1.17)Much of the fun for Android gamers this year has been great games appearing from nowhere. JoyJoy was one of them: a twin-stick shooter with well-crafted controls, varied visuals and a well-tuned progression curve. Shoot everything, then shoot some more things. As twitch-gaming on Android goes, it’s up there with the best.Bad Hotel (£1.49)Another game that won a hatful of awards and critical acclaim on iOS before making the leap to Android, developer Lucky Frame&apos;s Bad Hotel puts you in the position of running your own hotel – one infested by rats, yetis and other invading beasties. An indie classic already.Wartune for Android.Wartune: Hall of Heroes (Free + IAP)Massively multiplayer fantasy game Wartune may be intimidating for casual gamers, but if you relish the challenge, there&apos;s plenty to get stuck into: city-building, battles and careful levelling up. With a dedicated community of players, there&apos;s months of gameplay in store if you get into it.Eliss Infinity (£1.76)Eliss is a puzzle game that&apos;s perfect for modern multi-touch devices, as you fuse and split planets to match them. Eliss Infinity is its first appearance on Android, complete with a new &quot;endless&quot; mode, a revamped version of the iOS-only original, and more polish. An excellent introduction to one of the best mobile time-killers.Baldur&apos;s Gate Enhanced Edition (£6.99 + IAP)If you like roleplaying games (RPGs) than Android is proving a happy hunting ground in 2014. Baldur&apos;s Gate is another classic from the PC world ported to Google-powered devices: a careful conversion of the 1998 game plus expansion kits that see you exploring a sprawling world of monsters, loot and storytelling.OTTTD (£1.65 + IAP)Tower defence has been another genre that&apos;s been very popular on Android, with OTTTD (Over The Top Tower Defence) the standout game in the first half of 2014. You build and upgrade towers, manage a team of heroes and see off bosses in a polished and playable example of tower defence at its best.Angry Birds Epic (Free + IAP)There are plenty of doubters wondering if the Angry Birds bubble is about to burst, but Angry Birds Epic was an intriguing move into a new genre: RPGs. You have to build up a team of birds, craft and upgrade weapons for them, and then see off pigs through turn-based battles, rather than physics-flinging.VVVVVV for Android.VVVVVV (£1.99)Terry Cavanagh is a games developer with a growing following, both among gamers and his peers. Known best on mobile for Super Hexagon, he released VVVVVV this year: a mobile version of a retro platform game available since 2010 on other devices. It&apos;s hard – this won&apos;t come as a surprise if you know his work – but rewarding.Cut the Rope 2 (Free + IAP)Cut the Rope is, like Angry Birds, one of the first big mobile gaming brands to have gone mainstream in the early years of Android and iOS gaming. Its latest incarnation is business as usual: snipping ropes to guide sweets into the mouth of cuddly monster Om Nom. However, new characters and features kept it fresh.Family Guy The Quest for Stuff (Free + IAP)The Simpsons&apos; freemium mobile game was a big hit in 2013, so it wasn&apos;t a surprise to see Family Guy following suit this year. It starts with Peter Griffin having accidentally destroyed his hometown, leaving you with the task of rebuilding it, meeting characters, completing quests and unlocking animations as you go.Bubble Witch Saga 2 (Free + IAP)Candy Crush Saga remains the biggest mobile gaming hit of the modern app store era, but publisher King is trying to follow up its success with other Saga games. This takes the template of (ace) console franchise Puzzle Bobble and adds social features and in-app purchases. There are lots of critics of King&apos;s approach, but mainstream mobile gamers continue to love games like this.Final Fantasy VI (£10.99)Square Enix has been steadily working through its back catalogue of Final Fantasy games to bring its famed RPG series to Android. This was a pixel-perfect port of the 1994 game in the series, adding in some of the features from its 2006 remake. A great blast of nostalgia if you loved the original.HonorBound for Android.HonorBound (Free + IAP)Another RPG, but this one built for the free-to-play model that&apos;s so big on mobile devices in 2014. You build a party of heroes, explore levels, capture monsters and level everyone up to repeat the above. I got well and truly sucked into this earlier in the year: the Pokemon-style collecting complements the main RPG gameplay well.Impossible Road (£1.49)Minimalist racing game Impossible Road sees you zooming down an undulating track, with a pitch-perfect control system giving you plenty of latitude to find the best path (or, more likely, to mess up and crash embarrassingly). It&apos;s hypnotic, and challenging in the best possible ways.King of the Course Golf (Free + IAP)Tiger Woods may not be the cover star he once was for EA&apos;s golf games, but the publisher isn&apos;t giving up on the genre. King of the Course was its attempt to reinvent the golf game for free-to-play, blending famous courses, neat touchscreen controls and purchasable boosts. Positive reviews suggest the balance is much better than for theill-fated Dungeon Keeper, released earlier in the year.Hitman Go (£2.99 + IAP)Square Enix&apos;s Hitman has traditionally been a third-person shooter on console, but its Android game this year opted for a different style of gameplay: grid-based puzzling. Assassination remains your main goal, with neat &quot;scale-model style&quot; graphics and well-crafted puzzles making it a surprise joy to play.Icebreaker: A Viking Voyage (£1.49 + IAP)Icebreaker is a puzzle-action game with a viking theme, tasking you with freeing Norse warriors by solving 140 physics-puzzle levels. Controls are somewhere between Fruit Ninja and Cut the Rope as you chop through ice and other obstacles. Head-scratchingly challenging in places, in a good way.Magazine Mogul for Android.Magazine Mogul (£2.99)Japanese developer Kairosoft made its name in the west with Game Dev Story: a cute pixel-art simulation of the games industry. It&apos;s since rolled out a host of similar sims, including this magazine industry game. Build a team, launch issues and research new topics: all wed to Kairosoft&apos;s familiarly-addictive game mechanics.Disco Zoo (Free + IAP)One of the most ridiculous games to be released for Android this year, but that&apos;s entirely a good thing. You run a zoo, and have to tap on grids of squares Battleship-style to find new animals to stock it with, and earn money. And every so often, you can roll out a mirrorball for a zoo-wide disco dance.Wave Wave (£1.09)I mentioned Super Hexagon earlier, but Wave Wave is one of the games following in its wake offering punishingly-hard &quot;twitch&quot; action. It&apos;ll separate the men and women from the girls and boys in gaming terms, as you guide a line through a frequently-rotating maze by tap-holding on the screen.Farm Heroes Saga (Free)Another Saga game from King, where the match-puzzle action involves swapping fruit&apos;n&apos;veg, while collecting magic beans and comparing your best scores with Facebook friends. The structure around the gameplay is the same as Candy Crush Saga, and while it&apos;s not as popular, it does seem to be attracting players over time.Rival Knights (Free + IAP)Jousting: pretty hard, whether in real life or in games – I was frequently brought to tears by the jousting section in Defender of the Crown as a child. Rival Knights manages to make the medieval sport fun though: console-style graphics and gameplay involving unlocking and upgrading horses, weapons and armour before galloping into (mock) battle.Warhammer 40,000: Carnage for Android.Warhammer 40,000: Carnage (£4.99 + IAP)Talking of games from the 1980s... The heyday of tabletop game Warhammer 40,000 may have been a while back, but it&apos;s still a popular brand with plenty of fans. A mini-flurry of mobile games has included this, which sees you taking the role of a space marine blasting everything you can see.Great Little War Game 2 (£1.99)Developer Rubicon Development is one of the stars of Android with its little and big war games. This sequel continued the company&apos;s fine run: turn-based strategy with more than 60 missions to strategise your way through. Or not: &quot;Just jump in and start shooting,&quot; suggested the developer.Card Wars - Adventure Time (£2.39 + IAP)2014 was the year my sons (aged five and seven) discovered Adventure Time on TV, and when I discovered its excellent spin-off game for Android. It takes a card-battling game referred to in the show, and turns it into a fully thought-out game, as you build a deck of cards then battle characters from the show.FarmVille 2: Country Escape (Free + IAP)FarmVille is still A Thing? Well, publisher Zynga hoped so with this new Android game, which revamped its famous farming sim but kept its core of harvesting, crafting and trading. It&apos;s fair to say that Candy Crush and Clash of Clans have stolen FarmVille&apos;s thunder on mobile in the last couple of years, but this game was a reminder of its appeal.Hazumino (£1.10)Finally, Hazumino: part endless-runner game and part Tetris-style block puzzler, where you have to run, jump AND build. Cutesy graphics and a nagging chiptune soundtrack made this under-the-radar game one of the most appealing Android releases of 2014 so far: easy to play, but difficult to put down.That&apos;s the 40, but now&apos;s your chance to tell me why I&apos;m an idiot and my selection is wrong! Make your recommendations in the comments section.•The 50 best Android games of 2013
A London startup Blocks has adopted Google’s newAndroid Wearto make a customisable smartwatch that allows users to upgrade and swap out sensors, screens and batteries.Created by a team at Imperial College, theBlocks modular smartwatchuses a screen that links up to small segments in a band using small metal jacks that act as both the joining anchors and the connections for passing data between the modules.The main screen section also contains the primary battery, processor and Bluetooth connection to a smartphone for internet access and notifications, relying on linked segments to boost its basic capabilities adding various sensors or modules.“It’s like a desktop computer,” Hakeem Javaid, one of the developers for Blocks, told the Guardian. “When you needed to upgrade your computer you didn’t just throw it away, you add a new graphics card or more storage.”“With Blocks you can upgrade your smartwatch and tailor it to suit what you need it to do at that moment, just by swapping out modules.&quot;Plug and play modules make up the wristbandBlocks intends to create a selection of modules that can be connected in any combination to produce a smartwatch. Some will be fillers to get the spacing right around a wrist, while others will be extra battery packs to keep the watch going longer.But the majority of the modules will be sensors including GPS, heart rate and activity monitors, temperature sensors, fingerprint scanners, a camera or even a SIM card slot for turning the smartwatch into a mobile phone.Each module will cost around £20 to £40 and can be plugged in via the connecting holes in the links. The smartwatch then automatically downloading apps and services to support the modules.Spread features, functions and hardware around the wristThe screen of the smartphone can also be swapped out to suit the user’s needs, with smaller LED screens, e-ink displays like those used on the Pebble smartwatch or a full touchscreen like most of the smartwatches available today.“It made perfect sense to use to spread those kinds of features and hardware around the wrist instead of throwing them all into one thick lump under the screen on top of your wrist,” said Omer El Fakir, industrial designer of Blocks. &quot;A heart rate sensor, for instance, is much better suited to the underside of your wrist where you would normally measure a pulse.&quot;The startup took inspiration fromGoogle’s modular smartphone concept Project Ara, and iterated the idea into a wearable. Now, following the launch of Google’s wearable software, Android Wear, which was first seen on LG and Samsung’s smartwatches, Blocks has taken the leap to join Google’s crowd.“We’re intending to use Android Wear, now it’s been released,” Javaid explained. “We previously looked at Tizen, and were going to use the open-source elements of Android to build our own software, but Android Wear is ideal.”&quot;The only issue with using Android Wear is that it prevents us from making the smartwatch compatible with iPhones, but that&apos;s something we&apos;ll have to look at further down the line,&quot; said Javaid who was worried about the expectations that Apple would release its own smartwatch or wearable device in the near future.Cross-discipline team originally from Imperial CollegeThe project started in November between a group of Imperial College students who wanted to combine a gesture-based system with bio sensors and came up with the idea of a modular smartwatch.Blocks garnered interest from a range of developers including Barclays, which is interested in creating a block for simulating a contactless credit card, similar to the Bank&apos;s smartphone apps.Buoyed by the release of Android Wear, the company already has 4,000 people signed up to its waiting list and is aiming to take a crowdfunding round on Kickstarter in the Autumn and to ship devices into people’s hands within eight months.&quot;We&apos;d love to replicate the success of the Pebble,&quot; said El Fakir. &quot;That was a beautiful product and did very well through Kickstarter.&quot;Time to shrink things downThe large prototype on the left is filled with large prototyping circuits like the one in the middle, which will be shrunk and made to fit into something akin to the mockup on the right, once all the hardware details have been finalised. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe next stage in the project is to miniaturise the hardware components and make them fit into the industrial design of a slim watch – something that people will actually wear as apposed to the large chunky prototype that the team had to share at the Bluetooth SIG display in London on Tuesday.Once up and running the company will open up the Blocks platform to developers, who can make their own modules for the smartwatch, although whether any third-parties are likely to take that risk with the likely high manufacturing costs is unknown.“What’s most likely going to happen is that third-parties will be able to send us their designs and we will manufacturer them, as we’ll have put the investment into the manufacturing lines and will be able to do more cost effectively,” admitted Javaid.•Google’s Project Ara - a modular smartphone built on a free and open platform•Android Wear - Google’s latest effort to capture the wearables market
It's Wednesday!
Germany&apos;s 7-1 victory over Brazil in the World Cup semi-final sent shockwaves around the football world, but it was also a big deal on Twitter.The social network says that the match became its most discussed sports game ever, with 35.6m tweets. It easily beat the previous record of 24.9m tweets set by the Super Bowl earlier in 2014.Germany&apos;s fifth goal, scored by Sami Khedira, also broke another Twitter record, helping the match peak at 580,166 tweets per minute (TPM).That in itself is a sign of Twitter&apos;s growth. In 2012, Usain Bolt&apos;s gold-medal 200m sprintpeaked at 80,000 tweets per minute, while Barack Obama&apos;s Democratic National Convention acceptance speechpeaked at 52,756 tweets per minute.Beyoncé&apos;s Super Bowl half-time show in 2013peaked at 268,000 tweets per minute, while Miley Cyrus&apos; infamous MTV VMAs performancepeaked at 360,000 tweets per minute.The World Cup has become the latest showcase event for Twitter&apos;s second-screen ambitions, complete with a promoted section within the company&apos;s mobile apps when matches are playing.Even Miley&apos;s TV twerkfest with Robin Thicke had already been outdone during this month&apos;s tournament, with Brazil&apos;s victory over Chile on penalties having peaked at 388,985 tweets per minute.The#BRAv#GERmatch also set a TPM record: Khedira&#39;s 29&#39; goal (0-5) saw 580,166 TPM.#WorldCuppic.twitter.com/188YGgrgZg&mdash; Twitter Data (@TwitterData)July 9, 2014Twitter has alsopublished a &quot;heat map&quot; of how the Brazil / Germany game played outon the social network, tracking tweets mentioning key terms around the game, while noting that Miroslav Klose – who broke another record against Brazil with his 16th World Cup finals goal – was the most mentioned player on its network.Twitter is engaged in fierce competition with Facebook over which is most popular for chatting about television, from global sports events like the World Cup to locally-popular shows.&quot;Twitter makes television better: it is in fact a force multiplier that can enhance the impact and possibilities of television,&quot; said the company&apos;s chief media scientist Deb Roy at the MIPTV industry conference in April.•Twitter stakes its claim as TV&apos;s ‘synchronised social soundtrack’
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFive things to know about Siri and Google Now's growing intelligence &gt;&gt; ForbesLawrence Flynn is CEO of Artificial Solutions, which makes natural language processing systems:As the race for the ultimate personal assistant heats up, attention is turning towards who can deliver the most personalized experience. While Scarlett Johansson's portrayal of Samantha in the movie 'Her' might still be closer to science fiction, today's sophisticated assistants already delivering far more personalization than you might realize.Here are five things you need to know about implicit personalization and why it's just a step closer to the ultimate personal assistant.…Another example might be that the assistant has learntleantthat you always open up the Dominos Pizza app whenever you watch action movies, so next time you ask it to play the latest Hollywood blockbuster she could prompt "and shall I order your pizza too?"Why is it that the canonical "proof of ability" for any digital device or system is ordering a pizza?Scientist untangles mystery of jumbled headphones &gt;&gt; ABC News[Aston University's Professor Robert] Matthews' years of study suggest that clipping the two earbuds together, then attaching them to the end near the audio jack to form a loop, will cause a tenfold reduction in knot formation."First, by forming the loop you've effectively reduced the length of string able to explore the 3D space by 50 per cent, which makes a big difference." Matthews said. "Second, you've also eliminated the two ends, which are the prime movers of knot formation."That's terrif-- did you sayyearsof study?Smartphone truths and Samsung's inevitable decline &gt;&gt; stratecheryBen Thompson:Samsung had built up a healthy high-end business by:• Being available on nearly every carrier• Pioneering the large-screen segment• Producing hardware that was meaningfully superior to low-end offeringsAll three of these factors either have or are in the process of disappearing:• After a two-year lull, Apple has greatly expanded iPhone availability worldwide• As noted above, the gap between low and high-end hardware is disappearing• Multiple manufacturers have moved into the large-screen segment, with the iPhone coming soon…Ultimately, though, Samsung's fundamental problem is that they have no software-based differentiation, which means in the long run all they can do is compete on price. Perhaps they should ask HP or Dell how that goes.In fact, it turns out that smartphones really are just like PCs: it's the hardware maker with its own operating system that is dominating profits, while everyone else eats themselves alive to the benefit of their software master.Tim Cook's Apple takes shape &gt;&gt; WSJ"Steve was a wartime CEO, while Tim is a peacetime CEO," said one former employee.…Mr. Jobs's repudiations bruised feelings while making sure the company stayed focused on a few projects. Under Mr. Cook, current and former employees say Apple may be spreading itself too thin, pursuing too many ideas and compromising the "laser focus" that Mr. Jobs used to create the iMac, iPhone and iPad."It was Steve's job to say no," one of these people said. "Tim is not as comfortable doing that."A person close to Apple said it is natural that a bigger Apple would broaden its portfolio. "I think Steve would have been saying yes to more things if he were still running the company," said this person, who noted that while Mr. Jobs was an intuitive decision maker, knowing what he liked and didn't like immediately, his snap decisions sometimes led to errors in judgment. Mr. Cook is more thoughtful and will take extra time to "minimize mistakes."…The [$3.2bn Beats] deal raises the question of whether Mr. Jobs would have done the same.Mr. Cook says he doesn't ask What Would Jobs Do. He says that Mr. Jobs told him before he died to never ask that question."I've abided by that. I think he did that because I think he wanted to relieve what might have been an enormous burden on me," said Mr. Cook in an interview at the time of the Beats deal. "Because of that, I've always been able to kind of block that question."(Subscription required.) What this does capture is that Apple is becoming, internally, a gentler company - which, quite separately, is happening at Google too.App permissions? Pah! Rogue Android soft can 'place phone calls at will' &gt;&gt; The RegisterResearchers at German security firm Curesec have identified bugs present in most versions of Android that can allow malicious applications to place phone calls, even when they lack the necessary permissions.By exploiting these vulnerabilities, rogue apps can get up to such mischief as surreptitiously dialing out to expensive toll services, potentially racking up big charges on unsuspecting customers' phone bills.The same exploits can also be used to hang up outgoing calls and to send Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) codes – special, carrier-specific codes that can be used for such things as enabling call forwarding, blocking SIM cards, changing caller anonymization options, and so on.Even security programs that can revoke permissions from apps provide no protection from these bugs, because the corresponding exploits circumvent the Android permissions system altogether.Potentially affects 87% of devices out there, judging by Google's latest numbers. It's reminiscent of the trojan programs from the dialup era, which used to infect PCs and call far-off countries for fun and profit.Late late majority &gt;&gt; AsymcoHorace Dediu, pointing out that the US now has 70% smartphone penetration among mobile phone users:As Geoffrey Moore explained, the marketing of technology products needs to be varied as we get into different phases of the market. Innovators (first 2.5%) need to be sold on the premise of novelty itself. Early adopters (next 13.5%) seek status and exclusivity. Early majority (34%) seek acceptance and Late Majority (34%) seek pragmatic productivity. Laggards (last 16%) seek safety.One aspect of this adoption cycle that is misunderstood is the role of pricing. The assumption is that pricing matters more as adoption increases. This is misunderstood because pricing always matters and therefore it never matters.Second quarter 2014 earnings statement &gt;&gt; SamsungSamsung offers a fulsome explanation for its expected drop in earnings, besides the appreciation of the won:In China, channel inventory level increased due to weak seasonal demand, 3G demand declined ahead of the expected expansion of 4G LTE during the second half and intensified price competition among local players.As Samsung maintained high level of market share (around 40%) in Europe, sell-in shipments declined due to growing pressure from channel inventory surge as weak demand continued in 2Q.For tablets, shipments declined more than expected level due to weak overall market demand and, unlike smartphone, lack of carriers' subsidies policy led to low replacement demand.The demand for 5-to-6in smartphones also cannibalized the demand for 7-to-8in tablets.Therefore, the second quarter earnings were negatively affected by substantial increase of marketing expenses from the previous quarter due to strong sell-out promotion to reduce channel inventories in addition to marketing promotions for new smartphone and tablet launch.Notable that it's talking about tablet replacement already when most vendors would still be looking to expand the market. The explanation about Europe boils down to "people didn't buy as many as we'd expected". The explanation about China seems to be that it had too many 3G phones, which lost out in a commodity price war.Wearables: job-to-be-done &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh on what the ordinary watch does v the "smartwatch":Consider this example:Information from the watch: It's 4 PM now.Context from the user: I have a half hour to get to the moviesCompare this to today's wearables -- these devices track steps, heart rate, sleep, etc. This could make sense to a niche segment, but how many mainstream consumers know what this data affects them?Information from the wearable device: I've walked 2,000 steps todayContext: ??Also, access to this information isn't really a ubiquitous need. And without habitual use, abandonment is an eventuality. In order to find a ubiquitous use case, OEMs have attempted to replicate smartphone functionality into smartwatches. While this may change the workflow for power users, its value to mainstream users is questionable.So what, he asks, is there that's as useful as knowing the time?LCD industry dynamics update, June 2014 &gt;&gt; DisplaySearch Blog• JDI started production of 4.7″ iPhone 6 panels in April, and 5.5″ panels in May, both on Gen 5.5 lines. In June, JDI started 4.7″ production on its Gen 6 line.• Driver IC makers received requests from panel makers for drivers for 4K tablet panels. They are developing a single-chip solution that is likely to be ready by the end of Q3'14. The 4K tablet panels have display sizes from 6.x" to 9″.• Most TV brands are still holding to their shipment forecast for 2H'14 as production approaches the peak season of August-October. Even though the top brands have extra panel inventory, they have not indicated any intention of cutting demand.Seems unlikely that it's Apple seeking the 4K tablets. Plenty more of interest in the rest of the briefing, too.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
With the US’s Transportation Security Agency (TSA) ordering that peoplemay not carry “dead” devices on to plane flightsas part of new security measures, and with many people heading off on holiday where the chance to charge their phone may be more limited, how do you extend your battery life?These tips should help you get the longest life from your device.Turn the screen brightness downThe screen uses a large proportion of your device’s energy store; the difference between full brightness and the dimmest can mean hours more battery life.On iOS 7, use the dimming slider on the Control Centre (swipe up from the bottom of the screen), or in any version of iOS go to Settings -&gt; Wallpaper &amp; Brightness -&gt; Brightness. It’s often a good idea to turn off auto-brightness, which makes the screen brighter when you’re in bright surroundings.On Android, use the screen brightness toggle in Quick Settings (swipe down from the top to bring down the Notification Shade and tap the top right had quick settings toggle if needed) the brightness slider under display settings. Some Android phones, including Samsung devices, let you increase or decrease the screen brightness while still maintaining automatic adjustment.When you can, switch to Airplane modeBesides the screen, all the radios for Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and your normal mobile connection use a lot of juice.On iOS 7, swipe up for Control Centre and press the “Airplane” icon on the top left.On Android, swipe down for the Notifications Shade, switch to Quick Settings and tap the “Airplane” icon.Turn off Wi-Fi and BlutoothIf you need to be contactable by phone and internet, but aren’t at a Wi-Fi spot, turn off Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. This stops your phone from looking for networks to join.On iOS, swipe up for Control Centre: if the Wi-Fi or Bluetooth icons are showing white, press them so they’re showing as grey.On Android, swipe down for the Notifications Shade, switch to Quick Settings and tap the Wi-Fi and Bluetooth icons so that they are greyed out.Turn on Airplane mode but enable Wi-FiIf you only need the internet and are in a Wi-Fi spot, turn on Airplane mode - and then turn on Wi-Fi. This turns off the mobile connection, but lets you use Wi-Fi.On iOS, swipe up for Control Centre, touch the Airplane icon so it goes white: the Wi-Fi icon will go grey. Then touch the Wi-Fi icon, which will go white.On Android, swipe down for the Notifications Shade, switch to Quick Settings and tap the “Airplane” icon, then tap on the Wi-Fi icon which will light up.Turn it into a phone without internetIf you don’t need the internet, but do need phone calls, turn off Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and mobile data.On iOS, to turn off mobile data go to Settings -&gt; Mobile (or Cellular in the US) -&gt; Mobile data: turn this off.On Android, turn off mobile data by going into Settings –&gt; Data usage –&gt; untick Mobile data to turn it off.Manually check email, Twitter or FacebookIf you don’t need to know about every email or Tweet the very instant it happens, turning off push (where the server pings the phone with new events, keeping in constant contact) will reduce battery drain and data consumption.On iOS, the best way is to deactivate those apps in the Notification Centre - though you might not remember to reinstate them. But if you really need to, go to the Notification Centre and choose “none” for the activation style.On Android, turn off “Sync” by going into Settings –&gt; Accounts and then tap each account you want to turn Sync off for. Once in each account, uncheck Sync. Google, Exchange, Twitter, Facebook, Evernote and many other accounts have Sync options. Users can still check their email manually by using the Gmail or applicable app and manually refreshing their email.Some Android phones also have a Sync toggle in Quick Settings, which disables Sync for all accounts on the device.Turn off the screen fasterReducing the screen timeout length, which switches off the screen after a certain length of inactivity, can also help.On iOS, go to Settings -&gt; General -&gt; Auto-Lock and reduce this (the lowest possible setting is 1 minute). Alternatively, any time you’ve done looking at the screen, press the power button on top of the device to turn off (and lock) the screen. It’s also a good idea to have a passcode set - as most people already do - just in case you lose your device. (Do that in Settings -&gt; Passcode; on the iPhone 5S it is “Touch ID &amp; Passcode”.)On Android, reduce the Screen timeout within Settings –&gt; Display –&gt; Screen timeout.Turn off location detectionTurning off GPS and other location services can reduce battery drain, as many apps access location services despite many of them not actually needing a location to function. (On iOS 7 you can allow or deny individual apps the ability to access your location; on Android you can’t.)On iOS, go to Settings -&gt; Privacy -&gt; Location Services and turn it “Off”. This will prevent you getting maps and a lot of location-based information (and means your phone won’t be able to reset its time zone when you arrive at your destination).On Android, go to Settings –&gt; Location and switch it to “Off”. This will disable location services for all apps. Alternatively you can change accuracy of location information (and reduce power consumption) by tapping “Mode” under Location and changing to Battery or Power saving, which uses Wi-Fi and mobile phone signal to estimate the phone’s location, rather than GPS.Don’t listen to music, watch video or play gamesDecoding MP3s or MP4s, and doing the calculations for a game all make demands on the phone’s processor.Minimise the photos you share.Using the camera can be a significant drain on the battery, especially video recording. When you need the battery to last, stop taking photos.While dimming the screen and turning off radios will give you the greatest benefit in terms of battery saving, there are still some platform-specific ways to save battery life if you just want to simplify things.Just on iOSThe Control Centre is a handy place to quickly turn off power-sapping features like Wi-Fi and Bluetooth when not needed on an iPhone.• In iOS 7, turn off Background app refresh. This is in Settings -&gt; General -&gt; Background App refresh.• On email, turn off “Push” updates. For email, go to Settings -&gt; Mail, Contacts, Calendars and “Fetch New Data”: turn off “Push” at the top. You then have to scroll down the same screen to choose a schedule on which to update your phone.• You can reduce “push” data from other apps in the “Notifications centre” (Settings -&gt; Notification Centre) - remove the ones that aren’t urgent. By now, though, you’re beginning to tinker at the edges - and if you’ve turned your screen down far enough, you’re always getting the maximum saving.• Apple’s iOS 7 came with several motion effects including something called Parallax, which made the background move when the iPhone or iPad was tilted, causing the icons on the home screen to appear to be floating on top. It uses the phone’s sensors and reduces battery life. Motion animations can be turned off in General –&gt; Accessibility –&gt; Reduce Motion.Just on AndroidThe Android Quick Settings panel varies in style, but contains toggles for Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and Airplane mode.• Some Android devices, including those from Samsung, LG, HTC and Sony, have a special battery-saving mode. Activating it usually reduces the device’s performance and disables data while the screen is off, extending the standby time of the phone. Other Android phones can get a similar battery saving mode using apps like Juice Defender and Battery Defender from Google Play.• Some Android devices like Samsung’s Galaxy S5 and HTC’s One M8 go even further. Their Ultra Power Saving Mode dramatically extends battery life by turning off features, turning the screen to black and white and only allowing a small selection of apps to be used.• Turn off automatic app updating. In Google Play, turn of Auto-update apps. This is in Google Play –&gt; Settings –&gt; Auto-update apps –&gt; select “Do not auto-update apps”. Apps can be manually updated within Google Play under “My Apps”.• Use the Battery usage monitor to identify apps that impact battery life. It can be accessed under Settings –&gt; Battery. The monitor shows the percentage of battery power used by each app and the screen. Normally the screen should consume about 25% of the power, with the device’s system software “Android System” and “Android OS” often ranking second and third. Apps that consume large amounts of power should be immediately obvious and can be uninstalled.• Turn off “Screen mirroring”. Some Android phones have the ability to mirror their screen on to televisions and other devices. The option can be turned off with Settings preventing the phone from constantly searching for devices.• Turn off NFC if your phone has it. Under Settings –&gt; “More” under “Wireless and Networks” –&gt; Uncheck NFC. Alternatively, NFC settings might be under “Connect and Share” or something similar.• Turn off unused features. Quite a few Android phones come with many bells and whistles and turning them off within the Settings menu can reduce battery drain, particularly those that use the device’s camera or sensors for gestures, like Samsung’s AirView.What about Windows Phone?All the general hints still apply: turn down screen brightness, turn off extra radios, take fewer photos, turn off location, don&apos;t play music or video or games.•Dyson designed smartglasses 10 years before Google released Glass
Samsung, the world's biggest maker of mobile phones, is under threat. After years in which it has set the pace for smartphone sales, the South Korean firm announced on Tuesday that its second-quarter results will hit a two-year low, with operating profits of 7.2tn won (£4.2bn) – down 24.5% from a year ago, and significantly below analysts' expectations of 8tn won.Revenues would be 52tn won, it said, down 10%.Unusually, the company hasput out a statementin which it sought to justify the lower numbers, variously blaming the rising Korean won – it has gained about 9% against the US dollar in the past quarter – excess inventory in Europe, lower smartphone and tablet shipments, competition at the mid- and low-end parts of the market, delayed purchasing in China as buyers await 4G rather than older 3G phones, cannibalisation of its smaller 7in and 8in tablets by larger-screened "phablet" phones, and the need for increased marketing spending to try to shift the inventory.It's a litany of reasons – or excuses. As Richard Windsor of the Radio Free Mobile consultancypoints outwith regard to the top culprit, foreign exchange movements, that works both ways: "Samsung buys much of its componentry and pays a large part of its workforce in foreign currencies."But this looks like a turning point. Analysts have for some time been looking for signs of whether the company would be able to capitalise on its dominant position or would follow the previous mobile leader, Nokia, in falling from grace. These are the first signs it could be the latter.The lower profits come despite Samsung apparently shipping more smartphones than a year ago – an estimated 78m against 73.3m (Samsung does not release official figures). That's down from the all-time peak of 85m in the first quarter – even with the April launch of its flagship Galaxy S5. Notably, the S5 was outsold in the UK by both the top of the range iPhones – the 5S and the coloured plastic 5C – in the three months to the end of May, according to retail analysts Kantar. The shine seems to be coming off.Jan Dawson, of Utah-based Jackdaw Research, said: "Samsung is starting to run into several powerful headwinds", citing low-end competition and slower growth in premium sales. "At the same time, it has failed to build a value proposition on top of its hardware with software and services, which has been key to Apple's success."Samsung's success has instead come from selling a huge variety of phones at every size and price, serving all the market. Apple has thrived by selling one (or more recently two) new phones, and one- or two-year-old models. Between them, the pair have captured virtually all the profit in the mobile handset business for the past couple of years.But now Chinese sellers are able to compete on price at the low end, accepting lower margins to increase sales. And at the high end, Apple has continued to pick up customers and is forecast to gain even more with the expected September launch of larger-screened phones – a product category Samsung had previously made its own.Samsung attempted to make itself into an Apple-like integrated player offering music and video streaming, and with its own Samsung-specific apps, but that hit a roadblock in January. According to reports byBloomberg Businessweekand The Information, Google's head of Android Sundar Pichai warned Samsung during "frank conversations" against trying to create its own interface on Android.The Informationreportedthat Pichai threatened to walk away from Samsung – that is, block it from using the Android operating system. It would be a high-risk move for both companies, since Samsung sells about 60% of Android smartphones outside China. But other phone makers would surely be glad to pick up the slack – while Samsung would be left starting almost from scratch. (Google did not responded to a question about the claim.) Since January, the Samsung hasbegun closingsome of its Samsung-only streaming services, giving customers less reason to stay exclusively on its devices.Samsung is throwing its lot in with Google, and is pushing wearable technology such as smartwatches. But without its own app "ecosystem", said Dawson, the company is in trouble: "Its hardware looks undifferentiated and overpriced to many users. The inevitable result is that Samsung will fail to sell as many devices as it has in the past as it sees pressure both at the high end and low end. Its share of the smartphone market will likely start to shrink, and the same thing will likely happen in tablets too unless it continues to discount those heavily. Either way, profits will suffer, especially as high end smartphone sales start to fall."Now, "Expectations have been lowered on Samsung," says Will Cho, an analyst at KDB Daewoo Securities. "With intensified competition in the mid- and low-end smartphones, it will be tough to stay as lucrative as in the past."Samsung Gear Live: an Android wear smartwatch. Photograph: Jeff Chiu/APWithout Apple's ability to tie together the devices and the content – such as its iTunes, and iPhone-only apps – Samsung has no unique selling point. A Samsung owner can swap to a cheaper phone from the many other Android vendors, such as HTC, Sony, LG, Motorola, or Lenovo. In emerging markets, Samsung's rivals are increasingly homegrown ones, such as Xiaomi and Coolpad in China, and Micromax in India."If Samsung is weak now, what happens once [Apple's new iPhone software] iOS8 and larger iPhones chew into the high end and [phone makers in China's factory city] Shenzhen the low end?" said Benedict Evans, an analyst at the venture capitalists Andreessen Horowitz. Noting that Samsung seemed to have "a kitchen sink" of excuses for its results, he said that "somehow, companies with earnings misses always seem to have lots of reasons."Though Samsung is forecasting better results in the third quarter, with new devices in the pipeline, others think that rivals will only gain ground. "I think it's entirely possible we've seen a peak for Samsung in smartphones," said Dawson. And with smartphones generating 70% of Samsung Electronics profits, that could mark a turning point.Five threatsWith revenues of around $222bn in 2013, Samsung Electronics accounted for 18% of South Korea's GDP, but rivals around the world and at home are threatening its status as the world's biggest selling technology firm.1) Xiaomi. A home-grown Chinese contender which outsold everyone there during April, and is building huge excitement around its online "flash sales". In the first half of the year it sold 26.1m smartphones and is aiming for a total of 60m by the end of the year. Strong branding, competitive pricing and global ambition.2) Sony. After the iPhone and cheap Androids nearly killed its phone business, the venerable Japanese electronics group has made a comeback in Europe with its Xperia lines, which are finding favour with buyers – one of its few growth areas.3) LG. A south Korean rival to Samsung, its phone business has emerged from being a lossmaker to breaking even, while its G2 was well-received and its total phone shipments have recovered, passing 12m in the first quarter of 2014.4) Huawei. Another Chinese contender looking to build its brand outside its home country, relying on low pricing and high specification to attract buyers. With huge budgets, it is renewing its focus on Europe, and shipped nearly 14m smartphones in the first quarter.5) Apple. Ever since the Galaxy S2 flagship introduced a 4.3in screen, Samsung has offered bigger screens than iPhones. But persistent rumours say Apple will introduce much larger models in September – surely a 4.7in model and perhaps a 5.5in model. If Apple takes away that selling point, what does Samsung have left?
Steve Jobs was known for being ruthless and controlling, driven by a desire for perfection with a clear image of how products, practices and Apple should be, which helped him turn the company around after rejoining it from NeXT in 1996 when Apple bought the computing startup. But that same drive had an effect on his relations with employees.“Some of my very best friends in Apple, the most creative people in Apple who worked on the Macintosh, almost all of them said they would never, ever work for Steve Jobs again,” said Wozniakin an interview with the Milwaukee Business Journalat the Flying Car conference in Milwaukee two weeks ago. “It was that bad.”Wozniak explained that in his earlier years at Apple, Jobs pushed people to bring products out before they were ready, creating enormous strain on employees and creating rifts.“He would directly confront people and almost call them idiots,” explained Wozniak. “But you know what? When they confronted him back and told him why they were right in understandable forms, he was just testing and learning, and he would respect those people and give them high privileges in the company.”“That was one thing he did respect – someone who believed enough in their own ideas to speak for him, not just shut up and be shy around him,” he said.Full interview of Steve Wozniak.Apple developing a system to automatically unlock iPhones at home•Steve Wozniak: the Samsung Galaxy Gear smartwatch was worthless
Zack Brown didn&apos;t want to fund an investigation, an avant-garde art project, or a tech start-up. He just wanted to make potato salad, of no particular kind, and he was asking for $10 on Kickstarter to do it. That was last Thursday. He has sincemanaged to raise more than $35,000 in donationson the crowdfunding site - and he doesn&apos;t even have a recipe in mind.What else does the internet love enough to fund? Here are some of the most unexpected - and ridiculous - successes that Kickstarter has seen to date.1) Lionel Richie&apos;s head, inflatedEverybody loves Lionel Richie right? Barcelona based artists Hungry Castle certainly thought so and were not prepared to let one failed Kickstarter campaign deter them from creating their dream: a giant inflatable of Lionel Richie&apos;s head for public consumption. When DJ Rob da Bank took note, the self-funded artwork landed a place on the official line-up for last year&apos;s Bestival on the Isle of Wight. As the campaign grew, so did the head - enough money was raised to make it big enough to climb inside. Festival goers could enjoy a &quot;fully immersive, slightly surreal and very personal&quot; journey into the head itself, with more generous donors promised a VIP experience. With this success under his belt, Lionel Richie&apos;s head is nowen route to Australia, on the latest leg of his world tour.Festival goers who dared to enter Lionel's head discovered a telephone at its core. When a person answers the phone, they heard the words: 'Hello, is it me you’re looking for?'2) The world&apos;s first pizza museumWith museums created to celebrate mustard, kiwis, chocolate and evenburnt food, artist Brian Dwyer decided the time was ripe to create the world&apos;s first and biggest pizza museum. So with the help of more than $16,000 in backing from pizza lovers, he curated &quot;the largest collection of pizza related items in the world&quot; and got the Guinness Book of World Records to make it official.Pizza Brainis now home to an art show, museum, arcade and of course, a pizzeria.On 31 July 2011, Pizza Brain was officially certified as the "largest collection of pizza related items" in global history.3) The Griz CoatIt was Halloween and Hans Reichstetter could not find a suitable grizzly bear jacket anywhere - he wanted it to be realistic, without being real. Hundreds of people shared his dilemma andThe Griz Coatwas born. Sold with the firm mantra that it is not a costume, but a lifestyle, the first batch of Griz Coats quickly sold out. The second batch promises polar bears. Unfortunately, neither the beer nor the hipster glasses are included.First stop after hibernation.#grizcoatpic.twitter.com/l8e4BCT9AW&mdash; Griz Coat (@GrizCoat)April 7, 20144) Anti-Zombie soapKickstarter has long been the home ofzombie-based campaigns- be that computer games, graphic novels or an instruction book for the post-apocalyptic golfer. But zombie megafan Noah Thompson decided that hygiene was the best protection for apopcalypse and has since managed to fundraise enough to create an ever-expanding range of soap products, each complete with a three day guarantee of zombie-free living. As he says, why take the risk?Grenade soap moulds and chill pill bath bombs are now also in production5) A squirrel censusIt was the autumn of 2012 and Jamie Allen was working on a short story, imagining the day the squirrels came down to attack everyone. But he quickly came upon a hurdle: nobody could tell him how many eastern grey squirrels existed in Atlanta. So with the help of a team of researchers, designers, web programmers and one firefighter, he conducted Atlanta&apos;s first squirrel census, complete with infographics, lectures and squirrel-related art. He has now set his sights on the mass production of high quality squirrel census poster prints and has raised more than $8,000 to get started.The squirrel census has been such a success it has made its way onto the syllabus at Emory university.6) Tea from a 1974 Citroen H VanIn recent years the capital has witnessed the growth of an imported caffeine culture of lattes, frappuccinnos and flat whites. So where was the tea equivalent for a country famously obsessed with a hearty brew? Emilie Holmes decided that a mobile tea truck was the answer and the Brew Bar can now be seen peddling &quot;Good and Proper Tea&quot; around London. But will it take off? We&apos;ve even got one within walking distance of Guardian HQ."Good and Proper Tea" is on sale across London from the back of a travelling 1974 Citroen van7) Emoji DickEver wished you could read Moby Dick translated into Japanese emoji icons? If you have, you are not alone - 83 people on had the same desire and were prepared to cough up enough cash to make Fred Benenson&apos;s dream a reality. The translation and production of the text has also been crowdsourced, with a workforce fromAmazon&apos;s Mechanical Turk marketplace.Here, to whet your appetite, is one of the novel&apos;s most famous lines in translation.well I just reserved ☎️👨🐳⛵️👌 (&quot;Call me Ishmael&quot; from Emoji Dick) onhttp://t.co/30kd6wLrod&mdash; Fred Benenson (@fredbenenson)June 30, 20148) Grilled CheesusYour prayers have been answered: you can now get the face of Jesus on your lunchtime toastie. After$25,000 in donations, the electronic sandwich press has become a reality. Cheese lovers around the world have been giving thanks.My grilled cheese is holier than thou. Something tells me@rickygervaiswould like this. From@the_cheesus@bkbazaarpic.twitter.com/MG1z3sYU&mdash; Diana Emiko (@emikosworld)December 16, 2012This article was amended on 8 July 2014 to correct a reference that said Atlanta is a &quot;state&quot;.
The topic of children playing &quot;freemium&quot; games that sell in-app purchases is highly controversial. This extract from the Children&apos;s Media Yearbook was written by freemium game consultant Mark Sorrell.&quot;At the beginning of this discussion and the end of the day, the biggest problem with the issue of monetising children is that itstartswith, “Won’t you think of the children?!”It’s a technique usually employed by such august truth-seekers as The Daily Mail, thrown in at the end of an otherwise losing battle, or used to crowbar in actions that would seem sinister without the child-sized fig leaf (internet filters, anyone?).Mixing together money and children is guaranteed to get us off to a sentimental start. Even those of us that make our money mixing those exact things.I’m a freemium game design and behaviour change consultant, or to use my official title ‘EVIL MAN’. For the past two years, at the Children’s Media Conference, I’ve stood up on stage and talked about extracting money from children.I’ve talked about ways of doing it that aren’t evil or silly or bad and how the concerns many people were expressing about apps for kids, and especially free to play apps, appeared to be a mixture of moral panic, horrifyingly legitimate horror, and well-honed ignorance.And it’s still a big concern; in fact it’s quite clearly getting bigger. Both the EU and the OFT have been looking at this question and, while they seem unlikely to take to the industry with a stick, there’s no question that the days of wild west liberties and devil-may-care attitudes to the digitisation of removing money from children are basically over.But while we can’t carry on quite as we were, we can’t go back to how things used to be, either. Free is the price point that many apps, if not most, will continue to be sold at. Kids will continue to ask their parents for digital games and apps, along with the more familiar brightly coloured plastic things; fuzzy, furry things; and things that make incredibly annoying noises.So where are things going to go? And what should those who want to make their money from entertaining children really be doing to ensure they’re both behaving respectfully and making lots of lovely money?Children are badly paidWe’ve been comfortable about making money out of children for as long as we’ve had children and money, In fact it’s not that long since ‘making money out of children’ had more to do with how far you could stick one up a chimney than how many Moshlings were needed to stop them from screaming for more than an eighth of a second.Of course monetising children isn’t about monetising children at all. Children don’t have any money. They have access to money, sure, but it is their parents’ money, not their own. Children are, on the whole, very badly paid.So when we ask these questions, really we’re often asking much stranger ones, such as, “How much should we let companies use children as tiny, poorly-behaved salespeople inserted deep into customers’ homes?” and “Should we be angry that someone invented a new way for children to steal off their parents?” and “How old do children need to be until we explain that gambling is a thing that totally exists, and is really fun, and also really bad?”To start to answer this question in any sort of meaningful way, we need to be asking how we use the best traits of modern media forms to create great products for children; how we educate parents into understanding how things can be better than they used to be; and how the commercial realities of modern marketplaces can be used to create commercial models that work for everyone.Children beat you at gamesChildren are learning machines. That’s what they do. They start out knowing absolutely nothing, and then somehow, through a process of putting things in their mouths, hitting things, and shouting, they become accountants and race car drivers and the person that invented golf.Games are teaching machines. They are machines that proffer an inscrutable black box, in which they hold their rules and systems, and invite the player to investigate what those rules and systems might be, by using the tools the game also – very thoughtfully – provides.Players start out knowing absolutely nothing and end up being chess grandmasters or doing any number of incredible things inMinecraftthat I could link to if this were the internet and not a book. Google it or something?When running a test on a new game I was developing for four year olds, I asked a friend with a child of appropriate age – in this case three – to video herself playing the game with him.At the start of the video, she interrupts the child from what he was doing to play this simple game. What he was doing, was playingSonic Adventure 2on the PlayStation 3. In literacy terms, that’s like asking him to put downHarry Potterso she could go through aMr Menbook with him.This is not unusual. Video games are an incredibly perfect fit for children’s minds. Teaching machines for learning machines. Somehow we, as adults, decided we should not explore games immediately and with great force, because games are sort of strange, and kind of fun, and a bit new, and full of loud colours and bright noises.Children will gain from videogames and seek out videogames and want videogames and demand videogames. And videogames will teach them. It’s up to us to decide what they teach, but aside from that, the battle, such as it may have been considered a battle at all, is well and truly lost.Games will be the great teaching method of the future, because they’re the great teaching method of the present. We just keep letting school get in the way.Mark Sorrell.Children enjoy plastic objectsSo games are something children love and need and can benefit from and that’s the end of that. But what about that freemium business? What about that bit where you get people to pay for stuff in the game using horrible manipulation and devious trickery, and holding people by the ankles and shaking them until money falls out of their pockets?Well there are a few issues here. Freemium apps aimed exclusively at kids are actually pretty rare and, thanks to a number of high profile missteps, certainly not getting any more popular.A look at the top kids’ apps charts reveals that, rather uniquely, the top grossing apps are paid and not free. That’s definitely not true of the adult-orientated categories. The hubbub of the past two years has worked, and the kids market has largely got its house in order.The problem comes when kids play games that are aimed at adults, but that children also adore. We’ve already established that kids love games and can deal with game mechanics that are at a far greater level of complexity than they exhibit in other areas of their development.Here they do sit cheek by jowl with the freemium model and its potential for creating middle-England foaming-mouthed headlines. But once again, we shouldn’t leap to bared-teeth conclusions.Most developers still don’t really understand how the model works. It is, after all, pretty counter-intuitive, and simply copying what another developer is doing, without understanding why, will often either not work at all, or create unpleasant side-effects and perverse incentives.But there is a gradual understanding that within freemium, it’s not the more mercenary and mendacious techniques that are the most successful. A well designed freemium game uses money as a way to increase player agency and allow an extra form of expression rather than as a gating mechanic or devious trick. Spending money in many of the more successful freemium games is a symbol of the player’s enjoyment, not capitulation.And when it comes to children interacting with these games, well, it’s not like we haven’t historically been teaching kids to say, gamble, anyway.Panini Sticker books, those are definitely gambling for kids, and they sell six billion stickers a year. Those little LEGO Minifigure packs with a random minifig are gambling for kids. LEGO are the world’s biggest toy companyA closed packet containing a random prize has been an acceptable way to stop a child from making terrible, horrible noises in a public place for decades.And they are also infinitely more exciting than a known prize! Until you open them, and they don’t contain the particular plastic object you wanted more than your own head, and then they are rubbish. Except the particular plastic object you wanted is still the greatest object since energy first became matter, so why not buy another one and see if this time you get lucky?But you are not so lucky.It’s a lesson that needs to be learned. Better it is learned now with a plastic fireman than later with a mortgage payment, eh?Children learn disappointment graduallyOur acceptance of these physical goods and physical transactions over the mysterious and otherworldly ‘in-app purchase’ (IAP) is surely clear to see. The stickers and LEGO are fully within the control of the parent and easy to understand because you can hold them and hide them and throw them at the cat.An IAP is...well what is it exactly that you just bought? Some berries or gold or a different coloured imaginary dragon? How can that be worth anything? What on earth is going on? Someone, somewhere is definitely having a laugh.But this is where freemium games might actually be harnessed to do some good. Money is becoming more and more virtual every day and we have a duty to bring our children up to understand how to deal with that world.It’s pleasing and simple to see a transaction existing in the form of your heavy, strange-smelling metal discs in exchange for their interestingly shaped sugar, but that is not the way the world is going. Money is becoming more and more virtual. A number on a computer screen, not a bit of metal or piece of paper with a picture of a lady on.A look at Bitcoin, and further into the weird world of crypto-currencies (particularly the barking mad Dogecoin) shows that currencies themselves are becoming less predictable or safe or comprehensible, using our traditional ways of thinking.Money is becoming something new and it won’t mean the same thing to your children as it did to you. That’s never really been true for any previous generation.And the things we buy with our strange new money, based on weird new currencies, aren’t real things, and often aren’t even ours to keep. The concept of possession itself is dwindling. Look at Airbnb and Uber, Netflix and Zipcar.We don’t buy, we rent. We stream, we share, we sustain. We don’t really have much choice; after all, we’ve sort of used up rather a lot of the world’s resources already. Our children are growing into this world, of digital and transient and passage, and it is this world that we must prepare them for.So the place where children’s entertainment is heading, where monetisation is heading, is not a problem – it is a challenge. Giving children access to more meaningful budgeting experiences is entirely possible.Letting parents control the funds their children have and let them learn how to spend them is an opportunity to create a more financially savvy generation. And that’s an opportunity we shouldn’t miss out on. Teaching children about the world they are going to inhabit is a duty, a commercial opportunity and a creative challenge. We should be relishing that.It’s a rather better choice than pretending games are stupid or teaching kids about the joys of gambling, don’t you think?&quot;The Children&apos;s Media Yearbook can beordered from its websitefor £7.95 as a download or £10 as a printed book. Mark Sorrell&apos;s websitecan be found here.•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children&apos;s media
A Washington DC restaurant owner is suing Google for an incorrect Google Maps listing that lead to a sudden decline in customers and forced it to lay off staff and close its doors.The 40-year-old Serbian Crown restaurant, owned and operated by the Italian immigrant Rene Bertagna, was located in a wealthy suburb of Virginia nestled among estates and houses and known for its exotic meats, including lion.It suffered a 75% drop in customers on the weekend in early 2012. Bertagna was forced to lay off staff and eventually close the restaurant in April 2013. He says he was totally unaware of his Google Maps listing until a regular pointed out the mistake.“A customer called me and said: ‘Why are you closed on Saturday, Sunday and Monday? What’s going on?’” Bertagnatold Wired.The Google Maps listing had falsely shown Serbian Crown shut over the weekend and Monday, previously the restaurant’s busiest days, which kept it profitable.Google didn&apos;t do enoughBertagna blames Google for allowing allowing the Google Places listing for the Serbian Crown to be sabotaged and not doing enough to verify the changes, suing the search company in Virginia federal court. Bertagna claims that he had never used the internet or Google Maps.He eventually hired an internet consultant, who took control of the Google Places listing and corrected the information, but it wasn’t enough to save the business.The Serbian Crown had mixed reviews, with many less than favourable in recent years, across reviews sites including Trip Advisor, where one &quot;senior reviewer&quot; known as TravelTime4Uscalled it&quot;the worst overpriced meal I have ever had&quot;.This is not the first time Google Maps listings have been sabotaged. Thousands of hotel listings on Google Maps and Google+were hijacked in January, changing their listings to point to an external site.Anyone can make a changeAnyone with a Google+ account can submit a change to any detail of a Google+ Local page, whether verified or not, including the listed website address, phone number, physical address or name of the place. Users can also mark the place as closed, as a duplicate or flag inappropriate reviews or photos.The changes are submitted for review before being implemented on the listing, but that has not stopped abuse in the past.Google seeds its business listings using commercial mailing list databases, including infoUSA and Axciom. Business can then claim a listing and curate it for free, adding detail and photos. If a business ignores a listing, as in Bertagna’s case, users can submit community edits and change details without the business&apos;s knowledge.Malicious edits are rare these days, according to the internet consultant Mike Blumenthalwho tracks these sabotage attempts on his blog, as Google has made an extra effort to quash them since 2011.The suit is unlikely to result in any meaningful impact on Google because of the crowdsourced nature of Google Maps, which under US law gives internet service providers broad immunity against claims fuelled by user-generated content.Google declined to comment beyond its lawyers&apos; statement that “the Serbian Crown should not be permitted to vex Google or this court with such meritless claims”, in a motion to dismiss the lawsuit in June.•&apos;Inside job&apos; alleged as thousands of Google+ and Maps listings hijacked
Samsung Electronics says that its second-quarter operating profits will fall to a two-year low, blaming growing competition in China, reluctant consumers, the success of &quot;phablets&quot; and a strong home currency for its earnings hit.The South Korean electronics company said on Tuesday its operating income was $7.2 trillion won ($7.1bn) for the three months ended 30 June, down 24% from a year earlier. That was significantly below analysts&apos; expectations of about 8tn won. The company releases its full quarterly financial results later in the month.In an unusual step, the company issued a one-page document of &quot;reference material&quot; to explain the slowdown, saying there was an overall slowdown in the smartphone market - leading to an inventory glut in China and Europe particularly - and tablets, where it said sales of large-screened &quot;phablets&quot; ate into sales. It says it &quot;cautiously&quot; expects a more positive outlook in the third quarter. It suggested buyers in China, the world&apos;s largest smartphone market, held off purchases as they wait to upgrade from 3G to 4G phones.The slowdown puts a focus on Samsung&apos;s high reliance on fast-growing smartphone sales for its huge ramp in profits over the past three years. Sales of high-end Android devices have slowed down after some years of rapid expansion, but Samsung is now struggling with indigenous rivals in China such as Xiaomi which are eroding its market share there.The challenge in western markets is expected to grow more fierce with the expected release later this year oflarger-screened phones by Applein the autumn, directly addressing one factor that some people have found attractive about Samsung&apos;s devices.Samsung&apos;s profit figure is the lowest since the second quarter of 2012, when it was 6.5tn won. Since then it has remained above 8tn won, driven by sales of its broad portfolio of Galaxy-branded smartphones at a wide range of prices. Sales fell by 10% from the previous year, to 52tn won.The Korean won has risen in value by roughly 10%against the US dollarin the past year, and hit a six-year high against it earlier this month.&quot;Expectations have been lowered on Samsung,&quot; said Will Cho, an analyst at KDB Daewoo Securities. &quot;With intensified competition in the mid- and low-end smartphones, it will be tough to stay as lucrative as in the past.&quot;Benedict Evans, a telecoms and tech analyst for the venture firm Andreessen Horowitz,commentedthat it was &quot;a whole kitchen sink of excuses from Samsung. Somehow, companies with earnings misses always have lots of reasons.&quot;About three in every 10 smartphones sold globally were made by Samsung in 2013 and the company&apos;s handset sales will likely improve during the current quarter. But Cho said profit levels will be more important than how many handsets it can sell – because most sales growth would come from cheaper smartphones.The arrival of low-end competition from Chinese makers including Xiaomi and a host of other rivals poses a threat to Samsung because they could erode its position in that market, where it dominates smartphones, and other low-cost markets such as India. Xiaomi outsold Samsung to have the most popular handset in China in April, according to Counterpoint Research of Hong Kong.The company did not provide sales figures for its flagship Galaxy S5 smartphone, launched in March, though market indications have been that they did not improve on last year&apos;s sales. Research from Kantar ComTech, a market research company, suggested that the S5 was outsold in the UK by both of Apple&apos;s nine-month old iPhone models during the three months to the end of May, its first full period on sale.Tablet sales were also a worry for Samsung, which said that sales of large-screened &quot;phablets&quot; - with screens of 5in or 6in diagonally - ate into those of smaller 7in and 8in tablets, along with a slower replacement cycle for such devices.Samsung is trying to shift its focus to newer gadgets that will tie people into its &quot;ecosystem&quot; of devices and software, such as the Galaxy Gear smartwatch and Galaxy Fit fitness-tracking wristband. However those have yet to sell in substantial numbers.Samsung Electronics is also a huge maker of flash memory chips and LCD panels, though those are less profitable.&quot;The company cautiously expects a more positive outlook in the third quarter with the coming release of its new smartphone lineup,&quot; it said. &quot;Samsung expects stronger smartphone sales and this will have a positive impact on the company&apos;s display panel businesses.&quot;But some analysts were unconvinced about Samsung&apos;s long-term prospects.&quot;Though we anticipate some positive earnings impact for the component businesses (in the third quarter), we see growing uncertainty over Samsung&apos;s future earnings in the long-term,&quot; Chung, the Nomura Financial Investment analyst, said in a commentary.Chung cited Apple&apos;s upcoming release of the iPhone 6, the increasing difficulty in standing out from a plethora of other Android devices and the falling appeal of premium smartphones, a reminder of the PC market that came to be flooded with cheap almost identical products.Samsung is expected to announce an upgrade of the Galaxy Note series in the fall around the time when Apple usually upgrades its iPhone.•iPhones outselling Samsung S5•Smartwatches the next big idea as sales of smartphones slacken
The mobile apps market is a &quot;superstar economy&quot; dominated by a small number of companies – particularly those making freemium games – according to a new report published by research firmMidia Research.This will come as no surprise to developers struggling for attention on Google and Apple&apos;s app stores, which both have more than 1m apps available, but the report provides more data outlining the challenge.Midia took a snapshot in May 2014 of the 50 top grossing apps on Apple&apos;s App Store and Android&apos;s Google Play store in the UK, US, Canada, Germany, France, Spain and Italy, then examined trends in the 700 apps it found – obviously, some will have appeared several times.The report notes that just 50 companies accounted for 81% of these top grossing apps across both stores. On Apple&apos;s store, 105 companies accounted for the 350 top grossing apps, while on Google Play, 81 companies made up the list.Midia also found that games accounted for 84.9% of the 700 top grossing apps studied for the report, leaving other categories including social networking (4.1%), dating (3.9%) and navigation and travel (2.3%) in its wake.&quot;The impact of games is doubly strong because no other genre of apps has learned how to make in-app payments work as effectively as games companies have,&quot; write authors Mark Mulligan and Karol Severin. &quot;The app economy is, for now at least, a games economy.&quot;The report also notes a self-perpetuating cycle at work, explaining that with freemium games so lucrative, their publishers can afford to outspend other app genres to keep them at the top of the charts.&quot;Finnish developer Supercell spends a reported $1m a day on app marketing and generates $5 million a day in revenue. These dynamics further bias the market to those with the deepest pockets,&quot; suggests the report.Mulligan and Severin also identify some &quot;super powers&quot; of the apps economy: the US, Sweden and Japan, who collectively accounted for 61% of the top grossing apps studied for the report. However, 75% of the Swedish apps were made by Candy Crush Saga developer King, with Mojang&apos;s Minecraft also high in the mix.Supercell said in February that itmade $892m of revenuesfrom just two smartphone and tablet games in 2013. Meanwhile, King&apos;s filing to go public the same month revealed thatits 2013 revenues were just under $1.9bn.Midia&apos;s report also examines music apps more closely, even though the category only accounted for 1% of the 700 top grossing apps studied – &quot;small fry&quot; in the words of the report: &quot;Music is a forgotten backwater of the app economy that is ignored by its bigger names.&quot;Music rightsholders will be shifting uneasily at another conclusion: that free music download apps are &quot;the acceptable face of music piracy&quot;, including apps designed to rip audio from YouTube music videos and download it to the user&apos;s device.&quot;These apps, such as PocketTube, Instatube, mTube, along with free downloaders like Download Free, Free Music, Free Music Downloader, Free Music Download Pro are the new face of music piracy,&quot; claim Mulligan and Severin.&quot;Peer-to-peer (P2P) was the defining characteristic of piracy in the 2000’s and was clearly delineated as being ‘off the reservation’. But YouTube rippers and free music downloaders have the veneer of being legitimate because they reside in the app stores of Apple and Google.&quot;•Health and fitness apps booming ahead of iOS 8 launch
Tuesday! Sorry, I'm moving house so things are going awry.
Texas star Sharleen Spiteri is supporting independent labels in theirrow with YouTube over licensing negotiationsfor its upcoming Spotify-style music subscription service.&quot;Songwriters fully support independent record labels in their fight to get better terms and deals from YouTube. It’s about time we all made some noise about the way they negotiate with take-it-or-leave-it deals,&quot; said Spiteri, in a statement released by British songwriters body BASCA.&quot;It might be a little easier for writers like myself who also perform, but for those who do not and now have to rely on streaming income, the current rates are just not enough.&quot;Independent labels – through trade association Win – have been in a public dispute with YouTube for several weeks.Win claims that Google&apos;s online video service has sent its membersnon-negotiable contractsoffering worse terms than those agreed by major labels, backed up by a threat to remove their videos from YouTube if they do not sign up.For its part, YouTube claims that labels representing 95% of the recorded music industry are already on board for the new subscription service, which will launch later in the year following internal tests.BASCA, which published Spiteri&apos;s statement, is also enlisting other British songwriters to support the labels, including Barry Mason, whose compositions include Tom Jones&apos; Delilah.&quot;Someone must be making money out of the music on You Tube but it certainly isn&apos;t the people who write the songs,&quot; said Mason. &quot;Delilah would need to be streamed roughly 113,250 times for [co-writer] Les Reed and I to earn enough for a coffee each at Starbucks.&quot;BASCA&apos;s chairman Simon Darlow, who also co-wrote hits for the likes of Grace Jones, Cliff Richard and Toyah, attacked YouTube&apos;s use of non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) in its dealings with labels, publishers and music collecting societies.&quot;BASCA is against NDAs which hide what appear to be poor streaming rates for songwriters and composers. We cannot afford to let these practices undermine the value of songwriting and composing and leave the music industry with a talent drain which will affect the UK both culturally and financially,&quot; he said.Last week, the Financial Times reported thatYouTube is delaying its planned removal of channelsbelonging to labels that have not signed up to its new service, raising hopes of an amicable solution.Indie licensing agency Merlin is also thought to still be in talks with YouTube over a wider deal for its label members.While YouTube is not commenting publicly on the latest developments in these negotiations, the company has been trying to stress its positive side for musicians: revealingplans for new features including crowdfunding, and launching a newMusic Artists and Album Promotionsection on its Creator Academy website.•From YouTube to Amazon, hold tech innovators to account
The new series of BBC drama Doctor Who returns on 23 August, butsome of its scripts have already leaked online, including the hotly-anticipated first episode: Deep Breath.Given the show&apos;s growing global popularity, and its huge tech-savvy fanbase, the demand for these kinds of leak is no surprise, but how on earth did the material become public?Security expert Graham Cluley has a pithy answer for that. &quot;Probably the very last thing you should do is leave five of the scripts lying around on a public web server that can be indexed by search engines,&quot; he blogged, after the leak became public. &quot;And yet, that&apos;s exactly what someone did.&quot;Cluley&apos;s blog post is accompanied by a screenshot of the BBC Miami server where fans found the scripts for episodes one, two, four and five of the new series in PDF form.&quot;It appears that the scripts became accessible to anyone with a web browser after being sent to the BBC’s new Latin American headquarters for translation,&quot; added Cluley. While they&apos;ve now been removed &quot;you don’t have to be a master of the Celestial Toymaker’s trilogic game to find them elsewhere online.&quot;The BBC has apologised for the leak, and urged fans not to share the scripts with a wider audience &quot;so that everyone can enjoy the show as it should be seen when it launches&quot;.Cluley notes that leaks have been an unwanted part of the story of Doctor Who since its relaunch in 2005, from pre-air torrents and Blu-ray box-sets sent out too early, through to a rehearsal script being left in the back of a taxi.It&apos;s tempting to suggest that leaks fuel the buzz around upcoming shows rather than put people off watching – if you&apos;re a Doctor Who fan, the prospect of reading a script may be fascinating, but it&apos;s not a substitute for actually watching the episode.However, the BBC will surely be learning its lesson from the latest leak: it would be extremely surprising if future scripts and assets turn up on public, indexable servers.•Doctor Who&apos;s Sonic Screwdriver? There&apos;s an official app for that
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid's app permissions were just simplified — now they're much less secure &gt;&gt; HowtogeekGoogle Play now groups app permissions into groups of related permissions. For example, an app that wants to read your incoming SMS messages will require the "Read SMS messages" permission. When you install it via the Play Store, you'll see it asking for the "SMS" permission group.Install the app and you're giving it access to all SMS-related permissions. The app can now automatically update and gain the ability to send SMS messages without asking you.Do you have apps on your device that you trust to read SMS messages, but not send them? Those apps can now gain the ability to send SMS messages without prompting you — all the developer has to do is update the app.The only way to prevent this from happening is to disable automatic updates and verify app permissions manually every time an app wants to update — as if that's a reasonable solution! If you do this, you'll also end up using outdated versions of apps, which is another security problem.A month old, but: this is caused by the latest Google Play update - so the app that has solved the fragmentation problem is now the one that could cause a serious problem around permissions. Google really needs to fix this.Gartner says worldwide traditional PC, tablet, ultramobile and mobile Phone Shipments to Grow 4.2 Percent in 2014Worldwide combined shipments of devices (PCs, tablets, ultramobiles and mobile phones) are projected to reach 2.4bn units in 2014, a 4.2% increase from 2013 (see Table 1), according to Gartner, Inc."2014 will be marked by a relative revival of the global PC market," said Ranjit Atwal, research director at Gartner. After declining 9.5% in 2013, the global PC market (desk-based, notebook and premium ultramobile) is on pace to contract only 2.9% in 2014."Business upgrades from Windows XP and the general business replacement cycle will lessen the downward trend, especially in Western Europe," said Mr. Atwal. "This year, we anticipate nearly 60m professional PC replacements in mature markets." The traditional PC market (desk-based and notebook) will follow the same downward trend and is on pace to contract 6.7% in 2014 and 5.3% in 2015.It's coming to something when shrinking by 2.9% counts a "relative revival". (Thanks @pxr4t2 for the link.)TrendForce: global tablet shipments expected to reach 205m in 2014, up less than 5% year-on-year &gt;&gt; Business WireOn the other hand...WitsView Research Manager Eric Chiou noted, "Leading vendor Apple's tablet shipments remained low in Q2 2014, estimated at only 13m. Although the company will release new models in H2 2014, the impact will be limited. Moreover, iPad might experience its first decline since entering the market in 2010, with volume expected to drop from 74.3m in 2013 to 68.4m in 2014, mainly because Apple is unlikely to hold any major promotional or sales events."Meanwhile, the second largest tablet vendor Samsung Electronics is endeavoring to meet tablet shipment quotas, but growth may not meet expectations, up only 14% year-on-year to 48m in 2014 because of poor performance in both entry- and high-end markets. The limited increase comes as the company's Galaxy Tab Pro has seen fewer-than-expected sales due to high costs and because tablet products with similar specifications to the company's Galaxy Tab Lite are being offered by many other tablet vendors.Samsung has one problem, Apple has a very different one. (Thanks @Seoulite for the link.)This company saved $300k on insurance by giving employees Fitbits &gt;&gt; CITEworldA year agowhen Appirio said it was hoping to use data collected from employee wearables to negotiate a better deal on its health insurance bill, it seemed like a stretch. Could information that Appirio cobbled together about how many steps a couple hundred workers took each day convince an insurance company to lower its rates?It turns out Appirio cut a significant chunk from its insurance bill by doing just that. "When our [insurance] renewal came up for 2014, they shaved 5 percent off our renewal because of what we invest in CloudFit," said Shannon Daly, vice president of HR Operations for Appirio. Five percent translates to $280,000 for Appirio, a consulting company that builds cloud projects for business customers.CloudFit is the internal name Appirio gives to its wellness program which includes Fitbit trackers as well as a new service that uses Google Hangouts to offer employees live video sessions with a trainer.An industrial use for wearables? Perhaps restricted to countries which have strange health insurance systems.Emerging market for 'pre-owned, certified' smartphones &gt;&gt; The Boston GlobeWireless carriers are the latest to jump into the trade-in business. And there are some very interesting reasons why. In the past, everytime you upgraded to a new smartphone, you typically paid about $200 upfront for a phone that was worth about $650, and so the carrier had to book a $450 expense; it earned that money back over the course of your contract. But a huge wave of upgrades whenever a new phone was released meant a flood of expenses on the books, hurting profits, says Walter Piecyk, a managing director at BTIG's research unit.With new leasing programs like Next (from AT&amp;T), Jump (from T-Mobile), and Edge (from Verizon), that $650 cost of a new phone "is divided over about 24 months, and so the carrier can book all of your lease payments as revenue on Day One," says Piecyk, who follows the telecom industry. That looks better on their balance sheets.The leasing programs allow regular upgrades, but they also require you to hand in your old phone when you do. As carriers try to shift more customers to the leasing model, NextWorth and Gazelle could face challenges getting inventory since so many smartphones will go right back to wireless operators. (NextWorth manages trade-in programs for some smaller wireless players such as MetroPCS.)Samsung Electronics seeks to set new rules &gt;&gt; Korea TimesAnalysts say Samsung, the world's biggest smartphone vendor is reaching the same point its U.S. rival Apple did in 2013 when it hit the smartphone growth wall."Second quarter profits were below expectations," said Choi Gee-sung, head of Samsung Corporate Strategy Office, at a monthly meeting with executives of Samsung's technology affiliates on July 1."There is a need to check whether the Corporate Strategy Office is doing its role as a control tower. Let's make greater efforts."Senior Samsung executives are sided with Choi as they didn't hesitate to admit that Samsung's key businesses are being challenged.Now, Samsung workers are ordered to become ― "problem solvers," "rule breakers" and "infra builders" ― to overcome today's difficulties and develop new products and creative services.In a latest message to employees, co-signed by co-Samsung Electronics CEOs _ vice chairman Kwon Oh-hyun, consumer electronics president Yoon Boo-keun and mobile chief Shin Jong-kyun, they pledged to find new business models in wearable devices and Internet of Things (IoT) territories.It's nice to be ordered to become a rule-breaker. (Samsung's preliminary second quarter results will be released today.)Smart city schemes face uncertainty as Wi-Fi firm goes under &gt;&gt; UKAuthorityIn a statement to the Spanish stock exchange published by [the Spanish-based Wi-Fi company] Let¹s Gowex, it said that Jenaro Garcia Martin, chief executive officer and chairman, had resigned after telling board members "that the accounts of the company, for at least the last four years, were unfaithful and that he was responsible for this misrepresentation"."The board, confronted by the expectation that the company would not be able to cope with its maturing current debt payments, agreed to file a voluntary request for bankruptcy."In May this year, the company announced a 10-year deal under which it would provide free Wi-Fi to Newcastle and Gateshead. Let¹s Gowex has previously announced contracts in Dublin, Edinburgh, New York, Chicago, Miami, San Francisco and Madrid.Huh.Apple Maps now gets updated every day at 3:00am Eastern &gt;&gt; Reddittl;dr - Apple actually updates POI data now. If you see errors in your neighborhood, you can correct them with the 'Report a Problem' button on the Maps info screen. New data is pushed out by Apple's servers every single day, so the Maps app is now improving at a quick pace.About time.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
They boast magnificent city views, proximity to shopping and nightlife and the chance to live like a local.But what some of the Barcelona properties listed for rent on Airbnb don't have, at least according to the government of Catalonia, is legality. The regional government announced on Monday that it was slapping a €30,000 (£24,000) fine on the website over what it calls a "serious" breach of local laws.Founded in 2008, Airbnb now lists more than half a million private properties in 192 countries for stays as short as one night and is valued at an estimated $10bn. Catalonia has figured prominently in its growth, with Barcelona consistently ranking as one of the site's largest markets, and the company launched a Catalan version of its website last April.The fine – the San Francisco-based firm's first in Europe – was for breaching local laws that state any flat rented to tourists must be registered with the Tourism Registry of Catalonia. Regional laws also prohibit the renting out of rooms in private residences.Airbnb was one of eight letting sites fined by the Catalan government, but its success has made it the focus of widespread opposition to private tourist lets in Barcelona, where recent years have seen hundreds of thousands of private lets  are on offer to cater to a growing number of tourists. Hoteliers have taken aim at the flats over what they deem unfair competition; while several neighbourhood associations blame private lets for driving up housing prices in central districts.As tourists bypass hotels to trek into residential apartments, it puts locals in the uncomfortable position of playing neighbour to an ever-changing roster of tourists, said Reme Gómez, of the Barrí Gòtic neighbours association in Barcelona's Gothic quarter. "People are making money and the rest of us are paying for it."Her organisation has spent the past 10 years calling for a complete ban on private tourist lets. In that same time Gómez has watched many of the apartments in her own building become tourist flats. "In many cases the flats are used as a place to party," she said. Rowdy drunkenness aside, there's an inherent conflict between the schedules of locals, who often work and have children, and those of tourists, she added."Tourist flats oblige the rest of us to live in a hotel, but without any of the same conditions," she said. "If you're in a hotel and it's 2am and the other guests are being too loud or vomiting in the stairwell, you can call someone to deal with it. Here no."Fed up and left with no other recourse, many of her neighbours have moved to less touristy areas, she lamented. "We're part of what they're selling, but they're destroying it."Not everyone in the city agrees. Last week 200 Airbnb hosts in Barcelona took to the streets to defend their right to rent out their property, arguing that they offer the chance to earn extra income.A recent study commissioned by Airbnb found that 75% of the site's hosts in Barcelona earn equal or less than the average income for Catalonia. More than half of the hosts interviewed said that the supplemental income from Airbnb helped keep them in their homes.The study also calculated that the site generated €128m in activity in Barcelona and helped spread that wealth across the city by pushing tourists into more diverse neighbourhoods.On Monday, Airbnb expressed its disappointment in the Catalan government's decision. "Barcelona should stay on the cutting edge of innovation," the company said in a statement, adding that the government's decision to issue a fine "will hold the city back".The company is considering its legal options, but promised to continue working with policymakers in Barcelona and Catalonia "to develop sensible rules that ensure people can share the home in which they live".The fine against Airbnb is the Catalan's government's second shakedown on the sharing economy in recent months – in June it announced fines of up to €6,000 for drivers who use the ride-sharing app Uber.
The UK&apos;s Information Commissioner&apos;s Office (ICO) says that it expects to receive complaints &quot;soon&quot; from people who have had requests to remove personal details from Google&apos;s index of links turned down.The comments came as the Guardian established that Google is removing links for any searches that include terms affiliated with complainants&apos; names, not just those which include the name alone, as was suggested last week.The search giant&apos;s removal of some links from its database – following a court ruling in May by the European Court of Justice that has been dubbed a &quot;right to be forgotten&quot; – has also been criticised by some campaigners who say that it is removing links that are still relevant.Following the ruling, Google has implemented a system where individuals can make a legally binding statement, requesting particular links be removed from searches on their name. The web pages with the information remain.On Friday, Google&apos;s director for communications in Europe, Peter Barron,toldRadio 4&apos;s Today program that most search terms would still work to find pages. He gave the example of a blogpost by BBC economics editor Robert Peston, where one of the commenters had apparently requested removal.&quot;Only if you search for the very narrow term of the name of the commentator would it not appear [on a Google search],&quot; Barron said.But the Guardian has now established from sources familiar with Google&apos;s process that &quot;queries that involve the name and other terms will also have the same effect&quot; of hiding the pages complained about. &quot;It wouldn&apos;t make sense if you could simply add an extra term and negate the restriction,&quot; the source said. But the person also emphasised that Google search results will still include the page, and that &quot;wider terms&quot; which don&apos;t use the name will still turn up the page.The ICO, which is the arbiter for disputes between search engines and people who want links removed, told the Guardian that it has not yet received any complaints from people seeking to get their names removed from the search index. But it expects to, based on the sheer volume of requests Google is receiving, which are now running at about 1,000 per day across Europe.The ICO said however that publishers and other third parties which are notified about removal of links to their pages will not be able to complain to the ICO about it, because &quot;they are not the data subject&quot; – that is, the person affected by the content of the page.Last week the Guardian complained to Google about the removal of a number of pages from 2010 and 2011 about a high-profile figure from its index via name-based search. Google rapidly reinstated them.But the removal of links is proving hugely controversial. The Guardian has been contacted by members of a pressure group about Collins &amp; Bone, a now-defunct UK company which in 2010 sought investors for a business which aimed to renovate houses and then rent them to students. An investigation by the British government&apos;s Insolvency Servicedeterminedthat Liam Collins and David Bone should be disqualified from directorships for a total of 28 years.Collins, a former semi-finalist on Britain&apos;s Got Talent, complained to Google on 19 May, less than a week after the ECJ ruling, demanding that links to a blog critical of him and his business partner be removed. But as Google did not have a process for dealing with such claims, it was alsomirrored at the Chilling Effects website. The blog seems to still appear in Google&apos;s UK results, but campaigners who say they were defrauded fear that it may soon be removed. Collins could not be contacted for comment.Meanwhile the largest European search rival to Google, Microsoft&apos;s Bing, has not responded to multiple requests to clarify how it will deal with similar requests from EU citizens. Bing has about 5% of the search market in some parts of Europe, along with Yahoo. On 12 June Microsoft said that &quot;developing the appropriate system is taking us some time&quot; – although Google had begun work on it. &quot;We&apos;ll be providing additional information about making requests soon,&quot; a Microsoft spokesperson told the Guardian.•What is Google deleting under the &apos;right to be forgotten&apos; – and why?
The pitch was simple: give Zack Brown $10 and he will make potato salad. Thanks to internet donations, Brown now has more than $8,800 to achieve that dream.Although Brown hasn’t chosen a recipe for the potato salad, more than 1,300 people have backed his online fundraising campaign since it launched on Thursday.“I’ve been hard at work in the kitchen, learning how to boil potatoes,” Brown, who may have had some inkling as to how this project would turn out when he began it – he is theco-founder of a digital creative agency– said in a thank you video he posted onthe potato salad Kickstarter page.Brown’s stated goal was to raise $10 for one potato salad. Now, with 25 days left in the campaign, he’s said he will make multiple potato salads, live-stream the potato salad-making and figure out how to send samples to people who can’t make it to the party he plans to throw in Columbus, Ohio.To justify the amount of money that’s been raised, Brown has created a slew of potato salad-themed activities to put the funds toward. This includes renting a hall in Columbus for a potato salad party that the “whole internet” is invited to. “The internet loves potato salad! Let&apos;s show them that potato salad loves the internet!!”Brown wrote.The rapid success of the campaign also means Brown has to figure out how to fulfill promises he made such as giving a bite of the potato salad to each person who pledged at least $3 – a reward that was created under the assumption that only people in Columbus would support the project – and saying the name of each person who donated more than $1 in the video he will produce of him making the the potato salad.Four special people who made a $20 donation will receive a signed jar of mayonnaise and a personalized potato salad-themed haiku written by Brown, and their names will be carved into a potato that will be used in the salad.“I think the thing people are responding to is the opportunity to come together around something equal parts absurd and mundane,”Brown saidin a Reddit AMA (Ask Me Anything). “Potato Salad isn&apos;t controversial, but it seems to unite us all.”
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps and games to have emerged on Apple&apos;s App Store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for Android apps instead, browse the archives of the weeklyBest Android Appsroundups.APPSNoisy Neighbours (£2.99)Noisy Neighbours is a children&apos;s app from the Tate Gallery and developer Aimer Media, based on Ruth Green&apos;s book of the same name. It&apos;s a story about animals that encourages kids to draw their own and record their noises – a recipe for great fun (or: chaos) shared between parents and children.iPhone / iPadJump – London Bus Tracker (Free + IAP)Getting the bus around London is great – as long as you&apos;re not trying to pay with cash – and there are a growing number of apps using open data from the capital&apos;s transport network to help you navigate. Jump is one of the slickest: a fast, well-designed way to check nearby bus stops, buses on their way and (if you upgrade for £1.49 in-app) set alerts to make sure you never miss them.iPhoneFacebook Messenger (Free)Facebook Messenger has been on iPhone for a long time now – and recently, the social network has been forcing users to install it by removing messaging from its main iPhone app. Now the Messenger app has launched for iPad too: a clean, stripped-down interface for text-chatting and making voice calls. Although if this means whipping messages out of the main Facebook iPad app, expect more loud complaints.iPad (already on iPhone)Poplings (£2.99 + IAP)This could be in the games section of this roundup, but since it&apos;s for preschool children aged 2-4, it&apos;s as much a digital playtoy. The concept is interesting too: a game designed around pop music, complete with tunes from the likes of Avicii, Little Mix and Calvin Harris, with new &quot;story-packs&quot; sold as in-app purchases hidden behind a parental gate.iPhone / iPadKimd - Concert camera (Free)This is unlikely to put Prince off his ban on cameraphone photos at gigs, but if the sight of a forest of lit-up screens at concerts bugs you, it should be encouraged. Kimd is a photography app designed for gigs that dims the screen as low as it can when shooting. And yes, it will only make a real difference if everyone at a gig had it, but it&apos;s still a cleverly-simple idea.iPhoneFuseMe by Acision (Free)Another messaging app hoping for a tilt at WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger and even some other apps not owned by Facebook. This aims to be a jack-of-all-trades, blending Skype-style voice and video calls, text chatting, photo messaging and other features into a single app.iPhoneBoj – Musical Mayhem (£2.49)If you&apos;re a parent in the UK of young children, you might already have encountered Boj: a characterful cartoon series airing on CBeebies. This is its second official app – or rather an &quot;appbook&quot; as developer Box of Frogs describes it. Expect games, music, a singalong and voice narration from Jason Donovan. It&apos;s very fun.iPadNunki : Your Social News Viewer (Free)There are lots of apps trying to aggregate news using social networking signals from Flipboard down. Nunki is the latest entrant in a crowded market, promising to gather and sort breaking news, sports results and other stuff, drawing on social networks to ensure it&apos;s up-to-the-minute. An intriguing idea, but let&apos;s see how well it performs.iPhoneBandsintown Manager (Free)An app for a very specific audience: musicians and managers of musicians, who have accounts with the Bandsintown website for managing and promoting their gigs. This app is a way for those people to keep tabs on their tourdates from their smartphones and tablets, plugging gigs on Facebook and posting status updates from the road.iPhone / iPadSharknado: Go Shark Yourself! (Free)Will Sharknado 2 jump the, er, shark? The sequel to one of the silliest TV movies of recent times (in a positive way) is set to air at the end of this month, and this time round there&apos;s an official app. It&apos;s basically a photo-customisation app with various Sharknado filters and stickers to use. Come August, it&apos;ll be toast, but this month it&apos;s fun.iPhoneCivilization Revolution 2 is a mobile-only release.GAMESCivilization Revolution 2 (£10.49)Along with Championship Manager, the original Civilization hoovered up a significant chunk of my teenage gaming time. This is the empire-building strategy game&apos;s latest mobile incarnation, looking much more polished than the first Civ Revolution on iOS, with gameplay that suits pick-up-and-play mobile sessions perfectly. Expensive, but a turn-based treat.iPhone / iPadHaste (Free + IAP)Now for something new: a slightly Boggle-y word game hoping to be a Words With Friends-sized hit in 2014. If there&apos;s any justice, it&apos;ll have a shot: you swipe along letters to form words, aiming to score as many points as possible in 90-second rounds. You can play live against other players, and see how your skills compare to the world in high-score tables.iPhoneMonster Hunter Freedom Unite (£10.49)The Monster Hunter console and handheld games are massive in Japan, but still relatively under-the-radar in the rest of the world. This new iOS version could start the process of changing that, even if – like Civilization Revolution 2 – its high (for an app) price may put off casual interest. You&apos;re basically, yes, hunting monsters, with co-op multiplayer and a well-worked weapons upgrading system to hold your interest.iPhone / iPadSuper Battle Tactics (Free + IAP)This is the latest freemium game from DeNA, a bit like Advance Wars with more tanks. You build your team first from parts, then battle opponents, form virtual clubs with friends, and find sponsors to keep building your rolling army. It looks good at this stage, but let&apos;s see how it develops.iPhone / iPadOrbitum (£0.69)There&apos;s quite a collection of ambient, relaxing puzzlers on iOS now, with Orbitum the latest to join the crowd. It gets you tapping on orbiting rings to keep your planety blob out of the black hole in the middle. It&apos;s a cliché to call this kind of game &quot;hypnotic&quot;, so I&apos;ll avoid that, but it&apos;s certainly... calming.iPhone / iPadZombie Puzzle Panic (Free + IAP)Billed as &quot;a new spin on match 3 with 1000% more zombies and guaranteed no candies&quot;, this is an alternative to Candy Crush Saga, with a similar mix of swapping, power-ups and social bragging with your scores. And, yes, in-app purchases to smooth your progress.iPhone / iPadDisney Tsum Tsum (Free + IAP)This Disney game is going global after its debut on social messaging app Line – which you&apos;ll need to have installed and registered for before you can play. It&apos;s a puzzle-matching game with cute characters, big combos and (no surprises here) in-app purchases to help you along.iPhone / iPadA Life Worth Dying For (£1.99)This might not be a massive hit, but it&apos;s the most inventive app idea this week: a puzzle game built around video flashbacks chosen from developer Mutlu Isik&apos;s own home videos, where you have to trigger new memories by recalling sequences of cues. Isik says his fear of dementia was one inspiration for making it.iPhone / iPadHungry Henry (Free + IAP)There&apos;s a real sense of fun around this 8-bit-style action game, starring as it does a hippo (named Henry) with a taste for humans on inflatables. You have to make sure Henry eats people in the right-coloured outfits as they float towards him, by tilting your device. It&apos;s very hard, but has a Flappy Bird-grade just-one-more-go feel about it.iPhone / iPadCargo King (Free + IAP)Finally, a fun physics-action game involving stacking boxes dangling from above, which if you&apos;ve ever played a game called Tower Bloxx, is a very smart idea for a mobile game. One-tap controls make it simple to play, if not master.iPhone / iPadThose are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on iOS this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best new Android apps and games to have emerged on the Google Play store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest Android Appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for iOS apps, browse the archives ofBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups instead.APPSAndroid Wear (Free)Okay, let&apos;s be honest: unless you&apos;re a supremely-early adopter, you don&apos;t have an Android Wear-powered smartwatch yet. But if and when you do get one, this official companion app should be your first download. It&apos;s Google&apos;s official client for the smartwatches, controlling and configuring them from your smartphone.City Air (Free)City Air is the work of King&apos;s College London: an app for Londoners (plus incoming commuters) to let them know about likely air quality across the capital. When air pollution is forecast to be high, it&apos;ll offer tips on how to reduce your exposiure – and if you&apos;re a driver, your emissions too.Boots (Free)British retailer Boots&apos; Android app is a polished affair, with a mixture of news, offers and mobile shopping – including a barcode-scanning feature to find more out about products when you&apos;re actually in a store. It&apos;s neat and tidy, although obviously of most use to regular customers racking up loyalty points.FuseMe by Acision (Free)Another messaging app hoping for a tilt at WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger and even some other apps not owned by Facebook. This aims to be a jack-of-all-trades, blending Skype-style voice and video calls, text chatting, photo messaging and other features into a single app.Commandr for Google Now (Free)Something for more experienced Android users, this: an app for adding new voice commands to your device – everything from turning Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and GPS on and off through to adding notes and navigating through music. I&apos;m not sure if it&apos;s quicker than a well set-up widget, but there&apos;s potential here.Radical.fm (Free)One for US Android owners, here: a streaming &quot;personal radio&quot; service (think Pandora) drawing on a catalogue of 25m tracks, and a &quot;pay-what-you-can&quot; model of payment rather than a fixed monthly subscription. You can play themed stations, mark songs as liked, and tune your listening.NBC Sports Tour de France Live (£8.74)Sorry, this is a busier-than-usual week for US-only apps: if you want to watch the Tour de France live using NBC&apos;s app, you&apos;ll need to be in its home territory (as in NBC&apos;s, not the Tour de France&apos;s...) Live video, replays of stages once they&apos;re done, standings and rider profiles make it a comprehensive Tour companion.Bandsintown Manager (Free)An app for a very specific audience: musicians and managers of musicians, who have accounts with the Bandsintown website for managing and promoting their gigs. This app is a way for those people to keep tabs on their tourdates from their smartphones and tablets, plugging gigs on Facebook and posting status updates from the road.Wear Aware - Phone Lost (Free)A final Android Wear app – yes, the devices aren&apos;t in (well, on) people&apos;s hands yet, but it&apos;s good to be prepared – this does one simple thing: buzzes at you if you walk a certain distance away. Oh, and another simple thing: makes your phone sound an alarm if you&apos;ve lost it down the back of the sofa (for example).99 Bricks Wizard Academy for Android.GAMES99 Bricks Wizard Academy (Free)First, because it&apos;s a marvellous name. But second, because this physics-building game – essentially a cross between Tetris and mobile classic Tower Bloxx – is brilliant fun. You build towers by dropping colourful blocks into shape, while fending off other wizards and learning spells to ease your path upwards.Bounden (£1.99)Something truly original, here: a two-player game that aims to teach you how to dance proper ballet moves. You both hold the smartphone, and then follow the instructions to twirl (or, more likely, to fall in a heap). The Dutch National Ballet provides the moves.Blek (£1.75)There&apos;s a class of games on Android that you play to relax, rather than to hit high scores or defeat opponents. Blek is the latest addition to this ambient canon, and it&apos;s rather wonderful. You have to trace a line through coloured circles, while avoiding black holes. It&apos;s simple, but beautiful in both concept and design.Bezircle (Free + IAP)More circles, here, but in a game that&apos;s at its best when you have up to four players competing on a single device – so it&apos;s much more frenetic than Blek. You have to capture orbs by, ahem, &quot;bezircling&quot; them before your opponents do. There are 50 solo levels to hone your skills, but really this is all about the local multiplayer.SoulCraft 2 (Free + IAP)This is the sequel to the first SoulCraft game from developer MobileBits – you may have guessed the sequel part – charging you to &quot;defend Earth from the legions of Hell&quot; through a mixture of solo and multiplayer gameplay. A polished-looking action-RPG with plenty of potential.Disney Bola Soccer (Free + IAP)Disney&apos;s mobile football game is getting a mixed reception on the Google Play store so far: lots of five and one-star reviews. It&apos;s certainly got something: a decent story mode, plenty of upgrading flexibility for your squad, and neat graphics. The touchscreen controls may need some work though.Disney Tsum Tsum (Free + IAP)Another game from Disney, this time going global after its debut on social messaging app Line – which you&apos;ll need to have installed and registered for before you can play. It&apos;s a puzzle-matching game with cute characters, big combos and (no surprises here) in-app purchases to help you along.Indy 500 Arcade Racing (£1.09)From Japan to the US, for this official game for the Indianapolis Motor Speedway and Indy 500 race, which is designed to tug at the retro heartstrings of gamers of a certain age. 32-car races, online leaderboards and a choice of race modes should provide plenty of action.Super Battle Tactics (Free + IAP)This is the latest freemium game from DeNA, a bit like Advance Wars with more tanks. You build your team first from parts, then battle opponents, form virtual clubs with friends, and find sponsors to keep building your rolling army. It looks good at this stage, but as with any game like this, it&apos;s how it develops in the coming months that&apos;s important.RPG Soul Historica (£3.99 + IAP)Japanese publisher Kemco Games is familiar to some Android owners as the purveyor of a rapidly-growing selection of roleplaying games (RPGs). Expect mysterious masked men, a lost then strangely-found girlfriend, and multiple endings encouraging replays.Nexionode (£2.75)Finally, this week, another puzzle game: this time set in space, on a spaceship that&apos;s about to fall to bits. Your job – in the guise of a &quot;RepairDrone&quot; – is to fix it by fiddling around with more than 150 levels of circuits that need rearranging. It looks a great time-killer.Those are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on Android this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.
When Google’s founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, sat down for a rarefrank and open chatwith the veteran technology venture capitalist Vinod Khosla, they admitted, among other things, that Google is interested in healthcare but scared of its intense regulation.Page and Brin displayed their quite different personalities: Brin the maverick and head of Google X – who attempted to kite-board his way to the interview - and Page the business-focused executive now CEO.The dynamic duo have been together for 16 years, and described their relationship as a bit like an old married couple. “You don&apos;t get agitated about one little thing or another,” said Brin. “We work through it.”Google almost sold to ExciteBefore the company had really started becoming the dominant search engine and the portal to the web, Google almost sold itself to a search engine company calledExcite.“We had developed this technology we called PageRank – sadly, not BrinRank,” said Brin. “By itself, it wasn&apos;t really a complete search engine. What we had just searched titles of webpages and ranked them quite well.”“We showed it to a bunch of the existing search companies back then. Some of you might remember them - Infoseek, Excite, Lycos. And probably, the greatest interest came from Excite,” said Brin explaining that, “in the end, I don&apos;t think the management team there was quite as excited about it - no pun intended.”While Page explained that the search companies at the time didn’t “believe in search” the way Google did, Brin also put it down to Excite’s company ethos and the way it treated the company’s founders.“Do you remember the founders&apos; dungeon?” asked Brin. “Here&apos;s these offices, so we go downstairs, and they locked away this one founder. I don&apos;t remember which one it was. He&apos;s in a little closet downstairs.“I don&apos;t know how long I would&apos;ve stayed, to be honest.&quot;Spread betting, because not everything has to pay offA Google Project Loon balloon on the ground. Photograph: Marty Melville/AFP/Getty ImagesGoogle has often been accused of having too many irons in the fire. On the outside it is seen as a bit scattershot, its products covering everything from communications and search to health, robots, internet balloons and self-driving cars.“I would always have this debate with Steve Jobs. He&apos;d be like, &apos;You guys are doing too much stuff.&apos; And I&apos;d be like, &apos;Yeah that&apos;s true.&apos; And he was right, in some sense,” explained Page. “I think it sounds stupid if you have this big company, and you can only do five things.”“We try to invest, at least, in the places where we see a good fit to our company. But that could be many, many bets, and only a few of them need to pay off,” explained Brin.Head of Google X – Google’s semi-secret facility dedicated to making major technological advancements – Brin sees his role as making the “big bets” hoping that some of them pay off separate from Google’s core search and advertising business.Self-driving cars could unlock citiesGoogle's new self-driving car prototype. Photograph: ReutersGoogle X’s most high-profile project of the last three months has been a newpurpose-built prototype of its self-driving car. Brin hopes that it can be a “really dramatic change” society but only if we migrate away from car ownership.“So much of our land in most cities, about 30% to 50% is parking, which is a tremendous waste. Also, the roads themselves, which are both congested and take a lot of space are just unpleasant,” explained Brin. “So with self-driving cars, you don&apos;t really need much in the way of parking, because you don&apos;t need one car per person. They just come and get you when you need them.”Brin believes that self-driving cars could also more efficiently use the resources like roads that we already have – a particular problem in congested Britain.“They can form trains. They can go at high speed, perhaps much higher than our highway speeds here. Fundamentally, they can just make much more efficient use of the space and therefore, people&apos;s time. So I think that can be really transformative,” concluded Brin.Health has potential but intense regulation is ‘just a painful business&apos;Google’s recent moves in heath, includingGoogle Fitand a plethora of apps, have followed an increasing trend that has seen both large and small technology companies migrating towards the business of health and medicine.The health market could be a larger business than both search and media – the healthcare industry in the US alone hit around $3 trillion in 2013. While Brin sees great potential in health, regulation is a massive barrier.“Generally, health is just so heavily regulated. It&apos;s just a painful business to be in,” Bring explained. “I think the regulatory burden in the US is so high that think it would dissuade a lot of entrepreneurs.”Along with Google Fit, the search giant launched a company called Calico, an independent biotechnology research firm which focuses on health and longevity.“I am really excited about the possibility of data also, to improve health,” said Page. “Imagine you had the ability to search people&apos;s medical records in the US.”“I imagine that would save 10,000 lives in the first year,” said Page warning that with current legislation “that&apos;s almost impossible to do because of HIPPA [Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act]. I do worry that we regulate ourselves out of some really great possibilities that are certainly on the data-mining end.”Computers are still pretty badThe Motorola Moto 360 smartwatch is one of the latest running Google's new Android Wear software. Photograph: Jeff Chiu/APGoogle started on the desktop with search but the company has rapidly expanded into other computing areas including mobile devices with Android smartphones and tablets, the new Android Wear smartwatches and Google Glass smartglasses.For Brin and Page, computers and mobile devices just aren’t efficient uses of time at the moment:“You&apos;re just messing around. You&apos;re scrolling on your touchscreen phone, and trying to find stuff. You&apos;re in a car. It&apos;s bouncy, and you can’t – it doesn&apos;t really work,” said Page.“I think the actual amount of knowledge you get out of your computer versus the amount of time you spend with it is still pretty bad. So I think our job is to solve that, and most of the things we&apos;re doing make sense in that context,” explained Brin.Google sees search and intelligent information delivery as the key to changing that, getting to the information you need faster and more efficiently though machine understanding search topics and the answers to questions.Google’s efforts go beyond search, however, and towards providing users with information at the right time without them having to ask for it.“If you look at things like Google Now also. Maybe you want to just have [a question] answered for you before you ask it,” said Page explaining that the “I’m feeling lucky” button was originally meant to fill that role, but it was “kind of an obtuse naming of the feature”.AI and fully reasoning AI - Brain projectOne of the advances that has powered intelligent information delivery for Google has been artificial intelligence (AI). The company hit the headlines at the beginning of the year with theacquisition of a UK AI powerhouse called Deep Mindlead by former child chess prodigy and Theme Park game programmerDemis Hassabis.Google has several projects within AI ongoing beyond its core search product, explained Brin:“There&apos;s, for example, the brain project, which is really machine-learning focused. It takes input, such as vision. In fact, we&apos;ve been using it for the self-driving cars.”“And then, there&apos;s more general intelligence, like the DeepMind acquisition that - in theory - we hope will one day be fully reasoning AI,” explained Brin saying that creating true artificial intelligence as most people understand it – a machine that can learn and think for itself – is the goal.“Obviously, computer scientists have been promising that for decades and not at all delivered. So I think it would be foolish of us to make prognoses about that,” said Brin. “[But] you should presume that someday, we will be able to make machines that can reason, think and do things better than we can.”Robots taking over society &apos;90% of people used to be farmers&apos;The Atlas humanoid robot is just one of the Boston Dynamics stable of advanced robotic platforms acquired by Google. Photograph: Boston DynamicsGoogle is acutely aware that with the rise of intelligent robots jobs could be at risk, as machines could replace humans in more than just manufacturing industries.“I do think that a lot of the things that people do have been, over the past century, replaced by machines and will continue to be,” said Brin with Page adding, “90% of people used to be farmers. So it&apos;s happened before. It&apos;s not surprising.”In Page’s view robots and machines should be able to provide a “time of abundance” where everyone’s basic needs could be met relatively easily.“I was talking to Richard Branson about this. They don&apos;t have enough jobs in the UK. He&apos;s been trying to get people to hire two part-time people instead of one full-time. So at least, the young people can have a half-time job rather than no job,” said Page.With a more productive or efficient society aided by machines you could “just reduce work time,” according to Page, who explained that he had floated the idea of an extra week or two of holiday or a four-day work week frequently in the past with universal approval.“Most people like working, but they&apos;d also like to have more time with their family or to pursue their own interests,” said Page saying that by reducing the workweek you could spread jobs across more people.The full interview.•What is Boston Dynamics and why is Google interested in robots?•Things to remember about the &apos;right to be forgotten&apos; as Google removes links
The game development landscape has changed dramatically over the past five years. The rise of smartphone app stores and digital distribution platforms like Steam have made it possible for small studios to attract a global fanbase without having to go through publishers to distribute and market their wares.Britain has seen huge success stories, including award-winning games like New Star Soccer and The Room, but for many start-ups money is usually a pretty big barrier to realising their dream project. It can take many months to develop and release a game, so who pays the staff, buys the equipment and keeps everyone in food and accommodation in the meantime?Yet many start-ups are emerging without business plans, or business people. The UK games industry is now mostly made up of hundreds of very small studios: arecent survey by trade body Tigafound that of the 620 developers throughout the country, 59% employ fewer than five staff members.Rockstar's Grand Theft Auto V Photograph: Rockstar/APOften these teams are formed by young graduates, or by staff who have dropped out of the few remaining larger companies like Rockstar North or Codemasters. Over the past five years, we&apos;ve also seen dozens of major developers close down, including Bizarre Creations in Liverpool and Brighton&apos;s Black Rock. When they do, dozens of staff will set up on their own with a few colleagues and a bunch of ideas, but not much in the way of capital.With this in mind, Tiga has just publisheda free guide to developer funding in the UK. It explains the major sources of third-party finance from equity investors to government-backed grants, but it also reveals some interesting facts regarding what angel investors and venture capitalists actually look for in games companies.One amazing game idea is apparentlynotit.People, not product&quot;Different investors have different criteria but most will be more interested in the quality and experience of the team than the creative or technical accomplishments of the products they are working on,&quot; says Nick Gibson of Games Investor Consulting.&quot;The more industry-savvy investors will also pay close attention to the developer’s commercial model and vision. It&apos;s about how sophisticated the developer’s understanding of its commercial model and its path to profitability is.&quot;King's Candy Crush Saga Photograph: Gabriel Bouys/AFP/Getty ImagesInvestors don&apos;t want pitches promising the next Candy Crush Saga. &quot;VCs want to see scalability and repeatability,&quot; says Dr Charles Kriel, director of game design consultancy 12 Stories Tall. &quot;They view game hits as one offs, even while King and Supercell are proving them wrong.&quot;Investors want strong teams with good leadership, an understanding of business and a cogent vision for where they&apos;re going. Studios need to write a short business plan - a few pages and no more - on what their intellectual property (IP) is and where it may lead. They need an understanding of how the game fits into the market place: what are its competitors? How big is the genre? It&apos;s about providing some sort of assurance that there is long term traction. That this isn&apos;t just a group of gamers betting on a single idea.The problem is, for a lot of smaller studios, this is exactly what&apos;s going on: they have a project they&apos;re dying to make, and not much of an idea beyond that. This leads to a major clash of cultures.&quot;It often feels like investors are speaking a different language,&quot; says Andrew Smith, founder of Spilt Milk Studios, which is just finishing its latest title, Tango Fiesta. &quot;Their world is so full of acronyms and buzzwords, and they&apos;re not only using words and phrases that are unfamiliar, they&apos;re looking at you and your company in a way that often seems dry and analytical; that&apos;s just not something a lot of game devs are used to.&quot;Small startups are mostly led by creative people who have broken away from a large companies with a dream game they want to make. This is at odds with what is often &apos;investable&apos;.&quot;Experience is essentialStudios also need a background in the industry to interest many of the key investors.&quot;We look for more than a paper idea,&quot; says Josh Levy an investment analyst at Murcia Fund Management. &quot;We like to see a good team in place with experience in developing and launching games in the past, as well as evidence that they’ve made some progress with the actual product. This could be written code, pre-existing relationships with channels and distributors, or a strong marketing plan.&quot;It sounds like a catch 22: gain experience before being eligible for funding. But many of the better undergraduate video game courses (thoseaccredited by Skillset) offer students the chance to develop and release game projects as part of the curriculum; events like Ludam Dare and Global Game Jam also allow small teams to at least prototype ideas and projects together.From here, it may be possible to take on contract work for another studio, providing assets for a game, or taking on complete freelance projects – according to Tiga&apos;s report, 59% of UK studios have funded themselves in this manner. There is also a growing range of crowd-funding options, which may help in getting a small project off the ground. This also proves that there is an engaged community, interested in the product and ready to pay for it.&quot;Investors want a proven track record of success to assess your viability as a business,&quot; says Ashon Spooner, co-founder of brand new crowdfunding site, Phundee, which offers both donation and equity-based investment.&quot;You can have the best idea in the world but if you can&apos;t point to your ability to deliver this idea in a manner that is financially attractive and repeatable, an investor won&apos;t be likely to get excited.&quot;Where to meet investorsMeeting investors seems like it&apos;s pretty important too. The UK sees dozens of conferences and mixer events where developers can meet VCs, angels and publishers; some of these charge but most have formal and informal free networking events.The regularLaunchevents in Birmingham,Game Horizonin Newcastle andDevelopin Brighton all cater to small studios on limited budgets looking for either investment or advice.These are also a good way to meet game publishers, which is the alternative to bringing a game to market. Publishers will fund production and help with marketing and distribution, but they&apos;ll want a cut of revenue and they may well want the IP rights, too.Either way, accepting investment is a major decision for a small studio, especially if its a first venture for a bunch of 20-somethings right out of university.&quot;It all depends on what you’re trying to make,&quot; says David Thomson of Ludometrics, whose current game,Bodycheck, is partly funded by The University of Abertay’s Prototype Fund and Creative Scotland.&quot;You’re going to need a hell of a lot of money if you want to make something to compete against Hay Day or Candy Crush. If you want to make something that’s designed as more of an &apos;experience&apos;, then you’re unlikely to be that appealing to many investors.&quot;There are different pressures if you bring in someone else’s money - they’re not giving you that money to sit on it, for one thing – they expect you to spend it. With a publisher, if you’re not used to managing expectations and delivering milestones you can find yourself in trouble.&quot;The problem withnottaking any money is that it becomes incredibly hard to keep your team together - I’ve seen a lot of talented teams fall apart simply because one or two people simply had to take a job.&quot;What the current game industry has produced an investment culture that is more about people and preparation than being able to say, &quot;our game is better than Angry Birds&quot;. The app store environment is hugely unpredictable, with thousands of titles vying for the attention of busy customers – a true solo breakout hit like Flappy Bird is rare and almost impossible to predict.So investors are looking for any sort of assurance – even if that&apos;s a prototype and a business plan. The games industry is a big earner in the UK, and likely to become more important as tax credits, theoretically, encourage innovative development and inward investment. A lot of that growth will depend on those tiny five-person studios.It&apos;s already necessary for one or two of staff on every games dev team to double up as marketing and community chiefs – it seems it may be a good idea to add a business manager too.•How to get into the games industry – an insiders&apos; guide•The five most disruptive ideas in video game design
The idea of Moshi Monsters in crisis is strange, given that the children&apos;s virtual world has more than 80m registered users, and a thriving business in magazines, merchandise, toys and 2013&apos;s official movie.A philosophical crisis? More likely: Moshi Monsters&apos; parent company Mind Candy has spent the past couple of years racking its brains over this challenge: how to release mobile apps that are as popular with children as its web-based virtual world was in the past.In July 2012, chief executive Michael Acton Smith said thatMind Candy was about to launch an iPad app version of Moshi Monsters.&quot;We&apos;re hopefully going to launch Pocket Moshi or Moshi-on-the-Move or whatever it&apos;s called in the next few months,&quot; said Smith, in an appearance at the Children&apos;s Media Conference (CMC) in Sheffield. &quot;We&apos;re going to make it free, and hopefully have millions of kids playing it.&quot;The app never came out. Instead, Mind Candy has released some smaller apps – aguide to its world&apos;s Moshlings characters, avirtual pet game, amusic videos appand adigital version of its print magazine, for example – without any of them really catching fire on the app stores.This month, Smith was back at CMC to provide an update, including a characteristically-honest assessment of his company&apos;s past efforts. &quot;We thought it would be easy to move our web stuff to mobile, and it wasn&apos;t. It was extraordinarily difficult,&quot; Smith told delegates during the conference&apos;s closing keynote speech.&quot;There are so many new challenges, not least how the commercial side of things works. We certainly haven&apos;t cracked it yet, despite trying very hard with a well-established brand.&quot;Smith added that Mind Candy has been tracking wider trends around children and apps, noting two in particular: their interest in playing &quot;free-to-play&quot; games – the ones that make their money from a mixture of ads and in-app purchases – intended for an older audience; and the fact that they&apos;re turning up in increasing numbers on social networks that in theory are for over-13s only.&quot;Kids don&apos;t have their own app where their voice and creativity can be heard, so they are joining up to grown-up social networks in their droves. Facebook, Tumblr, Snapchat and Instagram in particular are hugely popular with kids,&quot; said Smith.This is clearly a concern for Mind Candy, faced with the prospect of Moshi Monsters losing relevance for under-13s who&apos;d rather be playing Clash of Clans and Candy Crush Saga, or sharing photos on Instagram and Snapchat.Mind Candy's PopJam app.PopJam: social sharing but safelyEnterPopJam, which is Mind Candy&apos;s latest app, unveiled by Smith during his CMC keynote, although it was actually launched quietly in October 2013 under a different name: JellyChat.Then, it was a cross between WhatsApp and SnapChat but for kids, focused on text chat and private photo-sharing, with digital scribbling and stickers included.Its public launch as PopJam sees it shifting to more of an Instagram-for-kids approach: private chat is still a feature, but the emphasis is much more on a public feed of shared photos. Smith pitched it as a safer alternative to the grown-up social networking apps.&quot;With these environments, there are all sorts of issues. Why not give kids their own space where kids can be kids?&quot; he asked. &quot;We&apos;d love to build a creative community that inspires, entertains and empowers all the kids in the world. Give kids the tools, and step back to see what they create.&quot;PopJam is colourful and easy to use, aimed at 7-12 year-olds who can create their profiles, customise and share photos, and follow &quot;channels&quot; based around specific themes – from memes like Cats, Fail and LOL to specific brands: Minecraft, Lego, Doctor Who, One Direction, Adventure Time and more.Smith was at CMC to launch PopJam partly to encourage children&apos;s TV, publishing and games companies to consider launching official channels within the app, although he stressed that – for now at least – Mind Candy won&apos;t be charging brands to have a presence within PopJam.&quot;For now, the core focus is that there&apos;s no commercial aspect to it: it&apos;s simply free, and if we can build an audience of millions and tens of millions of kids, then we can figure out how the commercial side will work,&quot; he said.&quot;One option could be to charge small amounts for sticker packs or extra ways of customising photos. We could do that, but it may not sit quite so comfortably with parents. That&apos;s why we feel maybe subscription is the way to go: parents pay a few pounds a month, they know exactly how much they&apos;re going to pay, we have predictable, recurring revenues, and kids get access to extra premium content.&quot;Moderation is the keyMind Candy hopes safety will be a key part of PopJam&apos;s appeal to parents, promising that a &quot;big team of very experienced human moderators&quot; are working on the app, including pre-moderating photos shared by newer users.&quot;If you&apos;re a new user, all the content you push into the app will go through human moderators. Once we get to know users a little better and how their behaviour is in the app, they may be treated differently,&quot; said Smith. &quot;There&apos;s a lot of complexity behind the scenes.&quot;Children are being discouraged from sharing selfies of their own faces unless they&apos;re disguised with stickers – virtual masks for example – and the app&apos;s messaging features will be closely monitored for children trying to share personal details like home addresses.While testing PopJam with a fellow CMC attendee, a message sent with swearing saw those words replaced by # symbols – and a few days later, even that censored message had been deleted from the conversation.&quot;This is a very delicate balancing act we&apos;ve got to get right,&quot; said Smith, on the balance between parents feeling safe and children feeling restricted. &quot;I think we can do it: if kids don&apos;t have their own space, they&apos;re going to continue going to over-13 sites.&quot;Human moderation isn&apos;t infallible – thedownfall of children&apos;s virtual world Habbo Hotelin 2012 was a reminder of that – but Mind Candy hopes its experience on the web will persuade parents that PopJam can be trusted too, including for issues like data collection.&quot;We&apos;re going to be incredibly responsible just as we were with Moshi. There are no plans to monetise that, and there are very strict regulations around that,&quot; said Smith.&quot;Currently, when children sign up they have a unique user name, and we ask for an age. There is nothing more than that at this stage. For now there are no plans to collect huge amounts of data.&quot;Doubters will inevitably pick up on the phrases &quot;at this stage&quot; and &quot;for now&quot;, but PopJam, like the social networks for adults, will have to disclose any changes to its data collection policies, and is sure to be picked up on any expansion of the information that it is taking in on its young users.Moshling Rescue game's in-app purchases go up to £59.99.Freemium risksAt CMC, I interviewed Smith on-stage after his keynote speech, and asked him about a different aspect of Mind Candy&apos;s mobile strategy: one that&apos;s been raising eyebrows within the children&apos;s entertainment industry. That&apos;s the company&apos;s expansion into freemium mobile games.Moshi Monsters Villageis a FarmVille-style strategy game that sells its &quot;Rox&quot; currency for up to £29.99 at a time as in-app purchases (IAP). Temple Run-style racing gameMoshi Kartsalso goes up to £29.99 with its virtual currency shop, while Candy Crush-alike matching puzzle gameMoshling Rescue&apos;s IAP goes all the way up to £59.99.The latter in particular seemed a puzzling – and worrying – move for Mind Candy. The company&apos;s argument is that the game isn&apos;t for kids: it&apos;s for parents.&quot;It&apos;s a very delicate line and we are trying to balance this correctly. It&apos;s part of this experimental phase. We know there are a lot of mums who have played Moshi with their kids and love it, love the characters and the Moshlings, so why don&apos;t we try to create a brand for an older audience?&quot; said Smith.&quot;We haven&apos;t actively promoted this new game Moshling Rescue to kids: it&apos;s aimed at a much older audience, and therefore we can be a little bit more liberal with the way the in-app purchase side of things works.&quot;Smith sees games like Moshling Rescue as marking Mind Candy&apos;s transition into a company that makes entertainment for families, not just children.&quot;It&apos;s very hard to just create entertainment for kids. You have to bring some of the parents along as well. Some of the most successful companies in the world create entertainment for all ages,&quot; he said, citing Nintendo and Pixar as examples.However, this may be the most dangerous balancing act facing Mind Candy, caught between its desire to make responsible, trusted entertainment for kids, and its frustration at not being able to make the kind of money being generated by (theoretically) adult freemium games like Supercell&apos;s Clash of Clans and King&apos;s Candy Crush Saga.&quot;It&apos;s very hard to generate the kind of income [from children&apos;s apps] that justifies the huge teams and multi-year projects that we want to do. I can&apos;t think of too many companies that have cracked this,&quot; he said.&quot;Toca Boca is often given as a good example, and their apps are wonderful, magical, amazing. But they are making a fraction of the money that some of the Kings and the Supercell and the others are. No one&apos;s quite cracked it: it&apos;s a really tricky problem.&quot;While Mind Candy tries to crack it, Smith said it remains committed to the web-based virtual world that started off the Moshi Monsters phenomenon – &quot;the beating heart of the property&quot; – despite changing habits of children.&quot;We still love the web experience at Moshi, we still support it and have a team on it, but we feel the new centre of gravity will be mobile and tablets,&quot; he said.&quot;We&apos;re living in a world now where kids will have their own devices, not just to play games, but to read stories, listen to music, watch videos, and communicate with other kids around the world.&quot;•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children’s media
It's Monday!
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhere is Google Goggles IOS??? &gt;&gt; Google Product ForumsGoogle has made an official statement found at https://productforums.google.com/forum/#!msg/websearch-ja/tmFlGf1s-MY/r0Gi_2c1oDAJEnglish translation: The Google Goggles feature (capturing images with the camera, to search) was a fun feature, but also a feature of no clear use to too many people. Therefore, in the Google search app for iPhone, iPad, the feature has been abandoned at this time of updating.It's dead, Jim, along with Orkut.Android Wear – from an actual user &gt;&gt; Rusty RantsRussell Ivanovic:This is the promise of Android Wear, it liberates me from having to interact with my phone at all in most cases. If I had wanted to, I could also have configured an even smaller subset of notifications, because the Android Wear app on your phone lets you choose additional apps to ignore notifications for.The watch also tracks my step count, and can read my heart beat. The step count seems fairly accurate and is a handy, interesting thing to know. The heart beat doesn't really excite me (har har) at all, but it's there and works. You can respond to text messages by voice, and being Google's implementation of voice recognition it works amazingly well. Personally I'm not comfortable talking to a watch in public, so I use it in a much more passive way. My pocket vibrates and I look at my watch, it's a text from my wife. Later when I sit down I respond to it. My pocket vibrates and this time it's a Twitter notification, so I just swipe once to dismiss it. My phone also clears the notification, since it knows I've dealt with it on my watch.The three problems with Google Wear &gt;&gt; Beyond DevicesJan Dawson:I've been using a Google Wear device – the Samsung Galaxy Live – since I picked it up at I/O last week. I've tried a number of other smartwatches before now, and it's interesting to see the differences. As it's currently constituted, I see three flaws with Google Wear, two of which seem to be pretty fundamental, and one of which should be fixed soon.Cards, Google Now and apps. See if you can figure out which is the one that can be fixed before you read what he says.The real meaning of the Fire Phone &gt;&gt; Mobile OpportunityMichael Mace:For online retailers, the single most frustrating thing about mobile technology, especially smartphones, is that it people using it don't buy a lot of stuff. They'll browse in your web store and use your shopping app, but when it comes time to buy they often don't purchase. The industry rule of thumb is that a good commerce site on a personal computer will convert about 3% of shoppers to buyers (in other words, for every 100 online shoppers you make three sales). The conversion rate for smartphones is a third of that, about 1%.In an industry that would kill to improve conversion by a tenth of a point, that drop from 3% to 1% is horrifying. Many commerce companies have spent years trying to fix it, and through incredible effort and careful experimentation it is indeed possible to increase the mobile conversion rate. In my day job at UserTesting that's one of the things I help companies do. But it's a slow process of incremental fixes, and in the meantime mobile web use is growing explosively. Here's the nightmare scenario for an online retailer:—What if the next generation of internet users moves to smartphones and wearables faster than we can figure out how to fix mobile shopping?—What if, as people move to mobile, the conversion rate for our whole business drops from 3% to 1%?He makes an excellent case - that the salesofthe Fire Phone really don't matter. It's what the salesonthe Fire Phone reveal that matters.I'd never admit that to my doctor. but to a computer? Sure &gt;&gt; Pacific StandardAdmit it: The last time you sat down with a physician and revealed your medical history, did you fudge a bit? Were there certain incidents you were too embarrassed to admit? Did you gloss over certain behaviors that might make you look bad?It's a serious problem for health professionals and patients alike. With less-complete information to work with, doctors are more likely to misdiagnose an illness, or prescribe an inappropriate drug.Recently published researchoffers a possible solution to this problem: Virtual humans. In the journal Computers in Human Behavior, a research team reports patients are more comfortable discussing private matters with these computer-created entities, and this ease prompts them to disclose more information.Four reasons nobody cares about smartwatches &gt;&gt; TIMEBen Taylor of FindTheBest:If you watched Google present Android Wear last week, you'd think the smartwatch was the hottest product on the market. What could be better than an intelligent timepiece that can take calls and understand voice commands?It turns out nobody cares. At FindTheBest, we compared traffic and user engagement for dozens of product categories, from smartphones and laptops to printers and processors. The results? FindTheBest users are three times more likely to research fitness trackers than smartwatches, and over 40 times more likely to research smartphones. Even the godawful Bluetooth headset is more popular.So we asked ourselves: why isn't the smartwatch as popular as its wrist-based cousin, the fitness tracker? Why hasn't the mainstream market bought in? Here are four reasons.Pretty much impossible to disagree - especially contrasted with the benefits MP3 players and smartphones brought.Old school: I work in DOS for an entire day &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaSean Gallagher:In tribute to the project's two decades (and to those brave souls who keep the DOS fires burning), I decided to spend a day this week working in FreeDOS. I set up a machine running the latest distribution of the OS along with software from the FreeDOS Package Manager repositories. I then added whatever other software I could scrape together—open source software, freeware, and "abandonware" found on the Web, plus some software graciously sent by Lee Hutchinson from his own personal reserve of DOSware. I wanted to know if it was possible to do modern Web-based work in DOS—and just how painful it might prove to be.I was soon rocking my computer like it was 1994.No names, but some of us were coping pretty well in 1991 with laptops containing Intel 80386s and sending text files via dialup acoustic modems. But you try telling that to kids today... (Thanks @GambaKufu for the link.)This is the first photo taken with the Sony curved sensor &gt;&gt; PetapixelMuch of what was sharedwe already knew. According to the article (Google translationhere), the sensor was created to mimic eyes, which led to several advantages.The sensor's shape allows for cheaper smaller lenses with wider apertures while simultaneously getting rid of vignetting and aberrations. It also reduces the "dark current" of the sensor (more on thathere), thereby reducing noise.Since you're wondering, "dark current" is "the current that is flowing through pixels even when they're not receiving light".HP's fanless Chromebox has a noisy fan inside &gt;&gt; Geek.comIf you use the word "fanless" in a product description I expect a device that does not use any fans in order to keep components cool. Fanless is not a buzzword you can use in place of "quiet operation" as it has a meaning, specifically: no fans are being used. But HP seems to have overlooked that fact in its new Chromebox.The HP Chromebox runs a 1.4Ghz Haswell Celeron processor, 2GB RAM, and has 16GB of local storage. That Celeron processor has Intel HD Graphics on board and a max TDP of 15W, but it seems HP couldn't incorporate enough passive cooling to keep the chip within its operating temperatures. The large grill you see on the back of the Chromebox is where a fan inside forces hot air out.Stupidless.On Leave &gt;&gt; Matt CuttsCutts is Google's SEO king and spam-killer:I wanted to let folks know that I'm about to take a few months of leave. When I joined Google, my wife and I agreed that I would work for 4-5 years, and then she'd get to see more of me. I talked about this as recently as last month and as early as 2006. And now, almost fifteen years later I'd like to be there for my wife more. I know she'd like me to be around more too, and not just physically present while my mind is still on work.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Britain's technology companies are struggling to attract a new generation of mobile-savvy children who are using tablets and their parents' smartphones to log on to "free" games. Parents fear this shift could lead to large bills for expensive in-app purchases, which children make once they are playing the games. It also threatens to allow access to potentially inappropriate adult social media sites.Meanwhile, new media companies – which are being disrupted as much as traditional firms by the shift to mobile technology – are struggling to find ways to make their products profitable.London-based Mind Candy has more than 80 million children registered to its Moshi Monsters online virtual world, but its chief executive, Michael Acton Smith, admitted at last week'sChildren's Media Conference in Sheffieldthat the company has found it hard to follow them to mobile devices."We thought it would be easy to move our web stuff to mobile, and it wasn't. It was extraordinarily difficult," said Smith. "There are so many new challenges, not least how the commercial side of things works. We certainly haven't cracked it yet, despite trying very hard with a well-established brand."Smith was speaking as Mind Candy launched PopJam, a new iPhone and Android app pitched as a safe alternative to Instagram for children aged between seven and 13. Children can take pictures, customise them with digital scribbles and stickers, then share them with friends. "Kids don't have their own app where their voice and creativity can be heard, so they are joining up to grown-up social networks in their droves. Facebook, Tumblr, Snapchat and Instagram in particular are hugely popular with kids," said Smith.Mind Candy has a team of staff "pre-moderating" images before they are published, and is encouraging children not to share selfie photos of their own faces, unless they are disguised using the digital stickers.Games for adults, such as Candy Crush Saga and Clash of Clans, have attracted large numbers of children, even though they sell virtual currency in quantities of up to £69.99 as in-app purchases."The challenge is that a lot of things possible for adult apps and game apps –in-app purchasing and advertising – are really frowned upon in a lot of kids' content," said Tom Bonnick, digital project and marketing manager at Nosy Crow, a British apps and books publisher.The alternative is charging upfront for children's apps, but parents are unwilling to pay, which is one reason why their kids may be playing the "free-to-play" games instead."I find it really strange that a parent will spend £10 on a beautiful book but would never in a million years spend £10 on a beautiful app," said Antonio Gould, digital producer for Teach Your Monster to Read, an online game that helps children to hone their early reading skills.Companies believe they can provide safe, educational experiences for children through apps, while making enough money  to keep making those apps and improving their quality.Smith said that Mind Candy hopes PopJam will eventually make money from parents paying a small monthly subscription to unlock extra features for their children, while suggesting that his industry must "crack the nut" of children's app economics in response to changing media habits."We're living in a world now where kids will have their own devices, not just to play games, but to read stories, listen to music, watch videos, and communicate with other kids around the world," he said.Dylan Collins of marketing network SuperAwesome, warned that the children's entertainment industry must not underestimate the challenge ahead of it. "The single biggest threat to our digital content industry today is mobile: the thing that everyone thinks is the best thing ever," said Collins."Fundamentally, the maths on that does not stack up. If you talk to kids' apps developers, there's not a single one who is not a little bit concerned about the sustainability of their industry over the next one, two, five years."
Price £999.99Groupset SRAM Rival WiFliWheels FSA Team 30sPlanet Xsounds like a dark star from some distant galaxy where&nbsp;comic-book superheroes fight to save the universe. In&nbsp;fact,&nbsp;it is a&nbsp;bike manufacturer in Sheffield. But the brand's stratospheric rise over the past&nbsp;25 years means it is now a&nbsp;world away from the days when&nbsp;its founder, Dave Loughran, used to hawk frames out the back of&nbsp;his van to fellow racers at bike events around the country.His firm is now the second largest – and the fastest growing – builder of bikes in Britain. Brompton is still&nbsp;hanging on to the top spot with its ingenious folding machines, but it&nbsp;can't be for long.This bicycle, thePro Carbon, is Planet X's best seller and it has won a peloton's worth of cycle and rider awards. It boasts a full Toray T700 carbonfibre frame and it is powered by a&nbsp;specially tweaked SRAM Rival WiFli groupset which offers the type of energy-efficient, high-cadence cycling that sends you soaring up hills in the style of Alberto Contador (well, that's what he says anyway). The bike also features SRAM's unique Double Tap 10-speed gear system, which uses a single paddle for both up- and down-shifts – an elegant solution which keeps the bars neat and tidy. The wheels are lightweight FSA Team 30s, and it's all&nbsp;topped off with a smart Italian saddle by San Marco.Hardened cyclists are a masochistic bunch, and sitting on a&nbsp;thin sliver of&nbsp;plastic as you bounce across a&nbsp;potholed road may sound about as much fun as an amateur vasectomy, but if that's your thing you'll love the&nbsp;stiff, responsive and speedy ride this bike offers.Chain drive: the Pro Carbon is available with the SRAM Rival groupset or you can upgrade to a Shimano Ultegra.The Pro Carbon is a high-end piece of kit that sums up Planet X's unusual approach to business. An approach which borders on the deranged: it offers terrific bikes at scarcely believable prices. The result of this, as the infectiously enthusiastic chief designer Brant Richards tells me, is that: "We've never been busier. We just can't build the bikes fast enough."It's hardly a surprise. The Pro Carbon sells for £999.99 – based on my calculations, I'd say it should be priced at no less than £1,400. I'm not an accountant, but does that sound like a sensible business model to you?Oh but it is, says Brant. Ducking under the £1,000 barrier (by a&nbsp;single penny) is crucial. It means the bike scrapes below the bar set for the government's cycle-to-work scheme, which offers tax relief to encourage employees to commute by bike. The&nbsp;huge increase in sales this brings&nbsp;means Planet X can afford to keep offering its best-seller at such an&nbsp;artificially low price.The Pro Carbon is the calibre of bike that serious riders would normally park lovingly in their shed and only venture out on when the sun is high and the tarmac dry. So&nbsp;to use it&nbsp;as a daily commute feels sacrilegious. But why save the best for Sundays? I spent a week gliding into town and it coped brilliantly. It turned my daily grind into a journey I looked forward to. In bike terms, a&nbsp;little luxury can go a long way.By the bookManual labour: the young people who have taken part in the first Haynes MechaniX programme.Haynes Publishing, publishers of the famous car manuals, are about to announce the first graduates of their inauguralHaynes MechaniX programme. They've taken a group of 15 to 25-year-olds from an underprivileged area of Islington, north London, and trained them up to be car mechanics? The graduates will be awarded their City &amp; Guilds qualification on 8 July which will help them down the road to pursue careers in mechanics. This is the first course of its kind run by Haynes Publishing, and the group used the much-loved manuals to help them through the course.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
I peer down the alley, knowing the bottleneck leaves no room for manoeuvre. Clear. The sign ahead points towards the asylum, so I beckon my squadmates. As we dart down the path, a scream peals out from ahead and as we reach what we hoped was safety, we instead find undead terror. Welcome to London, site of the zombie apocalypse.Or perhaps it's not London – it could be Glasgow, Sheffield or another city where Slingshot's live gaming event2.8&nbsp;Hours Lateris held (dates and locations at2.8hourslater.com). Channelling the likes of video gameLeft 4 Dead, teams are sent out into real-world streets on a mission to obtain clean water. Survival requires dodging or distracting zombies, working out strategies, and "hacking" waypoints to access co-ordinates.As if caught in some parallel reality, you'll play out your quest among an unaware general population, the game's route taking you through eerily quiet or disused areas, and the occasional shopping centre. With key scenes played out by actors,2.8&nbsp;Hours Latermanages to deliver an immersive story. A general level of fitness is required as there's lots of running, but the survivors' after-party almost makes up for having to engage in actual exercise.The experience will depend greatly on your team-mates, however. Book with friends who are into the theatrics and it could be fantastic; unfortunately, I was paired with lads on a stag-do, which somewhat lessened the impact. Playing in the darker months is advised for maximum atmospheric effect, but testing&nbsp;your gaming skills in the flesh is a thrill regardless.
Rose-tinted glasses can, of course, lead to coloured recollections, something to keep in mind when approaching the latest remake of the classicAnother World. Make no mistake, this sci-fi action platformer game remains one of gaming's true milestones: its minimalistic designs and smooth animation, remastered for HD with clean edges and detailed backgrounds, are as striking today as they were on the Amiga back in 1991. But it's demanding gameplay, requiring pixel-precise control of protagonist Lester&nbsp;(a&nbsp;physicist transported to an alien world, desperate to return home), may frustrate now. Part ofAnother World's charm was its difficulty, leaving players to figure out controls and puzzles without any onscreen hints or displays. While that still holds, slow movement and response to input isn't endearing. Being able to switch between original and updated visuals is a nice touch, but one that reinforces this as more of a history lesson. Great for nostalgics, but unlikely to impress newcomers.
Nascaris Marmite motorsport. Fans eulogise about 43 cars racing inches apart at the far side of 200mph while a hard wall waits to bite those who err. And then there are people who just don't get it: the "anyone can turn left" brigade who deride the simplicity of the machinery and go on about how the sport is stuck beneath the Mason-Dixon Line.How can something apparently so simple be so hard? Why should anyone persevere with a game where you seem destined to end up stationary on the infield grass with all four tyres pointing at the sky just because of the tiniest twitch of the wheel? Stick with it, tinker with the settings and try to ignore the slightly retro graphics. Persistence pays, and winning never felt so good, particularly when you ramp up the difficulty level.Nascar '14is challenging and strangely addictive, but sadly many potential fans will be lost before they can feel the joy.
There are two interesting lessons to be drawn from&nbsp;the row about Facebook's "emotional contagion" study. The first is what it tells us about Facebook's users. The second is what it tells us about corporations such as Facebook.In case you missed it, here's the gist of the story. The first thing users of Facebook see when they log in is their news feed, a list of status updates, messages and photographs posted by friends. The list that is displayed to each individual user is not comprehensive (it doesn't include all the possibly relevant information from all of that person's friends). But nor is it random: Facebook's proprietary algorithms choose which items to display in a process that is sometimes called "curation". Nobody knows the criteria used by the algorithms – that's as much of a trade secret as those used by Google's page-ranking algorithm. All we know is that an algorithm decides what Facebook users see in their news feeds.So far so obvious. What triggered the controversy was the discovery, via the publication ofa research paper in the prestigiousProceedings of the National Academy of Sciencesthat for one week in January 2012, Facebook researchers deliberately skewed what 689,003 Facebook users saw when they logged in. Some people saw content with a preponderance of positive and happy words, while others were shown content with more negative or sadder sentiments. The study showed that, when the experimental week was over, the unwitting guinea-pigs were more likely to post status updates and messages that were (respectively) positive or negative in tone.Statistically, the effect on users was relatively small, but the implications were obvious:Facebook had shown that it could manipulate people's emotions!And at this point the ordure hit the fan. Shock! Horror! Words such as "spooky" and "terrifying" were bandied about. There were arguments about whether the experiment was unethical and/or illegal, in the sense of violating the terms and conditions that Facebook's hapless users have to accept. The answers, respectively, are yes and no because corporations don't do ethics and Facebook's T&amp;Cs require users to accept that their data may be used for "data analysis, testing, research".Facebook's spin-doctors seem to have been caught off-guard, causing the company's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, to fume thatthe problem with the study was that it had been "poorly communicated". She was doubtless referring to the company's claim that the experiment had been conducted "to improve our services and to make the content people see on Facebook as relevant and engaging as possible.A big part of this is understanding how people respond to different types of content, whether it's positive or negative in tone, news from friends, or information from pages they&nbsp;follow."Which being translated reads: "We intend to make sure that nothing that people see on Facebook reduces the probability that they will continue to log in. The experiment confirms our conjecture that negative content is bad news (which is why we only have a 'Like' button), and so we will configure our algorithms to make sure that happy talk continues to dominate users' news&nbsp;feeds."When the story of this period comes to be written, one thing that will astonish historians is the complaisant ease with which billions of apparently sane people allowed themselves to be monitored and manipulated by government security agencies and giant corporations. I used to think that most Facebook users must havesomeconception of the extent to which they are being algorithmically managed and the outraged hoo-ha over this experiment might suggest otherwise. But I suspect that once the fuss has died down most users will continue to submit to the company's manipulation of their information flow and emotions. Those who the gods wish to destroy, they first make naive.The arguments about whether the experiment was unethical reveal the extent to which big data is changing our regulatory landscape. Many of the activities that large-scale data analytics now make possible are undoubtedly "legal" simply because our laws are so far behind the curve. Our data-protection regimes protect specific types of personal information, but data analytics enables corporations and governments to build up very revealing information "mosaics" about individuals by assembling large numbers of the digital traces that we all leave in cyberspace. And none of those traces has legal protection at the moment.Besides, the idea that corporations might behave ethically is as absurd as the proposition that cats should respect the rights of small mammals. Cats do what cats do: kill other creatures. Corporations do what corporations do: maximise revenues and shareholder value and stay within the law. Facebook may be on the extreme end of corporate sociopathy, but really it's just the exception that proves the rule.
Within the salons of the Elysée Palace, along the corridors of the European parliament and under the glass dome of the Reichstag, Old Europe is preparing for a new war. This is not a battle over religion or politics, over land or natural resources. The raw material that Paris, Brussels and Berlin are mobilising to defend is the digital environment of Europe's inhabitants; their enemies are the Silicon Valley corporations that seek to dominate it.Coal, gas and oil powered the industrial revolution, but in the digital era, data is replacing fossil fuels as the most valuable resource on Earth, and the ability to collect and interrogate it has created organisations with a power that can at times seem beyond the control of nation states. Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google represent, in the words of Germany's economy minister Sigmar Gabriel, "brutal information capitalism", and Europe must act now to protect itself."Either we defend our freedom and change our policies, or we become digitally hypnotised subjects of a digital rulership," Gabriel warned in apassionate call to actionpublished by theFrankfurter Allgemeine. "It is the future of democracy in the digital age, and nothing less, that is at stake here, and with it, the freedom, emancipation, participation and self-determination of 500 million people in Europe."In France, economy minister Arnaud Montebourgbelieves Europe risks becoming a "digital colony of the global internet giants", and ministers have called for Google to contribute to the cost of upgrading the country's broadband infrastructure. Gabriel says Germany's cartel office is currently examining whether Google should be regulated as a utility, like a telecoms supplier – the group has 91.2% market share of search in Germany.He believes that, as a last resort, there may be a case for "unbundling" Google, separating its search arm from mobile, or YouTube, or services such as email.As a first step, he is in favour of regulation that allows competitors to use the Google platform fairly. The pushback against Amazon has also begun: as of last year, the online retailer can no longer stop independent sellers on its German website from offering their own goods cheaper elsewhere, including on their own websites.European regulators have also begun to take action. In May, the European court upheld a plea by a Spaniard, Mario Costeja González, who wanted pages hidden from any Google search for his name in the EU. Judges decided the past transgressions of private individuals have a right to be "forgotten". The threats that ruling poses to freedom of the pressare now being debated, but it was a watershed moment, representing Europe's first major regulatory strike against the search and software colossus.On 11 June, the European commission's competition regulator, Joaquín Almunia, wrote to colleagues to warn that his investigation into Google's search rankings could be reopened, after new complainants had stepped forward. On the same day, he announced a potentially wide-ranging inquiry into tax avoidance, starting with a focus on three companies: Apple and its international headquarters in Ireland, and Starbucks and its head office in the Netherlands (the third company being carmaker Fiat). On Thursday, a leak from Brussels suggested Amazon, which operates through a European HQ in Luxembourg, was also being dragged into the net."In the current context of tight public budgets, it is particularly important that large multinationals pay their fair share of taxes," Almunia said. His intervention was widely interpreted as a politically motivated act. It almost certainly was.There are those who believe that Jean-Claude Juncker, the former Luxembourg prime minister who has just been elected as the next president of the European commission – despite vocal opposition from David Cameron – is out to get Google.Its corporate motto is still "don't be evil", but Google seems to have replaced Microsoft – which was embroiled for years with regulators over monopolistic practices – as the bête noire of Brussels. The comparison is perhaps unfair. Google has taken a less confrontational stance than Microsoft, by accepting the commission's right to regulate its business in Europe and readily engaging in a negotiated settlement on search.Nevertheless, says Ian Maude, new media specialist at research firm Enders Analysis, "Google, as far as regulators are concerned, is the new Microsoft. It is the big bad wolf. Privacy has become a much more important issue."Media markets historically have been national, but Google straddles borders and stands head and shoulders above any other online players. The European regulators have more power than any bar those in the US, and Google is now such a giant that it is going to face increased regulatory scrutiny. Regulation, rather than competition, is probably its main challenge right now."Google has a friendly face, but its creeping power is causing alarm. The company controls two of the world's biggest search engines: Google itself and its video site YouTube, which ranks alongside Microsoft's Bing! and China's Baidu. The company's own web browser, Chrome, has overtaken Firefox and Microsoft's Explorer as the most popular browser, its Gmail is the largest email service, and its Android software controls more mobile phones than any other operating system.Now Google is moving into the home, buying cloud-connected thermostat maker Nest and home security camera operator Dropcam. It wants to drive our smart cars and build humanoid robots, and it is funding a network of satellites to beam internet connections from space.In an extraordinary metaphor, the boss of German media group Axel Springer has compared Google to the dragon Fáfnir, from the Norse myth that inspired Tolkien to writeThe Hobbitand Wagner to compose the Ring Cycle. Fáfnir was the son of a dwarf king, who became so jealous of the family's vast store of gold and gems that he killed his father to take sole possession of the treasure. Greed turned Fáfnir into a dragon, who guarded his hoard with fire and poison."Google is sitting on the entire current data trove of humanity like the giant Fáfner in The Ring of the Nibelung," Axel Springer boss Mathias Döpfnerwrote in an open letterto the firm's chairman, Eric Schmidt, in April. More recently, he has condemned Almunia's settlement with Google over search. Google is under fire for allegedly downgrading results from companies that offer similar services to its own, prioritising its price comparison sites, stock price information or maps even when those services receive less traffic than rivals. Almunia has agreed that companies appearing too low in the rankings to draw traffic can pay to appear in a box at the top of the page. Döpfner told Radio 4'sTodayprogramme last week: "I would call that protection money. It is basically the business principle of the mafia."Google's earnings from search have drained advertising spending from European newspapers, magazines and radio stations. Piracy, facilitated by search engines and broadband, has hit revenues for record labels hard. Bookshops and electronics stores have disappeared from high streets as sales migrate to Amazon and even Apple's bricks and mortar retail outlets. Europe's mobile phone networks, once considered global technology pioneers, have handed fortunes to Apple and South Korea's Samsung in subsidies for mobile phone handsets.The sense of injustice has been reinforced by revelations about tax. Amazon, Google and Apple have found ways to reduce their corporation tax payments on international revenues to single-digit percentages of profits. Now fear has been added to the mix, with Edward Snowden's revelations about digital surveillance.Reaction on the continent to the NSA scandal has been far stronger than in Britain. Gabriel argues that we are compromising our national security, and selling our economic and personal freedom, every time we exchange our personal data for access to free music or email, cheap smartphones or a page on a social network. Our preferences, our movements and our mistakes are being collected and stored, ready to be passed on to advertisers, medical researchers, car insurers, political strategists and even government spies, he suggests.When Germany's chancellor, Angela Merkel, withdrew her support for Cameron in his push to promote an alternative candidate to Juncker, fingers were pointed at Döpfner, whose group publishes the influential German tabloidBild. Döpfner is said to have persuaded Merkel to back Juncker in the belief that he would support the battle against Google.Juncker has not publicly indulged in Google-bashing, but he has made the creation of a strong digital economy in Europethe first priority of his presidency. "Europe's path to growth is paved with tablets and smartphones," according to his campaign manifesto. He is using the dream of creating the next digital giant in Europe as a rallying cry for closer integration, in particular the creation of a single market for telecoms and digital businesses.Under the industrial policy being drafted by his team, Brussels will encourage the harmonisation of national laws on copyright, data protection, telecoms regulation and the auction of the electromagnetic spectrum used by mobile phone networks.Mobile networks, perhaps unrealistically, are seen as central to the fightback against America's information capitalists. With companies like Britain's Vodafone, Germany's Deutsche Telekom and Spain's Telefónica, Europe was able to create multinationals on a far grander scale than America's own domestically focused networks.That competitive edge has since been lost. During spectrum auctions, when operators bidded for the airwaves they needed to link handsets to the internet, vast sums were handed over to national governments for 3G licences. The UK raised £22bn in 2000, but networks were left without the cash needed to expand 3G networks. The problem was compounded again with 4G, which delivers faster internet speeds. Wrangles over the timing of auctions, which did not occur simultaneously across Europe, allowed the US and many other countries a headstart."The reason the European telecoms industry has lost its edge is because of our own regulatory and political decisions," says Bengt Nordström, whose Northstream consultancy advises on telecoms. "Without spectrum harmonisation we are just a continent of various middle-sized and small countries and can never be an industrial leader."With a population of 310 million to supply, American firms gain meaningful scale before they export. The same is true in China, where e-commerce group Alibaba and Baidu are dominant. If Europe's 500m inhabitants are corralled into a single market, Juncker believes that home-grown companies, like the flights comparison service Skyscanner, or music streaming firm Spotify, can gain scale.Will his ideas gain favour in Britain? Labour is clear that, on tax and on search rankings, Google and its peers must operate on a level playing field. "It's important the large online organisations pay their fair share of tax," says shadow culture and media minister Helen Goodman. "If your competitive advantage is built on you being able to charge lower prices because you are paying less tax, that is not a sustainable way for us to run our economies."In Brussels, Cameron and Google are seen as a little too close for comfort. The company's head of communications and public policy, Rachel Whetstone, is a close friend of the prime minister. She is married to Steve Hilton, architect of the "big society" policy that helped return the Tories to power. Google's European headquarters are officially in Ireland, but 2,000 programmers, salespeople and managers are based in London. The company is building a new headquarters in King's Cross that could house as many as 4,500.John Springford of thinktank the Centre for European Reform says Cameron signed up to the idea of a digital single market as long ago as 2011, but that while he supports the removal of barriers to trade, he may be reluctant to accept edicts from Brussels on copyright and spectrum sales. On tax, however, the prime minister has made his position clear, saying avoiders like Starbucks need to "wake up and smell the coffee".Margaret Hodge MP, whose influential parliamentary public accounts committee has brought digital tax evasion to national attention, welcomes action from Brussels."This is a very good first issue on which David Cameron can make common cause with the new president of Europe to heal some of the wounds and to ensure digital companies don't evade their responsibility to the jurisdictions where they make their money. Let's see him smelling the coffee," she says.
The World Cup is hotting up – literally. A temperature of 38.8C on the pitch has already been recorded. Does this give the teams used to playing in a tropical climate an unfair advantage? One way to make things more equitable would be to air-condition the stadiums, which sounds mad until you realise that this is exactly whatQatar's organisers have said they'll do for the 2022 World Cup. And with daytime temperatures in Qatar often exceeding 45C during the day, such measures will be absolutely essential.The first problem the bid has to overcome is an investigation by Fifa's ethics committee into alleged corruption. However, a bigger obstacle might be to put on the tournament using solar and renewable energy, as they have promised.&nbsp;It's going to be an enormous engineering challenge but one well worth undertaking, because as global temperatures increase over the next century, there is going to be greater demand for sustainable air conditioning, not just in football but for the growing number of people who will find themselves living in hot and humid parts of the world, including the UK.I had a succession of cars in the 1980s and none of them had air conditioning, they had windows instead. Driving with an open window cools the occupants but increases the aerodynamic drag, making the car less efficient. By having air-con, the windows can be shut in hot weather, saving fuel – or so everybody thought. However, the air-con itself consumes energy and the latest experiments show that it is almostalways more efficient to have the windows open.Nevertheless, the environmental and economic concerns of saving fuel tend to go out the window when you find yourself in a traffic jam on a hot day. Closing the windows and turning on the air conditioning is often the only tolerable way to crawl along the M1 in the summer. This is the essence of the problem in Qatar with the football stadiums: if they install huge air conditioning systems they will need to shut the roof to make them effective and fuel efficient and that in turn has several consequences.Traditional air conditioning works in much the same way as a fridge. A liquid with a low boiling point is pumped around a set of copper tubes and as warm air passes over the tubes it raises the temperature of the liquid, causing it to evaporate. In the same way that your skin is cooled as sweat evaporates, so the evaporation of the refrigerant inside the copper tubes cools the air. You'll notice that the back of your fridge is hot – this is where all the heat ends up: it is released as the refrigerant is squeezed back into a liquid by the pump.The air conditioning in a building releases that heat into the environment, the effect of which is to raise the air temperature.&nbsp;This doesn't have a big effect except in dense cities where this temperature rise is appreciable. Scientists at Arizona State University have shown that night-time temperatures areincreased by more than 1Cin urban areas solely as a result of air conditioning. That doesn't sound a lot, but is in fact equivalent to theglobal warming that has happened in the past 100 years. Air conditioning on this scale in the cities of Qatar would also consume a huge amount of electricity, which will be a serious challenge for renewable energy systems to provide.A better approach is to develop new ways of air-conditioning large stadiums using mechanisms such as evaporative cooling with sea water, computer-controlled shades that track the sun and the generation of convective cooling currents using wind-catcher towers typically found in desert habitation.&nbsp;There's no reason why a stadium built for a desert should look anything like one for built for a jungle in Brazil. In fact, it makes every sense not to do this. Nature adapts to its environment and so should football. Perhaps the Qatar stadiums should be dug into the rock, taking advantage of the cooler thermal mass of the ground in summer. Or perhaps they should take inspiration from a camel's nose,which uses heat-exchange membranes to extract water from exhaled air, and in the process cools its brain.No one knows, including the Qatar 2022 World Cup organising committee, what the solution to this problem is and there have been widespread calls to move the tournament to the winter, when temperatures will be cooler. I think if that happens it will be a missed opportunity.&nbsp; Sustainable, low-power cooling technology is something the world badly needs. As global warming increases, the number of cities in desert regions will also increase and so will the demand for air-conditioning technologies to make these places habitable. We need to be more ingenious about how to cool these urban environments and setting a goal of exploring such technology for the World Cup in 2022 is a great opportunity. Let's have a global competition; above all, let's get the footballers themselves involved – they have huge wealth and influence.Not least, let's do it because creating a temperate environment inside the Qatar stadiums will perhaps give British teams a better chance of actually winning the World Cup in 2022.
I've been invited sailing. Or yachting, as I like to call it. Jesus, I'm not sure I'll even be allowed in the car park, will I? Let alone on the actual yacht. I'm worried about my footwear options – either brown Crocs (I know, I still wear them even though no one else does) or black gardening/festival wellies.Luckily, the yachting expedition coincides with the loan of this sleek new BMW 2 Series coupe, so I&nbsp;don't have to rock up in our ancient Polo, with the moose sticker on the back (no idea – my girlfriend has a thing about mooses); and the furry football hanging from the rear-view mirror (actual seal skin, as it happens: it was my present to her when I went to Greenland); and the moss growing everywhere, outside and in; and everything else.And you know what, this BMW feels like the perfect car to turn up in, at the marina/yacht haven/club/squadron/whatever. Sporty, elegant, obviously expensive, but not too flash or ostentatious. To be honest, I'd go for something a little more vulgar myself, but among the sober-coloured (grey, silver, black mostly, the odd white) Audis, Mercs and other BMWs in the car park, I feel at home. I'm saying I'm successful and performance-oriented, but not reckless or unsophisticated. Hey, I&nbsp;belong here, I've arrived, as in made it, as well as actually arrived, finally (terrible traffic on the M25. With a bit of luck, I'll have missed the boat).Hang on, BMW 2 Series? What the hell is one of them? I've only just got my head round the 1 Series. Is this one better? Or even twice as good?Actually, it's the replacement for – and looks very similar to – the 1&nbsp;Series coupe, though it's a little bigger. It's based on the 1 Series hatchback, an awkward-looking car, I've always thought. But, being a&nbsp;coupe, it has no frames on the doors, it's lower and sexier and more&nbsp;coupe-ish. Harder to get a&nbsp;baby&nbsp;seat into the back, but hey, get a babysitter – you can afford it. Babies aren't good on a yacht, either&nbsp;(I&nbsp;imagine. I haven't brought one, anyway).To drive, it's lovely, as you'd imagine a 26-grand BMW to be. Although, when you start adding extras, such as leather seats and media packages, it's a lot more – you'll soon be north of 30. There are quicker, more exciting petrol-engined models, but I've reached a stage in my life when I don't crave that kind of thrill-seeking. This diesel's not silent, but I can appreciate the impressive fuel consumption and emission figures. It's effortless, smooth, comfortable, yet calmly powerful; sporty but well-balanced… very much as I see myself, as it happens. Today. Right, where's the jetty, show me to my yacht, I say, ahoy there!BMW 220d SE CoupePrice from£25,865Top speed143mphAcceleration0-60mph in 7.1 secondsCombined fuel consumption58.9mpgCO2emissions 125g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating7/10
Alpha testing happens when games are a long way from release and is almost always conducted behind tightly locked doors.Destiny, the hugely anticipated “shared world shooter” – as developer Bungie is attempting to brand it – had its alpha test in public, inviting thousands of lucky PlayStation 4 owners to help. The result was an interesting first look at a franchise that publisher Activision hopes will rival Call Of Duty. Although mechanically similar to Halo, the surrounding meta-game is borrowed from other genres, with a gradual levelling-up process combined with a constant stream of loot to be equipped, sold or discarded in a manner familiar to players of hoarders’ wet dream, Diablo. Best of all, though, small knots of fellow players turn up on maps, letting you choose to band together or totally ignore each other. It was only a brief glimpse, but Destiny already looks refreshingly different.
The utterly harmless, primary coloured Pullblox World is a perfectly realised digital toy from the same developer as the peerless Advance Wars. Sequel to a lesser-known downloadable game for 3DS, this continues its legacy of puzzles solved by dragging eccentrically shaped blocks to create a path to their summit, which the game’s plump little hero can hop up. From simple beginnings, things soon get more involved, the game gently tutoring you with new techniques before getting you to apply them in increasingly complex combinations. Along with Nintendo’s usual level of polish, Pullblox World stands out in its sincere aim of letting nothing get in the way of your fun (if you fall you can simply rewind time). Elegant, deceptively simple and endlessly entertaining, Pullblox World is a tiny gem of a puzzle game that no Wii U owner should be without.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKMurdered: Soul Suspect, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PS3, PS4, PCAt the start of Murdered: Soul Suspect, trilby-wearing policeman Ronan O’Connor gets thrown out of a window and shot, leaving his ghost to spend the rest of the game tracking down his killer. Despite lacking a corporeal form, Ronan finds some paths blocked by ethereal projections from history. He can possess people and read their minds, but most are thinking identical banal irrelevancies, making a mockery of his spooky powers. The game is mostly spent in crime-scene investigation, which means wandering about looking for clues, then using trial and error to work out which ones the game thinks are the most important. It’s a wearying process made worse by the lack of signposting, which regularly fails to tell you what you’re actually meant to be doing, and voice acting that’s mostly terrible. You have to applaud Soul Suspect’s fresh ideas and premise, but when the result is this boring you might want to avoid actually playing it.Square Enix, £22.85-£55
He has just won a US government auctionfor a trove of bitcoins.His “university of heroes” is preparing to induct a new batch of would-be entrepreneurs. And his plan to split California into six states is nearing crunch time.It is a busy summer for Tim Draper.The venture capitalist and entrepreneur is advancing a quixotic agenda to ”free” Silicon Valley and the developing world from what he considers the dead hand of government and fusty institutions.The investor in Skype and Hotmail is using his considerable fortune and marketing savvy to promote a vision of liberated markets and human potential which is partly inspired by Harry Potter and the X-Men.“You&apos;re best off when you&apos;re part of the centre of the creative universe,” Draper, 55, told the Guardian in an interview at his headquarters in San Mateo, in the heart of Silicon Valley.The “Draper University of Heroes”, a crash course in entrepreneurship which opened last year, draws partly on ideas from Harry Potter&apos;s Hogwarts school and the X-Men&apos;s academy for mutants, he said.“It&apos;s a little bit like each of them. What we do here is create a school that is very different to any school that you would see anywhere. We are the only one on the planet that teaches future rather than history.”Draper has just made headlines for another unorthodox move: buying 29,656 bitcoins seized last year from the illegal online drug market Silk Road.US Marshals planned to sell the digital currency off in nine blocks to different bidders in a 12-hour auction on Monday. Draper revealed on Wednesdaythat he beat 44 rival bidders and scooped the whole lot.“Bitcoin frees people from trying to operate in a modern market economy,” he said in a statement.The plan is to partner with bitcoin exchange Vaurum, a startup, and use the bitcoins to launch trading platforms in emerging markets vulnerable to volatile currencies and weak banking institutions. Draper and his son Adam were early investors in Vaurum.Draper declined to reveal how much he paid but with bitcoin prices hovering around $650 it was assumed to be tens of millions of dollars. He lauded the digital currency – which has been on a rollercoaster the past year – as a revolutionary financial instrument.Whether the investment pays off, the move was classic Draper: stake a claim in something new and let the world know about it.Armed with a degree in electrical engineering from Stanford and a Harvard MBA, as a young man he followed in the footsteps of his father and grandfather by founding a venture capital firm, Draper Fisher Jurvetson, and plunged into the 1990s dotcom boom. “I came up with Hotmail&apos;s viral marketing idea,” he said.'Bitcoin frees people from trying to operate in a modern market economy,' Draper said in a statement. Photograph: Lucas Jackson /ReutersSpeaking to the Guardian before the bitcoin auction, Draper on first impression appeared the classic VC: tall, sleek, grey suit, blue shirt. Then you notice the vivid, multicoloured tie, the collar askew and frank admission he had no idea what the Guardian was.What he does know, he said, was the value of Silicon Valley: “It has become a magnet for the greatest entrepreneurs in the world.”The teenagers and twentysomethings who flocked here with dreams of startups were heroic, he said, in risking failure and humiliation. “They know the odds but want to make a big impact on society.”He set up thenon-accredited university– a nine-storey tower emblazoned with his name in downtown San Mateo – to jumpstart would-be entrepreneurs aged 18 to 28, he said. “They come with the spark, we ignite it.”The online course costs $850. Tuition for the seven-week residential programme costs $9,500. In addition to futurology the curriculum includes “idea generation”, “lean startups”, “pivoting” and “pitch workshops”. A section called “special powers” teaches lie detection and coding. A survival weekend teaches first aid and suturing. Portraits of Steve Jobs and Elon Musk flank the entrance. There are signs saying “no limits” and “hero city”.Students are grouped into eight teams of five with banners and livery that evoke Hogwarts. JK Rowling&apos;s magicians&apos; academy had only four teams, or houses, noted Draper, but he preferred smaller, nimbler units.Bean bags were favoured over desks because young people concentrated better when they were looking up, not down, he said. “They have different circadian rhythms.”Breakthroughs in science, medicine and economics would come from such people, he said. Draper disputed the notion that many Silicon Valley startups ended up designing apps to enhance the convenience of privileged young people. “So now a 22-year-old can use Uber and get around much quicker. He&apos;ll have more time to cure cancer,” he said.Draper, who likes the nickname Riskmaster, has provoked curiosity and scorn with a separate project: a ballot initiative to separate California into six smaller states. The current state is bureaucratically cumbersome, unwieldy and chasing away businesses, he said. “The reason is California is acting as a monopoly. The (state) government isn&apos;t taking care of its people.”The solution to poverty and creaking infrastructure was to enhance local autonomy and market forces, he said. As one of the envisaged six states Silicon Valley would be one of the richest in the US. The newly liberated central valley would be one of the poorest.Draper has until 18 July to collect 807,615 signatures of registered voters to put the initiative on the ballot.Most commentators havedismissed the idea as daftbut Draper expressed confidence he would get the signatures – and win the vote. “We&apos;ll probably go for 2016. I think by then the odds will be in our favour.”
The notification by Google that it wasremoving links to pages on the BBC and some news organisations, including the Guardian and Daily Mail, on some (unspecified) searcheshas led to huge amounts of confusion about the search company&apos;s obligations under the Data Protection directive, following the European Court of Justice ruling of May 2014.Here, we try to deal with some of the questions around it.Q Why is Google removing pages from the internet?It isn&apos;t. The original pages are untouched. What is removed is a link in Google&apos;s index if someone specifically searches on a particular name.Update:testing by the Guardian has established that pages are being removed on more than just the searches for names.This is contrary to the statement given by Google&apos;s spokesperson in a Radio 4 interview, in which hesaid: &quot;&quot;Only if you search for the very narrow term of the name of the commentator would it not appear [on a Google search]&quot;. The Guardian has established by comparison with US search engine results that links for some searches on a name and a profession have been removed, as well as those on the name.Q But wasn&apos;t theremoval of Robert Peston&apos;s 2007 blog postarewriting of Merrill Lynch&apos;s history?No. Peston&apos;s blogpost was not &quot;removed&quot; from Google. If you search on Merrill Lynch or Stan O&apos;Neal or Robert Peston or any of those, Peston&apos;s 2007 blogpost will still appear. Merrill Lynch&apos;s history is unchanged. O&apos;Neal did not request any removal, and would - or should - have been refused anyway because he does not live in Europe.Q What is happening then?As stated above: if you search on particular names, then some pages don&apos;t appear in searches. In Europe,when you search on someone&apos;s name, you&apos;ll now see a warning at the bottom of the page saying &quot;Some results may have been removed under data protection law in Europe&quot;. This doesn&apos;t however mean that any pages necessarilyhavebeen removed from search, so you can&apos;t infer anything from it.Q Why is Google doing this?Because in May a ruling by the European Court of Justice, Europe&apos;s highest court, determined that Google is a &quot;data controller&quot; under the meaning of the European data protection directive. That means that it has a responsibility to make sure that the data it holds about people obeys the data protection laws: that is, it must not be irrelevant, out of date, inaccurate or an invasion of privacy.That&apos;s the same law which makes sure that credit rating agencies don&apos;t mark you down just because you live next to someone with a criminal record, or because of some 20-year-old data about you, or which says you&apos;re in debt when you aren&apos;t, or demands to know about your medical conditions when it isn&apos;t offering you health insurance. Google has to obey the same rules - but relating to all the information it has about pages around the internet. Obviously it can&apos;t check those, so it relies on affected people reporting pages that are wrong/out of date/irrelevant/an invasion of privacy, and then takes searches against those names out of its index.But to reiterate - any of the constellation of searches that would previously have found that page will still turn it up. The only change is that that particular search on a name won&apos;t. (But note the update above: a search on a name and profession is also removed.)Q Isn&apos;t that censorship? Jimmy Wales says it is.According to Wikipedia, censorship is &quot;the suppression of speech, public communication or other information which may be considered objectionable, harmful, sensitive, politically incorrect or inconvenient as determined by governments, media outlets, authorities or other such entities.&quot;Certainly the production of the link in response to a specific name search has been suppressed, and the decision to do so has been taken following a ruling by a government entity (the ECJ). The question is whether Google&apos;s links are &quot;speech&quot;. Google has been very careful in Europe not to define itself as a publisher, because of certain obligations that can bring. But that means that its search links aren&apos;t actually &quot;speech&quot; under European law.Q But only paedophiles or criminals or someone with something to hide would want to wipe such a link off the internet.Heard of revenge porn sites? Jilted lovers - usually male - upload compromising pictures of their ex in order to embarrass them. Sometimes they also upload names, addresses and workplaces. The entire intention of revenge porn is to make searching on someone&apos;s name an embarrassment. It&apos;s a simple case that such photos constitute an invasion of privacy, but until now it was extremely difficult to get such pages removed from Google&apos;s index.For Europeans, at least, that&apos;s now easier.Similarly, people who committed petty crimes such as robbery or burglary years ago and now think that those crimes should no longer be recorded under theRehabilitation of Offenders Actcould argue that links to their crimes should be removed after some years. Does the RoHA not apply because we have the internet? (It never applies to some crimes, including many sexual ones, so paedophiles would be turned down.)Q Who at Google is deciding what gets removed? How many removal requests are there?The company says it has hired &quot;a number&quot; (unspecified) of &quot;paralegals)&quot;to deal with the requests, which initially were coming in at 10,000 per day but have now slowed to around 1,000 per day.Though Germany led early on in the number of requests, it is now France which has generated the most. By Thursday, there had been over 70,000 removal requests in Europe, with the top five countries being France (14,086), Germany (12,678), the UK (8,497), Spain (6,176) and Italy (5,934).A paralegal is defined in the UK as &quot;a non-lawyer who does legal work that previously would have been done by a lawyer, or if done by a lawyer, would be charged for.&quot; That is, the people who are considering these requests are not qualified lawyers or solicitors. It&apos;s unclear what their level of legal training is - GCSE? A Level? Law degree? Chambers? - and Google declined to comment, though it&apos;s understood that the unspecified number of people with unspecified qualifications have &quot;the right skills and the right supervision&quot;.The crux though is how Google decides. So far this week it has irked news organisations by removing links to pages when arguably it should have refused the requests for removal. Dougie McDonald, the former Scottish referee, was the focus of news attention in 2010 and 2011; it seems hard to argue that any of the tests - out of date, irrelevant, inaccurate, invasion of privacy - could apply to stories about him. Furthermore, the ECJ said that there could be an exception to refuse link removal for &quot;people in public life&quot;. McDonald is retired now, but was in &quot;public life&quot; then; does an exception apply? Google&apos;s paralegals apparently thought that requests for pages about him were allowable. But when the Guardian protested, Google reinstated them in its search.Q So it&apos;s all about the paralegals?Yes. They are the key to all of this: they are the ones who decide what does and what doesn&apos;t get accepted. It&apos;s impossible to know whether they are approving everything, or rejecting only a small proportion of requests, or rejecting a huge number. It&apos;s also unknown how they balance the criteria. But the fact that a number of links have been reinstated following protests by news outlets suggests that Google isn&apos;t completely confident in the paralegals&apos; judgement.Q So Google isn&apos;t perfect at this?Google is willing to admit that it doesn&apos;t like the ECJ ruling at all - it fought it through the courts - and that it is still feeling its way in how to decide whether to accept or reject requests; there are understood to be &quot;teething problems&quot;.The odd thing is that Google doesn&apos;t have to comply with a single request sent through its systems. It could refer them all to the information commissioner in each relevant country, and let it sort them out. Or it could reject every claim, and tell people to take it to court. Both would effectively be complying with the ECJ ruling, and might even create a body of case law to help determine when and why a search on a name to a link should be removed.But remember, it&apos;s nothing more than that - the removal of one link when a particular search on a name is made. The web page remains; any other search for that page (and even variations on that search) still works.•Explaining the &apos;right to be forgotten&apos; - the newest cultural shibboleth
Apple is working on a system that automatically unlocks iPhones when they are in safe locations like home or work, but locks them again when they leave the area.The system works by identifying where the iPhone is and allows users to set “safe” locations, where settings including security can be automatically changed removing the need for a passcode or Touch ID, for example.“Based on the detected current location, the mobile device can modify settings and configurations. Security settings are one example of device behaviour that can be modified in accordance with embodiments of the present invention,”said Apple in the patent filing.‘Some locations may be inherently more secure’Security requirements help ensure that a mobile device is in the hands of the appropriate party. Often the security level remains the same regardless of the location of the mobile device.“Because some locations may be inherently more secure, such as a user&apos;s home or office, these locations may be considered &quot;safe&quot; and require less stringent security,” explains the patent. “Conversely, some locations may be considered higher risk or &quot;unsecure.&quot; In these locations, it can be desirable to implement stronger security protections.”The patent could see iPhones unlocked within the vicinity of the home but locked while out on the street. The smartphone could determine its location using mobile phone signal, Wi-Fi networks, GPS, Bluetooth or the phone’s proximity to other phones.A home zone defined by Wi-Fi networks and other location factors. Photograph: USPTOAt least two location indicators will be required to verify location and create the changes in security or other software features.The location accuracy of the phone is a potential drawback, however, as Wi-Fi networks often extend for some distance outside the home. It is unknown whether the system will be intelligent enough to realise that the phone has been stolen, but is still within range of its home Wi-Fi network, potentially giving thieves complete access to the phone.Change a user’s home screen when at home or workThe automatic switching on or off of features could extend to security within individual apps, as well as the entire phone. The contacts, calendar or notes apps could lock down with a passcode when not in a “safe” zone, for instance. Work applications could also be fired up when the phone enters the proximity of the office.The patent also describes a system that could change a user’s home screen depending on where the phone is, with work related apps front and foremost when in the office or games and TV apps when in the home.The iPhone could also detect when it is in a car and automatically turn off some features that could be distracting, much like Apple’s CarPlay currently promises to do.Apple follows suitGoogle applied for avery similar patent in August 2013, which looked to lock down a device with a strong password when it was away from home or the office, but while in safe zones the Android device would revert back to a simple swipe to unlock.Apps and services like Airpatrol’s ZoneDefense also offer similar location-based security policies, which open up or lock down devices based on their locations.Some Android devices have also had the capability to turn on or off Wi-Fi depending on location for several years, but that location sensing does not yet extend to security settings.A few Android smartphones, including Samsung’s Galaxy S5, can disable security when in the proximity of a Bluetooth device, such as Samsung’s Gear smartwatches or a pair of Bluetooth headphones, re-enabling a passcode lock when outside the 10m range of Bluetooth. This kind of pairing works well unless both devices are stolen at the same time.It is possible that Apple could include more advanced location services, including device security settings as described in the patent within the next version of the iPhone software, iOS 8, which was shown off at WWDC in June. Both the next series of iPhones and the new iPads for 2014 are expected to include Apple’s Touch ID fingerprint sensor, although it is unknown how Touch ID will interact with any new location-based security.•Apple iPhone &apos;kill switch&apos; cuts thefts a Microsoft and Google to follow
