[Off Topic]The Times, one of the UK's fun-loving tabloid newspapers, reports that "a panel of Japanese experts" has come up with "the ultimate chat-up line": rainen no kono hi mo issho ni waratteiyoh."Directly translated, the killer phrase is: 'This time next year, let's be laughing together'," says The Times,here.Rachel Harrup, 36, an English teacher from Bath, comments: "Even if he looked like George Clooney, I would run a mile. It might be effective in Japanese, but I think British women prefer something more jokey or straightforward, such as: "Can I buy you a drink?"
According to reports in, the forthcoming touch-sensitive DS handheld from Nintendo has already broken the pre-order bank, causing at least one retailer tostop making pre-emptory salesof the machine.This comes neatly aftervideo showing the console in actionsurfaced on the Web to the salivating eyeballs of gamers across the globe(fromJoystiq).In other handheld news, rumours of the PSP'spathetic battery lifehave been confirmed by Sony supremo Ken Kutaragi in an interview with a Japanese website last week. He admits that any game for the system that requires more processing power than a simple puzzle solving title (thinkPuzzle Bobble) could reduce the playing time to two measly hours. Gamers will not be pleased, and Sony recognises this; they promise to address this issue in the future.Nintendo is hoping to continue its dominance in this domain, with most forecasters focussed on the potential supremacy of the forthcoming PS3 and Microsoft Xenon over Nintendo's next generation console. However, the PSP may eek out pole position with its multiple entertainment facilities. Is there room for both or will one giant lose this monumental battle for the hearts of gamers?
"In the first nine months of this year, 3.7m people bought an Apple iPod personal stereo ... Yet only one car, a BMW, is available with an iPod link fitted at the dealership. No-one supplies a car with a built-in player of MP3s, the music industry standard," reports theFinancial Times.Why are car makers eschewing built-in gadgetry when there is so much in our homes and in our pockets? The answer, it seems, could be all about the Benjamins:"Electronics in cars are now the single biggest source of breakdowns and shifting some of the responsibility for the most sensitive items back to the consumer is an attractive prospect for the manufacturers. Why not allow the MP3 player in the driver's pocket to plug into the car stereo? If the player malfunctions, there will be no expensive warranty claim for the carmaker: the customer understands that consumer electronics do not last as long as cars."
Well that's the all-time UK sales record smashed then. Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas has already sold an estimated 677,000 units according to research body Chart-Track. This is even more impressive when you consider that this is an 18 rated game - not that this seemed to put off parents at a store I visited. The previous record holder was GTA: Vice City, the last game in the series, which sold 250,000 in its first week. Rather scarily ChartTrack revealed that only 10 PS2 titles have sold more in their lifetimes than San Andreas has already to date. Will the GTA juggernaut run over everything else this Christmas? Are EA quaking in their chinos? We'll have to wait and see...
="float: left; margin: 0px 5px 5px 0px;" /&gt;BoingBoinghas reported a timely modification addition to The Sims' object library. Players can get in on the voting act by downloading the "Diebold Voting Machine", with "almost as many flaws as the real thing".A little bit of user manipulation opens up a whole new world of easter eggs (or uncoverable specialty items placed under the surface by crafty developers), cheats and bugs. While Diebold is offering commentary on an increasingly apparent real-world controversy, other games have enjoyed the election festivites without pointing fingers in either US candidate's direction.Many titles with user-created content have similarly included simulations of voting apparati;Terra Novareported a few months ago that a clever There.com player had replicated avoter registration boothin the middle of the expansive virtual world which allowed participants to register their political flavours.Meanwhile, Disney's Massively Multiplayer Online Game Toontown recently heldelectionsfor their primary audience of kiddies to encourage them get in on the act, and to practice those important voting skills for futures as upstanding citizens of the real – and virtual – worlds.While stand-alone political games with an agenda, like those of the increasingly successful duo Frasca and Bogost ofWater Cooler Games, expand consumer conception of how interactivity can spread the word (whatever it may be), the presence of these places and objects in virtual worlds does highlight that they can also be used as avenues of user- and developer-created propaganda. While some aspects of this issue have been highlighted at events like theState of Playconferences, what role does real-world politics play in the social systems of MMORPGs, and how much might this affect offline attitudes and behaviours before the publishing companies step in and shut down grassroots virtual politicos?
The massively multiplayer game Star wars Galaxies recently saw its first virtual wedding. The event was captured in a lovelyphoto albumposted on SWG fansite, Reb Scum. Is this not the most touching celebration of in-game love you have ever seen?Sadly, there is no image of the best man waking up the following morning with a serving droid.
Chinese mobile phone manufacturer Lenovo has launched a new handset 'inspired' by Sony's forthcoming PSP console. Take alookat it courtesy of Engadget. I think Sony will definitely see the funny side.
"DoubleClick's decision to look for potential buyers could lead to a breakup of the marketing company's array of businesses, analysts say," reports today's Wall Street Journal."Doubleclick isn't expected to be sold in one piece because its businesses are diverse... the company's decision comes as internet advertising is booming anew. But DoubleClick isn't necessarily going to benefit.""That is because DoubleClick, once known primarily for developing technology that delivered ads to web pages, has found that business increasingly challenging. Big online companies such as Time Warner's America Online and Yahoo do much of this work on their own."Could be tough times ahead for DC.
Mobile phone operator 02 has been forced to give 125,000 subscribers a 25% discount after problems with its billing operation which resulted in some customers receiving demands four time their usual size.The problem, which affects only 02 customers on monthly contracts, is expected to cost the firm at least &#163;2.2m - more if it is forced to pick up customers' bank charges incurred as a result of the error.O2 has admitted it failed to bill 125,000 customers for calls made over and above their monthly limits since July 17. On detecting the error, it asked customers to pay the arrears in bills sent out last week. Some customers received bills of more than &#163;200 instead of the normal &#163;50.Several of the affected customers will have been forced into the red by 02 's direct debit and will have incurred charges. A spokesman for 02 refused to guarantee that the company would refund losses incurred by customers as a result of the higher bills.
Sonyhave released the official sales figures for PlayStation 2 and Microsoft and Nintendo may want to turn away now. European/PAL sales are numbered at 25.9 million, not far behind the US on 32.2 million. UK sales alone are over 6 million. Worldwide Sony has shipped over 74 million PlayStation 2 consoles. Is there anyone with even a slight interest in games who doesn't have one? Maybe the newslimline PS2will mop up these last few refusniks.
Fed up of not being able to play Grand Theft Auto in chunky 2D? Scared of those realistic three dimensional graphics? It's all going to be okay soon. The internet is positively buzzing with the news that a lone coder named Brian Provinciano is programming a complete conversion of GTA III for the, get this,Nintendo Entertainment System- an 8bit console launched nearly twenty years ago. He explains why he's doing it righthere. If you haven't seen this get over there right now, it looks... brilliant. Why do people do things like this? They should be given medals - preferably made out of old videogame console circuit boards.
Wired is has just postedthisstory about a Polish group that makes music with six networked Game Boys. They're called the Gameboyzz Orchestra Project. A great name - even if 'Gameboyzz' comes straight from a premium rate chat line...Anyway, this is a weird and interesting idea but it's certainly not new.Almost ten years ago, a Japanese group named The Electric Family released an album of music created entirely using the SNES game, Mario Paint. There's also a thriving underground scene based around Commodore 64 soundtracks, taking inlive eventsandaudio CDs, while old skool coin-op samples have littered electronic music history for the last 20 years (Aphex Twin's cult classic Powerpill Pac-Man for example).It could even be argued that the electro revival of the last few years has just been an excuse to relive the minamalist bleeps of 8bit computer music without having to admit that you were ever into games.What is it about retro game music that makes young adult males go weak at the knees? Is it just nostalgia, or are there intrinsic qualities to these sparse compositions?I remember reading once about how the sounds at the beginning of the movie Alien - the rumbles, blips and whrrrs that accompany Mother switching on the Nostromo's computer systems - were designed to mimic the sounds we hear in the womb. Perhaps the nostalgia that makes us go all gooey at the plink plonk sound of Game Boy music runs deeper than we think...
It's been setting geeky hearts aflutter for some time now, but syndication is finally starting to take hold on the internet. Net technologies called RSS and Atom, or to give them the more user-friendly and generic tag of "web feeds", take the hassle out of keeping up with the news. Once you've taken the plunge, you'll never want to go back.How does it work?Reading web feeds is a bit like watching the headlines on the evening news. Essentially, you ask a program to check your favourite websites every so often, looking for the things that have changed since you last popped by, and then present the new stories to you. That means you don't have to waste your time by trekking through sites to find out what the new developments are, or find yourself reading an interesting story only to realise you read it before - but somebody's changed the headline.You surf around, and if you find a website or page that you like, look out for a little icon reading "Web feed" or "RSS" or "XML" or "Atom" - you'll find one on, say,Guardian Unlimited's football news. Click on the icon, and paste the address of the resultant page (normally filled with computer gibberish) into your feed reading software. And ... well, that's it. From now on, with the click of a mouse, your feed reader checks for fresh headlines and then delivers them to you in a jiffy.Your feed reader picks out all the stories that have arrived since you last checked in and presents you with a summary of them, along with a link to the original.Bong! England storm to victory in the World Cup final! Bong! Frank Lampard seals victory with hat-trick! Bong! Brazilian coach resigns after "total footballing humiliation"!OK, so your feed reader won't tell you what you want to hear - but it will tell you what you need. In fact, most programs let you customise which headlines are presented to you, and how they'll look on your desktop. For example you could browse all the latest reports, or you could choose to look at all the stories you haven't read before. Or perhaps you just want to look at the top stories. It's like the paper boy suddenly worked out that you only read the most interesting bits of the newspaper and decided to save you ploughing through the rest.Why should you be interested?Web feeds sound great in principle - but then again, so did that triple-extra-hot vindaloo pizza last night. Sometimes judgment can be clouded, and after all, barely a week goes by without some new technology being heralded as the greatest thing since sliced white. These days fancy dan techno-gadgets come and go in the blink of an eye, and sceptical readers are probably wondering why web feeds important - or even useful - to them.First of all, web feeds can save you an awful lot of time. If, like any self-respecting news junkie with an internet connection, you've spent countless hours refreshing a web page waiting for latest news update, then this takes out the hard work. Now all you need to do is log on to your feed reader and it can present you the stories that have arrived since you last looked. No hanging around.Web feeds can also be extremely useful if you're on a dial-up connection; your reader program checks sites for you, saving you the hassle of loading up heavy pages and spending countless moments watching that egg timer flip over and over.And of course, it's not just news that you can run through RSS. Many weblogs have feeds that you can subscribe to, and if you're addicted to reading them, it makes light work of the chore of doing the rounds by simplifying the whole business of keeping track of dozens of different sites. You can get recipes, cartoons and all kinds of material delivered through feeds.Once you've got a wide selection of sites drawn together and displayed with the freshest content at the top of the pile, keeping track of multiple sources becomes easy.Web feeds hand power to you, the surfer, rather than to the producers of websites. Instead of you going to them, they come to you. Feeds let you narrow down the particular bits of a site you want to see, and they help bring the things you're interested in to your attention. Essentially, they help you customise your web experience by building your own personalised website by syndicating the content from all your favourite places.Is there anything else?Right now web feeds are relatively simple stuff. This is by no means the crest of the wave - it's probably more accurate to say that we're still splashing around in the shallow waters by the shore. But all across the planet, hordes of feverish technologists are bashing away in attempts to try and come up with new ways to use web feeds. And if the apocryphal bunch of monkeys with typewriters can produce the complete works of Shakespeare, you can bet that a gang of geeks with computers can come up with something.Now where do I look?If this has got you excited, then you should go and get yourself some feed reading software. PC users could have a look atFeedDemon, while Mac users might like a gander atNetNewsWire. You might also like to have a look atAmphetadesk, which can be used on PCs, Macs or Linux machines.Alternatively, if you don't want to - or can't - install a news reading program onto your computer, you might want to have a look at websites likeBlogLines, which allow you to do the same thing through a web-based interface.Those are just some of the most popular programs:take a look at this Wikipedia pageand you'll see that there are plenty of other readers out there.  Go try them, and see if it changes the way you use the web.
For those who have not tired of the insatiable coverage of last week's release of the triumphantGTA: San Andreas, there's a bit of background reading atFerragoon the history of the series.Although thorough, there is one minor trivia fact overlooked by the author. According to an off-the-cuff remark made in 1999 by Gary Penn, the nicest guy in gaming and the GTA series' Creative Manager when he was still at developerDMA(now Rockstar North), the first game design didn't have any missions until a few days before it was accepted for release by the publisher. Considering the series is lauded for its free-roaming experience and wide-open environments, would it have made any difference if there were no game-directed goals to lead you along the asphalt path?
Plans to find hundreds of children in care new parents by internet advertising are a "necessary evil", according to adoption experts.The UK's largest adoption charity, the British Association for Adoption and Fostering (BAAF), is planning to put the photographs and brief personal details of 400 children in care on a website in a bid to encourage more people to adopt.The association hopes that the internet profiles will give people an emotional connection to a child on the site and encourage them to seriously consider adoption. It is currently conducting a feasibility study before deciding to go ahead with the online service.Felicity Collier, the chief executive of BAAF, said: "Children in their teens who never found an adoptive family tell us that they wished their social workers had tried harder to find them a family."We believe it is our duty to investigate the benefits of new technology, given the wide accessibility of the general public to the internet."Critics claim that the plan is demeaning because children would largely be judged on their physical appearance, turning adoption into a beauty contest.But the charity Barnardo's said that despite such anxieties and reservations it welcomed the goal of the scheme to bring prospective adopters' attention to the thousands of children in care seeking new families.Mo O'Reilly, adoption agency manager for Barnardo's, said: "These kids have been taken from a network of birth parents, siblings and other relatives who would be mortified to see their child placed on a website."But it's a necessary evil. We have too many kids waiting far too long to be adopted and growing up in care. They're invisible to the public."In the US placing children's profiles on the internet has increased the level of interest in adoption."But the British Association of Social Workers (BASW) warned that the plan could breach children's rights.Ian Johnston, the association's president, said: "We need to do more for children in care, but I'm not convinced this is the right thing to do. It's demeaning. What would being on public display do for these vulnerable kids perceptions of themselves?"Just because you're desperate to get these children adopted doesn't mean you should go to any lengths. I think it's a breach of children's rights."
"BRITAIN'S record labels will this week hold out an olive branch to the 26 people they plan to sue for allegedly swapping music illegally over the internet, by offering to settle their claims out of court," reports today'sTimes."The British Phonographic Industry (BPI)... received the names and addresses of the alleged pirates last week, after the High Court ordered four internet service providers to disclose their contact details. The details do not disclose the age or occupation of the individuals.""The BPI is understood to be willing to pursue children or teenagers, as well as their parents if they authorised or encouraged the file swapping. The record labels claim that the 26 alleged pirates are 'hardcore uploaders'... the worst of the 26 alleged pirates uploaded an estimated 9,000 songs."
"BT Group is planning to launch a mobile phone next year that will allow users to make cheap calls over the internet at thousands of global locations, from airports and stations or hotels and caf&amp;ecaute;s," reports today'sFinancial Times."The UK's dominant telecommunications operator is hoping to sell mobile handsets incorporating wi-fi, the wireless internet technology, that will enable its customers to acces the internet when they enter one of thousands of global 'hotspots'.""Under BT's plans, when mobile phone users are at work or at home, their calls will be migrated over BT's fixed line network using wi-fi connections."This is a fascinating move from a company currently looking to invest billions of pounds in its hi-tech "21st Century Network"... and the first real signal that the future battleground for mobile communications will be seamless wireless mobility.
"Researchers and businesses in West Virginia will be able to access the first state-sponsored public Internet computing grid when the Global Grid Exchange is launched next month. The project, which will function as a supercomputer at a fraction of the cost, is a joint effort of the state, the West Virginia High Technology Consortium, Verizon and Hewlett Packard," reportsAP."The consortium received a $14.7 million grant from the West Virginia Economic Development Authority to develop the grid, which will link computers in academic institutions, government offices and home personal computers that have excess capacity to advance work in such fields as biometrics and cancer research."Officials believe the grid will spark economic development initiatives within the state. It will be open to anyone beginning Nov. 19 through a portal for a yet to be determined fee. The initial phase cost $2.8 million."
Daniel O'Donnell will be delighted - his native Donegal is the most loved thing about Ireland in cyberspace.In a running online poll asking what makes Ireland great, the singer's beloved county has come consistently out as number one.But Donegal's most famous son hasn't done very well himself in the top 131 Things-Irish poll - the country and western crooner from Kinncasslagh is ranked just two from the bottom at 129. The poll on thewww.p45.netsite has been running since June 2003.Just below Co Donegal is the Irish revolutionary labour leader executed in 1916, James Connolly; at number three is the former Pogues lead singer Shane MacGowan.For a land supposedly of saints and scholars no holy men or women occupy the top five in the poll. Guinness and Tayto crisps are ranked higher than Ireland's patron saint St Patrick or St Bridget.Exiled writers and gunmen also make their mark in the top 25. James Joyce sits above Michael Collins at number seven. And internet users were clearly in sympathy with Roy Keane rather than Mick McCarthy after the battle of Saipan during the 2002 World Cup. The Manchester United captain was rated 23rd while the former Ireland manager came second from bottom at 130.Bottom of the 131 is the Republic's ruling party, Bertie Ahern's Fianna Fail.The website's co-founder Paul Clerkin said: 'The Irish poll started out as a bit of craic but it has grown considerably ... What's interesting about the results so far is that "rebels" and "radicals" are doing every well - James Connolly, Jim Larkin, Countess Markievich, Michael Collins and exiles like Joyce are in the top ten.'Speaking from Winnipeg, Canada, Clerkin admitted there were startling omissions from the ballot: no Father Ted or current Irish soccer manager Brian Kerr. 'I think we left out Ronan Keat ing, he should be in there.'Clerkin was disappointed that his native Monaghan got only a handful of votes. 'All I can say to Monaghan is - it's not my fault but then again we were above Cavan and that's what's important.'
His love of the festive season is evident in his new set of Father Christmas stamps for the Royal Mail. But another of Raymond Briggs's wintry creations, The Snowman, has become so popular that, like Frankenstein's monster, it threatens to lurch out of control and overwhelm its master. The children's author and illustrator has been bombarded by so much Snowman merchandise that he is now forced to sell it on eBay.Bags, cards, cutlery, gloves, mugs, placemats, plates, scarves, sleepsuits, snow globes, tea towels, toothbrushes and toilet paper bear ing the Snowman's smiling visage are among endless paraphernalia spawned by Briggs's lucrative 1978 book and 1982 animated film, the repeats of which, featuring the song 'Walking in the Air', are a fixture on festive TV.But Briggs himself stopped watching  The Snowman long ago and has been known to refer to it as 'the S-word'. He has now decided to clear out the attic at his East Sussex home and sell scores of Snowman mementos on eBay, the online marketplace. He will sign each individually and donate the money to charity.'I get stuff sent from all over the world, especially Japan,' he said. 'It's good quality, a lot of it, but there is too much and I just don't have room. I've filled up the attic and getting a big cardboard box up there is now very difficult, in fact it's a nightmare.'Briggs, 70, admitted he is a novice at internet selling. 'I didn't know about eBay. A lady who works for me is putting the stuff on. It could be a disaster: there are already pages of Snowman things there. I assumed everything would be &#163;10 at least, but I'm amazed to see some of it going for 50p. Why bother? There are all the costs of postage and packing. You can buy something for that in a charity shop.'We're starting with one item to see if it will work: a Snowman toy holding a tiny teddy bear, which I've signed. It's very well made, like Steiff teddy bears, and I can't remember if we've said &#163;50 or &#163;150. There are mad collectors out there who will buy anything with signatures. If it works, we hope to put more on and raise money for Great Ormond Street   Children's Hospital.'Briggs intends to hold on to some 'very good' china mugs and plates, but The Snowman, a phenomenon even in countries that never see snow, is not something he wishes to dwell on. 'I don't do interviews about it any more. What is there left to say?'Instead Briggs has revisited another of his most popular creations, Father Christmas, for a set of stamps issued on Tuesday. More than 30 years after his first Father Christmas book was a    bestseller, the stamps show Santa in varying Christmas Eve scenes of hail, rain, snow, wind, dawn and dusk.   'Normally my Father Christmas is a domesticated figure, like a fat and grumpy old man in a bath,' Briggs said. 'That wasn't right for the stamps, so I decided to show him at work in different scenes, united by the theme of weather.'Briggs, whose childhood ambition was to be a journalist, is working on a major project illustrating a complete collection of Ted Hughes's poems for children. His previous books include Fungus the Bogeyman (1977), The Man (1992), The Boy Genius of the Stone Age (2001) and The Puddleman (2004).When the Wind Blows (1983), by contrast, was a landmark picture book about nuclear holocaust, but Briggs says a return to political cartooning is unlikely.'I've got to have a blindingly simple issue, as the threat of nuclear weapons was. I wouldn't tackle something like the Iraq war, which was not black and white. I'm not a David Low or Steve Bell, both of whom I admire greatly.'
"Apple Computer's worldwide market share fell to 1.8% in the third quarter of this year from 2.1%, and dropped to 3.2% from 3.6% in the US, according to figures from research company Gartner. The numbers also showed dramatic declines in the quarter-to-quarter growth rate of Macs sold while Apple's Windows-based competitors saw double digit increases in the US and an almost 10% rise worldwide," reportsThe Mac Observer."But it was sales in Western Europe that had the most dramatic drop for Apple. The company's market share fell a half-a-percent to 1.5% in Q3, after a 2.0% share in Q2. Units sales plummeted by 29,500 to 147,300 from 176,800. Compared to other PC vendors, Apple had a whopping 16.7% decline in unit growth in Western Europe from the previous quarter. While Apple declined, its competitors gained 11.2% in unit growth from Q2. Apple's growth year-to-year in Western Europe was off 0.7%, while other PC makers had a combined 13% rise."A contributing factor to the fall off in Mac sales worldwide was a shortage of G4-based consumer iMacs, after the company stopped making the older model and announced there would be a delay of more than 60 days before it would ship a new G5-based, flat-panel iMac."Comment:"Apple is just gliding down this slope and they're losing market share every year. Things start to spiral down once you get under a certain threshold. And when developers no longer write applications for your computer, that's when it really starts to fall apart," said....Steve Jobs in aninterviewon April 20, 1995, when he was still at NeXT.
"Breaking from the rest of the entertainment industry, record giant Sony BMG is cooperating with the Grokster file-sharing network on a venture that combines free music sampling with paid downloads. Dubbed 'Mashboxx,' the venture marks a surprising alliance between a major record label and an online network that the entertainment industry has blamed for rampant piracy," reportsThe LA Times[free reg req'd]."Although many of the details are still in flux, people familiar with Mashboxx said that it would probably work like this: When users search for a Sony BMG track, the system will allow them to download only authorized versions of the song. [...] The idea behind the venture is to let people continue to use file sharing to discover music at no charge, while encouraging them to pay for the songs they want to keep."
Heavily indebted French computer games developer Infogrames reached a deal with its bankers yesterday to see it through the crucial Christmas trading period.Europe's largest creator of video games is also working on a refinancing of &euro;117m (&#163;81m) worth of bonds which are due to convert into stock next year and has been worrying investors for some time.Shares in the company, a majority owner of Atari, were suspended in Paris early yesterday raising speculation in Britain that it was plotting a bid for British rival Eidos.Infogrames said trading in its stock had been halted while it prepared a statement about its finances. The company, which has a 57% stake in console pioneer Atari, added that it expects sales for the last   three month to be in line with the guidance it gave analysts over the summer.Infogrames is predicting a slight increase in sales to between &euro;95m and &euro;105m when it reports its figures next Friday. In the same quarter last year the company achieved sales of &euro;92.5m. When trading in Infogrames stock restarted late in the day the shares rose 13% on the Paris bourse.When news of the suspension of Infogrames' shares reached the City of London, Eidos shares raced ahead as traders speculated about a possible bid for the creator of action heroine Lara Croft.Despite the fact that Infogrames' own finances are in a parlous state and the company said it was not in any bid situations, Eidos's shares still ended the day up 3.5p at 88.5p valuing the business at &#163;125m.Four years ago Eidos aban doned talks with Infogrames as the two sides were unable to reach an agreement on price. Since then both businesses have seen their prospects fade. Eidos has warned repeatedly on profits while Infogrames has got itself into something of a financial hole after a succession of acquisitions which have made it Europe's largest independent games maker.In August Eidos admitted it was back in talks with a number of potential bidders, but Infogrames was not among those fingered by analysts as interested.Over recent months Infogrames itself has become a potential takeover target with speculation centring around potential US interest.Chairman Bruno Bonnell said: "Infogrames is not involved in any discussions regarding a friendly or hostile bid."
If you were thinking about hosting a Halloween DVD marathon this weekwww.fearfulfilms.comhas lots of recommendations and warnings - you can pick up some original horror movie poster fonts for the invites fromwww.norfok.com.Connoisseurs of the genre should head towww.esplatter.com, to find news, trailers and their pick of the 666 best movies. The corpse of Britain's best-loved horror studio is kept alive at The Hammer Horror Crypt (www.horrorseek.com/horror/hammercinema/) that features info on all the Hammer films and lots of excellent blood-dripping posters.www.homepageofthedead.comdoes the same job for George A Romero's zombie movies.For buffswww.retrocrush.com/scaryis a list of the scariest movie moments of all time - Linda Blair's spinning head in the Exorcist doesn't even make the top 10. Finally, check outwww.spiteyourface.comfor a gore flick enacted by Lego figures.
Sega SuperstarsPlaystation 2Following Sony's introduction of the EyeToy camera last year - letting players interact with games via wild, flailing arm motions rather than the small movements of a joypad - third party developers have at last begun to support the peripheral. After last month's underwhelming U-Move Super Sports, former Dreamcast owners get dewy-eyed nostalgia with the introduction of Sega Superstars - tilt the Super Monkey Ball with your arms; use your body to funnel coloured balls in Puyo Pop; slap up Jeffry and friends in Virtua Fighter and glide gracefully around the world of NiGHTS using your arms as wings. Despite the odd stinker (Billy Hatcher isn't up to much, and House Of The Dead won't set your re-animated, corpse-strewn world alight), this mini-game collection dispenses pleasing and original arm-waving action.Nick Gillett&#183;Sega, £30 (£40 bundled with an EyeToy camera)Plug-and-PlayAtari TV GameWhile it would now be difficult to recreate the feeling of driving a Morris Minor or having only Crackerjack to watch on Friday afternoons at five to five, if you want to know what it was like being a gamer in the 1970s and 1980s you need look no further than the Plug-and-Play Atari TV Game. Put in 4 AA batteries, plug it into your telly and prepare for the old magic of Pong, Breakout and Casino. While the novelty of using the smoothly turning paddle takes several minutes to wear off, the 13 games here have significantly less longevity: picture playing bat and ball on your own, where the bat is a very small white line. Although Warlords is OK, the rest of this package is enough to knock the rose-tinted spectacles off the stupid face of even the most ardent retro gamer.NG&#183;£20,www.boysstuff.co.ukTHUG 2Gamecube, PC, Playstation 2, XBOXThose who already think skaters are a bunch of sociopathic barbarians will find THUG 2's World Destruction Tour feeds those stereotypes like a shed full of foie gras geese. Jackass's Bam Margera leads a team against Tony Hawk in the return of Story Mode, which feeds you missions as you skate round levels featuring the usual mix of collection tasks, trick-based challenges and the ability to demolish swathes of scenery, although longtime fans will be relieved at the reinstatement of the two-minute timed Classic Mode that lets you just get on with the skating. New tricks like tomato throwing, the Sticker Slap and combo-increasing Freak Outs after you fall over join a Max Payne Bullet Time-style slow motion ability for harder tricks. Tough, deep, intricate and raucous - skate and destroy, dude.NG&#183;Activision, £30-£40
My goodness, is it Friday again? Well, for those of you who've missed the highs and lows of gamesblog over the past seven days, this is your one-way ticket to the World of Know. Grab a seat and surf away.MondayLionhead's B.C. is put to rest by Fable-creator Peter MolyneuxA brief look at censorship in gamesTuesdayKeith takes umbrage with the trend of using mobile games as advertisingBreaking down the next generation of games consolesThe first reviews of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas are in!WednesdaySony announces the PlayStation Portable launch dateThe argument for games in the classroomDeer Hunter goes mobileThe very first computer game review. Ever.ThursdayBody image in GTA: San Andreas - is fat a gaming issue?GTA talk radio DJ Lazolow-ismsFridayMore mobile multiplayer newsSmart people discuss the fine line between reality and virtuality at a New York conferenceWhat say you about GTA: San Andreas?
The review copy hasn't arrived so I joined the throng at the shops this lunchtime and bought a copy of GTA: San Andreas. After two hours play I have got absolutely nowhere with the plot side of the game. It's been far too much fun stealing motorbikes, antagonising the police and exploring the countryside. In this most urban of games I'm finding the forests and fields a real treat. The music doesn't have that glorious retro feel of Vice City though. Anyway, back to the fray - this weekend already looks a write-off. How is it for you so far?
"Using your nose to move the cursor on a computer screen is not the kind of idea that just pops into your head. "It didn't occur to me in the middle of the night," admitted Dr Dmitry O. Gorodnichy, a computer vision scientist with the National Research Council of Canada in Ottawa. Rather, Dr Gorodnichy's camera and software system, which controls a computer by tracking the movement of the nose, had its origins in a contribution to the American space program," reportsThe New York Times.Comment:Can it accidentally reformat your hard drive if you sneeze?
[Off topic]Former PC/Computing magazine columnist and magician Penn Jillette (of Penn &amp; Teller fame) has been showingUSA Todayround his Las Vegas home. "It's the house of a 12-year-old with a lot of money," deadpans Jillette.
Google, the computer company best know for its popular search engine, has made its first acquisition since it went public two months ago.In a bid to bolster its search offering and see off competition from Yahoo and Microsoft, Google said it has acquired Keyhole Corp, a little-known maker of 3D maps which were used by CNN during the last Iraq war to help viewers better understand the progress of the US-led invasion.Keyhole, set up in 2001, uses images shot from satellites and planes to provide detailed maps. Users can zoom in to the maps to get close-ups of towns, streets and even individual addresses."This acquisition gives Google users a powerful new search tool, enabling users to view 3D images of any place on earth as well as tap a rich database of roads, businesses and many other points of interest," said Jonathan Rosenberg, Google's product management vice president."Keyhole is a valuable addition to Google's efforts to organise the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful."Google, which earlier this month announced third-quarter profits of £30m, did not disclose the terms of the deal.The Keyhole acquisition comes just months after Google acquired digital photography specialist Picasa and just weeks after it launched a new search facility that enables users to look for information held on their own computers in addition to the world wide web.Earlier this month Google extended a search deal with AOL to provide the Time Warner company's 6.3 million users with targeted advertising using Google's AdWords paid-for search system.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
For anyone interested in the potential crossover of virtual to real life through play in Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games, the secondState of Playconference, held in partnership between New York Law School and Yale Law School, is being fastidiously covered by the extremely capable virtual world researchers atTerra Nova.According to the conference blurb, some of the questions asked of the forward-thinkers in this field are: * What should be the relationship between real and virtual world economies? * Should legislatures protect virtual world property? * What are the possibilities for using virtual spaces to practice the activities of real world democracy? * Should virtual worlds be treated as separate jurisdictions with their own evolving norms and forms of dispute resolution? * What is the potential for using virtual worlds to promote democracy and self-governance?While that description may seem esoteric for the non-lawyer lay-person, in effect what this conference is asking is how close to reality are virtual worlds getting.Already there have been some pretty unbelievable things happening in the ether that shake the presumed foundations that reality stands on. For example, what is the real-world value of money if a fictional castle, made up of binary code, can bepurchasedfor $700? How does the transaction of almost $6 million since the end of July 2004 over online auction sites compare with the annual earnings of an offline industry, like tennis shoes (it's comparable, according to economistEdward Castronova). What if I told you that the average person playing a game like EverQuestmade more per hourthan the average worker in Bulgaria?If that's not enough to shake the ground you're sitting on, what happens when a virtual mafia nicks all of a player's virtual gold, that he (or she) has slaved to get for up to 40 hours per week for three years of game playing time? In onecasein China, a long-time player received over $1,000 in damages from the games company.And finally, what about those entrepreneurs who claim to make millions of real dollars per year buying and selling in-game stuff over auction sites? If you don't believe it, a great real-world example can be read in Julian Dibbell's onlinejournalof his year as a virtual goods salesman. While he didn't quite reach the dizzying multi-millionaire heights, it's been calculated that heearnedmore than the average high school teacher for his time.Some lawyers and policy makers believe that virtual worlds are potential environments in which to test out financial and political models before throwing them out into the real world. What does that say about the self-perpetuated, in-game governance that people take on themselves in virtual reality? What if someone wants to give up this world for that one?It's these topics that are under scrutiny atState of Play II. Bet you never realised playing games had such an impact on the real world.For more on this fascinating topic, read James Meek's superb Guardianarticleon the subject from last August. An overview of Julian Dibbell's case which I wrote for The Guardian last April can be readhere.
Mobile entertainment publisherKayak Interactivehas announced two new titles compatible with itsKayak Livemultiplayer gaming platform. Comparable to the Macrospace and In-Fusio systems Iwroteabout last week, Kayak Live allows Java and BREW handset owners to engage in two-player gaming sessions against other phone users anywhere in the world.Pinball Panic, developed by UK outfit Morpheme, is an interesting four-player take on pinball, where gamers have to send their ball through a worm-hole so it appears on the table of a rival (a bit like two-player Tetris where you send your blocks over to the other person's pile). Pub Pool Online, by IOMO, is a new version of the bestselling pool title, allowing gamers to play 9-ball against opponents all over the globe. Participants can set up buddy lists, and even chat to each other during a frame, using a text-messaging interface.Both games are complete, and right now Kayak is in negotiation with network providers around the world about hosting the titles. It should be a pretty compelling model for carriers – they can charge customers to download the games, and then get a percentage of the data transfer charges as players compete over GPRS.As for the logistics of running peer-to-peer online gaming over mobile networks, Kayak Live apparently takes care of everything from billing to buddy lists and lobby services. It has also been engineered to deal with the specific technical problems of running online mobile games – like what to do if one player suffers signal drop-out.Kayak Live even supports a spectator mode, so phone owners can watch other people play – we're not sure anyone would want to do that with a pool game, but according to Kayak's PR representative in the UK, the company is working on some 'wild new gaming concepts' unlike anything we've seen before, and only possible on mobile phones. Hmm, intriguingly vague...Anyway, we're expecting to see Pinball Panic and Pub Pool Online on major portals toward the end of the year.And you can read more about Kayakhere.
Sportingbet, the internet betting group, yesterday agreed to buy Paradise Poker, one of the world's largest online poker sites, in a deal that revealed the tremendous rates of growth in this area of gambling.Paradise is being bought for an initial $297m (&#163;169m), representing a huge return in just five years for its founders, who have insisted on anonymity.They are thought to number three and to be Canadian computer engineers.They will receive &#163;105m in cash, &#163;48.6m from a share placing yesterday and the rest in Sportingbet shares.They will earn further cash bonuses if Paradise's cumulative profits over the next three years pass $150m.The acquisition will almost double the size of Sportingbet, which is listed on the Alternative Investment Market. The group presented the deal as a bargain as the price represents less than seven times Paradise's expected profits this year of at least $44m (&#163;25m).The business has a 10% share of the worldwide online poker and, like many of its rivals, enjoys strong cashflow and high operating margins.Chief executive Nigel Payne said the online poker market has trebled in size over the   past 12 months and has "a long way to go". Sportingbet also hopes to cross-sell its established sports betting products to Paradise customers.In America, growth in online poker is being driven partly by television coverage of offline events - a recent celebrity tournament on CBS featuring actors Ben Affleck and Nicole Kidman attracted almost 13 million viewers.Almost 80% of Paradise's   players are Americans but, like most online poker sites, it has no assets in the country in order to avoid the possibility of legal action under the US Wire Act, which forbids gambling across state lines.Paradise is based in Costa Rica and runs its computer servers from Kahnawake, a Mohawk Indian reservation near Montreal.Mr Payne said he did not expect regulatory problems to   materialise. "I go to the States every month and I own a house there," he said."This brand is advertised across the States and it is generally held that poker, as a game of chance rather than skill, does not come under the Wire Act."Sportingbet funded the cash element of the deal from a new &#163;90m facility with Barclays and a placing of shares to raise &#163;11.4m.
It is, say those who have been standing in the cold for a good half hour on Oxford Street, the game that brings every boy's ultimate fantasies to life.There are gangster exploits, car chases, the atypical busty blonde and a number of missions within Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, the new instalment of the controversial video game from Sony PlayStation 2.Teenage boys began milling around the entrance of Game on Oxford Street from 11pm last night with the promise that the first copies of the game would be on sale from midnight at &#163;40.By 11.30pm more than 70 queued down a leg of the street joking among themselves that there would be no sleep tonight and no entry into the outside world for the entire weekend."You know what it is about this game, man: it keeps us off the street," said Andie Spence, 15. "You can go around robbing people's houses without actually doing it."Andie is not old enough to purchase the game, which carries an 18 certificate, but he has enlisted the help of an old friend who is also buying copious copies for other under-age boys in the crowd."We're planning to play it until tomorrow morning, it keeps the testosterone levels up and you know there's drive-by shootings and everything," said a friend of Andie's who did not wish to be named.Pondering the game's allure, he said: "When you're doing it you can just do what you want, you know, you can be arrested, you can shoot Feds, whatever, that's the best thing."There were also a few women sprinkled throughout the queue last night. One, Trudie Clarke, said the game did not hold only teenage boys in its thrall."I was hooked on the last one," she said. "I would play it until one or two o'clock in the morning. I can't explain, it's just a good feeling, it's wicked. Plenty of other girls I know like it too."By midnight there were up to 100 outside the store while many more queued inside, and those behind the till waited happily, ready to put through all the sales.The game, made by the Edinburgh-based Rockstar Games, follows the exploits of a career gangster as he carries out drive-by shootings, steals vehicles and hangs around with prostitutes.Although the franchise has come under criticism for its violent content, its supporters argue that brutality is not necessarily at the core of the game, which is considered unique for the depth of its non-linear play and ability to roam freely."It's a very well-designed game providing extreme escapism," says Mark Griffiths, a psychologist at Nottingham Trent University."Most designers take a 'kitchen sink' approach and put lots of things in to offer psychological or physiological rewards to players. It can give them the buzzes, the highs, the whole range of emotions."Video games make fantastic distractor tasks; they are dissociative experiences and literally offer players escapism. It is very similar to watching a gangster movie or The Sopranos; this game lets people have experiences which they might not be able - or want - to undertake in real life."
Any gamer will tell you that today's release of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is a pop culture event on a par with the opening of a Star Wars film or the launch of a Harry Potter book.It is impossible to overstate the popularity of Rockstar Games' most valuable franchise - and it has been predicted that 4.5m units of this game - Rockstar Games' most valuable franchise - will be sold globally in its first week on the shelves.But what makes Grand Theft Auto so desirable and addictive? And is it acceptable to play a game in which you can get a prostitute to service you in her car, then shoot her to get your money back?Of course it is. GTA: San Andreas will inevitably attract attention for its violent content. It is set initially in the Los Santos gangland - a thinly disguised Los Angeles - and you soon find the character you play back with his old gang, the Orange Grove Family, and virtually eliminating a rival gang in a drive-by.But what makes GTA: San Andreas repugnant to some constitutes is its attraction to some ,  and not just real-life delinquents and sociopaths. The chance to perform actions that would, in real life, lead to the destruction of property, loss of life and jail time, is deliciously attractive.Who hasn't, after a bawling out from the boss, or an idle day spent pushing paper clips around their desk, fantasised about being Tony Montana from Scarface or Travis Bickle from Taxi Driver? The Grand Theft Auto games allow you to live out such fantasies without affecting anything other than a stream of data.But there is much more to the game than its inventively violent missions. The landscape spans three cities - Los Santos, San Fierro (an analogue of San Francisco, complete with gay policemen and Bullit-style missions) and Las Venturas (a virtual Vegas), as well as all the spaces in between.What sets these games apart is the ability to roam freely around the harsh but exciting environments. You can earn money by driving an ambulance or fire engine or by cat-burgling houses in rich neighbourhoods.My hairdresser, for example, a mild-mannered individual, completed the missions in Grand Theft Auto III, then obsessively spent two weeks learning to master a light aeroplane within the game.Working through the GTA: San Andreas storyline merely frees you up to hop in a monster truck and perform doughnuts in fields, or spend hours working as a pizza delivery boy.There are parallels with the success of the biggest selling PC game of all time: the Sims. This game, which gives you fine control over the entire lives of families of virtual humans, demonstrates beyond doubt that that the ability to live vicarious lives is central to the appeal of video games.Surely those who strive to do good in their day-to-day lives deserve, more than anyone, the chance to pop a virtual cap in some virtual ass when we feel like relieving our pent-up frustration?&#183;Steve Boxer is a specialist games writer
MessageLabs, the email security specialist, yesterday announced that telecom industry expert Duncan Lewis is to become chairman as the first step towards a possible flotation next year.The company, which shot to fame at the start of this year as the MyDoom virus disabled computers worldwide, also revealed a 35% increase in annual revenues to &#163;57m. Its technology protects the email service and computer networks of nearly 10,000 corporate customers including Bank of New York, mobile phone company Orange and the UK government.Mr Lewis, a former Cable &amp; Wireless executive, is a senior adviser at private equity firm Carlyle and was one of the architects of a venture capital-backed buyout of Energis, which was scuppered when the telecom company's creditors took control."Duncan has a wealth of experience," said MessageLabs' chief executive, Ben White. "We have a big challenge in working out how we scale this business globally. So many British companies have gone to the US and other markets and fallen flat on their faces and Duncan will help make sure we do not come off round the fast bends."With &#163;13m in the bank at the end of July, the Gloucester-based company, which reached breakeven last year, does not have to raise cash but a fundraising at some point would allow it to address a wider market.City bankers are interested in the prospects of floating the business next year.Mr White said: "Obviously we are always looking at our options: whether the business should be part of a larger company, become a public company or raise more money from venture capitalists."MessageLabs, which employs some 600 people in eight countries, was founded by Mr White and his brother Jos four years ago to complement their Star internet service provider business.Unlike traditional anti-virus technology, which relies on customers downloading and constantly updating software on their PC, MessageLabs re-routes all clients' email traffic through its own filtering system, quarantining suspect files before they are delivered.In the year to end July, MessageLabs captured more than 570m viruses and worms, including more than 60m copies of MyDoom, the virus that hit many internet sites.
I switched on the television, pressed a button on the console and up came a menu for multichannel digital TV plus videos on demand - not to mention a link to a 2MB broadband connection for my PC. Nothing surprising in that, you might say. We live in a digital age with 55% of us signed up to digital TV.The difference was that the signals were coming down a 50-year-old phone line able to get broadband, telephony and TV simultaneously. It makes the choices in today's Online cover story even trickier.BT has been talking about this for decades but it is HomeChoice, not BT, offering it now, initially in London but soon elsewhere. HomeChoice has been around for more than 10 years but it has only recently got its act together to   become a potentially formidable alternative to the main players. It has just added Sky and will soon offer phone calls. Prices range from &#163;27.50 a month (512k broadband, 20 digital channels plus TV on demand) to &#163;31.50 extra for Sky Sports 1 and 2 and Sky Movies 1).During a six-week (free) press trial, I found it a good, reliable service with one key reservation. Installation by an engineer took two hours and the television side worked fine from the start. The 2MB internet connection needed tweaking later but still fell to 1MB while the TV was on. Surprisingly, the extra speed wasn't noticeable until I downloaded a very large file that took under an hour compared with three hours on my 512k link.After switching on, you are presented with a menu of 10 options, including dozens of TV   channels, video on demand, documentaries, radio, sport, recordings of recent TV shows including access (at scaled tariffs) to a large number of films plus (at extra cost) BSkyB's smorgasbord of sport and films.It was easy to navigate (and pay for...), and premium priced films and the TV guide are only a click away if you get lost. The big reservation is that the quality of the picture was not quite as sharp as our usual analogue picture (admittedly on a seven-year-old screen), though another user told me he didn't have a problem. HomeChoice says quality will improve when it upgrades to MPeg4 soon.Either way, it is a miracle it happens at all down a 50-year-old copper wire. For anyone contemplating cable or a paid-for satellite connection, it is definitely worth looking at. And when it gets telephone connectivity, giving it "triple play" of data, phone and TV (and removing the need to pay rental to BT), then it will be more attractive.There are wider lessons. If this technology had been available sooner, it would have removed the need to dig up all our roads to lay cables or to put satellite dishes on outside walls since this triple play technology can do all that and more.And the wonder of it is that it happens at all. Twenty five years ago, BT lobbied, unsuccessfully, to persuade the government to allow it to send television signals to homes in exchange for meeting the cost of building expensive fibre optic links to homes. No one in those days had any inkling that all this could happen through a copper wire. Hats off to the engineers who made it possible.
Electronic Arts announced last month it would be strengthening ties with Digital Bridges, a mobile games publisher responsible for distributing Java versions of EA brands such as Fifa and Tiger Woods. It was, perhaps, the technological equivalent of being "made" by the mafia - a symbolic confirmation that mobile phones have been accepted into the traditional games industry as an essential platform. And with the Christmas season approaching, there has been a larger influx than before of Java releases based around well-known console brands.The key example is Fifa 2005: Mobile International Edition. The latest Java version of the hit football series switches to an isometric display from a top-down view. This provides a better representation of the players and a more workable view of the pitch. The action is fast-paced, too, with one-touch passing moves and a nice power bar-based shooting system, although the sheer speed can be confusing as you struggle to identify the player you are controlling and then   get him moving towards the ball.Meanwhile, Red Faction, from THQ Wireless, takes the Mars rebellion setting of the successful console first person shooter and uses it to create a visually impressive shooter viewed from the top down. The aim is to plough through each level, carrying out simple mission objectives, blasting enemies and picking up weapons. The sharp character design and rich scenic detail bring to mind classic Amiga shooters such as Chaos Engine, while the presence of left and right strafing almost makes up for the lack of eight-way directional control on most handsets. It is a well thought-out release.Gameloft, which is responsible for excellent mobile conversions of Prince of Persia and Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow has turned its skills to the popular Might and Magic action role-playing game series.You control a team of variously skilled warriors on a typical fantasy quest involving puzzle-solving, spell-casting and monster-bashing. It is a varied gameplay experience made all the more vibrant by the gorgeous isometric graphics and enormous maps. It is another landmark title from perhaps the leading mobile developer. Conversions of Prince of Persia 2 and Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory are due over the next few months.Another excellent console-to-mobile conversion is Colin McRae Rally 2005 from Digital Bridges. Featuring the usual selection of championship, single race and stages options, the game offers a decent miniature rally experience, down to vehicle damage, road surfaces and the sound of turbo pop as you grapple with the gears. The handling has progressed from earlier 3D-style mobile racers, offering a sensation of wheel slide as you hit corners. The handbrake is a little strict, though, and the stages are often a little too long for a mobile title, but this is a fine conversion that just a few months ago would have seemed impossible on a Java handset.There is even a simple two-player, time-trial mode offering competitive play. The next step is to get mobile and console talking so the two versions can share data. It would be great to be able to repair and upgrade cars while on the move and then download them back into the console version. Oh well, maybe one day...&#183;If you like games but think most gaming coverage isn't for you, then it is probably time you logged on to the Guardian's Gamesblog. Our trio of experts bring the latest news and comment daily, discussing the past, present and future of video games.This week alone, our Gamesbloggers have talked about the explosion of handheld systems, advertising in games and issues of censorship. Hardly the stuff of game geeks and console freaks. And the beauty of it all? Readers are invited to join in the debate as well.guardian.co.uk/games
The first ever jumbo jet to land at Exeter International airport touched down on October 14. The Boeing 747 was not going into regular service; it is just overwintering in a hangar. Nonetheless, the airport's managing director, Geoff Myers, was very excited. "This is a significant day for the airport and demonstrates the ability to handle larger aircraft," he said.He was right. The arrival of the 747 - the aeroplane that made foreign travel affordable for millions of Britons - marked a significant change in Exeter's role. Like many of the booming regional airports around Britain, it opened to civil flights in the 1930s before becoming a military airfield during the second world war. For the next 50 years, it hosted a handful of small aircraft carrying cargo and a few travellers on domestic flights.In the late 90s, all that changed. You can still fly to Belfast, Newcastle and Glasgow from Exeter, but the rest of the departure board is aimed squarely at holidaymakers: Alicante, Malaga and the Isles of Scilly.Exeter duly became Exeter International in 2000, leaving the bulk of the business traffic to Air Southwest and Air Wales at Plymouth City airport. They, in turn, have seized the opportunity to revive routes abandoned by BA.The current mood in the no-frills airline industry recalls that of dot-commers in the late 90s. A bright-eyed optimism prevails. Barely a week goes by without the announcement of a new route. Some EU airlines have already succumbed to bankruptcy - Flying Finn, Duo, JetMagic, Planetair and VBird have all failed - but no one knows which of the remaining companies will endure and which routes will prove profitable in the long term.It was Ryanair that first realised the potential of tweaking airport names in order to lure customers to out-of- town airports. Frankfurt-Hahn, as some of the first customers were annoyed to discover, is an hour and a half's drive away from Frankfurt; "Hamburg Lubeck" is an equally long journey from Hamburg. But the strategy worked. Frankfurt-Hahn is now one of Ryanair's hubs. It wasn't long before British airports realised that altering their name might transform their prospects.The row over the renaming of East Midlands is the story of an airport which has deliberately rebranded itself in an effort to appeal to leisure travellers. At one point, the owners even considered calling it Robin Hood Airport. After all, Liverpool had changed its name to Liverpool John Lennon in 2002. Surely playing up the airport's proximity to Nottingham would pay off?On the other hand, the airport was closer to Derby than Nottingham and has a Derby postcode. To confuse matters further, EMA is situated in Leicestershire, near Castle Donington. But the International Air Traveller Association classified it as a Nottingham airport. Pressure from bmibaby, which was already marketing the airport as Nottingham East Midlands abroad, ensured that EMA became NEMA earlier this year.A change can also be an opportunity to acknowledge that the existing name is misleading. The little-known airport of London Manston, which is 75 miles and a two-hour train ride from the city, has now given up the "London" tag and calls itself Kent International Airport Manston.Hugh Lang, the managing director of Durham Tees Valley - the airport known as Teesside until September this year - explained why the original name had to go.
"Several of our airline customers had suggested that the Teesside brand name in isolation was not strong enough. This was exaggerated by the fact that Teesside was not a city or county so therefore was hard to locate," he says. Newcastle has its own airport, and "New York" (a combination of Newcastle and York) and "Captain Cook Airport" were both rejected as unsuitable."Both the city of Durham and Durham county have historical importance with their cathedral and university. As a result, they both enjoy a great reputation for inbound tourism."True, Durham is only about 20 miles from the airport. But you could walk into Darlington from Durham Tees Valley. "Tees Valley is the emerging brand name that covers the historical area of Teesside as well as Darlington, Middlesbrough, Redcar, Stockton-on-Tees and Hartlepool, so it was only natural that we also adopted this name," Lang says.Even though the airport is already in the throes of a major expansion programme, the name change wasn't cheap. The cost of updating signs and corporate literature alone amounted to what Lang describes as "a five-figure sum".Still, the outlay will be a small price to pay if it enables Durham Tees Valley to keep the airlines it has laboured to attract. A bigger airport means better transport links and facilities, and those can only benefit business travellers on their way to enrich the less picturesque areas of the Tees Valley economy.Travel News&#183;BA's recent hike in fuel surcharges (up 60% on short haul routes) comes as American Express predicted a small rise in hotel prices and airfares next year. Amex expects economy fares to go up by 3% and room rates by between one and 3%.&#183;BMI has announced it plans to begin flying from Heathrow to Mumbai and Bangalore next March.www.flybmi.com&#183;The Heathrow Terminal 4 tube station will close on January 7 for an indefinite period to enable work to begin on the Terminal 5 Piccadilly line extension.Passengers can either get off at Hatton Cross and take a free bus, or change at T1-3 for the Heathrow Express.www.baa.com&#183;Daily flights from Bristol to New York Newark will begin on May 19 on Continental Airlines.&#183;Japan Airlines' high-speed WiFi service begins on December 9 on the London-Tokyo-London route, though at first it will only operate every other day. A business class ticket isn't needed to use it, but a laptop equipped with wireless LAN is.
Anyone who's tried to buy a house this year will have met with more than the usual frustrations when dealing with estate agents. That's because they've now begun to hide behind technology so they can spend more time selling their services to new vendors (instead of having to field enquiries from potential purchasers).If they can stick all their data on the web, they can sift out the time-wasters without ever having to speak to them, let alone send out an expensive-to-produce brochure.One estate agency that has bucked this trend is Northumbria &amp; Cumbria Estates Home Sale Network (N&amp;CEHSN), based in Hexham, about 20 minutes from Newcastle-upon-Tyne.Although the business depends on technology to keep pace with the market and deliver what its customers need, it has taken special pains to ensure it doesn't lose the personal touch in its race to adopt new technology.If that means sending out bits of paper in this super hi-tech era, then so be it, says proprietor Andrew Coulson.It is this rare blend of common sense and innovation that led, last week, to N&amp;CEHSN winning a national award. The company, which represents 47.5% of properties in the Hexham region, beat two other finalists to be named the UK's Best Independent Estate Agent at a lavish awards ceremony in London.SN: So, what's this award?AC:We've come second for the last two years, and have been named the Best Independent Estate Agency for the North East for the last three years... The competition is run by the Home Sale Network, a network of independent estate agents in the UK that refer business to each other over the web. The national competition is a "best of the best" - a mystery shopper survey finds the best local agencies, and each of these is then put forward for the national award.SN: How important has technology been in getting you to this point?AC:The levels of business we do now would be unimaginable without the technology we use today - we would need at least double the staff.SN: Paint me a picture of how things have changed from the early days.AC:We started out 15 years ago with three staff, a handful of properties and premises on the first floor of a building (not easily seen from the street). Then, everything was manual - we relied heavily on telemarketing to generate business; property and customer details were handwritten on to cards; and mailers were done by a local printer then put into envelopes by our staff.Today, customer and property details are entered straight into the computer, and documentation is generated quickly and with the minimal staff intervention. We alert house-hunters by text and email as soon as a new property comes up, and we send digital photos via the web to give customers a better feel for a property at an early stage. We've made a DVD about the region which we may post up on the web in due course. We've even sponsored a webcam project in Hexham to help promote this area using live footage on the internet.A lot of our customers are people who are relocating to the area because their job is bringing them to the Newcastle area from London or the Midlands, or who are returning to the area after time abroad - we get customers from the Middle East, Singapore, Australia and Hong Kong. We see our role as selling the region as well as individual properties. The technology we use today makes all of this possible.SN: So it's had a tangible impact on the business?AC:Without doubt. We've grown our revenues by 300% over the last 15 years, largely thanks to our very natural use of technology (natural in that we've never had to think about why we needed something to make a business case). We recently sold a property worth £110,000 to a customer in Wales without her ever visiting it. She was happy to rely on detailed photos sent by email. The first time she saw the house was after the sale had been completed.SN: So tell us more about the technology you use and how much it cost.AC:We use a specialist estate agency software package called Solex, which cost about £11,000 when we bought it in 2002. That was for about seven PCs. We pay an annual maintenance fee of about £200 per PC now (so about £1,500 in total each year), which takes care of any problems that might arise and, importantly, ensures we always have the latest technology features, such as the support for text messages and email which has been our latest development.SN: Mobile phone text messages and email: why are those channels so important to you?AC:Because many young people - first-time buyers - use them and find them more convenient than phone calls. It's much more immediate too, which has been important when new properties have been scarce. It has meant we can have a viewer in front of a property before other agents have had time to print the brochure. They're also much cheaper than the cost of a phone call or postal mailing, and that's not even taking into account the vast time saving from not having to make individual calls.Our software is so sophisticated that it matches new properties automatically to the requirements of the property hunters on our database, so anyone relevant is alerted without our intervention.SN: But aren't you in danger of doing what so many other companies do, and hiding behind technology to a point where customer satisfaction levels are at risk?AC:No, because we see technology as just a tool to ensure we do our jobs more efficiently. We haven't cut back our workforce because of IT - we have expanded. But we have done this efficiently. All our staff spend their time on the important things - providing a personalised, efficient service.They can do that because the technology takes care of the mundane things that took hours before.Also, we do send out property details in paper form if customers request this. We understand that people still need something physical to read on the train, or show to their partner over dinner. The point here is that we only send out paper details that are wanted.SN: How have advances in communications technology helped your business?AC:Substantially. We were on a waiting list for broadband when it came to Hexham 18 months ago. We used the internet intensively already, but it was very slow before, and we couldn't do the things we needed to do simultaneously - daily website updates, sending photos by email, forward referrals to other agencies, sending faxes and topping up the franking machine. Moving to broadband has dealt with all of that.What's more, broadband is barely costing us any more than what we were paying before, because it works on a fixed charge basis. Before, BT was charging us between £900 and £1,600 per quarter for telephone calls and faxes. These bills rose in costs steadily between 2000 and 2003. We moved to broadband in June 2003 and now pay £1,500 per quarter plus £200 for the connection. But our use of the internet has increased considerably too, now that we can do so much more. As a result, sales have rocketed and we have exceeded all our business targets.We would not have been able to handle this volume of interest without the use of broadband. It has proved enormously important in improving the effectiveness of the business.SN: Who is your internet service provider, and what level of service do you have?AC:We were on BT's Network 500 service, but they've recently doubled the bandwidth at no extra charge, so we're now on their Network 1,000 with speeds of 1 Mb/sec instead of 512 Kb/sec.SN: What worries you, if anything, about your reliance on technology for your customer service and your competitive edge?AC:That, if the connection is lost for any reason, we'd be stuck. But we also recognise that technology is only as good as the data you put into it and the people who are using it. Our staff are our main assets and most of our 12 people have been here for many years. They're switched on, proactive and enthusiastic.We give them a lot of training too, so that they can exploit 95% of the technology's potential, not just the 5% that's the most obvious.The main feedback we get about our service is that we send out information that is relevant to the people looking.That suggests that other estate agents don't do this.We do it by simply matching great people with great technology. There's no better combination.
Businesses looking for a new bank could soon have another player to choose from. Jim Spowart, who launched the UK's first internet-only bank Intelligent Finance with the Halifax (now HBOS) in 2000, is reported to be in "advanced" talks with unnamed partners to set up a centralised, online bank exclusively for small businesses.Spowart resigned from HBOS in 2003 after it froze plans to expand IF overseas. At the time, chief executive James Crosby described the 52-year old Scot as "one of the few people who can honestly claim to have changed the shape of UK banking". Spowart was unavailable for comment as Business Solutions went to press, but speaking to The Scotsman last month, he said: "The banks here have been sitting too long in their comfort zones. Small business has had a raw deal. They get worse interest rates and have to shop around for any deals they get."He went on to say that he believed the personal online banking market was saturated and that there was little need for a branch-based banking system, as small businesses rarely need to make paper transactions and advice can be accessed by telephone or online. The venture could be off the ground by Christmas.The prospect of competition from Spowart will not go unnoticed by the main players in the market. However, the number of banks offering a range of business banking services - including online facilities - has increased dramatically in the wake of the Competition Commission probe that heavily criticised the "big four" banks for overcharging small firms to the tune of £750m and operating a monopoly in the sector.An increased number of providers will make entry to the market tough, believes Stephen Alambritis of the Federation of Small Businesses. He says: "There are four million SMEs out there. If that's the market he's after, there are plenty of potential customers. But the vast majority of these firms are catered for by the four major clearing banks and there are new players on the scene, all offering online banking."The Competition Commission's demand that banks make it easier to switch banks could work in Spowart's favour. The guidelines now in place force banks to switch accounts within five working days if no overdraft is involved, and 10 days if there is. The fact that it is now so much easier to shop around for a better account - as recently as two years ago it could take six or seven weeks to move - could make it easier to poach new customers from competitors.One sticking point may be the fact that SMEs demand a far higher level of face-to-face contact with their banks than their counterparts in the personal banking sector.
Almost all the big players offer, at the least, telephone and online advice, and most offer some form of personal account management, whether in the form of a named, dedicated business advisor or a team of staff who are on hand to deal with whatever issues may arise. Can an online bank compete with established networks of branch advisers?Alambritis says: "The vast majority of small businesses have a turnover of less than £50,000 a year and employ less than 10 people. These businesses do like the relationship banking side of things - the physical access, the branch manager they can chat to and so on.But the new breed of entrepreneur is more into internet banking. A purely online venture may not be able to take advantage of existing businesses, but it might well attract these new business people - 15% of SMEs now finance their operations on their credit cards and many start-ups really don't see the need to have a physical banking relationship."Another problem is the fact that a business-only online bank would not have the "safety net" of a personal banking aspect, as the bigger banks do. Some 520,000 businesses will have been started this year - a record number. However, there is a high "churn rate" in the UK, meaning that in three years' time, up to 300,000 of these new ventures will have gone to the wall. A standalone business bank loses customers forever when its businesses wither and die. But a company or sole trader with a bank such as HBOS, NatWest or Barclays will usually go back to the personal side of their bank when this happens, meaning the bank holds on to its custom (and their overdraft).Spowart believes the business banking sector faces competition from Europe. If this is the case, the timing of a new venture is crucial, says Alambritis. "In the UK we have 400 of the world's leading foreign banks. In the past, they haven't entered the SME market because of the delays caused by our clearing system. However, one new entrant is Spain's Banco Santander, which has bought up Abbey. Where they have led others may follow, so he could get in ahead of the pack."
Talk to anyone who works from home and it won't be long before they impress upon you their profound gratitude at being able to bin the alarm clock and avoid those uncomfortably intimate crushes on the 8.15 to Waterloo.Work/life balance initiatives such as remote working and flexible hours have risen steadily, if more slowly than expected, over the last 10 years, thanks to a combination of technological advances and changing demographics, such as more women coming into the workplace.The purported benefits for employees are a reduction in stress, more time for family and a greater degree of control over their time. Employers see cost savings, less absenteeism and increased productivity as their reasons for being flexible-friendly. Small firms, especially, can benefit from reducing the cost of having workers present in a workplace.But it is the productivity factor that comes up time and time again when companies talk about flexible working, which raises the question: is this a way of extracting more from workers under the guise of touchy-feely altruism? Sometimes, says Ross Hendry of the public sector union Unison's Work Life Balance campaign."Occasionally the individual's experience of home working is negative. Managers will increase their workload to compensate for not being able to supervise them."Research by IT and business consultancy Skillfair suggests working from home isn't all bon-bons and cups of tea. More than half of those questioned in their survey into remote working said they worked longer away from the office.Other dissenting voices include the TUC. Earlier this year, general secretary Brendan Barber warned: "Working outside the office should be an option that improves job quality for employees and brings people back into the workforce, not just a cheap option for employers."But on the whole, it seems more of us than ever want to go home to work. According to research by think-tank The Work Foundation, 47% of employees want flexibility.Among 18-24-year-olds, 80% said they would be more motivated at work if they had access to work/life balance schemes. The 2003 UK Graduate Careers survey showed that university leavers value flexibility more than pay when looking at prospective employers.Hendry says: "Our research suggests the experience of remote working is neither wholly negative or positive for the employer and the employee. There are many good reasons why workers, despite feeling they are having more work dumped on them, still prefer to work at home, including a reduction in stress."In the wake of the dotcom boom, there are now many companies that use remote working exclusively. Alex Crockett runs Intrepid Developments, a Bristol-based internet and business systems consultancy providing IT solutions for the SME market. His developers all work from home, keeping in contact by means of instant messaging and video conferencing.The main benefit to the company is financial, says Crockett. "We have little or no overheads in terms of office space. I can source talented staff from all over the UK, whereas if I was to bring them in-house I would only be able to find them from the locality."If these thoroughly modern work solutions are so great for everyone, why don't more of us enjoy them? A variety of reasons: inadequate IT, expenditure issues, even technophobe employees.Hendry says: "Many employers think letting people work at home will save them money, but there are set-up costs. And, of course, some managers just aren't happy with not being able to supervise their staff all the time."Despite this, he says, flexible working will continue to grow. "After one or two trailblazers in a workplace have done it and gone through all the teething problems, it becomes easier because it can be presented to colleagues and managers as doable. The more it is seen to work and the better and cheaper the technology becomes, the greater the numbers wanting to do it will be."One company with a long, fruitful experience of flexible working is Happy, which provides computer and online training. The company employs 36 staff at its offices near the City of London and was voted Family Friendly Employer of the Year 2003 by the NSPCC. It has had a flexible working policy in place for almost 10 years, but only formalised it seven years ago.Happy employees can work from home, choose flexible hours and take sabbaticals and dependency leave.The policies are so successful, says managing director Cathy Busani, that no one wants to leave. She says: "We have a staff turnover under half the UK average, and when we are looking to recruit we don't need to advertise - we have more than 2,000 people on the job list waiting to hear of new jobs."Remote working is a popular option. Trainers work three or four days a week and one day at home. Admin staff can work remotely when they have special projects on and staff in the online department only come in two days a week.Busani says: "The employer benefits, the worker benefits and the customers, who ultimately we are there for, benefit because they are dealt with by happy staff."The company provides loans for workers to buy PCs to use at home. Once they are set up, staff are closely monitored to ensure they are happy with their working environment. Twice-yearly appraisals are held, in which employees are asked if they are happy with their work/life balance.Unsurprisingly, the answer is usually "yes".
&#183;Vodafone and Orange have both launched free-to-download desktop texting services, which you can have from their respective websites (www.vodafone.co.ukandwww.orange.co.uk). Although you can already log on to (for example) Orange's website and send a single text message, the new scheme allows you to send to multiple recipients and also sends messages beyond the standard short messages a phone will handle. Since it sets up an effective new account for you, you can also receive replies on your PC.&#183;The Federation of Small Business has highlighted a new area of concern for small businesses - the banks have admitted that cheques don't always clear within three days.According to the FSB, although funds appear in your account within three days once you've banked a cheque, this can be due to your bank taking it on trust and crediting your cash flow from its own funds, expecting immediate settlement of the cheque. In fact, settlement has, in some cases, taken months, and banks have admitted to the FSB that there is no guarantee that cheques won't be withdrawn later on.&#183;Backup is something everyone should do, as long as it is done intelligently - this means preserving the right files (every version of every draft isn't important, your accounts are) and preferably offsite so if your office burns down your backups are still safe. This is why Datafort has launched PCFort, a system that allows you to back up your data over the internet on to their servers.This isn't a new idea - companies including NetStore have been in the market for years, but Datafort's advantage is that it costs only &#8364;2.99 per month per gigabyte backed up.Presumably others will adjust their pricing as a result of the launch. Seewww.datafort.co.ukfor details.&#183;Recruitment agency Adecco has launched Adecco Plus, a scheme under which it hopes to make businesses aware of workplace diversity. It will focus on ageism (which now starts at 42 according to new research from Sanders and Sidney), sexism and discrimination against people with disabilities. Specifics within the initiative include diversity monitoring to ensure that places of employment actually welcome people from different backgrounds, an offsite registration process, fully trained staff and a regional team of business process managers to ensure compliance with diversity legislation and objectives.&#183;Meanwhile, recruitment website Reed (www.reed.co.uk) has published research stating that one in 25 employees walks out of their job because the induction process is deeply flawed. The figure rises to one employee in 17 when the job is in the media or public sector, who therefore seem to be the chief culprits. Geographically, people in the north-east and Thames Valley were most likely to have walked out of a job because of the welcome they had, or rather didn't have, on arrival.&#183;Proxim has launched a new WiFi access point aimed at small businesses called the ORiNOCO AP-700. Billed as offering enterprise-class functionality to the smaller business, it does this through extra security add-ins and extra speed. It is compliant with the IE 802.11i standard, which technologists will confirm is state of the art and more secure than its predecessors. Uniquely for the moment, Proxim has built-in rogue AP detection which should keep intruders out of the network. The product is aimed both at people wanting a network for their workplace and also at people wanting to offer WiFi to their customers.&#183;Alertbox has released its product, also called the Alertbox, to small businesses and neighbourhoods alike. It's a small box that has your name and details put into it as well as those of neighbouring businesses (or neighbours) and then communicates with their Alertboxes wirelessly - so you can send a signal for help at the touch of a button, often undetected if there's an intruder in the area. There are no ongoing account charges, it runs off mains power and once it's set up it's done. It is currently being supplied through police authorities, housing associations and other bodies that can equip a variety of premises.(www.alertbox.co.uk)&#183;BT is collaborating with Microsoft to develop an overall office offering to take account not only of software but of the bandwidth a company will need in order to run it. Called BT Broadband Office Complete, it includes secure broadband access, web hosting, security, hosted exchange, applications, services, support and maintenance, all from a single source, and one bill (at £56 per seat, per month). The move is in part a reaction to feedback from customers who would rather pay a single source for all of their IT rather than one place for their internet costs, another for their software and so on, as highlighted in this column last month.
Running a small or medium-sized business can be hugely demanding when you have so many different tasks to complete without the back up and support enjoyed by larger corporations.And if the phones are ringing all the time, you can spend valuable chunks of your day taking messages - and sometimes missing important calls - rather than actively seeking new business or dealing with existing customers.That's why some SMEs are now turning to organisations which are providing virtual office services. A good example is Media 4U, a Glasgow-based IT company with 35 staff, which was finding it extremely difficult to recruit a receptionist who understood their business and was struggling to manage and allocate incoming calls.So they have taken on Connect, a virtual PA organisation, to help them, as the company's depot manager, Robert Jones, explains. "We were spending a lot of the working week answering phones and it was taking us away from our core business."Under the new arrangements, Media 4U's calls are handled and allocated to staff by an external experienced operator who forwards any urgent messages by email or text. "The service we have now is very efficient. Customers are getting a nice professional voice at the end of the phone," Jones says.The operators of these virtual office services argue that they are able to give SMEs a big company image and point out that they are a lot more cost efficient than expanding the payroll. "People like to think they are dealing with a larger, more successful business," says Lynne Ginnelly, sales manager for Connect.But how personal is the virtual PA service? "Before we take any calls we would have to agree a script," she says. This deals with how the call is answered, and what should happen to any urgent messages. Like other virtual office services, Connect sends its customers a log of calls twice a day by email.Other companies in this sector such as All Day PA handle your business calls and take messages but also provide you with a useful online office facility which offers email, your own contacts, diary and to-do lists.As part of the standard set up, you agree how you would like your virtual office PA to greet customers when they ring the dedicated number. This involves deciding what should be said if you are not available. The options include the caller being told that you are "with a customer" or "in a meeting" - which is probably better than them getting your recorded voice message.The Guardian tested the service and we found messages were taken by your PA and forwarded via email in a few minutes.All Day PA's Danielle Freedman explains: "The service is designed for all types of businesses. It could be for someone who is continually on the road or a large corporate organisation which wishes to have all its calls answered through our service."Customers will never know the receptionist is based somewhere else."Virtual office services are particularly valuable when you are growing as a business and don't want to spend too much on a traditional office infrastructure. "It's a great costsaving solution," says Sanjay Dhir, managing director of Vivid Gifts, which imports and distributes gadgets for the retail trade. "It gives me 24- hour access to my office. It gives my customers 24-hour access to my business."Dhir arranges for the virtual PAs to patch calls through to the relevant members of his team but he receives a full record of calls every day by text and email so he can check if any key customer calls have been missed.There are a wide choice of virtual office service providers to choose from to support SMEs and most of them have a complete list of their costs on their sites. Services are becoming more sophisticated too. Companies like Ten UK are offering company executives "lifestyle management" services, which means their virtual PAs will book holidays, arrange romantic dinners or even organise a session with a yoga teacher.And, for many stressed out SME directors, that might be a very good call indeed.
There's an excellent book on time management by Mark Forster called Get Everything Done (and you can insert your own joke here about reading the thing once you get the time). But it is well worth more than a glance. In it the author makes the point that you can't actually manage time. Time happens and you fit your tasks around it for better or worse.Fitting everything in is, of course, a challenge, particularly if you're an owner/manager or a freelance. Generally we don't have someone to call when the IT goes wrong; we have to chase our own bad debts; cleaning the office is something we do ourselves; and we're usually responsible for our admin support. Oh - and we have to do whichever job we've decided to do as well, and to our clients' deadlines, if we want to keep working.Numerous people have different ideas on how to keep everything running and remain comparatively sane. Many involve one form of filing system or another, although the better ones tend to take a more holistic view. Getting Things Done by David Allen, for example, suggests pretending you're on an aeroplane at different levels to see your progress towards your objectives. So, you have the 5,000ft view, which is an overall view, then the 3,000ft view at which you're examining what individual tasks might be doing to contribute to the bigger picture, then the ground-level view which tells you what you're doing from day to day in context rather than purely at the micro level.Another useful technique in this book is the 30-second test - when a task comes in, ask yourself whether it can be done in 30 seconds (say you have to pay a bill and you have no cashflow problem to get in the way) - do it, and it's gone.There are other micro management ideas around as well of course. Allen suggests making "buckets" - in-trays or purely mental ones, it doesn't matter - into which you can put tasks so you always know what's happening with them. And, of course, delegation is something not to be overlooked if you have a staff to whom a task can be passed.One final book recommendation is The E-Myth Revisited by Michael Gerber. The single most useful thought in this book goes right to the heart of a business, stating that you need a business objective before you do anything else. If you want a decent lifestyle out of your business then that's fine - you can set your targets, hit them and get on with whatever lifestyle you were aiming to subsidise.This is why, in my case, if you call at certain times of the week you'll find I'm in a "meeting" - the fact that the meeting is on a tennis court and involves hitting a ball about the place is none of anyone else's concern, as long as I hit targets and deadlines.A side effect is that since I started playing tennis and regularly visiting gym my productivity has increased rather than decreased; whether this is because my days are better structured than before or whether I'm just fitter and better focused while I'm working I couldn't say, but I have yet to find a downside.In fact, if employers want to be really enlightened about motivating their staff, they're likely to take the view put forward years ago by Jean Paul Sartre - that it was faintly insulting to pay people for their time rather than for what they are actually doing with that time. Focusing on outcomes rather than someone's physical presence on your premises might seem a radical approach to take - it encourages lateness and long lunches, some people might think - but if a business isn't about getting the right outcomes, what is it about?The Self-Employment MythPopular wisdom has it that self-employed people and owner/managers have less free time than anyone else and spend all of their working hours firefighting.Additionally, they never switch off. This has some weight added by research from Bibby Financial Services, which states that 72% of owner/managers have higher levels of stress than others. However, last year, research by the Work Foundation found that once a self-employed worker had achieved a monthly sales target, they would stop and enjoy life, thus improving their quality of life considerably beyond the worker in full-time employment. Clearly this has to be offset against the insecurity of constantly having to find new work. But if it was as bad as so many people would suggest then why do so many people do it for so long?
In our search for that elusive work/life balance, does technology hold the key to success? Too often, it can feel like it's actually the wrecking ball. Mobile phones that keep you in constant touch with customers or the boss mean you're always on call. Laptops can mean the office comes home with you every evening. Remote access to email means there's always someone to write to, or something to respond to.But technology companies and, increasingly, mobile networks, are keen to show that gadgets can also help you make more time for the things you'd rather be doing. One of the most striking examples of such initiatives this year has been the release of figures from Research in Motion (RIM), the company that makes the Blackberry range of email-centric PDAs.RIM claims technology not only makes us more productive, but it gives us more spare time. A report it commissioned from research company Ipsos Reid found that 93% of users felt the devices improved business people's productivity by turning "downtime" spent travelling or waiting for meetings to start into work time - reading and answering emails, arranging meetings, taking action.Ipsos Reid suggested a company paying someone £55,000 a year might "recover" more than £6,000 of time just by handing them a mobile email device.Paul Stondage, a senior product manager at Vodafone, says the benefits of the devices are quickly obvious. "My productivity has accelerated because I don't have to come back to my desk to action an email or forward something on," he says. "I can do that wherever I am."And when I'm on the road, or with customers, again I don't need to come in at all - I can go straight from home. That would be very typical of a broad section of our enterprise customers. They do want to spend time out and about with clients or customers, rather than being in their office."He says a new Blackberry-enabled device - the 7100v, which Vodafone is currently selling hard to business people - could be particularly attractive to younger or smaller businesses. "SMEs would certainly find this more appealing," he says, "because now they're not having to think about a device choice to use different services. This is now a very useable device for both voice and data." Fewer devices means less to carry - and less to worry about, he points out.It is not just Blackberry devices that offer such advantages, of course. All the mobile operators offer some kind of email service, although most don't alert you the moment your email arrives.Of course, traditionalists still mock the gadget fans - even if, unlike a few years ago, those mobile devices are starting to prove their worth. Filofax, the daddy of all paper-based time management systems, insists its loyal users are more productive - and more senior - than those fiddling around with new technology.In a poll of 1,000 managers late last year, 57% of senior managers found it quicker and easier to find information in a paper organiser, and 55% thought it quicker and easier to write things down."It comes down to a question of personal choice," says Filofax UK's Matt Watson. "Some people prefer using paper, they feel more comfortable using it.Some people prefer using a PDA, some use a combination of the two." And, whatever the work/life balance benefits of being connected, it seems we still view people who take paper notes as being that little more important.
Every reader who is a business owner or manager is likely to claim they offer their employees a good work/life balance. It would be crazy to claim otherwise; tantamount to admitting to a lousy HR policy if you're big enough to have such a policy, or just an admission of incompetence otherwise.But achieving a good work/life balance for your employees is actually more difficult than it might at first sound. Take Robert. Robert is fictional, but based on a real character. He's just been recruited fresh from college - he's full of energy and ideas which will benefit your organisation and his inexperience can also pay off because he has yet to acquire the patina of cynicism about whether a given idea will actually work. His idea of work/life balance is as follows:&#183;earn enough to buy a car and a flat, whatever hours it takes;&#183;mix with young colleagues and find a ready-made social life at his place of work.Take also John, also based on a real character. He is not a youngster, but he's not quite 40. He has a young family and is experienced; his energy is tempered by the years but his enthusiasm is still in place. His idea of work/life balance consists mostly of the following:&#183;earn enough to pay the mortgage and feed his family as well as running the car;&#183;he's put on weight over the years and is aware that exercise wouldn't be a bad thing, so if there's a gym membership going, so much the better.&#183;friendly colleagues would be good and the occasional social event pleasant enough, but from choice he'd like to get off on time and see his family, which is where he enjoys spending his time.Astute readers will have guessed that both recruits are based on the same person at different stages of his life. The difficulty for owner/managers seeking to accommodate both varieties of employee and many in between as well as those with different aspirations is that servicing every conceivable variation on work/life balance is effectively impossible.This is why Tim Osborn Jones of Henley Management College queries the value of the whole notion of such balance.People will want different things and not just because of their ages, he says. "My overriding view of the work/ life balance debate is as much as it's been apparently a headline issue for the past five years, the debate hasn't actually moved anywhere in particular with any degree of further clarity and is possibly beginning to move off the centre stage."Reasonable though this may appear, there is certainly an issue of some sort affecting people in some way. Recruitment consultancy Adecco commissioned some research in May, which pointed to managers and owners in particular as having a work-rich, life-poor balance.Twenty per cent of managers worked for 20% more time than they were paid for, equating to seven days a week. Four in 10 admitted missing family commitments due to work, and around 35% admitted to having little energy on weekday evenings due to work.Flexible working directives and the like have helped to an extent, although fewer than 5% believed these would ever really happen in their workplace - and anecdotal evidence suggests that unless an individual has the right mindset, flexible working isn't the panacea some people might believe. BT, a pioneer in this area, found after the first year of allowing remote working early in this century that a number of employees were coming back and asking to be put back into the office. Not only was the social element of office working important to them, but the idea of being unable to shut the door on work and have an entirely separate home existence fails to appeal to everyone.Osborn Jones agrees that the work/life balance remains an issue, but says it needs to be seen in the context of other issues. "In the particular context that it was forming, that is to say a dialogue between employer and employee, work/life balance is not going to disappear but a number of issues of that sort jostle for attention, research, solutions and priority."And it is this dialogue between employer and employee that holds the key. It is noticeable that in the example employees quoted early on in this article, none of the work/life balance attributed to the employees involved much in the way of work. Part of this is due to the nature of the employment market; as the market moves increasingly in favour of the employee it becomes incumbent on the employer to become an "employer of choice", to use the current jargon.Meanwhile there are management techniques that can help in establishing some sort of balance for a business, even in the smaller organisations. Paul Elliot considers himself an "entrepreneurs' coach" (see below for his background) and has identified a number of areas in which decision-makers frequently do unhelpful things in achieving any goals or not being swamped."They're firefighting most of the time," he says."Phone calls are coming in, faxes, emails, all those kind of things." The reflex action is the courteous one - if someone has emailed you or calls, you reply immediately with no thought as to whether it's likely to be productive or whether technology could help. Figures from a company called High Efficiency Skills, which assists people with speed reading, suggest people spend two hours per day reading emails and that they then send unfocused responses.Elliot blocks out every hour in his diary, with some flexibility built in. "Answering the phone is something people do reactively, and really for very little benefit," he claims.He prefers to dedicate an hour in the afternoon to dealing with correspondence, whether this be voice, mail or fax, and his voicemail message says so - call him and he won't answer the phone, but he will tell you when he'll call back.Another thing to do from the "work" side of work/life balance is to set some targets. So often (and it's a generalisation, but not a bad one) companies exist because someone wants to run a business rather than to achieve any real end. "On the whole, when I do speeches for clients, part of the reason they've got themselves into difficulties is because they haven't set any meaningful goals to start with."It goes deeper, however. Life coach Rachel McGuinness (see below) points out that a lot of people get so wound up in their working practice that they effectively no longer have a life - school and college friends are long gone and have not been replaced outside the working environment. The phrase "get a life" is often used as an insult, but it contains an element of sound advice.And there are ways in which companies can help people to get a life, if they really feel they need a push and if the money is available. A number of firms on the medium side of SMEs include in their training budget some cash for education that's not job-related. So if an employee really wants to learn Spanish, or take up pottery, they go to their manager who pays whatever peanuts the local authority evening classes cost, and the employee goes away feeling motivated to deliver excellence in his or her workplace.Another gives out incentivised Red Letter Day vouchers, so if someone performs well enough (not solely in terms of sales) they get a day gliding, or learning to make sushi, or whatever else they may wish to do.There are plenty of approaches, and they're worth considering. As Osborn Jones points out, at a time of full employment (you can argue the figures if you wish, but the perception is that employment is higher than, say, 20 years ago) there is likely to be more competition among the employers for the best job candidates than among the candidates for the best jobs.Taking a flexible approach to how people assimilate a job into their lives is a powerful tool in attracting those candidates, within the parameters of getting the job done. And with some forethought and research it needn't cost much.Useful website:www.dti.gov.uk/work-lifebalanceCase study: Rachel McGuinnessRachel McGuinness was in a very stressful job for several years and, like a lot of people, she wanted to get out. "My body just told me that I really needed to sort myself out," she says.She decided to revamp her lifestyle starting with her health, so diet was the first item addressed. Then exercise, and then "making sure you actually have a life outside of work". From these precepts her idea for the Life Spa, her own business, evolved.She studied business while working and continued after leaving. There are traps to avoid, however: "When you're starting a business it's a euphoric phase so it's essential to keep your work/life balance under review at that time," she says. "I also make sure that during my own time I'm making time for my family, making time for me and making time for my personal development."Case study: Isobel RimmerIsobel Rimmer is MD of recruitment company Masterclass, which has 20 employees spread across two sites. Unusually, half of these employees are working mothers who have to fit their employment around childcare.Rimmer herself has three children, one of whom has a disability. The decision to offer three-day weeks or four-day weeks to the returning mothers was based on their effectiveness as business people.Rimmer says: "Would my preference be still to have people five days a week? Yes it would be. But the reality is that mothers want to come back to work but couldn't five days a week, and if you gave them the choice of five days or nothing, you'd get nothing." The payback is enormous in terms of loyalty and getting experienced people, rather than spending months bringing a recruit up to speed."And if you offer someone the flexibility so they only work Tuesday to Thursday, they make sure they're working very hard on those days - and they'll do what needs to be done because they want to."Case study: Paul ElliotPaul Elliot ran his own seminar business and found it to be all-consuming. "I'd bought all the very expensive big leather diaries and found it still wasn't working," he says. "I'd got my head stuck in it - we'd been successful to a certain point but then breaking through that ceiling wasn't going to happen in the manner in which we were conducting business."Many small businesses, he believes, reach the stage at which they turn over half a million or so and can pay themselves a good salary. But they'll never break through that barrier because of the way in which they go about setting goals and managing their time.He set up Practical Achievement to address this imbalance. "What I teach people is that you've got to set your goals for business and life in tandem. That's an absolute must. For example, rather than look at your business and think 'OK, I've been this successful this year so I can take this amount of money out', turn it on its head and say how much you want your business to pay you."Case study: Kate FishendenKate Fishenden has a company involved in branding and her husband was one of the partners, but they became aware that work was taking over because he was coming home later and later. "I was back early because of the school run, and another partner moved to Birmingham then the other one moved to France, so we started thinking, why have we got an office?"Their answer was to scrap the office all together and start a sister business, LingoLAB, which handles more than just name and trademark checking. "The creative side gave us a reason to meet up," she says.The company now meets at least once a fortnight, it uses places like the Institute of Directors as a meeting place. "We have a registered address at our accountant's, we meet mostly at client premises."
Return to Sender IDMicrosoft and Pobox are answering opposition to their Sender ID anti-spam plan with a revised submission to the Internet Engineering Task Force standards body. Sender ID promises to eliminate spam sent from fake, or spoofed, addresses, but the original submission was unacceptable to some internet service providers and the open source community. Patented technology was the main sticking point and the latest submission disengages the tie between Pobox technology, limiting the visible sender address to specific email domain names, and the disputed Microsoft technology to examine an embedded sender address. This frees developers from having to sign a Microsoft licence agreement said to be incompatible with open source licensing.http://masl.to/?U11522E99PC threatMore than 80% of home computers carry an average of 93 hidden spyware and adware programs, while 30% have worms or viruses, according to an AOL survey of 329 home computers. The findings underline the threat to the IT industry from the internet. While companies can and often do lock down their networks, they can still be affected by home computers used to distribute huge quantities of spam and mount denial of service attacks. AOL says that two-thirds of the sample believed their systems were safe because they had anti-virus software, but they had not downloaded the latest updates, and 90% had no idea what spyware was.http://masl.to/?F22562E99Network defencesThe problem of worms and other viruses being introduced by mobile workers attaching to the corporate network is being addressed by Check Point. Protecting the perimeter alone does not guard against laptops and other portable devices that may inadvertently bring in infected emails and applications. Check Point's Interspect 2.0 creates a web of gateway nodes to contain these attacks. These internal firewalls are coordinated through the company's Integrity management console, so all nodes can be upgraded from a central point when updates are released to combat new viruses.http://masl.to/?Q35512E99Shape upCisco's Networks Admissions Control (NAC) security system has been extended through partnerships with Microsoft and IBM, whose software checks to see if the latest patches and   upgrades have been applied. Partnerships with Computer Associates, Symantec and Network Associates/ McAfee enable checks for the latest anti-virus updates. Any non-compliant device is blocked from connecting to the network until it is upgraded to the required standard.http://masl.to/?O39512E99Wales consultsThe Welsh Assembly is seeking public opinion on e-government issues before starting its information and communications technology project next year. In a consultation document, ICT and e-Government in Wales, the assembly - led by First Minister Rhodri Morgan - outlines its work so far on the Merlin initiative, launched in December 2003, and invites comments on its plans. The main points are to discover how customer relationship management (CRM) can improve response times to Welsh residents' queries, and to investigate the standardisation of workflow processes for registration, document chasing and payments.http://masl.to/?F2B012F99Women in ITThe contribution of women to the IT industry is highlighted in the latest British Computer Society awards. The investiture of a Lifetime Achievement Award to Dame Stephanie Shirley was accompanied by the initiation of a Women in IT classification. Shirley was honoured for encouraging new work practices as founder of IT services group Xansa (formerly F International), and for furthering the role of women in IT. Since retiring in 1993, she has focused on the use of IT in voluntary work and research into autism. The Women in IT award honours organisations offering enhanced opportunities for women and was won jointly by IBM and Pfizer.http://masl.to/?D4B521E99Space raceLycos claims it has taken the lead in the "space race" by expanding its web-based mailboxes to 10GB of storage - around 5m text emails - for &#163;3.49 per month. It has also expanded the size of its free mailboxes to 300MB, which is more than Microsoft and Yahoo offer, but still less than Google's Gmail. All Lycos UK's email services provide an "online drive" so that users can "drag and drop" files straight from Windows to their online storage. This makes it easier to transfer files between home and work PCs.www.lycos.co.uk
O'Reilly Books is a shrewd publisher, closely monitoring technology trends before it releases new books. And while it doesn't sound glamorous, one of its latest titles, Enterprise Service Bus, is intended to introduce IT managers to a technology that looks likely to change the way we think about application integration.The problem with the service oriented architecture (SOA) approach to enterprise IT - which offers different services through standardised interfaces - is its loosely coupled nature. It is a fundamental flaw that goes to the very heart of the web services model used by most SOA vendors, and to the technologies that underpin web services. It is a simple flaw: the web is stateless, unlike business processes. If we are going to link the components that make up a business process using web services, we are going to need something more than an HTTP connection and XML messages.What does that mean? Well, in a web application, for example, there is no way for a browser to tell if a web server is connected or not - without sending a message and waiting to see if it times out. Developers have had to come up with complex workarounds. The same is true for web service connections: messages are sent, and responses received with no indication of any link between them. It is a worrying foundation on which to build the next generation of enterprise architectures.SOA vendors are aware of the problem. The web services industry   is working to deliver standards that will allow for reliable connections, including effective transactions. However, the onus for achieving this is still down to the developer, who must write code that takes advantage of these new features. What is required is a networking fabric that is "service ready", can connect to any web service (and to legacy systems), and can assure the delivery of any message sent - whether a request or a response - without complex and costly development tasks.This network fabric is the enterprise service bus (ESB). Operating like the data bus in your PC, it takes messages from the applications it connects, and delivers them where they are meant to go with as little fuss as possible.The ESB is not so much a physical product as a way of thinking. If you are already developing and deploying a service oriented architecture, then you are a long way down the enterprise service bus road. But where the SOA approach is about offering services that can be used as part of applications, ESB is more concerned with the messages that are sent between services. Instead of just connecting systems in a peer-to-peer network, an ESB is able to route messages, even modifying the content on the fly while operating as part of the application workflow.Traditional business IT still owes a lot to the mainframe world of "big iron". Standalone servers handle single tasks, with some simple integration to handle data exchange. More complex systems treat integration as a hub-and-spoke solution, where all information needs to pass through a central system before being parcelled   out to the systems that require it. It is easy to think of the evolution of business architectures in the same light as the evolution of networks - with the next step being plugging business systems into a network, where they get a data-tone and get to work. This data-ready network is the ideal ESB.An ESB can be the backbone of a service-based architecture: the plumbing that connects applications together. Like a network router, it is able to inspect the content of messages and route them between applications based on simple rules. It should even be possible for an ESB to manipulate the content of service messages based on rules, either to convert information from one format to another, or to allow changes to business processes without requiring development work.Thus, ESB systems are the logical descendant of message-oriented middleware, and build on a legacy of mainframe connectivity to deliver a framework that is ready for the next generation of services.There are ESB solutions on the market already. Middleware and XML specialist Sonic Software has stolen a march on the rest of the industry by not only coining the phrase "enterprise service bus", but also calling its enterprise messaging backbone product ESB. Sonic's ESB mixes XML management tools with a set of services for handling interservice communications, and is being used by companies such as Northrop Grumman to deliver complex real-time information services.Iona, an integration software developer, also offers an ESB: Artix is   sold as a tool for connecting existing enterprise applications to application servers, with a separate tool for connecting mainframe transactions into service architectures. IBM's MQ Series could also form the basis of an ESB solution, especially when working with Java, while Microsoft's BizTalk Server 2004 process orchestration tool is a fully fledged ESB in all but name.But the days of the standalone ESB may be numbered. Future technologies such as Microsoft's Indigo promise to embed the features of an enterprise service bus into application servers. Until then, deploying an ESB may be your best chance of managing an enterprise architecture that is being pulled together out of a loosely coupled set of web services.
How important is the internet to your 30Hertz label?It's vital. We sell direct from the website, and publicise performances and recordings, too. It is low maintenance compared with our other operations. It helps us be autonomous.Do you see 30Hertz releasing a download-only version of your albums?There's a good chance of that, when I feel a need to document a piece of music and make it available, without incurring pressing costs. However, I'm sure a corporation will somehow control access to uploads as well as downloads and apply charges similar to those incurred when pressing CDs. It's the nature of the (capitalist) beast. Involvement in the music biz will always entail hard-fought battles, but I'll never give up.How do you feel the record industry handled the advent of MP3s, Napster  et al ?The way they "handled" it is not worthy of serious debate. The people running the music industry were culturally redundant two decades ago. I found the disingenuous presentation of Napster repugnant. Unfortunately, due to the lack of informed people in the media, the battle was presented as a teenagers versus grown-ups battle. The serious ethical arguments were barely touched on. I have come across "big kids" in their 40s wearing T-shirts demanding fair wages for slave workers, naively championing the cause of things such as Napster, while being unaware of the implications of their actions - never mind the contradictions of attitude.I hear you are getting into downloading music?Just emusic (www.emusic.com) at the moment. I like its immediacy. If I fancy a bit of Turkish Rom music, I can be listening to it minutes later. It is also a convenient way for people to introduce themselves to music or artists they have never come across. We have broadband with AOL (www.aol.co.uk/products/broadband/gold/), which makes downloading easier, although we have had problems sending files via email so we may have to change.Picture messaging?Picture messaging is good as it means I can take artistic nude photos of myself and send them to friends. They never comment, but I know they're a great comfort to them. I use a Nokia with hands-free headphones, similar to Walkman ones. I tried a Motorola with Bluetooth a few weeks ago but it wouldn't work.What music software do you use?Logic Audio ("&gt;www.emagic.de) when I work with my engineer, Mark Lusardi. At home, I work with Yamaha Sequencers and a Yamaha work station/multitrack. They are musician-friendly, there are knobs to twiddle and faders to actually push. It suits an old boy like me. My computer says eMachines (www.emachines.com) on it.Any trouble with spam or viruses?Yes, the memories of a post-war, working-class diet still haunt me, and my immune system is not the barrier it once was! Yes, I have an immense amount of spam, and it's a nuisance. I daily receive 30 viruses that get eaten by Norton (www.symantec.com/avcenter/).&#183;Visit:www.30hertzrecords.com/live.htmfor details of Jah Wobble's tour.Jah Wobble's bookmarkswww.spurs.co.ukwww.guardian.co.ukwww.thisislondon.co.ukhttp://news.bbc.co.ukwww.emusic.comwww.amazon.co.uk
