Amazon Dash– the company’s single purpose internet-connected ordering button – may soon be blackening our skies with drones delivering loo rolls and detergent. And so, therelentless marchof technology – not to mention cheap labour, unthinking consumerism and scandalous environmental devastation – goes on.But while more convenient ordering of washing powder might have captured the headlines of late, Europe has been in the midst of a technological step change; a pivot in the world of data privacy.Several notable events at the end of March, in Luxembourg, London and Geneva, show a glimmer of hope that those frail, beaten rights – privacy and data protection – might yet see their true worth in the digital age.A moment, first, in defence of privacy –reportsof whose death are, I hope, greatly exaggerated.Privacy is a right for all – not just the filthy richMany fall into the trap of seeing privacy in an overly atomistic, individualistic, selfish way; the preserve of the filthy rich. And it is, if we see it as separable from collective freedom, or as absolute over other rights – of freedom of expression, opinion and association; freedom to protest; freedom to resist. But this is not privacy’s ask.Privacy is about having decisional power, control, over which acts and events of our lives are disclosed and to whom, free from the prying eyes of states, corporations and neighbours. Privacy affords us the freedom to develop ourselves in the world.The crux of the issue with digital technology is that our ability to make decisions and to control our personal information – the links and traces of our lives – is all but lost. Mostly without our knowledge, and certainly without informed consent,nation statessweep our data alleging ‘national security’ interests, whether legitimate or not.Corporationssweep our data, because they have powerful economic incentives to do so – and, with the capitalist lurch, no reason not to.So what can be done to reclaim this systematic erosion; to reinstate rights over the long echo of our digital whispers and wanderings? In Europe, there are some rumblings of resistance. They are the rumblings of citizens, of regulators, of courts. And they are starting to find their voice.No safe harbours: Schrems and the emboldened Court of JusticeOn 24 March in Luxembourg, the Court of Justice of the European Union heard Austrian Max Schrems’lawsuitagainst Facebook over the storage, security and treatment of European users’ data. In particular, it explored cooperation between Facebook and US intelligence agencies in sharing private information throughPrismand other clandestine surveillance programmes.The Schrems case is politically charged, thrust into the tense commercial and intergovernmental relations between the EU and US over data privacy, and particularly the imperilled ‘safe harbour’ regime, which has governed cross-border data transfers for the past 15 years.The most striking feature of the hearing was that itshowed an emboldened court in full flight– confident in its role, willing to challenge and test executive and legislative authority, and determined to respect fundamental rights both to privacy and data protection. The tenor of the questioning shows that the court is not afraid to challenge dogma – and that the security and privacy landscape, at least regionally, is prone to a shake-up.It will have been given fuel by the discovery, revealed in the Guardian, thatFacebook spies on virtually all European web users, even those who have opted out of its services, for up to two years.The CJEU has become the unlikely hero of data privacy in Europe; from its remarkable decision a year agoinvalidating the European data retention directive(leaving theUKand France relatively marooned); to the dramaticright to be forgottencase, which continues to have far-reaching effects; and the lesser-knownRyneš decision, last December, which confirmed that images collected in public spaces are subject to the full force of data protection.CCTV recordings and other images collected in public spaces are subject to the force of data protection.Photograph: Stuart Clarke/REX/Stuart Clarke/REXIf ex-NSA contractor Edward Snowden’s disclosures about the vast extent of digital surveillance issued a gunshot, then the European Parliament absorbed it, and the CJEU is now deflecting it. So much so that it has even reached the UK.Opening the gates: Vidal-Hall and UK compensation claimsThe UK is not particularly known as a stronghold of data protection and privacy. But that may have changed with asignificant Court of Appeal case on 27 March–Vidal-Hall, which concerned claims by Apple Safari browser users against Google over secret tracking and collation of their browser-generated information and its sale to advertisers.Vidal-Hall was aprocedural decision, but it cleared the way for claims against international tech companies for the tort of misuse of private information, as well as confirming the availability of damages under the UK Data Protection Act for non-financial losses, such as anxiety and distress.The court recognised that browser-generated information is often of an extremely private nature, and that the intrusion upon autonomy caused by secret and blanket tracking may cause distress – “the damages may be small, but the issues of principle are large”.Vidal-Hall offers the final puzzle piece for a robust domestic privacy and data protection regime. By affording court remedies, the case creates additional pressure for business models that offer users real control over their personal data. The challenge now is to stop it descending into a feast for lawyers andclaim farms.Report kings: The UN and the new special rapporteur on privacyFinally, and moving away from the courts, on 26 March, the UN Human Rights Council issued aresolutionestablishing aspecial rapporteur on privacy– the latest step in the Germany and Brazil-led coalition, initiated after the Snowden revelations, to bring privacy in the digital age to the United Nations.The special rapporteur joins 25positionsdedicated to protecting and promoting human rights. It is a positive institutional development, formally recognising privacy’s significance, and spurring norm-development and in-country studies, with UN priorities such as the integration of a gender perspective (a neglected but crucial aspect of privacy).But there are some dangers. The special rapporteur has such a broad remit that it could get diverted into dealing with every privacy issue under the sun, therefore neutralising its potential value in addressing data privacy.In addition, given that the UNspecial rapporteur on counter-terrorismand theHigh Commissioner of Human Rightsboth issued damning reports on mass surveillance, one might wonder what impact a September report from the new privacy rapporteur will have, as against the barrelling expansion of privacy-eroding laws worldwide.The more pernicious concern is that the new special rapporteur on privacy could mean the issue is removed from counter-terror and human rights – where it has a critically important role – as well as giving the illusion of movement on digital surveillance when, in reality, what we need is more action, less reports.Where do we go from here?Almost all of our new and much-vaunted technological advances – the app economy, drones, self-driving cars, the internet of things – pose unprecedented and, as presently conceived, unjustified trade offs with our autonomy, privacy and data rights.There are signals and small flames of hope, however, that the balance can be readjusted, that corporate and governmental restraint can be introduced to digital platforms, and that citizens can be put back in the driving seat. Schrems and Vidal-Hall are two cases that are among the brightest, and the UN is our best existing mechanism for limiting the sovereignty of states for unbridled surveillance.The challenge – and the question – is whether these cases and initiatives will develop in positive directions and, even if that’s the case, if this is too little, too late.Thechallenge articulated 15 years ago by scholar Michael Froomkinstands as true as the day he said it:“There is no magic bullet, no panacea. If the privacy pessimists are to be proved wrong, the great diversity of new privacy-destroying technologies will have to be met with a legal and social response that is at least as subtle and multifaceted as the technological challenge. Given the rapid pace at which privacy-destroying technologies are being invented and deployed, a legal response must come soon, or it will indeed be too late.”
Welcome to this week’s best iPhone and iPad apps roundup. As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, and (Free + IAP) means the app is freemium and uses in-app purchases.You can read previousbest iOS apps columns here, but if Android is more your thing, there’s a separate weekly roundup of thebest Android apps.APPSSneakers: The Complete App (£2.99)If you’re the kind of person who buys a cheap pair of trainers then wears them until they fall off your feet, this app isn’t for you. If, on the other hand, you can’t get enough of box-fresh sneakers and the culture around them, it’s an essential purchase – based on two books with more than 500 pairs of uber-collectible trainers to gaze at.iPadRelated:The best iPhone apps of 2014Endless Wordplay: School Edition (£4.49)It says “School Edition” but this could as much be “Parents Who Don’t Want In-App Purchases Edition” of this marvellous spelling app for children. Your £4.49 gets you 30 spelling lessons (with 60 more to come) hosted by characterful monsters.iPhone / iPadmyHealthPal (Free)This app is aimed at people with “long-term health conditions” – its creator has Parkinson’s – to help them track their medication and symptoms, and show that data to family members (and perhaps doctors, and if they choose to, with the developer).iPhoneOffice Lens (Free)This comes from Microsoft: a useful workplace tool for taking photos of documents and whiteboards, cleaning up the images, and then turning them into Word, PowerPoint or PDF files for editing and sharing.iPhoneRiff – Make Videos With Friends (Free)Riff is the latest experimental app from Facebook, promising the ability to “make videos with friends”. How? By filming a clip, then sharing it for friends to add their own footage, then their friends, and so on. It’s fun, but will anyone still be using it in a couple of months’ time?iPhoneRelated:The best iPad apps of 2014The Pointless Book 2 App (Free)If an augmented reality app that can only be used with a book written by a YouTuber strikes you as, well, pointless, you’re very much not the audience for this. If, however, you’re a fan of Alfie Deyes and have just bought his second Pointless Book, the app is definitely worth a look.iPhone / iPadTroov (Free)Expect to see the “swipe right or swipe left” approval or rejection thing from dating app Tinder to appear in different kinds of apps this year. Troov, for example, is a neat way to browse furniture and home accessories from a host of UK retailers, swiping right to store the details, and left to reject them.iPhoneGokon (Free)Gokon is a neat, interesting app that wants to help you expand your circle of friends through the chance to sit down and chat with their friends – based on a Japanese tradition. You pick a venue, set a limit for the number of people, then invite friends – who can then forward that invitation. Worth a try if you’re feeling a little too socially set.iPhoneUnlimited Photo and Video Transfer by Infinit (Free)A clean, simple file-sharing app here, focused on sending photos and videos to friends at their full resolution, rather than compressing them. Naturally, you’ll want to be connected to a Wi-Fi network when using it.iPhoneMaterials World Magazine (Free + IAP)A specific niche: this is the official app for the magazine of the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining. But if materials are your thing – “metals, plastics, polymers, rubber, composites, ceramics, glasses, natural materials, wood and packaging” – then the app is a slick way to keep up to date.iPhone / iPadAttack the Light for iOS.GAMESAttack the Light – Steven Universe Light RPG (£2.29)Even if you don’t watch Cartoon Network’s Steven Universe show, this is one of the most inventive, fun games of the year so far. It’s an accessible yet quirky roleplaying game featuring the show’s stars, with lots of replayability.iPhone / iPadRelated:The best iPhone and iPad games of 2014DomiNations (Free + IAP)DomiNations is the work of designer Brian Reynolds, who gamers of a certain age will remember for his work on Civilization II. His latest work remains in a strategic, empire-building vein as you take your civiliz… your nation from the Stone Age to the Space Age.iPhone / iPadBoss Monster (Free + IAP)Boss Monster had me from the initial concept: you play as a game’s boss character rather than its hero. And it’s just as fun once you get into playing it, based on a tabletop game and thoroughly rooted in retro gaming culture.iPadMarvel Mighty Heroes (Free + IAP)Free-to-play action here from DeNA – the firm that’s working with Nintendo on that company’s first mobile games – and an all-action Marvel game. All the familiar Marvel superheroes are present and correct, as are four-player co-operative battles.iPhone / iPadRockOn – A SongPop Adventure (Free + IAP)Remember when name-that-tune game SongPop was a mobile and Facebook craze? Now its developer has returned with Rock On, which applies similar ideas to the history of rock music. Test your ability to quickly identify clips from the Beatles, Queen, Lynyrd Skynyrd and more, while comparing your progress to friends.iPhone / iPadThe Quest Keeper (Free + IAP)Like Crossy Road meets a traditional dungeon-crawler, in short, as you swipe your hero through a dungeon packed with monsters, traps and treasure. And while its inspirations are clear, it’s very good fun.Gunpowder (£3.99 + IAP)Physics-puzzlers are common on the App Store, but this one stands out from the crowd – and not just because it has the biggest bangs. It sees you stringing together increasingly-complex contraptions to blow up loot across 125 levels, with a neat dash of humour along the way.iPadRelated:The best iPad apps for kids of 2014Last Voyage (£0.79)This is getting rave reviews, but it’s a bit Marmite: you’re likely to love it or completely miss its appeal. Trippy puzzles and action that’ll last you for 60-90 minutes, and either leave you feeling splendidly woozy, or cross about all the hype.iPhone / iPadCivCrafter (Free + IAP)CivCrafter is one of the most polished examples of the “clicker” genre of games, where a single action – tapping on the screen in this case – develops into a richer resource-management game of empire-building. It’s very addictive.iPhone / iPadDuckTales: Remastered (£7.99)A faithful port of the DuckTales game that came out for Nintendo’s NES console in 1989. It stars Scrooge McDuck – yes, he’d probably raise an eyebrow at the price – as he explores a side-scrolling platform world to find five treasures. Still good fun after all these years.iPhone / iPad
Welcome to this week’s best Android apps roundup. As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, and (Free + IAP) means the app is freemium and uses in-app purchases.You can read previousbest Android appscolumns here, but if iOS is more your thing, there’s a separate weekly roundup of thebest iPhone and iPad apps.APPSHabbo (Free + IAP)Virtual world Habbo has launched an official Android app, giving people full access to its pixelly world from their devices. Aimed at teenagers, the app enables them to chat, create rooms and decorate their avatars.Related:The best Android apps of 2014Riff (Free)Riff is the latest experimental app from Facebook, promising the ability to “make videos with friends”. How? By filming a clip, then sharing it for friends to add their own footage, then their friends, and so on. It’s fun, but will anyone still be using it in a couple of months’ time?Office Lens Preview (Free)This from Microsoft is an official beta for its new workplace app: to get access, you have to sign up for its Google+ page to become a “tester”. It’s worth a look: the app lets you snap documents and whiteboards, cleans up the image and turns it into a Word, PowerPoint or PDF file.Spell With Pip (£2.49)Oxford University Press is the company behind this educational children’s app, which teaches children spelling skills using a colourful mini-game with a parrot flying around the screen catching letters.File Transfer by Infinit (Free)A clean, simple file-sharing app here, focused on sending photos and videos to friends at their full resolution, rather than compressing them. Naturally, you’ll want to be connected to a Wi-Fi network when using it.Materials World Magazine (Free + IAP)A specific niche here: this is the official app for the magazine of the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining. But if materials are your thing – “metals, plastics, polymers, rubber, composites, ceramics, glasses, natural materials, wood and packaging” – then the app is a slick way to keep up to date.Related:The best Android apps for kids of 2014Strobe for Messenger (Free)Finally, in a slightly slow week on Android, a pair of social apps from Facebook for its new Messenger platform. Strobe turns your photos into animated GIFs to send to friends using its messaging app…Selfied for Messenger (Free)…And Selfied gets you to take photos of yourself to match a range of moods – from “Thumbs Up” to “Sad” – and then use them in place of emoticons during your Facebook Messenger conversations.Attack the Light for Android.GAMESAttack the Light (£2.42)Thankfully it’s a stronger week for Android games, led by this excellent title from Cartoon Network. Based on its Steven Universe show, this is an accessible yet quirky roleplaying game with bags of replayability.DomiNations (Free + IAP)DomiNations is the work of designer Brian Reynolds, who gamers of a certain age will remember for his work on Civilization II. His latest work remains in a strategic, empire-building vein as you take your civiliz… your nation from the Stone Age to the Space Age.Marvel Mighty Heroes (Free + IAP)More free-to-play action here from DeNA – the firm that’s working with Nintendo on that company’s first mobile games – and an all-action Marvel game. All the familiar Marvel superheroes are present and correct, as are four-player co-operative battles.Boulder Dash 30th Premium (£4.99 + IAP)I grew up with Boulder Dash on the Commodore 64, but it’s certainly been gussied up since those pixelly 8-bit days. This 30th anniversary version has 21st century graphics, but retains high playability and some well-crafted puzzling.Playworld Superheroes (£2.99)Ported from iOS, this action game is aimed at children who want a mixture of light crafting and heavy alien-shooting gameplay. They create a superhero suit for their character from (virtual) cardboard, then set off to save the world.Tomb Raider I (£0.99)Another game that I grew up with – slightly older, admittedly, and mainly shouting “F***ing wolves!” as I died repeatedly. Square Enix is now bringing the very first Tomb Raider back for Android: a history lesson for young gamers, or a nostalgia-fest for older players.CivCrafter (Free + IAP)CivCrafter is one of the most polished examples of the “clicker” genre of games, where a single action – tapping on the screen in this case – develops into a richer resource-management game of empire-building. It’s very addictive.Related:The best Android games of 2014Tap Tap Tap (Free)This characterful take on the rhythm-music genre comes from developer Bart Bonte, who’s made a habit of creating entertaining casual games on mobile. Tapping and swiping pilots you through this fun minimalist music game.DuckTales: Remastered (£8.08)More 8-bit nostalgia, but this time for the DuckTales game that came out for Nintendo’s NES console in 1989. It stars Scrooge McDuck – yes, he’d probably raise an eyebrow at the price – as he explores a side-scrolling platform world to find five treasures. Still very fun after all these years.Fatal Fury Special (£2.99)This is clearly the week for old gaming franchises to rise again on Android. This is SNK Playmore’s Fatal Fury beat ‘em up reborn in a faithful port of a Neo Geo game – and if these words mean nothing to you, rest assured that it’s an excellent slice of 2D fighting fun.Project Parkour (Free + IAP)In the days before freemium ruled Apple’s App Store, EA released an excellent touchscreen version of its Mirror’s Edge console game. Now, in 2015, developer TwoRobotsStudio has made a new parkour game that reminds me of it: you leap and slide your way around its carefully-designed world using clear controls.Slayin (Free + IAP)Finally, a game that looks retro but is actually new: “the world’s first endless action RPG” as your little character wanders along a side-scrolling world setting about monsters and upgrading his gear. Lots of charm, here, including its chiptune soundtrack.
It’s fair to say that the Wii U has not performed quite as well as Nintendo probably expected when the new machine was revealed with great ceremony in June 2011. Consumers were immediately confused about what it actually was. Is it a Wii add-on? Is it a tablet? Why does it look like a miniature Fisher Price television set? Three years later, the console is floundering on around 10m sales while generational rivals PlayStation 4 and Xbox One have shot past with nary a backward glance.Despite it all, Wii U has enjoyed a constant stream (okay, maybe a constanttrickle) of truly excellent and individual gaming experiences – it is still a Nintendo machine after all. Now priced at around £180, well over £100 cheaper than its rivals, it remains a great little games machine that deserves to be appreciated for its own idiosyncratic charms. Here are 16 reasons why.Affordable Space AdventuresCreated by Danish studio KnapNok Games, this fascinating sc-fi exploration puzzler is being hailed as the GamePad killer app that should have launched the console. Players control a battered spacecraft stranded on an unknown planet, and must search for a way to escape. While the TV display shows the environment, the GamePad screen has all of the ship’s systems, so you have to use both in unison. The seamlessness of this UI is perfect, and the game really grips as an elusive, slowly unwinding experience.Bayonetta 2Platinum Games could well be the most consistently brilliant studio working in Japan right now, and this beautiful brawler is its masterpiece. Huge bosses, ridiculous combos and one of the great video game protagonists all combine into an explosion of colour, ideas and attitude.Bayonetta 2: beautiful, brilliant and ostentatious brawling action from Platinum GamesFatal Frame (working title)Ubisoft’s Zombi-U was a chilling zombie horror adventure with a neat permadeath mechanic, but it was also scrappy and flawed. So we were thrilled when Nintendo announced that it would be bringing the latest title in the long-running Fatal Frame series of supernatural thriller titles to Europe later this year. Released in Japan last September, it’s another haunted house exploration shocker, with the GamePad acting as a camera that can both spot and trap the scary spooks. If the conversion is skilfully handled this will be a must for survival horror fanatics.Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker HDTen years on from the release of the GameCube original, this Wii U update refreshes the visuals, tweaks some elements, but mostly makes one of the most intriguing and unusual titles in the Zelda series available to a whole new audience. Sheer magic.Legend of Zelda (working title)Announced in January 2013 and only teased at since, the next big title in this vital action-RPG series will be an important milestone for the Wii U. From the little that producer Eiji Aonuma has given away, it seems this instalment will be much more open and freely explorable than its predecessors, with plenty of side-quests and a mission structure that allows players to dip in and out in short sessions. The visuals, meanwhile, bring to mind the anime of Studio Ghibli, with verdant rural scenes and slightly hazy colours. There are also intriguing hints of a multiplayer component – though we’ll have to wait until 2016 to discover any of this for ourselves.Lego City: UndercoverA big silly open-world adventure, set in a city full of side quests and neat little challenges, Undercover follows the misadventures of inept cop Chase McCain as he attempts to shut down a major crime wave. Hugely overlooked on release, it’s genuinely funny, challenging and engrossing. Basically the Grand Theft Auto you can play with your kids.Mario Kart 8Nintendo’s karting series has always been about intuitive controls, imaginative circuit design and thrilling multiplayer competition, and the Wii U instalment has all of that in abundance. Adding a modest selection of well-judged gameplay extras (including the crucial super horn – don’t ask, you’ll figure it out), this is an exuberant and joyous racer that grows with you and your family as your skills improve.Mario MakerAfter the impressive but rather complicated WarioWare DIY on the DS, Nintendo is returning to creativity tools with this 2D platformer design package which lets you create your own Super Mario levels then share them online. Fans can choose between classic and modern graphical styles and all the hallmarks of the series are available to play around with. It’s out this September and people are already calling it Wii U’s answer to Minecraft.Pullblox WorldOriginally devised for the 3DS by Fire Emblem creator Intelligent Systems, this compulsive puzzle series has players rearranging a sort of climbing frame-like tower of blocks in order to reach stranded children. The Wii U version loses the stereoscopic kink of the handheld versions, but it’s just as compelling, offering hundreds of brain-teasing spatial/topological challenges.Shovel KnightCreated by tiny Californian studio Yacht Club Games, Shovel Knight is a gloriously chunky love letter to the great 8- and 16bit scrolling platform adventures like MegaMan and Aladdin. Your quest is to travel across a bright, pixellated land, battling enemies, digging for treasure and finally facing the wrath of the evil enchantress. It oozes nostalgic appeal but there are enough new features and ideas to enchant younger players.SplatoonIf anyone was ever going to make a family-friendly multiplayer shooter, it was going to be Nintendo. Here, two teams of players armed with paint guns must compete to spray more of the map than their competitors. Due out in May, Splatoon has all the conventions of the genre nailed – including familiar game modes and weapon types – but it’s all in a brash, friendly game world.Splatoon: reinventing the online multiplayer shooter as a family-friendly paint-splatting contestStar Fox (working title)Revealed by Shigeru Miyamoto himself at E3 2014 (alongside two apparently connected prototypes: Project Giant Robot and Project Guard), the latest in the beloved Star Fox series promises to fully update the flight shooter recipe, this time using the GamePad as a cockpit display, allowing the player to control their craft via the controller’s accelerometers. Little else is known just yet, but a playable demo is set to be revealed at this year’s E3 event.Super Mario 3D WorldEvery Super Mario platform game ever made is a must for players interested in understanding the genius of Nintendo’s approach to design. And while it’s possible that the Galaxy titles are the zenith of the series in terms of sheer unbridled creativity, Super Mario 3D World is certainly up there – a mesmerising kaleidoscope of ideas and challenges that turn the Mushroom Kingdom on its head.Super Smash BrosGot friends or family around? Feel like beating them all up? Boy, has Nintendo got the game for you. The latest Super Smash Bros is a loud, feisty multiplayer fight club with a vast armoury of insane attacks and more special effects than a Michael Bay trilogy. The cast is fabulous, too, so everyone gets to play as their favourite Nintendo character, and as you all improve, the game has more than enough depth to step up. Smashing.Wonderful 101Platinum Games again, but this time on more jovial form, with Hideki Kamiya (Bayonetta) and Atsushi Inaba (Viewtiful Joe) working together to produce a really quirky action strategy title. Aliens have invaded Earth and only a team of superheroes capable of morphing into co-operative mega-weapons can defeat them. Chaotic and sometimes confusing, this is a singular challenge, erupting with life and humour.Yoshi’s Woolly WorldThe spiritual successor to Wii hit Kirby’s Epic Yarn, this is another ludicrously cute, handicraft platformer, packed with gorgeous fluffy textile visuals and loveable puzzle-filled environments. Yoshi can use his long tongue to grab and swallow enemies, thereby producing balls of yarn which are used to tie up foes or access new areas. Due out later this year, the two-player co-op mode alone will make it worth the wait.
It’s Easter Monday; why not intersperse eating Cadbury’s Mini Eggs with talking about video games?
The originalHotline Miami, released in 2012, was a fun, ultraviolent indie hit, but this sequel seems unlikely to mimic its success. It feels more like an expansion pack than a standalone title, and not a good one at that. The once tight and focused room-clearing action has become a dull slog through much larger open levels, with a cripplingly short field of vision. These levels can be approached tactically, but it reduces the pace of the game to a frustrating crawl rather than being the speed-boosted massacre the scoring system encourages. The game’s “bigger is better” approach means larger levels are more tedious to navigate, and while new character abilities do provide some variety, the narrative hampers replayability by restricting which characters can be played in certain levels. The pounding electronic soundtrack and druggy neon aesthetic remain the game’s biggest strengths; the earnest attempt to move its design on from the original is brought down by its larger scale.
Modern 2D shoot-’em-ups are infamously demanding. But while their hyperactivity and hails of bullets make them a darling of hardcore cliques, the genre is less inviting for casual fans despite attempts in the past to dilute the “shmup” DNA, often at the expense of quality and depth.Jamestown+is a rare case of a 2D shooter that serves both audiences with flair, thanks primarily to a smart approach to difficulty. And, despite rigid obedience to the established formula of dodging bullets, downing enemies and manipulating scoring systems, gameplay flow and aesthetic character remain pleasingly distinct.A remix of the 2011 PC, Mac and Linux release,Jamestown+adds two original stages and a bounty of new ships that offer fresh ways to approach the established levels. Elsewhere its pixel art is full of detail and character, and the rescored audio is superb. Final Form Games is a modest developer, but withJamestown+has created a shmup that will appeal to the genre’s keenest fans as comfortably as it will to the ordinary player.
Coming into its fifth iteration, one would have thought it would be hard to make a serious tactical error in this football RPG series, and yet this performance is – amid a flurry of red cards – a gaffer-sacking, confusing, buggy mess.Arion, captain of his school’s famous football team, arrives for the new term to find he’s the only football lover left and that his team never existed. The mysterious Alpha, it transpires, has been travelling through time and changing the past to erase all football. With the help of Fei Rune, a mutant from the future, and the robotic Clark von Wunderbot, Arion must travel through history in a time bus to save the game. (Yes, really.)Sadly,Inazuma Eleven’s bright visual style and energetic soundtrack are about all it has going for it. Gameplay revolves around gathering up team members and then “battling” Alpha’s football-hating minions by… well, playing football. These matches are functional but dull, with very little variety. You have barely any control, apart from guessing whether a blocker or attacker will go left or right. And watch out for your saved files vanishing too. A great game if you want children to play more sports – because it makes video games utterly unappealing.
The birth of the artist Leonora Carrington is the subject of Monday’s Google Doodle.The surrealist painter, who was born in Lancashire but spent most of her life in Mexico, announced her intention to become an artist to her father at her coming out ball.Her first step down that road, she told him, would be to move to Paris with the painter Max Ernst, a plan that prompted a less than enthusiastic response.It was to be the end of her relationship with her father, but the beginning of a glittering career. Carrington became a hero in her adopted country, where she and Ernst counted Pablo Picasso and Salvador Dalí among their friends.During the second world war Ernst was arrested – first by the French, then by the Nazis – and Carrington fled over the border to Spain, suffering a breakdown and spending time in a psychiatric hospital after Ernst fled to America with help from art collector Peggy Guggenheim. He went on to marry Guggenheim, and Carrington escaped to Mexico.There she settled and went on to produce some of her most popular work, as well as writing numerous novels, essays and poems, supporting left-wing activists and co-founding the Women’s Liberation Movement in the country in the 1970s.
Something weird has happened to email. For the past decade, if you wanted to share short, personal writing via the internet, you started a blog. Websites such asBloggerandMovable Typewere the first steps to personal publishing; the blog, although frequently maligned, the starting place for a generation’s writing careers. But blogging, not now and never actually dead, has certainly faltered. The less committed migrated to other social platforms, such as Facebook and Twitter, while the mainstream professionalised. If you have something to say now, whether you’re an intern or a billionaire, you don’t start a blog, you publish an essay on an existing network such asMedium. It’s a level playing field, but a bland one.Email is the original maligned medium. Closely associated with work, spam and information overload, it’s also incredibly personal, and it’s right there in your workflow. Original bloggers, those still more interested in conversations than building personal audiences, and those fascinated by how different formats and delivery mechanisms change our response to texts, are taking to email – helpfully rebranded as “tinyletters” by the most popular provider,TinyLetter.com. Laura Olin’sEverything Changesdoes exactly what it says: a newsletter that one week might list the recipes found in novels, the next tell emoji-based short stories. The dark and weirdClear Signalsis an illustrated, episodic story told in thrice-weekly instalments.The Bureau of Small Observationdispatches tiny, exquisite reports from the streets of London, while the dailyPomedrops short contemporary poems into your inbox every day. Fiction for busy lives, the reclamation of the epistolary form, or just a passing fad; like all forms of networked writing, from the blog onwards, it doesn’t really matter. Just enjoy the chance of hearing new voices, freshly dispatched, staking out their own peculiar form.
Never accuse the British of not loving a good gadget. Last week a new app,Periscope, was launched for Apple’s iPhone – in direct competition with a similar app,Meerkat, which had been making waves in the United States. Now stand by for the accessories …Both Periscope, owned by Twitter, and Meerkat allow users to live-stream personal videos. Cue footage of comedians washing their hair and families going for a bicycle ride – trending in Germany last week. However, Periscope has already proved itself invaluable for citizen journalists, according to Jeff Howe, a journalism professor at Northeastern University in Boston, Massachusetts, and wasused to great effectduring the fire that broke out in New York’s East Village last week. “The crowd is great at being at the right place at the right time and happening to have a smartphone,” said Howe.Users are still trying to see what works, Jeetendr Sehdev of the University of Southern California in Los Angeles toldNew Scientist. “No one really knows what sort of live streams are going to catch on.”Neither Meerkat nor Periscope are the first apps to offer live streaming. In the US, the protests in and around Ferguson, Missouri, over police racism last year and the 2011 Occupy Wall Street were aired live through sites such as Livestream and Ustream.But now live-streaming is booming and businesses are muscling in. Last year there was the selfie stick – to help tourists and teenagers take those all-important vanity photographs at a more flattering distance and with more stability. Now the emerging live-stream-friendly accessory range is bewildering. At the top end is the handy motorised phone stabiliser, the Fly-X3, which retails at several hundred pounds and turns an iPhone into something with “gyroscope technology”. Then there are kits whose sole job is to “seamlessly upgrade your iPhone into a handheld video rig”, as one advertiser puts it.The MightyMic claims to improve the sound of your fascinating video. There is also an Action Mount chest mount, permitting hands-free filming, aimed at the sports market, with several football clubs looking at streaming training sessions to fans. And there are tripods in aluminium and plastic to suit every budget and turn the old-fashioned family video into a professional-looking film.If live-streaming becomes the phenomenon that its Silicon Valley developers hope for, we may have to get used to seeing people with their phones attached to “video kit” gadgets.This month the app will also see its first major co-ordinated use as authors give live tours of the areas they write in. The series, called#WhereIWrite, will run through the whole of this month. The Periscope project is run by publisher Hachette and will feature its authors, including Jenny Colgan, Amitav Ghosh and science fiction writer Pierce Brown.
Not long ago it seemed like Tim Cook faced an impossible task emerging from the shadow of Steve Jobs, his lauded predecessor as Apple CEO.Yet over the last year or so, and especially in recent weeks, the contrast between Cook and Jobs – who died of cancer in 2011 – has appeared starker than ever.The evidence can be found in business decisions such as Cook’s effort to bolster Apple’s music streaming service – Jobs thought users preferred to own individual songs – but also in the current CEO’s far greater emphasis on social justice and political causes.Related:Silicon Valley flexes political muscle in new US culture war over anti-gay lawsA few days ago, Cook – who last year publicly came out as gay, the first Fortune 500 CEO to do so –wrote a strongly worded editorial for the Washington Postcondemning anti-LGBT legislation in states such as Indiana.Jobs, by contrast, guarded his own privacy so zealously that he was somewhere between circumspect and misleading when it came to acknowledging the extent of his cancer.And whereas Jobs was never keen to throw his weight behind political causes, Cook has been outspoken about user privacy, speaking before Barack Obama at a White House-organized cybersecurity summit in February, and warning that governments or companies encroaching on an individual’s right to privacy risk “dire consequences”.Cook has also upped Apple’s philanthropic efforts considerably, with Apple giving more than $40m to the Thurgood Marshall College Fund, and matching $25m in employee financial contributions to charities since Cook become CEO.On a personal level, Cook has also said heplans to eventually give away most of his wealth to charity.In addition to his push on music streaming, Cook has made other product decisions that reverse trends of the Jobs era, such as introducing bigger iPhones, closer in size to tablets, something Jobs had resisted.IBM was an old foe of Jobs, one to which he onceliterally gave the finger, yet Cook last year reached a deal for Apple to collaborate with IBM on business software for the iPhone and iPad.As UBS Apple analyst Steve Milunovich said, Cook “also has helped improve conditions for supply chain workers [and] shifted data centers to renewable energy sources”, something “it is hard to see Jobs undertaking with much gusto”.Milunovich added: “It appears that Jobs knew what he was doing in picking Tim Cook as his successor and telling Cook to be his own man. Cook has maintained basic beliefs while tackling issues Jobs might have shied away from, such as capital return and worker conditions.“While many have been concerned that Jobs is irreplaceable and few would disagree, Cook has successfully moved the company forward in his own style: soft on the outside, hard on the inside.”With its soon-to-be-released smartwatch, Apple is preparing to venture into a major new product area as it prepares to mark its 40th anniversary next year.That moment will serve to highlight the kind of company Apple has become today and the recent changes it has undergone under Cook.“Replacing Steve Jobs was an impossible task, and certainly many of us believed Apple would never be the same without Steve,” said Michael Cusumano, a professor at the MIT Sloan School of Management and co-author of the forthcoming Strategy Rules: Five Timeless Lessons from Bill Gates, Andy Grove and Steve Jobs.“I do believe it’s not the same company today, but enough of Steve’s legacy is still there in terms of how it thinks about design and users. And Tim has shown himself to be an extraordinarily competent chief executive.“He’s apparently reduced some of the chaos, got people to cooperate more, he’s spent more time on process and he’s clearly driving efficiency.”But Cusumano cautions that on developing new products, the jury is still out. “Whether he can push the breakthrough innovations like Steve – that’s still an open question.”The Apple Watch is a high-wire moment, and is already raising eyebrows over thehigh price tag ($17,000) at the top endof what will be a range of watches running specially developed apps. Jobs himself once said Cook is “not a product person, per se”, according toWalter Isaacson’s Jobs biography.The company that helped bring personal computers to the mass market has, with the watch’s focus on high fashion over the once-mooted health-related innovations, left itself open to criticism that it is now happy to make products mostly for big spenders.Perhaps the price of the watch will come down over time. Or perhaps it will end up as Apple’s version of the Amazon Fire Phone – a me-too product the company decided it wanted to have before it really settled on why.And if the watch fails, Apple’s board and shareholders may find themselves asking whether Cook truly is the right man for the job.
Final Fantasy Type-0 was originally released as a Japan-only PSP game four years ago – one that had very little to do with the rest of the franchise. Whereas Final Fantasy games usually feature turn-based combat and a hero who slowly grows from callow child to super-soldier, Type-0 substitutes tedious third-person fighting and an entire class of 14 army cadets, none of whom you would single out as being the star. There is also a tacked-on Dynasty Warriors-style city defence game where you help defeat enemy units while attempting to turn the tide of the wider war, but it involves way too much aimless running around the swaths of boring, texture-free landscape. Type-0 still has eidolons, moogles, a lot of nonsense about magical crystals, as well as other Final Fantasy trappings, but it also has poorly translated dialogue, voice actors who sound as though they understand just about as little of what is going on as you do, and graphics that, despite having been spruced up, still look as exciting as a wet Wednesday in Chipping Norton. Final Fantasy Type-0 is depressingly mediocre, and at this price little short of an attempted mugging.Ryan North’s To Be Or Not To BeiPad, iPhoneFramed as a collaboration between Canadian comics writer Ryan North, Shakespeare and you, To Be Or Not To Be is the interactive version of North’s Hamlet-themed choose-your-own-adventure book. You can play as Hamlet, his dad or Ophelia, who grudgingly fancies Hamlet “although it makes you roll your eyes when you think about it, you’ve fallen in love with a prince”. You can follow the plot of the play – Shakespeare’s choices are marked with Yorick’s skull – but you’re also free to explore other opportunities. You might end up as a pirate captain or – in Ophelia’s case – pursuing her obsession with central heating, marrying Hamlet and living happily ever after on the profits of a jointly owned heating business. The “Haml-o-meter” will tell you how near you were to the original text at the end of each game. It’s funny, silly, endlessly replayable semi-literary entertainment, and even better on the iPad.Tin Man Games, £4.49Life Is Strange Episode 2: Out Of TimeXbox 360, Xbox One, PS3, PS4 &amp; PCIn the first episode of Life Is Strange, student Maxine Caulfield discovered she could rewind time by a few seconds, and that the son of a local kingpin carries a gun to school. In this episode, things get more intense, her powers starting to take a physical toll and occasionally failing her altogether. There are new dramas, including a friend deciding to kill herself, and it’s a change to spend time exploring human relationships and investigating mysteries in a game clearly designed to appeal to both genders. Despite its theatrics, this second episode isn’t quite as gripping as the opener, and even if you retry conversations and encounters to see what would have happened if you’d responded differently, it’s all over in a couple of hours. Yet Life Is Strange is a distinctive and interesting take on adventure gaming that deserves attention for its well-drawn, believable characters and a setting that happily eschews magic goblins and groups of men armed with assault rifles.Square Enix, £3.99
Inside a lobby at Google’s headquarters in Mountain View, California, beside a rank of 1990s arcade machines, a laminated sign asks people to “Please Be Googley”. It is a request that visitors remember to wear security badges; also that they don’t steal any of the stuff that’s been left around for staff enjoyment – pedal bikes, sombreros, electric guitars. Employees at this £250bn company get stock options as a basic condition of employment. Wacky office furnishings, too. Upstairs in what Google calls its people operations department – human resources – there’s a climbing frame. A gym machine. Most sit at desks, today, frowning and purposeful, but one young staffer has taken a laptop to an indoor picnic table, next to the hammock.In his office, Laszlo Bock, head of people operations, handles the claims from outsiders asking: “Pleaseletme be Googley.” Each year, around 2 million apply for a job here and 5,000 are hired. Bock puts the average applicant’s odds at about 400/1. On a wall he keeps a small display of some of the worst (Bock prefers “silliest”) submissions that have come in. People try to grease him, impress him, plead with him, threaten him. He was offered, once, a discount on a motorhome in return for an offer. And somebody mailed in a shoe; with this foot-in-the-door joke the hope, presumably, that an acceptance letter would be sent by return post.Bock is 43, big-jawed, handsome, once an extra on Baywatch and still with the straight-backed bearing of a screen lifeguard. He joined Google nine years ago, when the brand was on its evolution from agreeable little search engine to terrifyingly ambitiouseverything-engine: email, maps, operating systems, phones, soon a phone network. Six years ago the company had 6,000 staff and now it is 50,000-strong – “the size of a respectable city,” as Bock points out, one made up of engineers, designers, marketers, lawyers, administrators, chefs and many of their dogs, who are welcome on site. If foundersLarry PageandSergey Brinsettled this city, and executive chairmanEric Schmidtserves as mayor, then Bock is something like its immigration chief: roaming the border in a dune buggy, binoculars across the landscape, considering bids for entry.Keeping on target… arcade games on Google campus at Mountain View HQ, California.Photograph: Winni Wintermeyer“I was buying a lottery ticket once,” he tells me. “My brother said to me, ‘I’mnotbuying a lottery ticket. And my odds are almost the same as yours.’” He means: getting a job here is hard. “It’s not hopeless, though.” Bock will soon publish a book,Work Rules, in which he reveals some secrets about how Google identifies people it wants and how it spoils them once they’re in. Fortune magazine has ranked Google its No 1 most desirable place to work for six years in a row, citing as one reason a new policy of distributing “baby bonding bucks” to staff. Had a kid? Have $500. This is the kind of thing they do.I sit with Bock on easy chairs in his office. He is used to assessing strangers in this room and I ask him to give me the once-over. First impression stuff. Would I be cut out for Google?Am I cut out for Google? ‘You’ve got the funky glasses, but not super funky. So you’re not highly affected…’He stares for a moment and says: “Well, first impressions, OK. British accent, tall, slender.” He gestures at my trainers. “You’ve got your tongue out on top of the laces knot. Which actually solves an important problem for me, because it always looks awful the other way, with the knot out, and now I know the answer.” He scans my face. “You’ve got the funky glasses but not, like,superfunky. So you’re not highly affected…” He says I seem nice enough. “But stepping back from that, if I were considering you from a Google perspective? At this point I would conclude I know nothing about you. I haven’t been able to assess any of the things we care about yet.”What are the things you care about?Volleyball on Google campus.Photograph: Winni Wintermeyer“Four things.” He lists them, in order of importance. First, “general cognitive ability… Not just raw [intelligence] but the ability to absorb information.” Second, “emergent leadership. The idea there being that when you see a problem, you step in and try to address it. Then you step out when you’re no longer needed. That willingness to give up power is really important.” The third thing, Bock says, “is cultural fit – we call it ‘Googleyness’ – but it boils down to intellectual humility.” He says you don’t have to be nice. “Or warm, or fuzzy. You just have to be somebody who, when the facts show you’re wrong, can say that.” And fourth? “Expertise in the job we’re gonna hire you for.”That comes last? “If you can do the other things, not only most of the time will you figure out the job, you might come up with a novel way of doing it nobody else has done before.”In Work Rules, Bock itemises staff privileges, some famous, some lesser known. There’s the subsidised childcare, the dogsitting, the massage chairs. Hairdressers visit the site every Monday and mechanics come to service cars on a Tuesday. With a few clicks on the local intranet, employees can arrange, without management’s approval or knowledge, surprise bonuses of $175 for each other – just because. Should they die, and should they be married, their spouses go on receiving half their salary for a decade. Two square meals a day. Free ice-cream!‘Googler’ is the umbrella term for employees, broken down into ‘Noogler’ for new arrivals and ‘Graygler’ for older handsAssuming the outsider can still think for envy, reading this, they might wonder if Google ever wants its people to leave the site. Whether this is gilded-cage stuff. In conversation with me as well as in his book, Bock argues fiercely against the suggestion. “Google isn’t some sweetly baited trap designed to trick people,” he writes. He tells me he has no particular interest in how long employees hang around. “If you’re doing good work and getting it done, I don’t understand why I would care what hours you work.”So the nine-to-five, that totem of work culture – bullshit? “Totally,” Bock says. “Fundamental premise: people are good and want to do good work. I don’t care how and when and where.”***Bock’s book also has one of those ambiguous titles beloved in business literature. Work Rules: I read three meanings into it. Here are some rules for work. Here is something you might shout, delightedly, in an office that has a climbing frame. And here’s a thorny modern truth – that work rules us now in a way it has not done before. “You spend more time working than doing anything else in life. It’s not right that the experience,” Bock writes, “should be so demotivating and dehumanising.” He suggests rival companies might like to adopt some of Google’s policies.Flicking through the book, I keep imagining a CEO at a lesser firm doing the same, digesting Bock’s tips as to how to ensnare the world’s A-graders and 90th-percentile types. Having a Google executive explain how to attract desirables must be a little like having a part-time-modelling doctor pal (who can cook) advise you on how to be more magnetic. But Bock writes well, and in his book he opens the curtains a little wider than before on this corporation, in control of so much of contemporary life, always insisting on its own transparency even while the core company is sequestered away in a remote HQ.Taking a break.Photograph: Winni WintermeyerI take a bike ride across the Mountain View site, guided by a volunteer staffer. It’s a warm day. On a pair of brightly painted Google-bikes, left about for free use, we cycle by a fire station, a music venue, an adjoining airfield that Google recently took on so that its fleet of driverless cars could whizz about, unshackled. They call the whole site “the Googleplex” but if, like me, you find that hard to stomach, the natives will also settle for “the Google campus”. I ask the staff member why the streets have such boring names – Crittenden Lane, Charleston Road… Were this Apple they would long ago have been rechristened Solution Way, Future Avenue. “We don’t own the land,” she says, “so we don’t name the roads.”Google moved into Mountain View around 15 years ago. A small town off Highway 101, around 40 miles south of San Francisco, it was once dominated by almond farms. No longer. I’m told Google hasn’t put up a building here, they’ve only occupied more already in place. But the company has “kind of outgrown our real-estate footprint”, in Bock’s words, and large-scale expansion plans were recently submitted to Mountain View’s local council. As it stands today the town is still sleepy, peaceful, blandly pretty. We prop up our bikes beside a water feature and when a line of ducks trots by, the staffer says: “Prop animals.”This lot know how we see them. Warily, wearily.Dave Eggers’s 2013 novel The Circle, aNineteen Eighty-Fourfor the online age, imagined a cult-like tech firm, one whose innovations increased a sense of social surveillance. Apparent similarities between Eggers’s fictional company and Google were noted, and I expect to learn that the novel would be a no-no on site. My tour guide tells me she remembers the book being hotly discussed in campus cafeterias. (We agree that I won’t name her.) Everybody seemed to have read it and nobody, as far as she knows, was offended.Space to think on Google campus.Photograph: Winni WintermeyerWe continue our tour on foot, going by the building that has a two-lane bowling alley, a climbing wall. I’m encouraged to pick from a flourishing strawberry plant. Across the way people play volleyball, some of them in Google-branded leisurewear. I look out for signs that the place is a pressurised hothouse for its employees; a sort of prison with soft-play walls. I don’t see it. People walk around unhurried, holding laptops and water bottles, holographic security badges thwapping against their thighs. On a deckchair in the herb garden, an employee sunbathes. One guy whirrs by on an electric skateboard.I ask my guide, who is wearing a summer dress, if she’d ever come to work in a Google T-shirt. She gives me a long look and says: “Only if I had no other clean clothes.”Millions want to work here – but not everybody does. I expect the biggest challenge for outsiders who were at all cynical, or self-reliant, would be the daily grapple with Google’s institutional devotion to zaniness. In Work Rules, Bock mentions unicycling clubs, juggling clubs, the tireless nicknaming, with “Googler”, an umbrella term for employees, broken down into “Noogler” for new arrivals, “Graygler” for older hands, “Jewgler”, “Gaygler”. You cannot be on site long before hearing about the weekly all-staff meetings. They’re called TGIFs, or Thank-God-It’s-Fridays. And they’re staged on Thursdays!Hairdressers visit the site and mechanics service cars. Is it a gilded cage? ‘Google isn’t some sweetly baited trap’But there is a more knowing humour beneath the panto. When I tell Bock about my efforts to get inside the building on arrival – how, as I pawed at a locked door, a polite boy in shorts interrupted to direct me to one of the lobbies – Bock says: “Most people don’t know this. But that guy? Trained killer. Had you tried to penetrate further that would’ve been it for you.” He carries on, poker-faced, about the number of visiting parents and grandparents who’ve been reluctantly assassinated this way…Bock enjoys the riff and so do I. Afterwards a press officer leans in to clarify, “No grandmas get whacked at Google.”***The press officer’s name is Meghan Casserly. Her hiring was a telling example of the company’s privileged, take-charge policy on recruitment. Bock writes in Work Rules that, far from sending in emails, or shoes, Google doesn’t really want you to approach them. “The odds of hiring a great person based on inbound applications are low,” he writes. Preferred is the scout, the long stalk. He tells me the recruiting corps at Google might eye a target for years. “And then, y’know, when they’re having a bad day – that’s when we strike. I’m joking a little bit. But we want to be there at those moments, when someone’s like, ‘You know what? I love what I’m doing but now’s the time to try something different.’”The on-site hairdressing van.Photograph: Winni WintermeyerIn 2012 Casserly was a journalist at Forbes, assigned to interview Bock. During their chat he let slip about those preposterous death benefits, not yet made public by the company. (As well as the half-the-salary thing, Google immediately pays out the value of any unvested stock to an employee’s bereaved partner. It then contributes $1,000 a month for any children until they come of age.) Casserly wrote up the story with the headline, “Here’s What Happens To Google Employees When They Die.” A big scoop.“We thought, man, she’s fantastic,” recalls Bock. His team approached Casserly about a job in the press office and she agreed to apply, she tells me, only because she thought she might write another article about it. Her editor at Forbes was in on the plan. Then, she says, the conversations with Google got “cooler and cooler. And the money was… interesting.” She joined about a year ago, a graduate, recently, from her “Noogler” status. She sits in on my conversation with Bock and monitors for indiscretions. At one point she instructs him, “Stop saying cult!”Bock and I have been talking about some of the negative perceptions of Google. That it’s cult-like. That it’s smug. Perceptions, I should say, his book won’t do an awful lot to dissuade. As early as the first page, he compares founders Page and Brin to Romulus and Remus; also to Thomas Edison, Oprah Winfrey and Superman. Bock says he’s aware that internal zeal may not scan well from the outside. He jokes: “One of the defining elements of any cult is that from the outside it totally looks like a cult, and from the inside everyone denies it’s a cult.”Google, he knows, can appear shut away. “Hermetically sealed. For example we don’t have many leaks for a company of our size.” He insists the vibe from within is more mutinous. “There’s this roiling, constant debate and argument and fighting. Because we do have people who represent all kinds of different perspectives – we even have luddites who think technology’s ruining the world. Debate is part of the fabric of who we are.” He looks at Casserly, an apology before using the forbidden word again. “You becomecult-like when you have a single set of beliefs and you say, ‘This is the answer and you’re not allowed to question that.’ Not the case here.”What about the smugness? Google’sassumption, in both of the word’s senses, can be staggering. The public backlash against those early-adopters who started wearing Google Glass spectacles a year ago – “Glass-holes” – might be seen as a manifestation of a larger frustration with the company and its seizure of ubiquity, its creep into positions of ever greater influence. (In this world and beyond: the company will soon send updrones to blip back Wi-Fifrom lower space.) Many are upset by Google’s squinty position oninternet censorship in China, interpreting it as complicity with an oppressive government. In the US there have been significant government investigations into anticompetitive practices at Google, since wound down, though not before damning accusations were made. Asimilar inquiry launched by the European commissiongoes on.Publicly, I think, unease was most palpable when an armada of Google’s camera-equipped Subaru cars, touring the world and taking photos to prettify its map service, turned out to beabsorbing data from people’s personal Wi-Fi accounts en route. “So how did this happen?” Google commented in a blogpost from 2010. “Quite simply, it was a mistake.” The chummy non-apology was tin-eared. Experts wondered about that “mistake”, pointing out that Subarus don’t teach themselves to plunder private data. In 2012 Wired published an article about the fiasco that it headlined “An Intentional Mistake”.Bock: “From a perception perspective, I mean, look – we haven’t been as good as we ought to be in meeting with different communities outside of Google that care deeply about what we do. If you look at privacy… we haven’t done as good or thoughtful a job of having those conversations [as we might have]. We’re getting better. But we haven’t done as good a job [as we might have] on that.” He admits that Google sometimes gets stuff wrong. “I think there’s a lot of perceptions. And some of them are of our own making.”What does he mean by that?“There’s a lot of responsibility that comes with having a global brand, and the kind of footprint we have, and the kind of impact we have, and we need to live up to that. And, by the way,” he adds, veering back to the smugness issue, “we hire people who are very high IQ. Not very high EQ.”Sharp but not emotionally sharp, he means. I’m surprised to hear him acknowledge this. It would explain a lot. Bock says: “We don’t always realise how some of our folks come across. By and large, it’s very well intentioned. So from the outside, yeah, I absolutely see that we need to get better, and work to change the perception, and make it more in line with how Googlers see themselves. But even inside, yeah, there are some people who are smug. They’re a minority.”Google bikes.Photograph: Winni WintermeyerHe writes in his book about “a small but odious segment of Googlers” who, among other internal misdemeanours, have abused the free meals system. Everyone eats for nothing here. Bock has caught people stashing takeaway boxes in their cars, pinching handfuls of granola bars for weekend hiking trips. Not long ago there was a campaign of resistance against Meatless Mondays, Google’s practice of offering only vegetarian meals once a week. In a chapter called It’s Not All Unicorns And Rainbows, Bock recounts the protest barbecues and silverware thrown away in anger. He quotes an email sent to him by a campaigner. “Stop trying to tell me how to live my life… Seriously stop this shit or I’ll go to Microsoft, Twitter or Facebook where they don’t fuck with us.”Bock means for us to be shocked by this but I find it gratifying to know that in among all the super-people, a little corps of the sub par have snuck in. Fuck-Youglers, I call them.I ask him, when they reveal themselves, these bad’uns, does he feel he’s failed as a recruiter? “Yeah. Everyone makes mistakes and we do, too. So you hire some people who are jerks.”***Back to that 400/1 chance for new applicants. I speak to a bookmaker at William Hill who offers me only slightly longer odds, 500/1, on my becoming prime minister. What can hopefuls do to improve their appalling chances of a job at Google?Try to compete in at least one Olympic Games. (There are half a dozen former Olympians on the books.) Win an Academy Award or a Turing award. (Google has these, too.) Bock reveals that there’s no point brushing up on clever-clever logic questions, brainteasers about things like tennis balls in swimming pools, because they’ve done away with that in interviews. The company once plastered a giant maths equation on a billboard and invited anyone who could solve it to apply, but no hires resulted. These days he puts greater trust in the blunt, 2D question. Tell me about a problem you’ve solved, tell me about a time you’ve squabbled with a colleague.Never tick off Larry Page. Even though this is now a city-sized operation, Page still enjoys the final say on every newcomer. How often can it happen, that an applicant gets all the way to the gates only to be barred by Romulus himself? Bock says once in a while. “A lot less than five or 10 years ago. Then it would be a weekly thing: ‘Not this one, not that one.’ Because what he was doing was calibrating all of us, saying: ‘This is what truly great looks like.’”Who knows, Google might come and get me after this. I catch Bock looking on approvingly while I snoop around his office, making notes about the climbing frame and the (vast) coffee selection. I appear to score big points for suggesting that those generous death benefits must, in the end, make it more likely for a Googler’s partner to murder them. (“That was pointed out internally.”) And there was the impressive thing I’d done with my shoelaces.If a call comes, the chances of acceptance here soar – to about 1/100. For any open position, Google will be interrogating 100 people simultaneously. After six weeks of this, 99 are rejected. They’re not told why. “If somebody just breaks up with you,” Bock says, “that’s not the time to hear: ‘And really, next time, send more flowers’… For the most part people actually aren’t excited to get that feedback, because they really wanted the job. They argue. They’re not in a place where they can learn.”So what happens?“We just say, ‘Congratulations, you’re hired.’ Or, ‘Sorry, it didn’t work out. Please apply again.’”Work Rules! Insights From Inside Google That Will Transform How You Live And Lead by Laszlo Bock, is published on 9 April by John Murray, at £20. To order a copy for £16, go tobookshop.theguardian.comor call 0330 333 6846.This article was edited on 6 April 2015. In the original, we said Bock joined Google six years ago when in fact he started with the company in 2006. This has been corrected.
It has been one of the longest Guardian Money campaigns, but finally the government has forced the mobile phone operators to introduce £100 “liability caps” for customers who have their phones stolen by thieves who then run up huge bills.For at least a decade Money has highlighted how the mobile operators have repeatedly chased their customers for bills – often in excess of £5,000 – following an unreported theft of a handset. While bank customers have a £50 limit on losses following a card theft, mobile operators have held customers liable for all calls made, a stance Money has long felt was unreasonable. Now mobile users are set to enjoy bank card-style limits, at least in part.Following months of discussions with the Department for Culture, Media &amp; Sport, phone giants EE, O2, Vodafone and Virgin have agreed to introduce a £100 cap for their customers. The measure will come into force between now and September. Rival suppliers Three and Tesco Mobile have already set up similar caps.The “voluntary” agreement’s introduction ends the operators’ opposition to the scheme that dates back years. In March 2012 the regulator Ofcom gave the companies until that summer to come up with plans to introduce caps on their customers’ monthly bills. At the time Ofcom threatened enforcement action, but the deadline passed with no decision. Consumers are currently liable for all calls made on stolen mobiles until they report the loss to their network provider – irrespective of the circumstances or size of bill – although this has never been tested in court. Thousands have fallen victim to the rule.In the most recent case in Guardian Money – and a story that sparked worldwide interest – Welsh teacher Osian Rhys Edwards was chased for a £15,000 bill run up by organised criminals. His phone had been taken by a pickpocket in Barcelona last summer and used round the clock to call premium rate numbers. His network, Vodafone, insisted he was liable for all the calls made, and only backed down when a barrister took up his case.Ministers say the new £100 cap will apply to the 27 million customers on pay-monthly contracts. However, users will have to report the loss to both the network and police within 24 hours for it to apply.About 300,000 mobiles are stolen every year in the UK, according to the National Mobile Phone Crime Unit. However, critics have already said the move doesn’t go far enough as plenty of victims are often unaware their phone or sim card has been taken – and are therefore unable to report it – but will still be liable.Five providers have signed up to a new code of practice which also obliges them to provide clear pricing information and alerts when consumers reach data bundle limits and information on how to avoid roaming charges.Three introduced the cap for its customers in January and the other four main operators have confirmed:• EE will introduce a cap within weeks;• O2 is taking the longest time and will only introduce the cap “by September”;• Virgin will introduce the cap on 1 July;• Vodafone will introduce the cap this summer.Ed Vaizey, minister of culture and digital economy, says the agreement will “provide consumers with real benefits as well as offer peace of mind”.But Richard Lloyd, director of consumer group Which?, says: “This long overdue cap proposed by mobile operators falls short of expectations and won’t do enough to protect consumers facing unfair bills run up by criminals when their phone is lost or stolen.”Gillian Guy, chief executive of Citizens Advice, says victims of phone crime should not be paying excessive bills run up by thieves. “Citizens Advice has been calling for a cap to be put in place after helping consumers landed with bills as high as £23,000. We will be keeping a close eye on the phone providers’ caps to see if they do really protect phone crime victims from the worst bills.”Victims who will miss outThe new caps will come too late for the numerous consumers who were threatened with bankruptcy by mobile providers after they failed to report the theft of their phone.Back in 2003 we reported on the case of Ben Jemison who was landed with a £1,000 bill when his mobile was stolen in Barcelona.Since then cases have come in thick and fast, and we could have run a similar story every month. In 2008 Orange customer Johan Potgieter set a record of sorts when he was presented with a £9,000 bill after his phone was stolen while in South Africa. Orange later climbed down. It did, however, pursue Asgar Ali from Leicester who was landed with a £5,000 bill after thieves stole his phone in India.Also in 2008, Three threatened trainee doctor Michael Barker with debt collectors after thieves ran up a £1,500 bill. He had been working as a volunteer at a hospital in an Aids-devastated area of Africa when his sim card was taken from his rucksack. The thieves racked up the charge despite a £75 credit limit on his account. Another victim was Vodafone customer Kaveh Lajmir who was hit with an £8,000 bill in 2012 after thieves struck while he was on holiday in Barcelona.Last week Money was contacted by Chris Newlove Horton, a low-paid NHS worker. In 2013 we reported how EE/Orange was pursuing him for £4,107. His phone was taken in the UK and used to call Algeria round the clock before he reported it. The debt has been sold on to a firm of debt collectors called Lowell Group, who have offered to halve the bill but are still threatening court action if he doesn’t pay up – money he says he simply doesn’t have.
‘As a driver, you have to like it, for the sheer livability, even pleasure, of long-distance travel.” On a motorway, phrases like this kept floating into my head, the sort that don’t convey very much except satisfaction.This little Citroën DS3 is as sound as a pound; it is as fit as a flea. It loves the top speeds and could drive all day; the cabin, being leather-bedecked and roomier at the front, is ergonomic enough that I could, too. In an acceleration scenario, it will never let you down. The gear switches from third up are all smooth, smooth, smooth, but fifth to sixth is particularly battle-ready. It is eye-catching in a sweet, unassuming way, and mine was the exact colour of the blue nail varnish devised to coincide with theCinderella movie. The fuel economy is better in the diesel version, but an official mpg of 50 or thereabouts (combined) in this petrol one is typically thrifty for the make – impressive for a model so sporty.Life was not perfect on my odyssey across the UK. The satnav is a bit sluggish, enough to get you on to the M6 toll instead of the M42. The fuel gauge is melodramatic, and tells you you’re low on fuel about once every 30 seconds. Put two big teenagers in the back and you feel as if you’re in a joke about some elephants and a telephone box. But as a driver, you have to like it, for the pleasure of long-distance travel, as I was saying.I did not feel the same way in town. It has quite a high biting point. As soon as I’d written that down, I minded it less, the way bitching about a loved one by email makes you forgive them. But in stop-start traffic, it’s hard on your extensor tendons. (You’ll know what those are if you persistently kick things to the point of self-injury.) I revved a lot, at the start: this is supposed to be enjoyable and make you think of a tiger in your tank. It sounded as if someone was killing a tiger with a bandsaw in mine. Second gear is not good for much, whiny and easily exhausted, like a crap dad in a Jane Austen novel.You could go a lot greener, even within the DS3 range – you’re paying a lot of planet for your 0 to 62 acceleration. If you were prepared to push it from seven seconds to nine, you could get under 100g/km. But let’s say you’re very important, and in a tremendous hurry for a really good reason, you can still hold your head high-ish. It’s a cute car, for cute people, in acute scenarios. @zoesqwilliamsCitroën DS3 DSport Plus THP 165 S&amp;S 6-speed manual: in numbersCitroen detailPricefrom £19,000 (as tested £20,295)Top speed135mphAcceleration0-62mph in 7.5 secondsCombined fuel consumption50.4mpgCO2emissions129g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating7/10• Follow Zoe onTwitter
Last night’s election leaders’ debate was notable for the almost complete absence of technology, bar a hesitant reference to “IT” from Ed Miliband. Not one of the seven candidates spoke about technology as an enabler, as a tool that offers us the capability to completely revitalise our economy.Instead, each debater focused on the small picture, rather than looking outwards to the massive technology-enabled social and economic changes happening globally.Where was the leadership? Where was the inspiration? Where was the “yes we can” moment? And why was there no talk of the massive digital revolution happening right now, which offers us so many opportunities to solve or alleviate many of our country’s problems?The UK has a great tradition of creativity, invention and technology from the industrial revolution to the code breakers of Bletchley Park, to ARM, the BBC Micro and the Raspberry Pi.We are now competing in a global marketplace, in a world that is increasingly driven by technology. The UK should be leading the world with a strong, tech-savvy, tech-enabled workforce, ready to make the most of the huge opportunities a global marketplace opens up. We should be in pole position. Are we? Are we bugger.Our schools have only just started teaching computer science properly, and the majority of UK adults have almost no practical tech education at all, which harms our future economic success and competitiveness as a nation. Which political party is taking a lead on ensuring that as a country we are ready with 21st century tech skills?Last night I saw “pale, stale and male” middle-class white men from privileged backgrounds, all focused on either getting into or staying in power. The only candidates to mention cooperation and collaboration were female — the Green Party’s Natalie Bennett and Nicola Sturgeon of the Scottish National Party. Organisations across the UK, including government, education and the NHS, need to collaborate more effectively in order to solve problems more swiftly, and tech can help to facilitate this.For too long we have had a political system built around competition and short termism. If we want our country to be successful we need more focus on cooperation and collaboration, both nationally and globally. In these areas technology is a great enabler.Today’s politicians simply do not seem to grasp the positive impact tech could have to the nation’s economy, if we can educate the workforce to understand it. From virtual assistants to web designers, and executive coaches toEtsy’s knitters, technology enables entrepreneurs to go global.The World Economic Review for 2014 ranked the UK just ninth in the world for networked readiness, or having a workforce that is able to use technology. This puts us behind the US, Singapore, Hong Kong, the Netherlands and the Scandinavian countries. At first glance, ninth may not seem all that bad. But things move fast in the tech world and governments that prioritise tech education for adults as well as school children will have the clear advantage.The candidates last night spoke of the NHS, the economy, jobs, full employment, debts, zero-hours contracts, legislation, public sector contracts and security for working families. These are all important, of course, but what was missing was anything truly inspiring and with a real sense of optimism. One candidate did at least speak of a pride in our nation, and mentioned the global economy. What a shame that was Nigel Farage...Farage might pay lip service to engaging with the world at large, but stricter immigration policies would do the UK tech industry and the economy in general no good at all.A recent House of Lords Science and Technology Committee report published in 2014 claims that an “unwelcoming UK” has already led to an “unprecedented fall” in Stem student numbers. Keeping people out of our country means missing opportunities to share skills, to enhance knowledge and develop global networks, all of which are important in the modern workplace.In the UK we have a rich heritage in technology and engineering that should give us the confidence for leadership at a global level, setting the pace and inspiring other nations to follow our great example – not focusing on how many foreigners there are in the UK. It’s embarrassing. How did we end up here?Now is the time for a new inspiring vision of the future, from a leader who can not only lead but who is not afraid to connect and collaborate. A leader who understands and can leverage the massive opportunities available, someone that our innovative, inventive and creative population can believe in. We need a leader who understands the capabilities inherent in modern technology and has the ability to use them to solve our problems. We need that leader now.Where is she?Dr Sue Black is a computer scientist, researcher and author with a PhD in software engineering. She is the founder ofTechmumsand the author ofSaving Bletchley Park.
Periscope is so hot right now. The Twitter-owned live video streaming app that lets viewers comment on what they’re seeing and the Scopers (is that a word yet?) respond in real time may only be 10 days old but it’s already causing ripples as it rises above the competition. And that’s despite it still lacking some basic functionality that would make it much better - presumably due to it being pushed out early to block the growth of rival Meerkat,which it has very succesfully.Currently a sea of: a) people looking a bit confused as they test it for the first time; b) people filming out of car windows as they drive around; c) people walking around cities; d) people doing “ask me any thing”s, and; e) people showing the contents of their fridge (yes, this is already a meme), it’s not yet clear what the USP of Periscope will be.It may be tempting to think it will only be useful for big events – whatever each of us consider ‘newsworthy’, or will only appeal to people narcissistic enough that they feel they are worthy to broadcast to an audience. That may partially be true, but it is such early days for Periscope that the most significant uses haven’t been invented yet. There will be events that come to define it, events that might end it, careers born of it – it has only just begun.And just as celebrities think they have the demands of selfies nailed, they will have to start planning their red carpet Periscope strategy too. Poor, poor celebrities.But for now … we think there are some very basic improvements that would make Periscope much better for users. Dear Twitter – here’s our features wishlist:Discovery is too hardBrowsing is very hard, as at the moment there is only a reverse chronological feed. There needs to be filters for language – a live stream of someone speaking in a language you don’t understand turns out only to be interesting for so long – and for location. It would be nice to know what’s happening nearby right now, and perhaps clusters organised by interest too – so users can browse by sport, music or personalities, for example.So is finding something you are looking forThere’s also no search function, so you’re limited to stumbling across an interesting sounding feed, rather than being able to search for “Apple Watch unboxing” or whatever. Maybe hashtags could help with organisation here too.Notifications need some workDeath by#Periscopenotifications&mdash; Amy Worley (@worleygirl)April 2, 2015Right now, notifications seem to be for anyone who’s broadcasting (or maybe we just imported too many Twitter followers?), but we probably don’t really need to know that Oguzhan or whoever is broadcasting about a shopping mall at 3am. We could turn notifications off, but there’s no other way to find out if genuine contacts or colleagues of interest are broadcasting. As it’s much more about here and now, rather than the it-doesn’t-matter-what-you’ve-missed ambient flow of Twitter, that is quite pertinent.As does how to manage who you interact withA swipe right on each broadcaster in the “Watch” feed, to block, follow, add to a list or favourite individually, could be a good mechanism. Verified ticks would also help identify higher profile broadcasters. And fast switching between accounts would help, especially if Twitter wants to encourage news organisations to get involved.Typing comments on a mobile is too slowThere’s dissonance between what’s happening or being said, and the time it takes for responsive comments to appear, so it can end up with comments being out of sync. Free text commenting needs to stay, obviously, but pre-written comments of approval or disagreement would help too. Switch them off if you don’t want to use them. Or maybe a wider range of one-touch emoticons would help; love hearts only go so far …And it’d be great to be able to interact outside the appObviously being restricted to iOS so far is not great, so we hope the Android app is imminent. But a desktop app would also help – perhaps one limited to commenting rather than broadcasting so that things don’t get a bit too Chatroulette-y, God forbid. It’s hard to type fast on mobile, so that would help bridge that problem.Comments covering the screen can be tricky ... but they kind of workThe overlay of comments and the love heart feed on the broadcast image mean the space given to the face of the broadcaster (or whatever else you’re watching) is maximised, and that’s good. Boxing them off would have lost that, and it’s the softness of the design here that is particularly good. The fading comments and hearts somehow emphasise the real time, the ephemerality of the feed, and it’s rather captivating.Not using both cameras is missing a trickPeriscope should take a leaf out of Facetime’s book and include a thumbnail view of what viewers are actually seeing. We found during a test that we had to use another phone to see what the output actually looked like, but that won’t be possible for most people. It’d also be cool to see both the Periscoping and the Periscoper at the same time.And finally,TTC?It’s only a very short matter of time before some prankster tries to broadcast some intimate part of their anatomy. Perhaps it’s because login is verified through Twitter, which has become increasingly strict about adult content (although arguably not strict enough) but it’s surprising there isn’t very obvious live streaming of, well, periscopes being Periscoped. Maybe they have an ultra-vigilance content policing policy. At the moment it seems to be working, let’s hope it stays that way. What happens with graphic and disturbing images will need close attention too.
Video games, like every other form of entertainment, are a subjective experience. While your best friend may adore elaborate cinematic blockbusters that require very little in the way ofactual user interaction, you may prefer hardcore Japanese brawlers that demand 100 hours of concerted effort just to get past the first mini-boss.Nevertheless, 18 months after the launch of PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, we now have a modest smattering of “must-buy” titles – the games you really need to see, even if you don’t think they’re your sort of thing.So at the start of this long weekend, here are 14 current-gen releases that are pretty essential. Or essential-ish. You can, of course, vehemently disagree in the comments section.Bloodborne (PS4)Okay, so the latest game from Demon’s Souls genius Hidetaka Miyazaki is really dark and really, really demanding. It’s an aggressive combat fantasy set in a world that actively despises you, and filled with monsters that don’t really feel like giving up. But it is also a fascinating piece of game design, drenched in atmosphere and utterly content to plough its own ludic course. Youneedto have an opinion on it.Bloodborne reviewDragon’s Age: Inquisition(PS4, Xbox One)Combat, exploration, romance, intrigue, really huge monsters – Dragon’s Age: Inquisition has them all. The latest fantasy epic from BioWare is a vast testament to this developer’s craft; it exudes detail and guile, it has a great story and interesting characters, and it has a deep levelling and customisation system, adding mechanical heft to the aesthetic showcase. 200 hours in you’ll still be finding new stuff to do.Dragon Age: Inquisition reviewForza Horizon 2 (Xbox One)There are arguments for The Crew, Ubisoft’s similarly open driving epic, but if you have an Xbox One and you want a beautiful racing experience with gorgeous car models and miles and miles of luscious scenery, you need Forza Horizon 2. Playground Games’ sequel really revels in the current-gen hardware, bathing its carefully chosen Mediterranean environments in streams of sunlight, the rays glinting off bodywork and road surfaces as you drive. Like being in your own version of Top Gear without having to put up with Clarkson and his cronies.Forza Horizon 2 reviewGrand Theft Auto V (PS4, Xbox One)Look, honestly, even if you reject the relentless misanthropy of the main story missions, even if you despise the three psychopathic lead characters, blasting their way through a series of bloody heists, you need to experience this game – or more accurately this gameenvironment. In GTA V, you can play tennis, go out scuba diving, fly a helicopter over a mountain range, search for hidden jokes, drive your car over a ramp into the airport, meet your friends, or yes, cruise the streets in a muscle car taking potshots at smartphone hugging yuppies. It is a vast functioning universe of debauched amusement. It is a hyper-real holiday. It is the mind of Brett Easton Ellis reproduced as a theme park.Grand Theft Auto V reviewLast of Us: Remastered (PS4)Naughty Dog’s haunting, violent and sometimes elegiac masterpiece was essential on PlayStation3, of course. But if you didn’t buy it then, it’s absolutely imperative that you have it on PS4. Those post-apocalyptic nightmare-scapes of busted cities reclaimed by nature are even more gorgeous and resonant on the new technology, but you also get all the extra map packs and the emotionally charged story DLC, Left Behind, which may well be one of the crowning moments of big budget narrative design.Last of Us (PS3) reviewLife is Strange (PS4, Xbox One)Episodic adventures are all the rage right now, so you should have at least one in your collection. We could obviously have gone for any of the masterful Telltale titles (Walking Dead, Game of Thrones, Tales From the Borderlands), but instead, let’s recommend this quirky teen drama by Dontnod Entertainment, with its likeable and gawky protagonist Maxine Caulfield who gains time travel abilities and thereby discovers the butterfly effect – to enthralling effect. This one came out of nowhere, but two episodes in, it is capturing hearts by the thousand.Life is Strange mini reviewMiddle Earth: Shadow of Mordor(PS4, Xbox One)Yes, yes, it’s another fantasy role-playing game for Tolkien’s sake, but this bone-crunching brawler is expertly constructed, and it boasts one of the great new(ish) game mechanics: the nemesis system. Here, enemies remember you forever, so you’re always bumping into old foes who love to taunt you if you lost in a fight. It’s a big game, but it’s split into manageable missions and side-quests so you’re always working toward something tangible. It’s also pretty amusing and self-deprecating for a Middle Earth adventure.Middle Earth: Shadow of Mordor reviewMinecraft (PS4, Xbox One)You probably already have it on every other functioning device in your house, but if you don’t, you need Mojang’s delightful, endlessly enjoyable block building game on your console. That’s all I’ll say on the matter.Parents! Focus less on worrying about Minecraft and more on understanding itOri and the Blind Forest (Xbox One)Like Child of Light (which is also excellent) Ori and the Blind Forest is an example of how high-end, super detailed visuals don’t have to mean photorealism or 3D modelling. It is also a truly engaging narrative platformer, combining an explorable environment with basic role-playing elements and graceful, assured controls.Ori and the Blind Forest reviewRayman Legends(PS4, Xbox One)On paper, this 2D platformer, with its weird lead character and zealous Gallic humour, appears little better than a momentary distraction for retro fanatics. But the world of Legends is so crammed with life and detail, the levels so perfectly designed and executed, the ideas so abundant, that it deserves a place on every PS4 and Xbox One hard drive. A great one to get non-gamers playing as well.Rayman Legends reviewResogun (PS4)Every household should have at least one traditional scrolling shooter, and Finnish studio Housemarque is the new master of the genre – though this title, with its swirling, circular environment, is not exactly old school. The set-up is basic: blast alien ships, save human colonists. But the execution is ruthlessly sleek and efficient with intuitive controls working alongside the excellent tumbling combo systems.Titanfall (Xbox One)Admittedly, Respawn’s giant mech shooter didn’t quite live up to the pre-release hype, but it remains a diverting online blaster, packed with cool weapons and exciting encounters. The parkour element works well, as does the balance between the ground troops and the earth-pounding robotic titans, and the addition of bullet fodder AI soldiers means that everyone gets the chance to killsomething.Titanfall reviewTowerfall: Ascension (PS4)Really enjoyable and accessible local multiplayer games are rare these days, so this indie treat is a great back-up to have on hand whenever friends come over and start reminiscing about GoldenEye or Gauntlet (my friends may be older than yours). It’s a single-screen four-player archery combat game where players chase and leap through a series of chunky gothic environments firing at each other and racing to grab power-ups. If you’re on Xbox One,#Idarbis a good alternative.Valiant Hearts(PS4, Xbox One)Want a puzzle adventure game that everyone can play together, whether they think of themselves as gamers or not? This understated yet heartbreaking gem from Ubisoft is the perfect choice. Inspired by letters sent by soldiers during World War One, it’s the tale of four characters caught up in the miserable maelstrom of the conflict, helping each other to survive. The writing, the animation and the visual style are all beautiful. It is an immensely powerful experience.Valiant Hearts mini review (The Observer)
