A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBartz: "By the way, I DO have a computer science degree" &gt;&gt; Business InsiderMoments ago,activist Yahoo shareholder Eric Jackson tweeted: "Just heard Carol Bartz's reaction to L'Affair Thompson by someone who talked to her: 'By the way, I DO have a Computer Science degree."Zingg!! In fact, some at Yahoo now want Bartz back.3D Systems CEO: We want 3D printing to be as big as the iPad &gt;&gt; VentureBeat"3D printing will be the canvas of the 21st century."That's the prediction being made by Abe Reichental, the CEO of 3D Systems and biggest cheerleader of the Cube, his company's first 3D printer built with the mass market consumer in mind. While 3D Systems more or less created the industrial side of the 3D printing business, the Cube is its foray into a more fledging, uncertain side of the industry.Reichental, however, is certain of his goal: To democratize creativity. "My assertion is that everyone can be creative if you remove all the friction and intimidation," Reichental told VentureBeat at a press event in New York City.[Honeypot Alert] (UPDATE) Active Exploit Attempts for PHP-CGI Vuln &gt;&gt; SpiderLabs AnteriorAs you may have heard, somesecurity researchers recently released information outlininga long-standing vulnerability within the PHP-CGI code. The short of it is that remote attackers may be able to pass command line arguments in a query_string that will be passed directly to the PHP-CGI program.Disable CGI if you use PHP, first.AT&amp;T's Samsung Galaxy S II Skyrocket HD will not be released &gt;&gt; The VergeIn a conversation with Samsung's Ryan Bidan today, we learned that the company'sGalaxy S II Skyrocket HD, announced at CES earlier this year, has been shelved. He explains that it simply didn't make sense in light of the Galaxy S III announcement, leaving the product "orphaned" in AT&amp;T's lineup -- it's hard to justify an updated 720p version of the existing Skyrocket with the S III on the horizon.How does it happen that you announce a handset at CES when you must know the bigger successor will imminently be appearing? Either Samsung US or AT&amp;T wasn't fully informed. Not a cheap mistake to make, either.Google: if you can't fight 'em, buy 'em &gt;&gt; Wayne's WorldGoogle is offering billion dollar checks to labels for blanket rights to their entire catalogs, according to highly placed digital music sources.According to one source,  "Google has offered at least one label over a billion dollars for all the rights in every country for every piece of music and for every platform." This means that Google could potential be writing checks for a total of well over $5 billion, if they're crazy enough to actually go through with it. By comparison, according to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry's (IFPI), total revenue generated by the global recorded music industry in 2011 was $16.6 billion.Isn't going to happen, though it might sorely tempt some labels. Problem for Google is that (if the report is correct) it has a slight air of desperation, which is never a good way to look in negotiations.Pirates beware: DVD anti-piracy warning now twice as fierce &gt;&gt; Wired.comHollywood and the federal government have partnered to create updated and even more annoying anti-piracy warnings that will be included in new home-release DVDs and Blu-ray discs beginning this week, the government said Tuesday.The new warnings now have three scary logos intended to deter those who might violate copyright law by making a back-up copy, ripping a movie to a tablet-friendly file, uploading it to a peer-to-peer network ormake illegal copies to send to military service members in Iraq.Someone should do a study of how pointlessly bad ideas promulgate. Quite possibly these are simply there for legal reasons - so that in prosecutions there is no defence that "I didn't see the warning". Still as backward as a window tax, though. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)U.S. sales are bright spot for Nokia's Lumia &gt;&gt; AllThingsDThough demand for Nokia's new Lumia smartphones has been spotty across the globe, the Lumia 900 continues to sell reasonably well in the U.S. Retail checks conducted by Raymond James analyst Tavis McCourt suggest that the device is the second-best-selling device at most AT&amp;T stores, after the iPhone.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Yes, it's Friday! Today, PS3 multiplayer space shooter, Starhawk is out. It's the follow-up to sleeper hit Warhawk, and is certainly worth a look. But what else are you planning to play this weekend?
Ubisoft has launched its first gameplay trailer for Assassin's Creed III. The two-minute video shows half-British, half-Mohawk protagonist Connor Kenway agonising over which side to take in the American revolution. From the look of the trailer footage, the Red Coats don't fare well in his deliberations.There are scenes of large battles, as well as some traditional Assassin's Creed parkour in a bustling port city. We can expect to see much more at E3.The game is out on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 on 31 October.
We're kicking off a new regular post on the Apps Blog called Apps Pitch: a Q&amp;A interview where an individual developer, publisher, startup or brand will be explaining more about their app.First up isMyCityWay London24, with Paul Hood, digital director of Archant London.What is your app called and what does it do?Our new app is called MyCityWay London24. It's a comprehensive city guide that helps people discover London, based on what they want to do.Whether a user simply wants to find a list of the nearest coffee shops to where they are, or discover popular tourist attractions nearby and how to get there, this information is only ever 3 clicks away with our new app.There are more than 30 'mini-apps' within the main app, making it quick and simple to find a huge array of things to do and see in London as well as helping users make travel arrangements and even make event and hotel bookings through the app.What devices is it on, and what are your plans?Right now, the app is available for iPhone and iPad. We already have a version for Android in an advanced stage of development - this will be ready for launch within weeks. We'll look to develop for Windows-based smartphones and BlackBerry in the coming months.What's the business model and why have you chosen it?The app is free to download and use; the plan is to generate revenue through advertising and by taking a commission from in-app purchasing.We're very confident and excited about the revenue potential for the MyCityWay London24 app from advertising in particular, because the advertising proposition is powerful and compelling. For the first time, we can offer advertisers the chance to reach prospective customers in a 1:1 environment with the ability to target messages by location and intention, in real time.Take the lucrative tourist market in London for example; tradionally difficult to reach and influence through advertising. Our app offers advertisers a new solution. Lets take the example of a tourist arriving at, say - Stratford International train station for the summer Olympic games.If that user then presses the coffee app, Starbucks or Costa coffee could immediately send a push notification with a time-limited coupon offer. That tourists' first experience of the Olympic games is a free coffee from Starbucks. That's powerful.What's innovative about the app – what sets it apart?We think the innovation lies in the usability of the app and its ability to surprise and delight. It's truly useful on so many practical levels, from helping users discover what's around them in London to assisting them with planning their time in the capital and getting the best out of it.What's the competition – who else is out there in this area?There are a few others in this space – we spent a lot of time researching the category.  The MyCityWay platform stood out head and shoulders above the others, and that's why we were so delighted that we were able to partner with them to bring this app to market for London – one of the world' most vibrant and interesting cities with such a rich selection of things to do .What are your future plans for the app?We'd like to add new levels mini-apps regularly to continue to help people discover new elements of  London. For example, the next iteration of the app will contain a 'Jobs' mini-app that will help users find jobs available by sector, salary bracket and location.We're well positioned to incorporate this as we already have a comprehensive jobs board within our stable: Jobs24. We're also working on integrating daily deals in to our offering, discoverable by location and relevance. We're in the fotunate position to be able to do this quickly via our existing daily deals brand, Tickles.Tell us more about the company behind itArchant is an independently-owned regional media business, active in the fields of regional newspaper and magazine publishing, contract printing and of course digital/mobile publishing. Our products serve clearly defined communities, based around locations or interest groups.Archant can trace its roots back over 160 years; today we produce four daily regional newspapers and around 60 weekly titles with a combined weekly circulation of around 2.25m copies. We employ 1,850 people right across England. Our head office is in Norwich. Archant has an annual turnover of £142m.We've been developing apps for a while now, but this is our first step into a utility-based app that has broad appeal to an audience beyond our traditional content-based products.
I'm about to start commuting for two hours a day. I would like to consume audio-visual media during this time, and as an Apple sycophant, I would like an iPad. However, it has some drawbacks. It is, perhaps, too big, too heavy, too costly and it's incompatible with many AV formats. So I'm looking for a smaller, cheaper, lighter alternative that is more AV-extension friendly. I have no preconceptions about other brands, operating systems or features.I already own a MacBook Pro and an iPhone, but that's realistically too small to watch said media on.BenAn iPad would obviously be a better fit with the rest of your technology, and Apple's device has some obvious advantages in things such as the availability of apps, and the slickness of the user interface. However, Apple's general solution to handling media formats that it does not support – which is most of them – is to transcode them, often with a slight loss of quality.I can understand that you don't have a couple of hours to convert and sync files before you start your commute, but there are several third-party applications that will play the AVI, MSK and even Flash movie files that many people download from the web. These include Oplayer HD, AcePlayer and CineXPlayer. The drawback with unsupported file formats is that most of the work has to be done by the iPad's processor, which is power-efficient but not powerful. This can lead to dropped frames and will probably reduce battery life, though not by enough to matter.Obviously a third-party player will not solve the problems with the iPad's size, weight and cost. However, there are long-running rumours about Apple introducing a smaller version of the iPad with a 7.85in screen. This would allow Apple to use the same 1024x768 pixel resolution of old iPads. Essentially, it would be a 9.7in iPad shrunk slightly. Whether this would make enough difference to the size/weight/price problems remains unknown.Downsizing to a smaller, lighter device with a 7in screen makes a lot of difference to portability while still being a good size for watching videos. I've found that 7in devices such as the RIM PlayBook and HTC Flyer will fit in my jacket pockets or a suit's side-pockets, which means you can carry them around even if you're not carrying a manbag. Of course, the picture is slightly smaller, but you can compensate by having the screen slightly closer.Also, non-Apple tablets typically have widescreens, whereas the iPad has an old TV-style 4:3 picture ratio. If your videos are in new TV-style 16:9 widescreen format, then there's not a huge amount of difference.With TV sets and cinemas, the standards-setting SMPTE (Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers) recommends a maximum viewing distance that provides a 30-degree viewing angle. In practical terms, this means you'd sit about a metre away from your portable LCD TV set and 3m from your giant plasma. I'm not sure if the 30-degree idea can correctly be applied to very small screens. Still, that would give you a maximum viewing distance of 1.2 feet with a 10in 4:3 iPad screen and a maximum viewing distance of 0.9ft with a 7in 16:9 widescreen.Of course, many people prefer to sit closer to the screen, and a wider viewing angle provides a more immersive experience.When it comes to choosing an Android tablet for watching movies, you should probably start with Samsung's Galaxy Tab range. Samsung offers better support for video formats than many alternatives, and it offers a choice of 7in and 10.1in screen sizes.In fact, I have a specific model in mind, which is the Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 7.0 running the latest Android 4 (Ice Cream Sandwich). But be warned: I haven't tried one, and you can't buy one, so check the specs and reviews carefully before you take the plunge (or not).The 7in version of the Galaxy Tab 2 is about the same size as the Amazon Kindle Fire (which also isn't available in the UK) but slightly thinner and lighter. It also has front- and back-facing cameras, which the Kindle Fire lacks. Although it only has 8GB of memory, it has a microSD card slot that allows you to add up to 32GB. That and Dropbox should solve the problem of loading movies without the time involved in transcoding them or the aggravation of using iTunes.The major drawback is that the screen resolution is only 1020x600 pixels (WSVGA), so it won't play HD movies on the built-in screen. However, it is enough for TV programmes as found on the BBC's iPlayer (standard definition 832 x 468 pixels) and movies that are typically 768 x 432 pixels (or 768 x 576 for H.264 on the iPad 2) or less. On the good side, the spec says it supports MP3, AAC, AC-3, AMR, FLAC, MID, WMA and WAV audio, plus the MPEG4, H.263, H.264, VC-1, DivX, WMV7, WMV8, VP8, 3GP, ASF, AVI, MP4, WMV, FLV, MKV, and WebM video formats.As with Apple's iOS, you can also download cheap or free video players that support some of the many different video codecs used. Examples include MX Video Player, Rockplayer Lite, and MoBo. MX became popular partly because it was the first Android player to multi-core decoding.But what makes the Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 7.0 attractive is the price. Companies have been quoting around $245 in the US (which doesn't include a purchase tax or VAT), while in the UK, Carphone Warehouse has apre-order offer of £199including delivery by 11 May for the silver version and 18 May for White. Prices vary so shop around, but this is half the price of the cheapest new iPad (£399) and a substantially less than an iPad 2 (£329).You're also saving weight: the Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 7.0 comes in at 344g while the iPad 2 (Wi-Fi version) is 601g.An alternative is the 7in Archos70b Internet Tablet, because it offers a maximum resolution of 1280x720 pixels and therefore handles HD video for a bit less cash(£161.57 at Amazon.co.uk). It still runs Android 3.2 (Honeycomb), but that should not be a deal-breaker if you are mainly concerned with video playback. It supports AVI, MP4, MKV, MOV, MPG, PS, TS, VOB, FLV, RM, RMVB, ASF and 3GP.An even cheaper option is the NATPC M009S, a 7in Android 4 (ICS) tablet that Amazon is selling for£109.99. I've not seen one myself, but it has 250 reviews, including 165 five-star ratings. It's clearly not without its problems, but it's hard to grumble at the price.Either way, you really should try to compare a 10in with a 7in tablet, ideally by holding one in each hand while running the same movie. This is the only way to get a real sense of the difference in size and weight. After that, it's down to personal preference. Some people think a 5in Android phone is far too big to carry everywhere, while other people tote around 17in MacBook Pros. You're the only person who can decide what's right for you
The video game age ratings system is to be simplified, after proposals put forward by the UK government on Thursday.Currently all games are regulated under the Europe-wide PEGI scheme, which provides age ratings as well as guides on game content.However,  titles with mature content are also rated by the British Board of Film Classification, and are required to display a BBFC "15" or "18" certificate. Under the proposals going through parliament, PEGI will be solely responsible for all game classification.Additionally, the "12+" PEGI rating will become legally enforceable for the first time, meaning that anyone who sells a designated 12+ title to younger children will face fines of up to £5,000 and a jail sentance.The age-rating will be conducted in the UK by the Video Standards Council. The organisation will have the power to deny a rating to any title that contains "extreme content", making it unavailable for sale in Britain.The BBFC rarely made outright "bans" on video games. The violent driving title Carmageddon was initially denied an age rating in 1997, but publisher SCI made changes to the content and later appealed against the board's decision.In 2007, the BBFC refused to grant Rockstar's Manhunt 2 a rating, but after an eight month court battle, an edited version was released."The new system will benefit both parents and industry by creating a stronger, simpler age-rating system," said creative industries minister Ed Vaizey."It will give parents greater confidence that their children can only get suitable games while we are creating a simpler system for industry having their games age rated."Although PEGI has been in operation since 2003, it has always shared ratings responsibilities with the BBFC, which has been providing age certaification for games since the mid-eighties.A single rating system was proposed as part of the exhaustiveDigital Britain report, published by the government in 2009, but the process of organisation the switch has been slow."This news is very welcome and finally gives us the mandate to undertake the role of statutory video games regulator in the UK," said VSC chairwoman Baroness Shephard."The VSC is fully prepared and ready to carry out the vital role of providing consumers with a single, straightforward games rating system whilst ensuring that child-safety remains our first priority."The parliamentary process for designating the Video Standards Council is expected to be completed in time for the system to come into effect in July.
Square Enix has officially announced Hitman: Sniper Challenge, a stand-alone mini-game available to gamers who pre-order Hitman: Absolution, the latest instalment in the assassination shooter series.Details of the offer wereleaked earlier this week, via an advert in US magazine Game Informer, but at the time, the exact nature of the package wasn't clear.Now Square Enix has revealed that customers who pre-order the title from a participating retailer will receive a code allowing them to immediately download Sniper Challenge from theofficial Hitman Sniper site. The offer begins on 15 May for PS3 and Xbox 360 owners and 1 August on PC.Gamers who download Sniper Challenge take part in a single timed mission to take out a specified target. They'll be able to unlock the Silenced Agency Kazo TRG weapon, which can then be used in Hitman: Absolution. There are apparently also a further 12 "weapons techniques" to collect.A set of regional and global online leaderboards are set to keep score, and a prize competition for the most accurate snipers is planned.Square Enix has confirmed that the content in Sniper Challenge is utterly separate from Absolution – it's not a prequel, and does not contain similar story elements. And there are no plans to make the mini-game more widely available after the release of Absolution.It's an interesting incentive, which builds on the current trend for providing pre-order customers with extra content. However, it also side-steps one of the key problems with that practise: irritation from those who don't pre-order and feel they're missing out on interesting stuff.There was some anger last year when Robin was announced as a Batman: Arkham City character, but only for pre-order customers (the content was later made available to all owners of the game).The stand-alone nature of the Sniper Challenge title means that gamers who don't pre-order won't feel like they're missing out on desirable main game content – although, of course, the provision of an unlockable weapon may still lead to some chagrin.Anyway, we're getting the chance to play Sniper Challenge this week and we'll let you know what we think on Friday.
Facebook is getting into the app store game, announcing an initiative called App Center which it claims will help developers get their social web and mobile applications discovered by more people.The App Center will spotlight free and paid applications that use Facebook's social graph. It will be a part of the Facebook website, but also the company's iOS and Android apps."For the over 900 million people that use Facebook, the App Center will become the new, central place to find great apps like Draw Something, Pinterest, Spotify, Battle Pirates, Viddy, and Bubble Witch Saga," explains Facebook in ablog post aimed at developers.Apps will be sorted by category, including games, communications, lifestyle, music, news, photos &amp; videos, sports, travel &amp; local, TV &amp; movies and utilities. Each app gets its own page on the store, which will become the first thing Facebook users see when searching for it – but only if it's deemed good enough."Success through the App Center is tied to the quality of an app. We use a variety of signals, such as user ratings and engagement, to determine if an app is listed in the App Center," explains Facebook."Well-designed apps that people enjoy will be prominently displayed. Apps that receive poor user ratings or don't meet the quality guidelines won't be listed."Those quality guidelines areavailable to readalready.They include stipulations that apps must "have an easy-to-use interface, clear content, value to users, and no significant bugs", while clearly distinguishing ads and content "without excessive advertising", setting "clear expectations about what user activity it shares on Facebook, and when", and not mimicking Facebook's own user interface elements.To help developers avoid this fate, Facebook says it will be supplying them with analytics on how users are rating their apps, as part of its Insights toolset.Within Facebook's mobile apps, people will be able to browse apps and then install them from Apple's App Store or Google's Play store if they're native, or go straight to them if they are mobile web apps.The App Center will also see Facebook moving beyond its historic focus on free apps that make money from advertising and/or in-app purchases."To support more types of apps on Facebook.com, we will give developers the option to offer paid apps," explains the company. "This is a simple-to-implement payment feature that lets people pay a flat fee to use an app on Facebook.com." Developers can request to sign up to a beta programme for this.What's interesting about App Center is the change of emphasis that it represents for Facebook. The social network's app discovery has traditionally been focused on a mixture of virality – those messages that get posted in people's news streams – and advertising.In the past, this could have been seen as a sign that apps don't necessarily need anapp storeto be discovered. Developers will be keen to take advantage of the change, but they will continue to keep a close eye on changes Facebook makes to its viral and advertising features.
A selection of 19 new and notable apps for you today:N.O.V.A. 3Gameloft's N.O.V.A. series started as a homage to Xbox's Halo franchise. Now in its third incarnation, the graphics have been pumped up even more for its first-person shooter action, with a mixture of solo and multiplayer deathmatch modes.iPhone / iPadCoPilot GPSCoPilot Live is one of the more established navigation apps, but now its maker ALK has launched a new version designed for offline use only – promising it "gets you everywhere you need to go without relying on your mobile data connection". The app is free, although an in-app purchase is required to upgrade to actual voice navigation.Android / iPhone / iPadDamien HirstTate Gallery has launched an official iPhone app for the Tate Modern museum's 2012 Damien Hirst exhibition. The app includes interviews with Hirst about his work, as well as curator Ann Gallagher. There are commentaries on his most famous pieces, and virtual galleries to explore. Tate worked with Antenna International on the app.iPhoneTap Dragon ParkPocket Gems has been one of the more successful social mobile games publishers in the West. Its new game, Tap Dragon Park, is launching as an Android-exclusive. It's a wizardy tale of dragon-taming and trolls.AndroidCloudOnAndroid tablet owners keen to do some editing of Microsoft Office files have a new option in the form of CloudOn, which promises that it "makes your Android tablet do some real work". Box, Dropbox and Google Drive support is included.AndroidTVcheckOrange has brought its social TV iPhone app from France to the UK, helping couch potatoes check in to shows, chat to friends and compete in quizzes. The check-ins use "image recognition technology" to identify what you're watching.iPhoneLouis Vuitton 100 Legendary TrunksLove cases, trunks and suitcases? This iPad app may be your friend, if you don't mind the £13.49 price. It includes text from the 100 Legendary Trunks book, as well as videos, sound clips and the obligatory 360-degree spinning objects.iPadThe North FaceThis US-only app focuses on outdoor-fashion brand The North Face, with an in-app shop, social features and the ability to scan product barcodes in real stores to get more information and alternative sizes and colours.iPhoneSan Francisco Chronicle's Top 100 Bay Area RestaurantsTime Out has a foody app for New York, but here's another print publisher with a similar idea. Hearst has launched a restaurant guide iPhone app for the Bay Area, under its San Francisco Chronicle brand.iPhoneLostWinds2: Winter of the MelodiasConsole game LostWinds wafted onto iOS in 2011, but now it has a sequel with new levels, characters and storytelling to explore. This time, you're switching between seasons as well as blowing wind to help hero Toku in his quest.iPhone / iPadShoeBox1000memories has ported its ShoeBox app to Android smartphones, helping you scan old printed photographs to make them digital, then share them with friends and family.AndroidDark Shadows: Photo Filter AppWarner Bros has launched an app to promote Tim Burton's new film Dark Shadows, riffing off the Instagram template to apply filters, frames and overlays from the film onto your iPhone photos.iPhoneSquiggles!The latest innovative drawing app for kids on the iPad is Squiggles, launched by developer Lazoo. It gets children to doodle on the screen, then animates their creations, while helping them to share them with family and friends.iPadShopmoxAnother US-only app – for now at least – is Shopmox, which pitches itself as a "personalised shopping catalogue". That means browsing digital catalogues from retailers including Gap, Banana Republic, Urban Outfitters, Old Navy and Fossil.iPadBBC Knowledge MagazineThe Beeb's "magazine for young inquisitive minds" gets an iOS version, with science, history and nature articles to "empower a generation of young readers".iPhone / iPadThe Caddie +We're unsure whether this is US-only or global, but golfers with a Nokia  Windows Phone will be chuffed with The Caddie + – the latest Lumia exclusive. It keeps track of your score, offers leaderboards for you and your friends, and "group heckling" features.Windows PhoneThe Daily BeastNewsweek has launched a Windows Phone app for its Daily Beast website, offering its politics, entertainment, culture and books stories, as well as its Cheat Sheet aggregation of other breaking news from other websites.Windows PhoneTitanic Belfast – Acoustiguide AppWhether you're visiting the Titanic Belfast exhibition or not, this app provides an audio-tour around the centre, which sites next to the docks where the ill-fated ship was built.iPhoneAlbert and the AlphabetimalsThe App Store is stuffed with ABC educational apps for kids, and most of them are rubbish. Albert and the Alphabetimals looks like one of the good ones though: 26 animals shaped like letters to introduce the alphabet, with a neat tie-in website.iPad
Britain does more business online than any other major economy. But when it comes to high speed broadband, the nation is falling behind. Our average connections are the 16th fastest in Europe.To get faster, we need to replace the old copper phone network with fibre-optic cables. BT has targets to build fibre to the street cabinets, with copper carrying the signal from there to the premises. It will offer fibre to the doorstep on request next year, but the price is likely to be around £1,000 per premises – too expensive for most householders.Internet entrepreneur Boris Ivanovic says ultra-high definition television and other technologies will make BT's hybrid copper and fibre network out of date by the time it is built.Just £1.3bn of public funds have been earmarked for Britain's broadband network. Meanwhile, the government has promised £17bn for a high speed rail line between London and Birmingham.Ivanovic says:For the money being spent on one high-speed rail link, we could have fibre to every single person in the UK. If we had those links we wouldn't need to travel as often to Birmingham and we wouldn't be polluting the environment by travelling. The government can help in two ways. One is with money, the other is with regulation, but this all starts with a vision.Ivanovic has launched two UK internet companies. Be Broadband, created in 2005, was sold to the O2 mobile phone network for £50m 18 months later. His new company, Hyperoptic, specialises in fibre for apartment blocks.Without government intervention, fibre to the home could become the preserve of the wealthy, exacerbating a divide that already exists between the internet haves and have nots.Last year's census found that 5.7m UK homes had no connection to the web. Others argue that fibre everywhere is a luxury the taxpayer cannot afford. We should concentrate our diminished resources on getting a basic connection to every home.BT has promised two thirds of homes will have access to up to 80Mbps by the end of 2014. Ivanovic says we should be getting 1000Mbps to 90% of homes by 2020. What do you think Britain's Broadband Vision should be?
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTablets want to kill your laptop &gt;&gt; Forrester ResearchA sponsored blogpost essentially summarising some Forrester Research:Laptops are doomed. In the next five years, tablets will displace notebook-style computers to become the dominant personal computing platform. And the transition from laptop to tablet has already begun.That's the key finding of a new Forrester Research report that predicts the end of the laptop's 15-year reign. The trend is already well under way among people born between 1980 and 2000, known to demographers as the millennial generation. In the U.S., 30% of tablet owners in this age group have purchased a tablet in place of a PC, compared to 20% of baby boomers."For this growing body of [millennial] users, PCs will seem like clunky trucks rather than sleek cars, dampening their long-term propensity to buy conventional PCs," says the 19-page report authored by Forrester analyst Frank Gillett.Google+ gets a sexy new iPhone app that you'll actually want to use &gt;&gt; The Next WebGoogle hasjust releaseda new version of its Google+ iPhone app, and boy is it impressive. This release features crisper fonts, larger profile pics and a friendlier home-screen. In addition, Google worked to makethe streameasier to scan and easier on the eyes, with overlays, gradients and other visual elements.Google+'s original app for iPhone never received much praise, but this latest iteration is, for lack of better words, surprisingly good. Given how unexpectedly sexy this app is, my intuition leads me to believe that theacquihire of Kevin Rose and the Milk teamhas played a part in this.Soca website attack: Norway arrests two youths &gt;&gt; BBC News[A Norwegian prosecutor said:] "We know Soca was recently attacked, as well as Norwegian and American sites, and that is one of the things that we are looking into."Norway's National Criminal Investigation Service (NCIS) said the sites had been hit by a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack, in which large amounts of data were sent to the owner's servers in an attempt to overwhelm them.It added that the 18- and 19-year-olds were charged at the end of last week following electronic attacks over a period lasting "several weeks". The offence carries a maximum sentence of six years in jail.Android chief says he didn't know about Sun's patent portfolio &gt;&gt; ZDNetWhen asked by [Google counsel Christa] Anderson why he nor his team ever attempted to learn about Sun's patents, [Android chief Andy Rubin] replied there were a "number of reasons," first citing that virtual machines weren't new when Sun created the Java virtual machine. He also pointed out that "there are hundreds of millions of patents worldwide.""It's not reasonable to go searching through all this paperwork, not for an engineer," Rubin remarked. "You need to be a trained lawyer for that."Possibly recalling the blog post by former Sun CEO Jonathan Schwartz, which has become a sticky subject for Oracle, Rubin confirmed that Sun's reaction to the debut of Android offered "more confidence" that Google wasn't violating any patents."Over the period of the development, we felt it just wasn't necessary anymore to worry about this stuff," Rubin said.Unfortunately, "we didn't look" isn't a defence against patent infringement. Can Oracle prove Android infringes, though?When to post on Twitter, Facebook and Tumblr &gt;&gt; bitly blogTwitter runs earlier than Facebook runs earlier than Tumblr. All times are Eastern Standard (ie, UK time -5hr.)Sources say AOL seeking buyers for Engadget and TechCrunch, Arrington "not in rhe least bit interested" &gt;&gt; PandoDailySarah Lacy:We weren't sure about this one at first, but now we have two independent sources confirming that AOL is exploring the sale of its cornerstone technology sites Engadget and TechCrunch.The two would likely be sold together as AOL Tech, possibly including smaller assets like TUAW and Joystiq.The asking price? A hefty $70m to $100m.How much again?? Techcrunch is a Titanic: holed by the departure of its big-name writers and, more importantly, of the advertising and conference people who actually brought in the money and made it profitable. Truly, AOL has the Sadim Touch. (You can work that out.) Interesting stat: the "AOL Tech" chunk "represents a whopping 20m unique visitors a month". Our observation: stray adjective.AOL beats Street, plans big return to shareholders, denies selloff &gt;&gt; ReutersAOL beat expectations, but traffic was down. And:Pando Daily reported that AOL is seeking a buyer for two of its most high profile sites, TechCrunch and Engadget, citing sources. Armstrong said it was "100 percent untrue" in an interview with Reuters.Since its spinoff from Time Warner in 2009, AOL has been attempting to transform itself into a media destination dependent on advertising revenue, while at the same time winding down its lucrative dial-up service.The company has snapped up a host of high-profile media properties, like the Huffington Post and TechCrunch, and has poured millions of dollars into a network of neighborhood news sites called Patch.Patch has been a lightning rod for AOL - the company has spent about $150m on the effort so far - and investors are eager to see it turn a profit.AOL executives said on the call that the company expects Patch to be profitable in 2013 and that it should generate $40m to $50m in revenue this year.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Hey there, it's Thursday – what's happening in Chatterbox world?
Oh hell, can it really be 20 years? Twenty years since Id Software effectively kickstarted the first-person shooter genre? Yes it can, because, to celebrate the 20th anniversary of Wolfenstein 3D, Bethesda has made itfreely available as a browser game.Of course, this slab of shooter history has been freely available in various forms over the years. However, this is a hassle-free chance to experience the early coding genius of John Carmac, who conjured a smooth 3D experience out of PCs when they were still running 25MHz Intel 286 processors. Bethesda has also recordeda podcast interview with Carmac,who went back and played the game for the first time in over a decade. Well worth a listen.For now though, just click on the link to the browser game and show those mutant Nazis who's boss.
Commuting may never be the same again in Nevada, the US state that is home to Las Vegas, legalised gambling and huge amounts of desert. Besides gambling, it is now legal there to have a self-driven car – providing it matches up to the specification achieved by Google's autonomous models.The first fully licensed self-driven car – a modified Toyota Prius – won a special permit on Tuesday, the first of three applied for by Google, which allows it to be used on the state's roads, including the famous Las Vegas strip.Autonomous vehicles are the "car of the future," said Bruce Breslow, the director of Nevada's Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV), in a statement. The state also has plans to eventually license autonomous vehicles owned by members of the public, the DMV said.Though there will be concerns about the cars – and the possibility that a computer crash will lead to a physical one – there has been no evidence in substantial testing that they pose any risk. In fact, they drive more safely than humans: "It gets honked at more often because it's being safe," said Breslow.Last summer, the governor of Nevada, Brian Sandoval, took the car for a spin in and around the state's quiet capital city. But Las Vegas Boulevard, where costumed superheroes routinely take the crosswalks and massive billboards angle for the attention of starry-eyed tourists, was perhaps best suited to test the car's main purpose."They're designed to avoid distracted driving," Breslow said. "When you're on the strip and there's a huge truck with three scantily clad women on the side, the car only sees a box."Although it will still need a human to sit in the driver's seat, the car will be able to operate, steer and navigate itself using the driverless technology developed by the Stanford professor and Google vice-president Sebastian Thrun.Speaking to the Guardian in 2007, Thrun said it could transform part of our daily lives: "No one on Earth can tell me that commuting is fun. It is not recreational driving. It is driving because we have to drive. We could free up that time."He also thought that self-driving cars – whose brakes and accelerators are connected to computers, and which are fitted with GPS, a substantial database, artificial intelligence systems, and a laser radar (Lidar) which can detect obstacles such as people, cyclists and other cars on or around the road – could be substantially safer than human drivers. "If you go to a funeral of a person who died because another driver picked up a cellphone and didn't pay attention, it is extremely hard to defend our right to drive where we like," he said.The cars in Nevada will have a special licence plate with an infinity sign to indicate that they are not necessarily being driven by a human. However, Nevada requires that there must already be two people in the car at all times – one behind the wheel, and another monitoring a computer screen showing the planned route and what it "sees" in terms of hazards and traffic lights ahead.In the event of a glitch, the human driver can override the computer with a tap on the footbrake or a hand on the steering wheel.Officials tested the cars on drives along highways, in neighbourhoods in Carson City and along the Las Vegas strip itself. Nevada passed a law authorising self-driving cars last year, but the law only came into force on 1 March.Google's cars, which have already driven more than 200,000 miles without driver interaction, emerged from projects inside the company in which it took part in contests such as theDarpa Urban Challenge. That challenged companies to build cars which could obey the rules of the road, avoid other cars driven by (human) stunt drivers, and evade obstacles. Thrun's team won then, and has won the race now to get their cars on to the road.Since then, Google's self-driving cars have crossed the Golden Gate bridge and driven along the picturesque Pacific Coast highway.Legislation to regulate autonomous cars is being considered in other states, including Google's home state of California."The vast majority of vehicle accidents are due to human error. Through the use of computers, sensors and other systems, an autonomous vehicle is capable of analysing the driving environment more quickly and operating the vehicle more safely," a California state senator, Alex Padilla, said in March when he introduced that state's autonomous car legislation.Other car companies are also seeking self-driven car licences in Nevada, the DMV said.
Houston's Memorial Hermann hospital for the first time ever live-tweeted a brain surgery, performed by a leading surgeon in the field.Dr Dong Kim, one of the surgeons who led the team that treated former congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords after she was shot in the head in 2011, removed a cavernous angioma tumor from a 21-year-old woman's brain.The patient, who is not being identified, discovered the tumor after suffering a seizure.Kim and his surgical team are using neuronavigation, a set of computer-assisted technologies, to identify the entry point and the precise location of the tumor in the patient's brain, according to the hospital.A craniotomy is being performed to remove a portion of the skull bone. A microscope will then be used to take out the tumor deep in the right side of the patient's brain.Finally, the team replaced the skull bone and completed the surgery.A social media team that includes another neurosurgeon is sitting in an adjacent room answering questions on Twitter and posting photos and videos throughout the procedure.Today's pioneering surgery follows closely behind the hospital's first foray into the medium, in which a 57-year-old'sopen heart surgerywas tweeted in March."Our intent is for this to be an educational opportunity for the public – for high school, college, medical students and residents, and for anyone that may ever have a brain tumor or know of someone in need of brain surgery in the future," a hospital spokeswoman wrote in an email to the Guardian."By sharing this experience through photos, videos and text and by being available to answer questions and comments in real time, we are opening the curtain to the OR and giving the public the knowledge and the insight to make educated decisions for themselves when it comes to their choice of treatment."A sample tweet:Dr. Kim does 2 separate preps before the surgery. He applies bacteriostatic agents to the scalp, to sterilizetwitpic.com/9j4h1t&mdash; Memorial Hermann(@houstonhospital)May 9, 2012"Social media is a powerful vehicle to help demystify brain surgery, a source of much fascination to people," Kim said in a statement to the Guardian. "We think that by providing this up-close glimpse of the OR, we can educate the public, particularly future patients, about what happens during brain surgery, about what to expect."That's why the hospital will live-tweet all aspects of the surgery, from room temperature to the head shaving process, and post photos and video on Pinterest and YouTube after the procedure is finished. Follow a live stream from@houstonhospitalin the widget below.
The coalition has pushed ahead with itsplans to introduce monitoring of who is talking to whom over the internet, known as the "header" information of emails, web pages and text messages – although Nick Clegg is insistent that it will not be rammed through parliament and that it will get plenty of scrutiny.That's a good thing. Internet service providers (ISPs) and mobile phone operators, which will have to implement this, have been hoping that it wouldn't come. More to the point, nobody has yet answered why the government wants to be able to see our digital breadcrumb trail – telling it, in effect, only where we've been, but not necessarily what was said.The problem is that such monitoring can be easily evaded by even slightly tech-savvy criminals or terrorists. (Who you talk to using an internet phone – or VoIP – service such as Skype, for example, will not show up on ISPs or phone network records, since it isn't an email or a web page, and is encrypted by default, though paranoid rumours abound of it being hacked by governments to eavesdrop.)That leaves open the question of who the government – more precisely, the police and security services, since they are the ones who have been pushing for this measure – think they are going to catch with this scheme.Clearly, they must have an idea. Here's what a Home Office spokesman said by way of explanation: "It is vital that police and security services are able to obtain communications data in certain circumstances to investigate serious crime and terrorism and to protect the public."We need to take action to maintain the continued availability of communications data as technology changes. Communications data has played a role in every major Security Service counter-terrorism operation over the past decade and in 95% of all serious organised crime investigations."The roundup: "It is vital to law enforcement, especially when dealing with organised crime gangs, paedophile rings and terrorist groups."Let's be more precise. It's going to be useful against the less well-organised groups, gangs and rings, where some or all of the members aren't well-schooled in the computing field. That effectively means "the older ones" or those who are operating at the bottom of the ladder, because anyone further up the rungs of criminality or terrorism will already be familar with swapping sims, disposable phones, encryption services, and so on.That leads us back to the key questions: how often is this data going to be used? And will it be examined as a prelude to an investigation, or only alongside one? The worry is that the police and security services will begin using the fact that this data is collected to go on fishing expeditions against people that they don't like, in order to build a case. That might work in some cases, but it could also amount to a huge intrusion, many times over.The draft communications data bill itself suggests that yes, fishing expeditions are just what this will be about. "The main benefits would be: the ability of the police and intelligence agencies to continue to access communications data which is vital in supporting their work in protecting the public" plus "an updated framework for the collection, retention and acquisition of communications data which enables a flexible response to technological change", reads the draft.In other words, fishing expeditions – ostensibly overseen by the Interception of Communications Commissioner (ICC), who already exists – it's a job within theInvestigatory Powers Tribunal (IPT),presently held by the Rt Hon Sir Paul Kennedy(amusingly pictured on the site only through the window of a passing car – no interception there).Now, the job sounds like a powerful one, where Sir Paul would be the gatekeeper to the police or security services getting hold of data. However, events from the phone hacking scandal (when some reporters were able to get mobile phone numbers and even immediate locations – something only possible by use of data that the IPT must approve) suggest that the IPT and the ICC aren't as good at holding back incursions on private data as they should be.Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the web,calls the plan"a destruction of human rights". Only the police and security services (who, let's remember, were in favour of 90-day detention without charge – despite never being able to describe a case where it would have made a difference) like it.The price of doing all this? Around £200m every year. While it's hard to put a price on privacy, and equally hard to put a price on prevention of crime, something about the scheme seems out of proportion.Perhaps it's the lack of clarity on when the data will be accessible – before, during or after a crime. Perhaps it's the vagueness about how you cope with criminals or terrorists who have moved past simply using web email. Perhaps it's because there's no way to point to the occasions where it could have made a difference.As Nick Pickles, the director of the civil liberties campaign group Big Brother Watch, said: "The Home Office have been very good at saying what the problem is, but seem intent on keeping the technical details of what they are proposing secret. Is it any wonder that the public are scared by a proposal for online surveillance not seen in any other western democracy?"He added: "If someone is suspected of plotting an attack the powers already exist to tap their phone, read their email and follow them on the street. Instead of scaremongering, the Home Office should come forward and engage with the debate about how we improve public safety, rather than pursue a policy that will indiscriminately spy on everyone online while the real threats are driven underground and escape surveillance."He's right. The trouble is that as so often in the past 20 years, few people in the government seem to be familiar enough with the technology at issue to question whether the tradeoff is worthwhile. For the Liberal Democrats, seeing this ship sail through parliament after they holed the ID cards bill will be a terribly painful experience. There's a simple reason why, too – it's an idea with only limited usefulness. If the security services really want to catch the stupid criminals, they didn't need to make it so obvious.
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiand Guardian technology editorCharles Arthurwe meet the man behind the search engine DuckDuckGo,Gabriel Wienberg.  Gabriel discusses his approach to a very difficult part of the tech and internet business and why he thinks he can take on the goliath that is Google.We discuss the future of Acta, the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, as Neelie Kroes, the EU Commissioner for telecoms and technology says that we are moving into a world without Acta.Also we look at the thorny subject of internet porn and proposed controls at the ISP level and Aleks meetsEric Rosenbaum, one of the team behind a novel low-fi tech game called MaKey MaKey.And ahead of Facebook's flotation, we ask if the social media company's share price estimation indicates a dot-com bubble in the markets.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
A selection of 19 new and notable apps for you today:Doodle TalesThis is an inventive idea for a storytelling app for kids. Doodle Tales gets them to create their own stories using brushes, shapes, stamps, text and backgrounds, adding in voice narration and then sharing their creations with the wider community. It also includes branded in-app packs from kids' TV shows LazyTown and Numberjacks.iPhone / iPadViberAfter 70m downloads on iOS and Android, VoIP and messaging app Viber is making the leap to two other major smartphone platforms: BlackBerry and Windows Phone. The app currently includes messaging on the new platforms, with voice to follow.BlackBerry / Windows PhoneRevision3 for iPadOnline TV site Revision3 has launched an official iPad app, providing full archives of its shows including Diggnation, Tekzilla and Film Riot. The launch comes a few days after the company was bought by The Discovery Channel.iPadPairiPhone app Pair promised a social network for two people only – couples – and now it has an Android version too, which is handy for non-iOS-exclusive households. Share videos, photos and messages privately. And no, before you ask, it's not just for secure sexting. Not just.AndroidPeter &amp; the WolfOscar-winning film Peter &amp; The Wolf has been turned into a book-app for iOS by Tapisodes, with animation from the film and accompanying text.iPhone / iPadNokia City LensNokia's latest exclusive app for its own range of Lumia Windows Phones is City Lens, an augmented reality app showing data on businesses and tourist hotspots overlaid on the real world.Windows PhoneTouchArcadeiOS games reviews website TouchArcade has launched its own app, offering daily news, previews and reviews, as well as a watch list for upcoming titles, and access to its forums – which tend to be bustling with developers discussing their plans.iPhoneubiCabsThe latest app aiming to help Londoners get home safely is ubiCabs, which takes a user's location, then finds local minicab firms who – crucially – have cabs available for a journey. It also analyses prices, and will soon add Facebook features so people can share their journey details with friends – for safety's sake, rather than over-sharing.Android / iPhoneCelebrate The World of Grey GooseVodka brand Grey Goose has launched its own iPad app, with a focus on global travellers. It includes guides to 10 cities – Paris, Cognac, London, New York, Miami, Dubai, Rio de Janeiro, Sydney, Hong Kong and Moscow – with bar recommendations and cocktail recipes.iPadPortfolio ProCan designers and photographers stop carrying around physical portfolio cases in favour of an iPad? That could be one upshot of new app Portfolio Pro, a "brandable presentation app" aimed at creatives, importing images from the iPad photo gallery as well as Flickr and Dropbox.iPadAnne's AmsterdamAnne Frank as a walking-tour guide for Amsterdam? Please bite back any jokes you were thinking of making. This app offers stories, film footage and archive photographs covering 30 points of interest around the city. It's the work of agency LBi working with digital content firm Repudo.Android / iPhone / Windows PhoneInsteadOven Bits' new Android app aims to get people to "live within or below their means in order to give to the charity of their choice". For example, brewing your own coffee rather than buying one, or renting a film rather than going to the cinema. The US app keeps track of how much people have saved, and helps them donate.AndroidTrueCallerAfter picking up 3m users on other platforms, "global social phone book" TrueCaller has an Android app. It pulls in phone number directories from around the world for searching purposes, while also acting as a call filter to fend off spam calls.AndroidDelverDelver is an unashamedly old-school dungeon-crawler game: "Grab loot, fight monsters, and escape or die trying". Its deliberately-pixelly look brings Minecraft to mind, rather than just the retro RPGs it's inspired by.AndroidWillbee The BumblebeeBook-apps publisher Kiwa Media has launched its latest title, Willbee The Bumblebee, with voice narration, digital painting and a bare-bottomed bumblebee hero.iPadFeed Me OilChillingo's Feed Me Oil puzzler has been ported to Windows Phone, adding Xbox Live features in the process. It sees you getting oil from broken pipes to the mouths of creatures across a host of puzzle-strewn levels.Windows PhoneNamco Bandai's SolitairePac-Who? Namco Bandai's latest Android game bodyswerves pill-munching spheres in favour of traditional card games. It offers three versions of Solitaire – Klondike 1-card, Klondike 3-cards and Freecell.AndroidVW up! 3DAnother day, another brand experimenting with augmented reality within an app. This one comes from Intertisement for Volkswagen: an Android app that pops up a little customisable car when a print ad is scanned.AndroidCollin's Journey Though CancerThis free book-app tells the tale of a three year-old boy with cancer, explaining his journey through treatment. The visuals are hand-drawn throughout.iPad
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 5 May 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Sniper Elite V2(15+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (37)PC (6)12 (1)Prototype 2(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (34)23 (3)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (32)Wii (7)PSP (3)324 (2)Fifa Street(3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)85 (4)Mass Effect 3(15+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (32)PC (6)96 (7)Tiger Woods PGA Tour 13(3+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (39)67 (5)Kinect Star Wars(12+)Xbox 360 (100)58 (9)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (64)3DS (36)239 (8)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (32)PC (12)2810 (14)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (42)PC (6)Wii (3)2611 (11)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (47)PC (3)1812 (13)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (32)PC (20)2613 (10)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (37)PC (2)2414 (12)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (49)Xbox 360 (28)PS3 (15)3DS (6)1815 (–)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)PS3 (52)Xbox 360 (46)PC (1)2316 (6)The Witcher 2: Assassins - Enhanced Edition (18+)Xbox 360 (95)PC (5)317 (15)Ssx (3+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (48)1018 (16)Moshi Monsters: Moshling Zoo (3+)DS (100)1019 (–)Gran Turismo 5(3+)PS3 (100)1520 (17)UFC Undisputed 3(15+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)6UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Japan's two largest social mobile games firms, GREE and DeNA, have reported strong financial results for the first quarter of 2012, although regulatory scrutiny could rein in their growth in the months ahead.GREEgenerated revenuesof $560m (around £348m) during the quarter, posting a net profit of $162m (around £101m). That's up 182% and 186% respectively year-on-year.The company says it has 234m members worldwide for its social mobile games community, although the bulk of its revenues come from the 30m in Japan. 93% of GREE's revenues come from in-app purchases, versus 7% for advertising.Meanwhile, DeNAreported revenuesof $529m for the first three months of 2012, up 32% year-on-year. Its operating income rose 19% to $234m in the same period. The company has so far made $640m from its Moba-coin virtual currency alone.To put these numbers into perspective, Electronic Arts'latest set of financial resultsreveal its mobile revenues were $87m in the first quarter of 2012, while its traditional Western rival Gameloft generated $58.9m.Zynga, meanwhile,generated $321m of revenuesfrom its entire business – web and mobile – in the same quarter.GREE and DeNA are giants in the social mobile gaming world, then, but their revenues and profits remain rooted in their Japanese homeland. Both companies have aggressive global expansion plans though.DeNA launched its Mobage social gaming network in the West in 2011, starting on Android before releasing a few Mobage-enabled games on iOS. Its $403m acquisition of Western firm ngmoco in October 2010 has been at the heart of this, but DeNA has also snapped up indie developers like Rough Cookie, Gameview, Atakama Labs and Astro Ape, while inking partnerships with other Western publishers.For its part, GREE is planning to launch its social platform worldwide by the end of May 2012. It too has been acquiring – most recently paying $180m for US developer Funzio, but also ngmoco's rival OpenFeint for $104m in April 2011.In fact, its financial results reveal more details about Funzio's business: the company made $12m of revenues from its Modern War and Crime City social mobile games in the first quarter of 2012, then $5m in April alone as it launched a third title, Kingdom Age.With lucrative profits in Japan fuelling this global expansion, the cloud hanging over both GREE and DeNA isfresh regulatory scrutinyon one aspect of their domestic businesses: "Kompu Gacha" games.These are titles where players can enter sweepstakes for prizes if they buy a certain number of virtual items. Following unrest from parents about children's spending habits as a result of these offers – an intriguing mirror of the "bait apps" debate currently causing a rumpus in the US – the Japanese government is expected to crack down on their use.Both companies' share prices dived following the first reports of the likely regulation, showing investors' confidence wobbling in their business models. GREE has already said it willstop offering the offending games at the end of May.On one hand, global expansion will reduce GREE and DeNA's dependence on Kompu Gacha-related revenues. On the other, those games have been the cash cow base for the expansion overseas, so if sales take a hit, their ability to move fast to build their Western businesses against competition from Zynga, EA and others may be restricted.
With 25 million registered players and a hardcore community that makes the Scientologists look feckless and uncommitted, Minecraft is one of indie gaming's most astonishing and important success stories.Originally released on the PC in 2009 as a working project, the title has been evolving ever since, adding new features, rules and modes and now a console conversion. Along the way, it has quietly become such a vital cultural force it even has its own Lego set. Which, if you know anything about Minecraft, is a delicious irony.If, however, you still don't anything about Minecraft (wha... what?!), imagine a Lego set crossed with a resource management simulation. That is basically it. When you start a game, the engine builds a vast landscape via procedural generation, meaning no two worlds are the same. You're now free to explore this blocky Eden, climbing its mountains, strolling along beaches and staring up at the slabs of white cloud that float past like cubist spacecraft.Your aim is now construction. Using your bare hands at first, you're able to gather resources such as wood and stone to create your own buildings. These elements can also be "crafted" or combined to make tools and other useful objects, allowing you to build and mine more effectively.Make a furnace and you can start smelting iron ore or cooking food; make a replicator and you essentially have yourself a factory production line. It's also possible to prepare farmland, grow crops and bake bread and cakes; craft a fishing rod and you can spend hours by the lake, watching a float bobbing on the surface, very occasionally catching a tasty fish.But there is a complication. The world has a day/night cycle and when dusk arrives, so do the monsters. Suddenly the serene landscape is filled with zombies and skeletons who'll attack the player character on sight, sapping his strength. The only way to be safe is to construct a house and stay in it until the sun rises. Either that or construct a sword and some armour and go out hunting.And that is kind of it. A resource management game, with building blocks, farming and exploration. An open world in which the player is effectively the protagonist and the designer. In many ways, the experience is like an interactive version of Robinson Crusoe – alone in an idyllic but indifferent world, working with the landscape in order to survive. And although the heavily pixellated visuals are jarring at first, we soon begin to accept them as a natural environment that needs to be understood, respected and explored.It is strangely profound and meditative experience, aided by the wilting piano score and the soft, simple sound effects, which lend each action a naturalism that works within this universe even when resembling nothing in our own. And don't be fooled by the chunky docile appearance of the monsters – Minecraft manages to create a creepy, jumpy atmosphere during its night-time hours, with the green, staring Creepers peering through your door and zombies reaching in through the windows. This is a game that replicates every element of solitude and the human imagination – it scares as well as intrigues.Importantly, though, the Xbox version is more limited than the current PC iteration. There is no Creative mode which removes the monsters and day/night mechanic and gives computer users total freedom and unlimited resources to just build astonishingly complex buildings.There are also fewer resources, objects and tools than the current PC build – although Microsoft says that the Xbox version will be regularly updated. What we have now then, is a sort of work-in-progress – although 4J Studios, the Dundee-based firm responsible for the conversion, has done a great job of eliminating the bugs and glitches of earlier PC instalments.Here then, you'll spend hours wandering the landscape, discovering the wildlife (there are cows, pigs and other useful critters, which can be slaughtered for food or domesticated for milk and wool); you'll construct bizarre homes and outhouses; you'll dig deep into the ground, mining for precious minerals like diamonds and the enormously useful redstones.And, as in the PC version, when the solitude becomes too much you can open your world to anyone on your friends list. Up to eight players are able to work on the same landscape at once – there's even a four-player splitscreen mode, so you and three pals can sit together, constructing a mini-village and squabbling over rich mineral deposits.Indeed, the really fascinating thing about the Minecraft phenomenon is how the community has developed like an early civilisation, with players gradually testing the boundaries of the world together before forming their own rulesets, narratives and explanations. There is even an emerging folklore, filled with mythical creatures like the Herobrine, a figure with glowing eyes said to haunt the deepest mines.Even in its limited, outdated form, Mincraft: Xbox 360 Edition remains an essential purchase, but one that needs to grow from these solid foundations. It does not have the genre to itself on this machine, either – the decent UK-developed "clone", Fortresscraft – available on the Xbox Live Indie Games channel – has its own ardent community and has been hugely successful.But Minecraft is the phenomenon. Its creator, lone coder Markus "Notch" Persson, presides over his vast community like a benevolent and particularly affable cult leader, and he has brought to this game (which he openly admits has been inspired by other forerunners, most notable, Infiniminer) a distinct, indescribable atmosphere.Like Sim City and Civilization before it, it is a sandbox that not only facilitates but also actively nurtures experimentation and creativity. That is much more rare than it sounds, and so much more valuable.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid update delays: AT&amp;T CEO passes the buck...to Google &gt;&gt; TIME.comAnd Google passes it right back. Nobody quite seems to be telling the whole truth, nor making clear who's in charge of updating the phones. (Clue: the handset manufacturer, which has to pass the update through the carrier for approval.)The Avengers: why pirates failed to prevent a box office record &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakDespite the widespread availability of pirated releases, The Avengers just scored a record-breaking $200 million opening weekend at the box office. While some are baffled to see that piracy failed to crush the movie's profits, it's really not that surprising. Claiming a camcorded copy of a movie seriously impacts box office attendance is the same as arguing that concert bootlegs stop people from seeing artists on stage.Nothing to do with it opening simultaneously on multiple screens worldwide and preventing the opportunity to make pirate copies? Apparently not, because a low-quality camcordered version appeared a week before the official release, and was then downloaded half a million times.Nano-SIM update: Apple design modified to fix concerns, standard will be decided this month &gt;&gt; The VergeThe delay in the vote had been due largely to Nokia's vocal displeasure in Apple's design, saying in March that Apple explicitly violated ETSI's design guidelines for 4FF -- guidelines that specified that a nano-SIM should be shaped in such a way that it would be difficult or impossible for a customer to accidentally jam it into a micro-SIM slot. G&amp;D noted to us that Apple's design has now been modified: a small amount of plastic has been added around the edges of the electrical contacts, making the new nano-SIM just long enough so that it can't be forced lengthwise into an incompatible socket. (The tradeoff, of course, is that the revised design is even less different than the micro-SIM it's designed to replace, saving relatively little room inside the phone for other components.)The improvement that isn't much of an improvement.Google's self-driving car snags first-ever license in Nevada &gt;&gt; The RegisterThe Nevada Department of Motor Vehicles has issued the first license plates that will allow Google's autonomous cars onto public highways.Nevada is the first state to devise licensing procedures for autonomous vehicles, and Google is the one of the leaders in that field, having hired some of the top talent that took part in the DARPA Grand and Urban Challenges. Google's fleet will have red Nevada license plates with a Greek infinity symbol, intended to alert other drivers that a computer has control of the vehicle.And now we find out if computers are better or worse drivers than humans. Well, in Nevada.ICANN offers refunds over gTLD system shutdown &gt;&gt; ZDNet UK"In recognition of the inconvenience caused by the temporary suspension of the TLD application system, ICANN will provide a full refund of the application fees paid by any new gTLD applicant that wishes to withdraw its application prior to publication of the list of applied-for new top-level domain names," ICANN chief operating officer Akram Atallah said in a statement on Monday.Generic top-level domains can use words that refer to brands, such as '.coke', and also non-Latin characters. The application process opened in January, with fees of $185k per gTLD.There's only one word for it: omnishambles.Oracle-Google verdict signals need for copyright reform &gt;&gt; InfoWorldIt's hard to imagine another, similar case on the scale of Oracle versus Google, so it's remarkable that an almost identical one came to resolution in Europe at almost the same time. SAS Institute sued World Programming for copyright infringement in what seems like a much more clear-cut case than Oracle versus Google. World Programming copied the SAS programming environment with the intent of direct competition, yet the court did not find against World Programming.Although the case has nuances, the court was clear that although software itself could be copyrighted, its externalities -- the function it performs, the programming interfaces it exposes, and the data structures it uses -- cannot be. This is entirely reasonable. Without such a division, interoperable technology markets would be impossible.Updates to Google News US Edition: larger images, realtime coverage and discussions &gt;&gt; Google News BlogMany news stories inspire vibrant discussions on Google+, and today we're starting to add this content to both the News homepage, and the realtime coverage pages. This way you can see what your circles, journalists covering the story and notables like politicians or others who are the subjects of stories have to say about breaking news, and even contribute to the discussion directly from Google News.Note that these Google+ discussions will only appear for those of you reading the US edition who have signed in and upgraded to Google+.Note subtle things in the language. "Many" news stories "inspire" vibrant (vibrant?) discussions on Google+. (As they do on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn, to name just a few. But those don't belong to Google.) And that these discussions are only available if you've "upgraded" to Google+ - not "signed up for", or "logged into", or "joined". Language shapes the world.Security alert: hacked websites serve suspicious Android apps (NotCompatible) &gt;&gt; Lookout BlogBased on our current research,  NotCompatible is a new Android trojan that appears to serve as a simple TCP relay / proxy while posing as a system update. This threat does not currently appear to cause any direct harm to a target device, but could potentially be used to gain illicit access to private networks by turning an infected Android device into a proxy. As previously mentioned, this appears to be the first time that compromised websites have been used to distribute malware targeting Android devices.With so many people eager for "system updates", this package (which turns up as a "system update" could fool plenty of people.Introducing Ceres Solver - A nonlinear least squares solver &gt;&gt; Google Open Source BlogSomeone's going to find this fabulously useful.Apple offers iOS 5.1.1 update, fixes some serious vulnerabilities &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityFixes cross-site scripting, URL spoofing and remote code execution bugs - all severe. But Graham Cluley has harder words for Apple:Do you work for Apple? If so, please suggest - to the highest authority in the company you dare to email directly - that your employer tweaks its update publishing system. Make sure that [security article] HT1222 is updated at the same time as any security-related product update is published, not hours or days later. This will have a positive outcome: your users will apply security fixes more promptly.No signs yet of Apple putting security visibility further up the priority list. It should.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Myspace, the once-mighty social network that was ultimately toppled by Facebook, hassettled a privacy investigationby the powerful Federal Trade Commission in the US over its sharing of personally identifiable information about users with advertisers.The company, which is trying to recover its position in the market, has agreed to submit to FTC privacy audits over the next 20 years.The settlement, which lays to rest charges that Myspace misrepresented its privacy policies to users, is similar to deals the FTC struck previously with Facebook and Google, and emphasises a new drive by the FTC to police such policies more rigorously.Myspace also settled FTC charges that it transgressed the EU's "Safe Harbour" regulations about the safeguarding of personal data collected in Europe and transferred to the US for processing.The next big technology name in the FTC's sights is expected to be Google, which is understood to be under investigation for havinghacked Apple's Safari browser on iPhones and iPadsin order to set cookies that the browser would otherwise reject – which then also led to tracking advertising cookies being set. That would be a breach of privacyBecause Google has ppreviously signed an FTC agreementfollowing aprivacy debacle with its Google Buzz social network, the Safari hack could lead to fines amounting to millions of dollars. No timetable has been given for the FTC to file a complaint against Google.On Myspace, the FTC said on Tuesday that despite telling users it would not share personally identifiable information with others, Myspace gave advertisers users' "Friend ID" numbers.That allowed advertisers to find users' publicly available personal information, often including full names, and could even lead them to discover users' web-browsing activity.TheFTC complaint(PDF) covers a period up to and including October 2010.An example of the complaint was that although the "Friend ID" was effectively encrypted after June 2010, Myspace provided the decryption key to, among others, the Fox Audience Network, then owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation – which, at the time, also owned Myspace.In the settlement, Myspace agreed not to misrepresent its privacy policies. It also agreed to implement a comprehensive privacy program and to submit to regular, independent privacy assessments for two decades.Myspace, launched in 2003, was a popular online destination for years. But the social network was beaten by Facebook as it failed to keep up with improvements after its purchase in 2005 by News Corporation – asource of bitter regretto its former chief executive, Mike Jones.News Corporation, which had bought Myspace for $580m (£360m) in 2005, sold it to Specific Media last year for $35m. Specific Media, based in California, is an online ad network operator.In a statement, Specific Media said it settled to put any questions regarding Myspace's pre-acquisition advertising practices behind it.It said it had conducted a thorough review of Myspace's advertising practices and privacy safeguards following the acquisition and had successfully improved upon Myspace's historical practices, bringing the social media platform to the forefront of industry best practice for ad delivery.In November, theFTC reached a settlement with Facebook. The company committed to getting explicit approval from its users a process known as "opting in" before changing their privacy controls.Like that with Myspace and Google, that calls for independent audits every other year for 20 years.
Hey, it's the middle of the week already – thank you, Bank Holiday Monday! Anyway, what are you all up to? Anyone downloading the Xbox version of Minecraft today? My review will be up later this morning.
The birthday of Howard Carter, who discovered the tomb of Tutankhamun in 1922, is celebrated in the latest Google doodle, a colourful graphic depicting the British archaeologist admiring an array of ancient Egyptian treasures.The unearthing of the tomb, which had been undisturbed for more than 3,000 years, was the first time that the final resting place of a pharaoh and all his treasures had been found by modern-day archaeologists.Carter, who was born on 9 May 1874 in London, originally trained as an artist and was sent to Egypt at the age of 17 to assist in the excavation and recording of ancient Egyptian tombs. He was appointed as the first chief inspector of the Egyptian Antiquities Service (EAS) in 1899 and supervised a number of excavations at Thebes, now known as Luxor, before he was transferred in 1904 to the Inspectorate of Lower Egypt.He was employed from 1907 by Lord Carnarvon to supervise his Egyptian excavations but came under pressure to make a major breakthrough after what the aristocrat regarded as a series of disappointing results.It came in November 1922, when Carter wrote in his pocket diary: "Discovered tomb under tomb of Ramsses VI investigated same &amp; found seals intact."He is said recorded as having made the breach into the tomb with a chisel his grandmother had given him for his 17th birthday.Asked by Carnarvon: "Can you see anything?", archaeologist replied with the now-famous words: "Yes, wonderful things."Carter then became the first human in 33 centuries to enter the tomb, and spent years documenting the thousands of artefacts from the tomb.A total of 5,398 objects were found, covering every aspect of ancient Egyptian life, from weapons and chariots to musical instruments, clothes, cosmetics and a treasured lock of the royal grandmother's hair.He died from Lymphoma in 1939 at the age of 64, just seven years after his excavation ended, and before he could fully publish his findings.Carter's complete records of the excavation were deposited in the Griffith Institute Archive at the University of Oxford, which has been buildingan online database.
BlackBerry maker Research in Motion said on Tuesday that it had hired two new senior executives, including a marketing chief, as the company looks to regain market share lost to Apple's iPhone.RIM said Frank Boulben will be the new chief marketing officer, a job that new CEO Thorsten Heins described as critically important for the struggling Canadian company.Boulben, 45, served as executive vice-president of strategy and marketing atLightSquared, a wireless company that has been struggling since US regulators moved to kill its proposed nationwide broadband network.Boulben also held senior positions at wireless carriers Vodafone and Orange.Kristian Tear is the new chief operating officer. Tear, 48, was executive vice president of Sony Mobile Communications, a unit of another struggling technology company, Sony Corp.Heins said both possess a keen understanding of the rapidly changing wireless market and will help sharpen RIM's focus.
Twitter has moved to quash a court order issued by the Manhattan district attorney that would require it to hand over the tweets of a writer and Occupy Wall Street protester arrested on the Brooklyn Bridge last October.In a motion filed in thecriminal court in New York on MondayTwitter argued that it should not be forced to give the prosecutor three months worth of tweets by Malcolm Harris, who was arrested on the bridge along with 700 other activists.Harris had issued his own motion in a bid toquash the subpoena in February,contending that there was "no justification" for New York prosecutors to seek "such a broad swath of electronic data". The motion was rejected by Judge Matthew A Sciarrino Jr on 20 April, in an order ruling thatHarris did not have the legal standingto challenge the subpoena because Twitter owned the rights to his tweets.Twitter filed a ten-page memorandum against Sciarrino's order on Monday, writing that itsterms of service"make absolutely clear that its users own their content", giving users the right to move to quash subpoenas themselves."Terms of service expressly state: 'You retain your rights to any content you submit, post or display on or through the services'," the memorandum reads.Twitter provided two additional reasons why the subpoena should be quashed, one saying the order is effectively "forcing [Twitter] to violate federal law". The social networking site argues the subpoena violates the fourth amendment, which requires a search warrant before companies hand over subscribers' communications.Twitter also contended that the subpoena does not comply with the Uniform Act, which requires prosecutors to present "appropriate certification to a California court" before compelling a California company to produce documentation.Harris was arrested in October and charged with disorderly conduct for his participation in an Occupy Wall Street march that ended with some 700 arrests after protesters walked onto the road section of the Brooklyn Bridge. New York prosecutorsissued a subpoena to Twitteron 26 January, requesting three months worth of tweets from Harris's twitter account as well as "user information, including email address".The New York Times has reported thatprosecutors want to see three months of Harris's tweetsin the belief they may contradict his potential defence that police allowed protesters to walk in the road."The defendant may have used the account to make statements while on the bridge that were inconsistent with his anticipated trial defense," the Times quoted assistant district attorney Lee Langston as saying.Harris is not the first Twitter user to be subpoenaed by a US prosecutor. In January 2011 an Icelandic MP's tweets were the subject of an order from the US justice department as part of an investigation into WikiLeaks.Birgitta Jonsdottir lost her legal battle against in November when a judge ruledTwitter must release her details. In that case, as with Harris, Jonsdottir only heard of the subpoena request when Twitter challenged the court order.Ben Lee, legal counsel for Twitter, said in a statement: "As we said in our brief, Twitter's terms of service make absolutely clear that its users own their content. Our filing with the court reaffirms our steadfast commitment to defending those rights for our users."Earlier, the company's communications account,@twittercomms,posted alinkto anAmerican Civil Liberties Union articleabout the case."It's not every day the @ACLU says something's a 'big deal' – Twitter Stands Up For One Of Its Users," the tweet said, quoting the headline on the ACLU's story.
Yahoo's chief executive, Scott Thompson, is under increasing pressure after the company formed aspecial committeeto conduct a "thorough review" of his academic credentials, as well as the "facts and circumstances related to the review and disclosure of those credentials" in connection with his appointment in January.Separately, reports  suggested that Patti Hart, the Yahoo director in charge of its corporate governance and nominations committee, which chose Thompson, may not seek re-election to the board after two years.Hart, who has been on Yahoo's board since 2010 and is also chief executive of electronic games equipment company International Game Technology, would in effect resign by not seeking re-election at the next annual general meeting, reports said. She has also been under scrutiny when it emerged last week that her CV also contained inaccuracies.Thompson is under growing pressure after falsely claiming on his CV that he had a computer science degree, as well as his bachelor's degree in accounting, when he applied for the top job at Yahoo, which he took over in January. On Monday, he apologised to staff – but a deadline for action by the board came and passed without any movement.The revelation last week has rocked Yahoo, which is trying to recover its footing in the competitive internet advertising market. The special committee will be chaired by Alfred Amoroso, an independent Yahoo director who joined the board in February, with John Hayes and Thomas McInerney, who joined the board in April.Amid the furore over Thompson's incorrect CV, which was lodged in legally binding public filings with the US securities and exchange commission, it emerged that Hart's claims to have a bachelor's degree in marketing and economics from Illinois University were incorrect; instead it was in business administration, specialising in marketing and economics.That has put Hart directly in the firing line. She was also in charge of the committee which would have to give Thompson explicit permission to sit on two other public boards – as Thompson does, at Splunk and F5 Networks. Yahoo said  that Thompson had that permission, but the company would not say when that permission was granted.Thompson did not misrepresent his qualifications to the other two companies. He joined one of them, Splunk, in October 2011 when he was president at PayPal, and the other, F5 Networks, in January 2008. Both of those list him as having a bachelor of science degree in accounting from Stonehill College.That misrepresentation forced an apology from Thompson on Monday. "The board [of Yahoo] is reviewing the issue and I will provide whatever they need from me," he wrote to Yahoo staff. "In the meantime, I want you to know how deeply I regret how this issue has affected the company and all of you. We have all been working very hard to move the company forward, and this has had the opposite effect. For that, I take full responsibility, and I want to apologise to you."Yahoo, one of the biggest sites on the web with around 700 million visitors a month, had said that it would make an announcement on the matter on Monday. But although the board met on the day, the deadline passed without comment.Thompson is struggling to turn around Yahoo, which has seen revenues and profits slide gradually over the past five years in the face of intensifying competition from Facebook, Twitter and Google for advertising. Having joined in January, he was intended to map out a fresh direction for the company. Thompson's CV has plunged the company into a row with investors, particularly the hedge fund Third Point, which owns 5.8% of the firm's shares and says his incorrect claim "undermines his credibility as a technology expert and reflects poorly on the character of the CEO who has been tasked with leading Yahoo at this critical juncture". Third Point wants to instal its own choice of directors with greater advertising and media expertise.Yahoo's governance guide on memberships of outside boards states, under a section titled Other Public Company Directorships,: "Without specific approval … no executive officer should serve on more than two public company boards, including the company's board (but not including any boards of entities affiliated with the company)."Neither Splunk nor F5 is affiliated with Yahoo. Both are listed on US stock markets; Splunk went public in mid-April. The company notes in its filing that Thompson has served on its board since October. He received no salary in 2011 for his position on the board, but received 150,000 shares. Those are presently trading at around $32, which would make them worth about $4.8m.Kirk Hanson, executive director for the Markkula centre for applied ethics at Santa Clara University in Silicon Valley, said: "The board really is boxed into a corner. They have to ask themselves, 'Can this leader serve as a moral example or moral leader for our company?' Behaviour rolls downhill. If the CEO exaggerates a little, then others in the organisation will exaggerate a lot."
Angry Birds maker Rovio has announced what we already know to be true: this game is huge, with 648 million of us now exploding bricks, ice and glass in the hope that the pigs&nbsp;will die. But if you think you've overdone it with those porky&nbsp;little fellas, here are five alternative games:1.Plants v ZombiesYou've got a lovely garden, but zombies are threatening to invade it and eat your brains. Stop them with  pea-shooting plants.2.Temple RunAvoid being devoured by unidentified snarling monsters.3.Pigs in TreesHere pigs can fly. And they have to kill birds. Wonder where they got this idea from?4.Fruit NinjaSlice and dice flying fruit against the clock. The most exercise your finger will ever have.5.Tiny TowerBuild a skyscraper and fill it with tenants whom you have to keep gainfully employed. If you don't, they'll moan about you on their Facebook pages. Yes, characters in apps now have their own Facebook pages.
Swedish developer Toca Boca has passed the 10m downloads milestone for its children's apps, less than four months aftercrossing the 5m mark.Now chief executive Björn Jeffery has moved to San Francisco in order to build the company's momentum in the US, launching a marketing and analytics division for the company, which is a subsidiary of Swedish media group Bonnier.Toca Boca has not broken its downloads total down into paid versus free apps, but the company said in January that it was profitable. Jeffery says the 10m milestone is the result of organic growth."Partly it is the long-term effect of our toys selling increasingly well as our brand gets stronger. All our toys are selling better now than ever before, with the exception of the initial launches," he tells The Guardian."Also, we have had several very successful free products and campaigns – the release of Toca Kitchen Monsters for instance. Free enables visibility to apps that otherwise might go unnoticed – and if they are of high enough quality they can do very well."Jeffery says that while the US is Toca Boca's biggest market, the company sees "plenty of room to grow" there – hence his relocation earlier in 2012. The company is also considering non-organic expansion."We will also be looking to acquire and invest in companies that are similar to Toca Boca," says Jeffery."There is so much happening in this space at the moment and we think there will be a lot of exciting companies and projects popping up over the coming year. The experience that we have with Toca Boca so far could, in addition with capital, help them go a little further."Toca Boca has plenty of competition in the kid-apps market, but amid strong growth in the number and quality of available apps, there is precious little detail on how much money is actually being made by these startups.There are considerable challenges of discovery too. Most startups in this space continue to focus on Apple's iOS platform, yet its App Store still doesn't have a dedicated Kids category, meaning children's apps are spread between Books, Games, Entertainment and Education."Discovery is undoubtably an issue, but any developer should know and prepare for this before entering the market. Many seem to blame the platform for their lack of success which must be misdirected disappointment," says Jeffery."If you have done your research you should have designed your products in order to fit the ecosystem that you are entering. And this is as true in the kids apps space as in any other. Yes it is difficult, but it can definitely be done."What about that iOS focus though? In January, Jeffery said Toca Boca wasn't against Android in principle – it was just choosing to focus on iOS as a way to prioritise its resources. Has that changed in the months since?"It is clear that the bigger Android players are upping the ante quite a lot. We are getting an increasing amount of requests - both from fans and from potential partners," says Jeffery."Unfortunately, the market conditions haven't really changed notably. It is a highly fragmented ecosystem to develop for, and the business model for upfront sales of apps still has its issues."Toca Boca isn't ruling out Android, still, but the company's priorities remain with iOS. Jeffery says this is a matter of time and focus."What platform can deliver the best results for your products? And can you afford and manage making those apps for several platforms at the same time? All development has an alternate cost," he says."I think the answer there is unique to each developer, but I don't see 'Android first' becoming something strong in the kids app community within a foreseeable amount of time."
Britons don't get angry easily. Broadband, though, seems to generate different emotions. People are fed up. Fed up with the excessive speed claims made by suppliers. Fed up with waiting for short YouTube videos to load. And, increasingly, they are fed up with the overloaded networks provided principally by BT.The phone giant reports full-year results on Thursday. Ahead of that,Juliette Garside wrote this morning about how Britain – which once considered itself a world leader on broadband speed – is losing its way. There is no strategy on the part of BT, or its competitors, and a shortage of political will from ministers, who preferto talk about online pornography rather than the real long-term internet problem facing the nation.It is clear that the future must lie in ultra high-speed fibre optic connections, which promise the capacity to carry multiple channels of HD and 3D TV, or online gaming, or whatever else home or business users want. Other countries are spending, using a mix of public and private number to boost connection numbers – but Britain is fighting shy.France, say, has fibre available to 6m homes today – and wants to take that to 70% of homes by 2020. Russia has 12m homes for which fibre is available. Australia is working on an ambitious publicly financed network backbone to help get 90% of homes connected to fibre. And Britain? A modest 400,000 fibre homes passed by fibre and no targets to up that number.BT argues that most people don't need fibre to the door. It wants to save money by leaving the old copper lines from the telephone exchange, or street cabinet, intact. Upgrading to fibre Australian style could cost £30bn – and BT reckons that its hybrid model, supposedly available to 90% of homes by 2017, will give people 80Mbps and enough speed.Perhaps. The first problem with this is that nobody believes the claims made by BT and other suppliers. The way demand in the networks is managed means that claimed speeds do not match the reality. Eighty Mbps in 2017 – on a network relying on outdated wiring? Don't bet on it.This morningthe Guardian launched a reader survey of broadband speeds. We expected comments, but the many, many hundreds of people responding surprised us. The frustration is clear. One reader, living south of Nottingham, reports their supplier is BT, which promises a service of "up to" 18Mbps.Their reality is different: "We are routinely charged for 'broadband' with no alternative option, despite never getting over 1Mbs download speeds. We can't watch a two-minute Youtube clip without buffering for several minutes. Also, our exchange only supports a very small number of providers. I don't know why."There is a growing understanding, too, of the poor underlying technology. Another BT customer from the Teignmouth area in Devon says "my BT ADSL 2+ performs badly, speeds areveryvariable. I can nearly see the exchange and line length is short." That person makes a contrast, too, with abroad: "Wider view – we are so far behind with fibre – we will soon be the laughing stock of the internet world. I get ethernet connection to our flat in Russia (a long way from Moscow) at up to 100Mbps, cheap too!"The solution lies in a mixture of more determined political intervention, most likely more public money, greater pressure on BT and perhaps further structural solutions. It was once considered an advantage to have two competing network owners in BT and Virgin Media, but it could be argued the net result of that is a duplication of high speed networks in large cities, while at least half the country (where Virgin does not reach) is left behind. Those efforts could be better co-ordinated, or even consolidated in the national economic interest.There is a separate debate, too, when it comes to mobile broadband speeds, where once again, Britain is running late. The difficulties in getting 4G going (we are already behind Germany for example) is testimony to a similar set of problems – where corporate interests have been allowed to trample innovation because of insufficient political will. But that is a separate subject for the moment.Of course, not everybody will agree about the universal need for ultra-fast broadband. But Britain is in the midst of a recession and needs to invest. We are willing to do it elsewhere – for example with the £30bn earmarked for the high speed railway from London to Birmingham. The growth businesses of the past 10 years and the next 10 will be online. Our need for speed grows exponentionally – 10 years ago, after all, video-free dial-up was the norm – now we expect to watch BBC programmes down the phone line through the iPlayer.The precise way ahead may be unclear. But judging by reader responses, Britain needs to raise internet speeds, ensure service providers make honest claims, and have a long term infrastructure strategy. An appropriate solution to all three has not yet emerged, but what is certain is that at the moment Britain is heading for the slow lane.
It's been quite a busy weekend for the games industry, so here's a quick refresh on what we've missed while lounging about at home enjoying the Bank Holiday break...EA has a record year for revenues, hints at Dead Space 3, but admits Star Wars: The Old Republic subscriptions diveElectronic Arts hasannounced its financial results from Q4 2011 and the fiscal year. Over the 12 months up to 31 March 2012, the company generated $4.2bn in revenue, with $1.2bn coming from digital projects. This resulted in profits of $284 million, up from $233 million in 2011. The publisher alsorevealed in an investor callthat new instalments in the Dead Space and Need For Speed franchises are due in this fiscal year. No surprise there, really.There was some darker news. There will befurther staff lay-offsas part of the company's $40m restructuring plans; and, with an immediate effect on share value, it was admitted that subscription numbers have fallen on the Star Wars: The Old Republic MMOG – since March, numbers have dropped from 1.7 million to 1.3 million;almost 25% of the user base. EA has said, however, that support is strong among the game's core subscribers, and that the fall is down to casual users choosing to stop the game before billing started.Finally, the company haspledged $80m to next-gen console development, with CEO John Riccitiello expressiing his confidence that there is room for the console market to keep growing.The $99 Xbox 360Could this be an intriguing hint at future console pricing models? Microsoft in the US is offeringa Kinect-equipped Xbox 360 console for just $99– but purchasers must sign up for two years of Xbox Live gold membership. Ducking out of the deal before the time is up requires a buy-out fee, just like a mobile phone contract.The deal is only available via Microsoft's own retail stores, and asPC World discovers, might not represent the best value, with most big chains offering the full-rpice console at between $230 and $300, putting it cheaper than the contract deal, even when you add on Xbox Live subscription.I asked Microsoft's UK office whether we can expect a similar deal here and they told me, "it's a pilot program at the 16 Microsoft Stores in the United States to test a new pricing model for the Xbox 360. This pilot program aligns with our ongoing commitment to test new products and offers to understand how to best serve our customers." I think that's sort of a no, for now – but as the industry moves toward a digital service model, we can certainly expect more of this smartphone-style pricing sorcery.Blockbuster employee reveals Wii U launch titles?It seemsa sneaky employee of Blockbuster has done a search for Wii U on the chain's stocking computer and come up with a possible launch line up for the console. The hastily photographed screens show titles like Batman Arkham City, Pikmin, Assassin's Creed and Splinter Cell. Many of these have already been confirmed and there's nothing to verify the rumours, but the story has proved popular over the weekend.
The £2.5bn fibre broadband network that BT Group is building risks remaining empty unless the regulator acts now to promote competition, according to the TalkTalk chief executive, Dido Harding.The prices BT charges rivals like BSkyB and TalkTalk to resell superfast internet connections via its fibre network are almost double those for basic broadband over its old copper telephone wires.BT's project, for which ex-servicemen have been hired to bolster the workforce, is on track to lay fibre between telephone exchanges and street cabinets in an area reaching two thirds of the UK population by 2015.The new network runs at speeds of up to 80Mbps, compared to an average national speed today of 7.6Mbps as measured by telecoms watchdog Ofcom.Harding told the Guardian she wanted Ofcom to begin consulting this year on BT prices. She said new tariffs for renting its network to other telecoms groups should be imposed from 2015, once the majority of the country has access to fibre."We need to get a move on otherwise the country will have spent a lot of money building infrastructure which no one is using," said Harding. "We must start a consultation this year on the regulatory framework structure once build-out is complete."Internet service providers that have "unbundled" BT's exchanges by putting in their own electronic equipment pay £7.28 per customer per month to sell copper broadband. For fibre, they have to pay an extra £6.90 per month, nearly doubling the cost."The regulatory framework today is a little too skewed to driving investment and not enough to driving competition," said Harding. "In 10 years' time when the majority of consumers should have moved on to a superfast product the idea that I will be buying my largest product from my largest competitor is not a credible place to be."BT countered that at current prices, it will take 12 to 14 years for the company to recoup its £2.5bn investment in fibre."We believe our wholesale prices are very reasonable given how expensive it is to deploy fibre," BT said. "We are taking a long term approach and this is helping to keep prices down so that consumers will be encouraged to take up the service. Every ISP pays the same for fibre and that helps to sustain a competitive market."TalkTalk has so far only connected 5,000 customers to superfast, claiming there is little demand. By contrast, BT signed up 400,000 subscribers to its fibre product, Infinity, with 95,000 added in the last quarter.Harding also urged the government to nudge more of the 5.7m homes identified in last year's census as having no internet connection to go online by delivering more services via the internet."I think that Britain's broadband vision needs to be about more people using broadband rather than macho claims about the speed of the technology," she said. "When I look five or 10 years out I want to live in a country where everybody is a digital citizen."
With your help, the Guardian is creating an up-to-date broadband map of Britain, showing advertised versus real speeds. We want to highlight the best and worst-served communities, and bring attention to the broadband blackspots.Around 14% of UK homes could not get a connection faster than 2 Megabits per second, regarded as the minimum for services like iPlayer, when telecoms watchdogOfcom undertook its last major study in July 2011.Has the situation improved since then in your area, or do you live in a hard to reach location with no prospect of a broadband line in the near future? Has you community been campaigning to be included on BT's fibre network? We'd love to hear your experiences.Fill in our online questionnaire below to tell us more and help create the map by sharing your home or office broadband speed. The speed test takes just a few seconds using one of the many online speedometers, which includewww.broadbandspeedchecker.co.uk, orwww.speedtest.net.NEW! Buy our book• Facts are Sacred: the power of data (on Kindle)More open dataData journalism and data visualisations from the GuardianWorld government data•Search the world's government data with our gatewayDevelopment and aid data•Search the world's global development data with our gatewayCan you do something with this data?•FlickrPlease post your visualisations and mash-ups on ourFlickr group• Contact us atdata@guardian.co.uk•Get the A-Z of data•More at the Datastore directory•Follow us on Twitter•Like us on Facebook
A selection of 12 new and notable apps for you today:Simian Mobile Disco – UnpatternsDance duo Simian Mobile Disco have teamed up with artist Kate Moross to release an iOS app for their new album, a week ahead of its release. The app plays the album in full, while you manipulate a set of "moire patterns" on-screen.iPhone / iPadre:routeRecyclebank and Transport for London have teamed up for this iPhone app, which encourages people to walk and cycle around the capital more, by awarding points that can be redeemed from the likes of Marks &amp; Spencer, Planet Organic and Champneys. It also shows you how many calories you've burned and how much CO2 you've saved by avoiding motorised transport.iPhoneBlackBerry Screen ReaderRIM's latest BlackBerry app will please accessibility campaigners keen to see smartphones made more usable for blind and partially sighted people. It makes core BlackBerry apps accessible through text-to-speech technology, including email, calendar and phone calls.BlackBerryTwitpic"The first ever photo sharing site for Twitter comes to the iPhone," trumpets Twitpic's App Store listing. Yes, but it's far from the first photo-sharing app – Twitpic is late to the party. And with Twitter's own app already having photo-sharing built in, it remains to be seen how much demand there is for a standalone Twitter-pic-sharing app.iPhoneHawthorne Park Lite THDDeveloper Atomicom admits that this game is more of a demo, released to get feedback from Android users for the company's upcoming full racing game. Optimised for Tegra-powered devices, it's priced high – £10 – to help the company raise the necessary funds for the new game.AndroidDark LegendsSpacetime Studios brings its 3D massively multiplayer online game to iOS, using a free-to-play model and a vampire theme. The developer will make its money from sales of in-game "Platinum" currency.iPhone / iPadBantr - Interactive FootballHere's the latest app looking to provide a second-screen experience for sports fans. In this case, it's football, with users choosing their favourite teams, checking into games, and voting on what they think will happen. It launches... just in time for the end of the season, although with Euro 2012 looming, it could get some summer use.iPhoneSwiss Clock by doubleTwistBest known for its Android media syncing software, doubleTwist has launched a curveball with this Swiss Clock app. It's a live wallpaper clock with daytime and night-time modes.AndroidTom's MessengerHaving appeared on Android a few days earlier, Talking Tom Cat and friends now pop up on iOS with their new messaging app, delivering words to friends through the mouths of talking animals.iPhone / iPadGraphic Elvis The Interactive ExperienceWe've seen the life of Nirvana's Kurt Cobain turned into a comic-book app for iOS, and now Elvis Presley follows suit. A story by Spider-Man co-creator Stan Lee, alongside artwork from a host of famous comic artists, is joined by a wealth of digital memorabilia.iPhone / iPadDove Real Beauty StudioDove is the latest brand to get into the photo-sharing game with this "living ad campaign" encouraging women to upload their photos – which will then be shown on the company's gallery and in its billboard ads across the US.iPhoneWKD Big Head AppOh, brands... WKD's new iPhone app is on the FatBooth bandwagon from a while back, with head-manipulation the focus in this case. "Why not join the fun and give yourself or your mates a bigger bonce. You're guaranteed at least a couple of laugh-out-loud minutes." Indeed.iPhone
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTwo brilliant moves that helped create the Apple iOS powerhouse &gt;&gt; Dalton CaldwellAt my previous company I had some interaction with the [manufacturer redacted] Android team. I found it very strange that there were several mobile teams at [manufacturer redacted], each building Android devices as part of different market segments. They had one team working on a phone for the low-end of the market, another working on a phone for business users, and so on. Product managers inside of [manufacturer redacted] were responsible for creating product requirements for each handset, then delivering it within a certain budget. There were separate marketing and rollout schedules for each device. The one detail that blew me away was that these different devices were going to ship with different versions of Android. I seem to recall the low end phone was still on 1.5, and the others were 1.6. Holy sh*t. [sic]In contrast, when a new iPhone model is released Apple doesn't shut down the line and liquidate inventory. Rather, Apple keeps some percentage of manufacturing capacity devoted to this legacy model.Samsung, it should be said, seems to be following the same path. The Samsung Ace, Galaxy S2 and other older models are still available with the S3 announced (though not yet shipped). If Samsung is following the same path, that's a real expression of confidence.Kroes Throws in Towel on ACTA &gt;&gt; WSJNeelie Kroes, speaking at a conference in Berlin, told delegates: "We have recently seen how many thousands of people are willing to protest against rules which they see as constraining the openness and innovation of the Internet."This is a strong new political voice. And as a force for openness, I welcome it, even if I do not always agree with everything it says on every subject."We are now likely to be in a world without SOPA and without ACTA."In tech, some bemoan the rise of 'brogrammer' culture &gt;&gt; CNN.comAt one of the world's biggest gatherings of Web culture, a 28-year-old executive talks about landing a tech job by sending a CEO "bikini shots" from a "nudie calendar" he created.On campus at Stanford University, a hot startup attracts recruits with a poster asking if they want to 'bro down and crush some code.'"And the world's largest Internet registration company entices Web entrepreneurs with a Super Bowl ad in which two female celebrities paint its logo onto the body of an apparently naked model. Forget what you think you know about the benignly geeky computer programmer who lives for the thrill of finding a single misplaced semicolon in thousands of lines of code.And welcome to the world of the "brogrammer."Typically useless headline ("some" bemoan? Why add the "some"?), but interesting article.Infected computers could lose Internet browsing ability in July &gt;&gt; Chicago TribuneA four-year investigation, resulting in the FBI's arrest of six Estonian computer criminals in November, could have implications on Internet users as soon as July 9.Computers infected with the DNSChanger malware, which -- according to CNET.com -- worked by setting up a background process in an affected computer that changed the user's DNS server settings to the rogue DNS network, which was then used by hackers to redirect valid URLs to malicious Web sites, won't be able to access the Internet July 9 -- without knowing the site's IP address -- after the Feds shut down the temporary servers used to keep the infected computers online.This is the inspirational quote Apple employees receive on day one &gt;&gt; Business InsiderThere's work and there's your life's work.The kind of work that has your fingerprints all over it. The kind of work that you'd never compromise on. That you'd sacrifice a weekend for. You can do that kind of work at Apple. People don't come here to play it safe. They come here to swim in the deep end.They want their work to add up to something.Something big. Something that couldn't happen anywhere else.Welcome to Apple.What's your company's inspirational quote?If VLC can ship a free DVD player, why can't Microsoft? &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott untangles this puzzler. Short answer: because of software patents in the US. See alsoMicrosoft's FAQ on the costs involved.Google calls for mistrial after jury says Android stole from Java &gt;&gt; Wired Enterprise | Wired.comWith this paradoxical partial decision, the jury has left the case very much in the air, and Google has already moved for a mistrial.On Monday, as the Google-Oracle case entered its fourth week, a jury ruled that Oracle has proven that Google infringed the overall structure, sequence, and organization of copyrighted works of 37 APIs used by the Java platform. In building Android, Google created a new version of the Java platform known as the Dalvik virtual machine, and this mimicked the Java APIs, or application programming interfaces, which are essentially a way for a Java application to talk to the platform.But the jury was unable to reach a decision on whether Google's Java clone constituted "fair use." A fair use decision would let Google off the hook.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Both sides lost, or arguably won, the first round of the Oracle-Google trial after the jury came to deadlock on a key question: was Google's use of Java to build its Android mobile operating system amount to "fair use"?Although the jury found in favour of Oracle, which has been demanding hundreds of millions of dollars in damages from Google, they could not agree on the key question. Google has called for a mistrial; if successful that would see the copyright portion of the trial re-run.Android does infringe on key Java copyrights, the jury decided. But the five men and seven women on the panel disagreed on whether Google's actions were permissible under "fair use" protections of US law. That allows excerpts of copyrighted work to appear in other creative expressions, such as books, movies and computer software. With the fair-use question still dangling, Oracle – which had been seeking up to $1bn in damages – now appears to have little hope of emerging from the trial with a windfall, or a court order that would have forced a rewrite of Android in the absence of a licensing agreement.US District Judge William Alsup, presiding, advised lawyers on both sides on Monday that there is "zero finding of copyright liability" without a fair-use verdict.The jury also found that Android infringes on nine lines of Java coding, but that claim probably won't be worth more than $150,000 in damages, based on statements made earlier in the trial. When an Oracle lawyer suggested on Monday that the infringement verdict on the nine lines could be worth substantially more, Alsup said the idea "borders on the ridiculous".The same jury will decide on damages later, although Alsup has yet to give a final ruling on whether the elements of the software at issue – including APIs, the application programming interfaces that are software "hooks" used in Java and Android – can indeed be copyrighted.Oracle's best hope now may be to persuade Alsup himself to issue a judgment concluding Android's reliance on Java isn't protected by fair use.Alsup indicated that isn't likely to happen. "I could do that at any time, but I may never get there," he said. "I think there are arguments that go both ways on that."Alsup then moved the trial on without delay to its second round, in which Oracle alleges that Android violates two Java patents. Those claims are believed to be worth considerably less than what Oracle might have received had it prevailed on all of its allegations of copyright infringement – although, the lawyer for Oracle pointed out, there is no "fair use" exception over patents.Mark Driver, software analysts at the research company Gartner, observed: "At the end of the day, this looks like more of a victory for Google than it does for Oracle."Investors seemed to agree. Google shares surged $10.58, or nearly 2%, to close Monday at $607.55, while Oracle shares fell 49 cents, or nearly 2%, to finish at $27.92.Android now powers more than 300m smartphones and tablet computers, and another 6 million people activate the software on a mobile device each week. Google has driven its adoption by giving the software away to manufacturers of phones and tablets – a strategy that would have squeezed its profit margins even more if Java's technology had to be licensed from Sun Microsystems.The partial verdict came after five days of deliberation and two weeks of evidence that included testimony from three technology tycoons who rank among the world's richest people: Oracle chief executive Larry Ellison, Google chief executive Larry Page and Google executive chairman Eric Schmidt.Although it wasn't a complete victory for Google, the outcome comes as a relief. Besides facing the prospect of a huge bill for damages, Google would have suffered a blow to its carefully cultivated image as a business that always strives to do the right thing – one which has been dented by revelations that itscollection of data from Wi-Fi networks when compiling its Street View information was intentional, byits hacking of the Safari browser to override settings on Apple deviceswhich led to advertising cookies being set, and the ongoing, and unresolved, antitrust investigations in the US and Europe.Even so, Google will still try to set aside the jury's verdict of infringement on the broadest copyright claim. Google's lawyers intend to seek a mistrial on that issue, arguing that the verdict has no legal standing without an answer on the question of fair use.Google is still hoping Alsup will rule that the Java technology in question for that part of the verdict can't be copyrighted anyway. Alsup has said he intends to decide that question. If he finds that copyrights do not apply, then there's nothing for Google to infringe. One tricky question for Google is that other major companies, including IBM Corp, have licensed some of Java's APIs, but Google never did.Sun Microsystems, which Oracle bought along with Sun's Java technology two years ago, had made most of Java freely available to computer programmers. Sun also sold licenses to companies that made significant alterations, known as forks, as Google did.Oracle contended Google's changes violated a promise to maintain Java so it works on any technology platform a concept known as "write once, run anywhere.""The overwhelming evidence demonstrated that Google knew it needed a license and that its unauthorised fork of Java in Android shattered Java's central write-once-run-anywhere principle," Oracle said in a Monday statement.Oracle pointed to internal emails indicating Google's executives realised they needed a Java licence shortly after work began on Android in 2005. Google eventually broke off talks with Sun. When Android was released a few years later, Sun chief executive Jonathan Schwartz publicly applauded it.Google framed its initial discussions about a possible Java licence as part of negotiations to develop Android in partnership with Sun. When those talks fell apart, Page testified, Google made sure Android relied on the free parts of Java combined with more than 15m of its own unique computer coding.Google also tried to depict Oracle's lawsuit as a desperate grab for money after Ellison realised his company wouldn't be able to develop its own software for the rapidly growing mobile computer market. Oracle makes most of its money from selling database software and applications that automate a wide range of administrative tasks.
How was your Bank Holiday weekend then? Any gaming action? I completed Max Payne 3...
The Acta treaty that has been the subject of street protests around Europe is unlikely to be ratified by the European Union, according to Neelie Kroes, the powerful European commissioner for telecoms and technology.Speaking on Friday, Kroes said that "we are now likely to be in a world without Sopa" – the US's proposed Stop Online Piracy Act – "and Acta."Acta, the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, has been signed by 22 of the EU's 27 countries, as well as the US and Japan. But even in some of the countries that have signed it, parliaments have declined to ratify it due to public pressure.Ryan Heath, a spokesman for Kroes's office, said the European commission has not changed its position on the usefulness of Acta, and was continuing to work toward its ultimate ratification, but added that Kroes was "observing political reality".Kroes's comments come weeks before the commission, the EU executive, is due to make public new rules to ensure that musicians and film-makers get paid, and while it is trying to overhaul the bloc's copyright regime to cater for the internet era.Critics say the commission is holding back planned reviews of the EU's own rules because officials are worried it will come up against the same kind of resistance as Sopa and Acta."After the tremendous mobilisation of citizens around the world against Sopa and Acta, it would be extremely dangerous politically for the commission to propose a new repressive scheme," said Jeremie Zimmermann, from internet advocacy group La Quadrature du Net.Acta is meant in part to provide methods for governments to crack down on fake consumers goods and medicines, and on websites that break copyright laws. It had been moving through the approval process in the European parliament whenstreet protests began breaking out in Januaryover the lack of transparency about its contents – whose drafting was carried out almost entirely in secret for some years – and the breadth of its assault on alleged copyright infringement on the internet.The EU in April asked its top court in Luxembourg to examine Acta's lawfulness, after politicians and campaigners said the agreement would allow companies to spy on ordinary internet users suspected of downloading copyrighted material. A ruling could take up to a year.Liberal politicians in the more than 700-seat European parliament have been lobbying fiercely against the agreement. "Although we unambiguously support the protection of intellectual property rights, we also champion fundamental rights and freedoms," Guy Verhofstadt, the leader of the legislature's liberal group, said. "We have serious concerns that Acta does not strike the right balance."Several governments in the developed world have been pushing for multilateral agreements to ban trademark and copyright theft and ban websites that offer large numbers of copyrighted films and songs for free, such as Kim Dotcom's MegaUpload and The Pirate Bay.
When I unpacked my nice new telly the other day I couldn't get it to work: the power lead was so ridiculously short it wouldn't reach the plug socket.Why are cables so short? Stay with me on this one. Investigating parsimonious power leads is not exactly the Leveson inquiry but this quest matters. Long  cables are a trip hazard but short cables are lethal too. A friend last month broke her elbow when she fell out of bed stretching to reach her new iPhone, which had a much shorter charging cord than her previous model.My Samsung TV cable measures 90cm (a metre if you are being generous and include the plastic bit that goes into the telly) and is made in China.  Electronics makers take note: you may live in modern flats with  dozens of power sockets but many British people still live in antiquated shacks with one power socket per room.Of course we can use extension leads but that's not the point. A telly with a 90cm cable is not fit for purpose. It leaves you feeling cheated, like when you buy an expensive piece of kit and batteries are not included. Scrimping on length must be cost-cutting, although some power-lead aficionados online believe that Apple's short cables are adesign-led  decisionto avoid the clutter of, say, a 2m charging cable. This is a fair argument, but not on a TV, which isn't carried around.I repeatedly called Samsung's press office but  everyone was too busy to get back to me. Who will take up cudgels against short cables? The issue has yet to be investigated by Which?: "I don't think you would choose your TV based on that criteria but it is frustrating," said a spokeswoman. I could hear the yawns down the phone line. So I replaced my short cable with a better one supplied with my Canon camera. At least I can now watch the Leveson inquiry.
In the early days of the web, as internet explorers anonymously scoured its provincial nooks, a&nbsp;cartoon appeared in the New Yorker that would be its most reproduced illustration, business-to-business, for the next decade. A dog sits in front of a computer, talking to another dog by its side:"On the internet, nobody knows you're a dog."Almost 20 years later, a lot has changed. The web has become obsessed with working out who we are, and serving us accordingly. Amazon wants to predict the books we should read. Facebook's algorithms toil to introduce us to new friends. Adverts for things we have considered buying stalk us across the web.The internet wants to help. It wants to create a bespoke, recognisable experience when we are online. But in doing so is it shrinking, rather than broadening, our horizons? A growing school of thought thinks so. A recent article inIntelligent Life magazinewarned against&nbsp;the web's assault on serendipity. "Google has become so good at meeting our desires that we spend less time discovering new ones," moans the article's author, Ian Leslie. As I read to the bottom of the piece online, an advert pops up. After 1,500 words on how the internet is killing serendipity by serving up an infinite stream of more of the same, I&nbsp;am asked: "Do you&nbsp;want to read more&nbsp;like this?"This is the wise web at work: bored by being a facilitator, it wants to second-guess us at every turn. Log on, read more, email this to a friend, like, buy, click, click, click. But how good is its advice? There is only one way to find out. For one day, I will aim to do what the internet tells me, and wherever it points me, I will follow.So, yes, I do want to read more like this. I click the link and am taken to a sign-up page for a $24, six-month subscription to Intelligent Life. I begin typing my name into the info boxes, but I am only at "Be …" when it completes my details for me. And so, for the next six months, a copy of Intelligent Life will be delivered to my ex-girlfriend in the flat we used to share. Bad start.I go toAmazonin search of reading material that knows where I live, but the first 10 items it suggests are all Lego Star Wars figures. First up is aminiature Sandtrooper. Amazon, it seems, has never got over the fact that I bought my nephew some Star Wars Lego for his sixth birthday last summer. I drop it in my basket, grit my teeth and within three clicks have handed over £12.99. I email my sister to show off my act of unprovoked generosity and Gmail tells me to "consider including" my mum and my other sister. So I do. Mum, a psychotherapist, emails back. She thinks if I do everything the internet tells me to, it will "probably do your head in".My mobile hums at me as the confirmation email duly arrives. Two emails later, I see a recent arrival from a dating site I am on, offering people "to suit me". Match 1 likes chillout music, chick flicks, rugby and chocolate. Match 2 keeps her cards close to her chest, but is "spiritual, not religious". Match 3 is very pretty – well played, the &nbsp;internet – but, oh, describes her sense of humour as "goofy".I start composing emails to them. I&nbsp;am on good form, listening to a tasteful playlist thatSpotifyhas constructed for me by scraping my playlists for musical themes. This yields Fleetwood Mac, with a little bit of hip-hop and indie sprinkled in. I'm feeling cool and confident. "Hi! I'm Benji and I like Fleetwood Mac, how about you?" Send.This is good. I am expanding my horizons and it's not even midday. I&nbsp;endeavour to expand them further by following 10 new people on Twitter, all suggested by the "who to follow" tab on myTwitter home page. I'm a bit underwhelmed. Writers, travellers, media types. Variations on me, basically. One of them has written a book calledDirty Minds: How our Brains Influence Love, Sex and Relationships. Ooh. Back to Amazon. I burrow into a rabbit hole of books about sex and psychology because that's what "customers who bought this item also bought", ending up onSex at Dawn: How We Mate &amp; Why We StrayviaBonk: the Curious Coupling of&nbsp;Sex and Science. I buy the Bonk one. I then panic, and check my Amazon recommended list again. It is now populated with Lego and books about sex. I assume I am being added to a watchlist somewhere.I have entered what Eli Pariser, an activist who rails against the web's newfound obsession with trying to be helpful, calls the"filter bubble". In his recentNew York Times bestseller of the same name, Pariser warns that "left to their own devices, personalisation filters serve up a kind of invisible autopropaganda, indoctrinating us with our own ideas, amplifying our desire for things that are familiar, and leaving us oblivious to the dangers lurking in the dark territory of the unknown".I google for videos about the "dark territory of the unknown", stopping en route at "The Sun", "The Dark Knight" and "The Long Dark Tea-Time of the Soul" because Google tries to predict what I am searching for. The latter, it turns out, is a 1988 humorous detective novel by Douglas Adams, named to reflect the wretched boredom of one of&nbsp;its characters, Wowbagger, an immortal being who keeps himself busy by insulting every living being in the universe in alphabetical order. Eventually, I am offered interracial porn and a 10-minute YouTube computer game walkthrough of the "entering unknown territory" level on a game calledDark Earth. I&nbsp;flick to YouTube's "recommended for you" section, and become the 180,443rd person to watch aniPad surviving a 100,000ft fall to earth, having been hoisted spacewards by an inflatable balloon. Next I'm offered some clips of Cristiano Ronaldo scoring free kicks. I watched a few football highlights when I woke up, so now YouTube thinks I'm a neophile who also likes football. Reductive, but certainly not untrue – in fact, I consider making that my tagline on the dating site (none of my matches has got back to me). I then watch a dozen more free-kicks as suggested by the associated videos that pop up next to the Ronaldo clip. I message one of them to a friend on Facebook.Facebook is increasingly denounced as the biggest homogeniser of them all. Last February, a New York Times piece byEvgeny Morozov, author of The Net Delusion: The Dark Side of Internet Freedom, accused Facebook of shattering the web's early hopes for a realm ofcyberflânerie. In Morozov's paradigm, Facebook plays the role of Baron Haussmann, the famed civic planner who reordered Paris in the 19th century, straightening the chaotic arcades that were once the domain of pootling, incognitoflâneurs. "Everything that makes cyberflânerie possible – solitude and individuality, anonymity and opacity, mystery and ambivalence, curiosity and risk-taking – is under assault by that company. And it's not just any company: with 845&nbsp;million active users worldwide, where Facebook goes, arguably, so goes&nbsp;the internet."And so go I. I send five friend requests to people Facebook suggests I should be friends with because of our mutual acquaintances. One of them is my brother-in-law. Why were we not already friends? Awkward. Another request is quickly accepted, and my mobile rattles. "Patrick has accepted your friend request. Write on his wall." So I do. "Hi Patrick. Facebook said we should be friends. What else do you think the internet should make me do?"I am not totally sure who he is, but he is friends with my mate Will, so I go to Will's profile. "Will Likes Inside Volvo UK." I now also like Inside Volvo UK. I&nbsp;register to be one of the first to get more details on the launch of the new V40, which will have remarkable fuel efficiency. I email Will asking him who Patrick is and why he likes Volvos. Google tells me I should "consider including" my friends Laith, Beth and Nick. Every time I add one, it suggests someone new. I stop at eight. Volvo will be pleased.For years, people trying to sell us things on the web were&nbsp;stabbing in the dark, spurting Viagra emails in&nbsp;all&nbsp;directions while waggling adverts for hip replacements in front of 15-year-olds. The internet clearly wanted our money, but was crap at getting it. It has now upped its game. Almost every site you visit is now hard-baked with "cookies",the web's getting-to-know-you tool. Where are you? Are you logged into Facebook? What page did you come from? Is this your first visit? What sex are you? Goggle gobble gobble. The info&nbsp;is harvested and the adverts are scrambled accordingly. You're aged 40-45, with young children and a mortgage on&nbsp;a reasonably priced house? Here, have a seven-day package holiday in Tenerife.Been buying lots of&nbsp;vitamins and cotton buds recently? Note to internet: baby on the way.No more hip replacements for 15-year-olds. Instead: computer games. If the web knows you, it can monetise you.Google has a remarkable stash of information on us and isgetting more all the time, recently expanding its data gathering scope&nbsp;to connecting every aspect of your online life that it touches, from emails to YouTube views via the phone in your pocket. It's the highest recent watermark of a company refocusing. "The Google I was passionate about was a technology company that empowered its employees to innovate," wrote a&nbsp;departing executivein March. "The&nbsp;Google I left was an advertising company with a single corporate-mandated focus."I go to Google's ad preferences page, where the search engine giant stores everything it thinks it knows about you so it can sling targeted adverts your way. My page indicates that Google thinks I am a male Londoner aged 25-30 who is interested in travel, sports and online communities. On the money.I email my editor, explaining what I&nbsp;am doing, and wondering if our expenses policy covers Lego and magazine subscriptions for ex-girlfriends (it&nbsp;doesn't). Gmail unhelpfully suggests I cc the Guardian's readers' editor into the email, so I do. I am worried about this. He usually has very important things to deal with, such as theLevesoninquiry. An email comes back from him, pointing out some spelling mistakes. I think my contact lenses are playing up: I've been staring at a screen for six hours. I buy some premium contact lens solution (£10) on tesco.com and my mobile buzzes again.Will has got back to me. He says that my new Facebook friend, Patrick, "is a delightful Irishman currently enrolled in clown school". There follows a long riff on how the Side Impact Protection System was a trailblazing safety initiative spearheaded by Volvo in the 80s.New replies pop up before I finish reading his message, from those I added in at Gmail's bequest, asking me why I&nbsp;am emailing Will, and them, about Volvos. "Because Will likes Volvos," I&nbsp;reply, adding in three more recipients – Sandy, Chris and Loz – at Gmail's suggestion. Nick emails back wondering: "Is this a social experiment or a midlife crisis?" Beth: "Seriously Benji, are you OK?" Will is still going on about Volvos.My new Twitter list chirps every time it updates. The sex psychology writer is incessantly flogging her book. Unfollow. Twitter suggests I should replace her with the Daily Telegraph's Washington correspondent, whom I tweet to introduce him to a journalist friend of mine in New York. As his name disappears from my suggestions list, Twitter lines up Healthy Imagination, a General Electric well-being PR&nbsp;campaign, as a potential replacement. I add it. A travel blogger from Wisconsin appears in its place. I&nbsp;add him. I notice that since I followed the sex writer I have three new followers with the word "fuck" in their bios. None of them is real.By evening, my dating matches still&nbsp;haven't got back to me. This is annoying, but at least there is an email updating me on the delivery status of my premium contact lens solution. I&nbsp;also remove Fleetwood Mac from my&nbsp;Spotify playlists, having failed to coax my three matches out of their dating hiatus.My phone chimes. The Telegraph's Washington correspondent has responded. He knows my friend already – they recently had a beer together in Iowa.I have spent £40 on a book about sex, some Lego and a magazine subscription. I have four new friends on Facebook, have "Benji likes Inside Volvo UK" at the top of my timeline, and I am worrying about whether my brother-in-law likes me. I have also needlessly pestered a senior editor at work, who now thinks I can't spell.My phone is rattling on my desk every few minutes. I need to get out, and opt for a nearby pizzeria that the location-based app Foursquare thinks I&nbsp;should go to, as two of my friends have been there recently. My phone interrupts me&nbsp;every few mouthfuls. Patrick, the delightful Irish clown, has replied. He thinks that if my experiment went on for&nbsp;too long, I&nbsp;would risk being "trapped in a whirlpool of ever&nbsp;diminishing returns". A bit like Wowbagger, I think.To illustrate his point, Patrick sends me to a video of&nbsp; Will Self pseuding off on YouTube abouthow he wished Amazon would stop recommending books like books he had already read. He would rather it&nbsp;told him he was spending too much money on books and should probably get out a bit more. I rub my eyes and notice an advert for laser eye surgery hovering at the bottom of the video.My phone buzzes. The contact lens solution will be delivered next Tuesday."The internet promises the idea of actualising ourselves in an essential way, but in fact we fall victim to a much cruder kind of sorting," Self concludes.I switch him off and watch seven more videos of free kicks to help me get to sleep. I decide that I hate my experiment and briefly consider insulting every living being in the universe in&nbsp;alphabetical order. In its quest to get&nbsp;to know us, the&nbsp;internet is at the stage of the well-meaning auntie who buys you inappropriate presents at Christmas (it's the algorithmic thought&nbsp;that counts). It kind of knows&nbsp;you, but doesn'treallyknow you. It needs to work harder if itreally&nbsp;wants to be our friend.The email chain about Volvos is drying up. It has become self-aware. After a handful of ironic emails about the light-sensitive responsiveness of Volvo headlights, the final message lampoons my little experiment, attaching an image of a dog dressed up&nbsp;as a scientist in a mock laboratory, captioned: "I have no idea what I'm&nbsp;doing."How well does the internet know you?Click on the links below to see how well these sites have second-guessed your likes:• What doesAmazon think you should buy?• What kind of adverts doesGooglethink should be aimed at you?• What videos doesYouTubethink you should watch?• Who doesTwitterthink you should follow?• Who doesFacebookthink you should be friends with?
In the old Dick Tracy comics, the detective had a wrist TV-cum-mobile he used to talk to his associates. Now something that looks just like it is days away from production after a Silicon Valley startup raised more than $8m (£5m) from individual pledges to build a watch that will connect to the internet and run apps.Eric Migicovsky, 25, the founder and lead designer of Pebble, has found serious enthusiasm for the idea. He began with a modest ambition a month ago: raise $100,000 from a few hundred people willing to order a watch and pay upfront.The $115 watch has an e-paper face (like a small version of the Kindle) able to show different watchfaces, run sports and fitness apps and show notifications from your phone (such as new emails).Heput up a pageon Kickstarter.com – a "crowdfunding" site popular with filmmakers, musicians and tech companies – and sat back. Within two hours, the initial target was hit. By Friday more than 56,000 backers had pledged between $99 and $10,000."We had a factory in San Jose ready to make about 1,000 Pebbles if we were able to raise the initial funding," Migicovsky told the Guardian. "Right now we've got 56,000 who have pledged money. People have ordered anywhere between two and 100 each. In all, we're going to make more than 67,000."It has been an astonishing ride. The idea is that the Pebble watch will be able to run specific apps: among the plans are one for runners, another for cyclists, another that would show your email inbox or control your iPhone, all while being waterproof.The Pebble team have been designing smart watches for three years, and had already built one to work with BlackBerry phones (which sold about 1,500 watches and attracted 80 apps). The surge of interest came when the company decided to build one for Apple's iPhone and phones running Google's Android software."It's probably the iPhone part that's driven it," Migicovsky said. "Also, people are excited about apps. It's not just a watch that you buy – your watch will actually get better as you develop apps. We're excited about what people will make with it."The idea of a watch that connects to the internet is not new; Microsoft's Bill Gates showed off a watch called Spot (forsmart personal object technology) in 2004. But it was, like many of Gates's best ideas including the tablet computer, too far ahead of its time: in 2008 Microsoft stopped offering the $800 devices, and in January this year it turned off the data service that ran them."It was a nice product, but too early," Migicovsky said. "The early ones had to connect to the internet themselves, because there weren't smartphones around like today."The huge funding does not mean the team is rolling in money. "We're spending every spare dollar we have," Migicovsky said, explaining that after Kickstarter and Amazon take their respective 5% and 3% fees (for hosting the fundraising and processing the cheques), the margins will still be narrow.He tried – and failed – to win backing from Silicon Valley's more traditional investors, venture capitalists: "What they told me was that hardware is a risky business and they didn't want to take that risk."There is, though, one loser from the frenzy: the factory in San Jose. Migicovsky is now looking to China to fulfil the gigantic demand because the economies of scale, and manufacturing, favour going there.
On New Year's Day 1999, as the first internet bubble was inflating at an accelerating rate, I published in my newspaper column a supposedly leaked memo from an internet startup I'd invented to lampoon the craze. The bogus startup was called eTattler.com, which I envisioned as an auction service, run by utterly unethical people, for salacious information about politicians, celebrities and other public figures.The memo was over the top, I thought, in its satire of the increasingly bizarre Silicon Valley of that era – a place where hopelessly nutty and cynical startups got funded, promoted and then offloaded, with massive profits for insiders, to suckers in public markets. Apparently my absurdity quotient wasn't sufficiently excessive, because after the column was published I got several calls and emails from people who said, essentially: "If this isn't a joke, I want to invest" or: "If this isn't a joke, I want to advertise."My editors and I thereby decided to keep eTattler alive, and I produced a series of leaked memos during the next few months. We ended the saga by having the entire eTattler staff arrested for fraud. Well, almost the entire crew: the CEO – enriched by the IPO proceeds from his less-than-worthless enterprise, slipped through the net, and his whereabouts remain unknown, though it is rumored that he became a senior executive at a Wall Street investment bank during the property and financial bubbles of the next decade.I bring all this up for two reasons. First, I'm debating whether to resurrect eTattler or something like it. The times seem unfortunately appropriate. And eTattler's former CEO remains at liberty, which stands to reason given the way the Bush and Obama administrations ignored, and even rewarded, financial wrongdoing by the 1%.The second reason I recall eTattler so fondly today is the upcoming Facebook IPO.I have no idea whether the offering price will be appropriate, because I can't yet decide what I believe about Facebook's longer-term prospects. But I'm quite sure of this: we are in a tech bubble again, even if it differs in significant ways from the last one.The excitement surrounding Facebook's offering plainly extends to Main Street. We're seeing news stories chronicling the wishes of average Americans to get a piece of the action. This tells me that whatever the price Facebook sets for sale to its initial public-offering buyers,the street price of the shares will likely soar the first day.Since you probably can't get Facebook stock at the IPO insider price (much less the price earlier investors paid), I have a deal for anyone who feels left out: shares in eTattler. This "stock" is, as it always was, entirely free of charge, apart from what it'll cost you to print out a certificate. (Actually, feel free to print as many as you want. Why settle for 10,000 shares when you can have a million?) One of the benefits of owning eTattler shares is that you can't lose money on them, since there's no charge. True, barring fraud or other nasty behavior of your part, you can't make any money on it, either. But I'd call this a safe investment if ever there was one. And in this market, if you wanted an Internet stock to call your own with total assurance of not having to gamble your children's college money, this may be one of the best.I even have a stock certificate for you. It was created by the excellent graphics department at my former newspaper, theSan Jose Mercury Newsin Silicon Valley, and you can download ithere.Perhaps my favorite moment during the eTattler saga was the emergence of a competitor of sorts, the brainchild of several Silicon Valley majordomos who wanted to capitalize on the market that eTattler had identified. They created HeyIdiot.com – an enterprise with a business model even more brazen than eTattler's. It was, simply: "Send us money."Ah, the good old days …
Yahoo could be on the verge of firing its second CEO in eight months if an activist shareholder with a 5% stake in the company has his way.The shareholder, hedge fund manager Daniel Loeb, had told Yahoo's board that he was considering taking legal action on Monday if Scott Thompson, the company's embattled chief executive, is not fired.Indeed, after no response from Yahoo by mid-day Monday, Loeb's investment company Third Pointannounced in a statementthat it had begun the process under Delaware law to obtain the books and records related to Thompson and the board's vetting process.Loeb, Yahoo's largest outside shareholder, wants Thompson out ostensibly because the chief executive lied on his corporate biography, stating that he had earned a computer science degree when in fact he holds an accounting degree.The falsehood appears both on the company's website as well as a regulatory filing."It's in regulatory documents, so that makes it significant," Colin Gillis, senior technology analyst and director of research at BGC Financial, told the Guardian. "Either way, it's a setback for Yahoo."In its statement, Third Point made the following demands:Third Point hereby demands, under oath and pursuant to Section 220(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law ("DGCL"), that Yahoo! make the books and records described below available for inspection and copying by Third Point or its duly authorized designees. Third Point is demanding this information for the following purposes:1. To investigate wrongdoing or possible mismanagement by Yahoo!'s management and/or any member(s) or committee(s) of its Board of Directors (the "Board") in connection with the hiring of Scott Thompson as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and his appointment to the Board;2. To investigate wrongdoing or possible mismanagement by Yahoo!'s management and/or any member(s) or committee(s) of its Board in connection with the appointment of Peter Liguori, John Hayes, Thomas McInerney, Maynard Webb, Jr. and Fred Amoroso to the Yahoo! board rather than the nominees proposed by Third Point;3. To investigate wrongdoing or possible mismanagement by Yahoo!'s management and/or any member(s) or committee(s) of its Board in connection with the statements by Yahoo! on the afternoon of May 3 that the false filings about Mr. Thompson's educational background were "inadvertent."4. To determine whether Scott Thompson, Patti Hart, Peter Liguori, John Hayes, Maynard Webb, Jr., Fred Amoroso, and Thomas McInerney are suitable to serve as directors of Yahoo!;5. To facilitate communications with other stockholders concerning the matters identified in paragraphs 1 through 4 above, in connection with a proxy contest to replace the current board of directors with nominees proposed by Third Point.Thompson has not spoken publicly about the scandal. He wrote to employees today saying he was "sure you have seen the reports of questions raised regarding my undergraduate degree".Without apologizing or explaining, Thompson urged his workers to remain "focused on our customers, our shareholders, our team and moving Yahoo! forward fast".Thompson, 54, the former head of PayPal, rankled many in Silicon Valley in March for suing Facebook for infringing on some Yahoo patents. Negatively referred to as "patent trolling," the move against Mark Zuckerberg's firm came on the eve of Facebook's projected $100bn initial public offering.This flare-up is the latest in a string of problems that have bedeviled the struggling tech company. In September, Yahoo fired Carol Bartz, its previous chief executive, and underwent a strategic review as the business has struggled to compete with Google and Facebook. After Bartz'scontroversial ousting, Yahoo said it was looking at a range of strategic options, including the sale of all or part of the company.And morale at the company is said to have nosedived. One former employee, who left recently as Thompson eliminated 2,000 jobs in a massive restructuring, told the Guardian: "I'm just glad I'm not there any more."Bartz had joined Yahoo in January 2009, replacing co-founder Jerry Yang, who had returned to the helm. When Bartz joined the firm its shares were trading for about $12. After news of her departure broke, the shares jumped more than 6% in after-hours trading to $13.72, from a close of $12.91 on the Nasdaq. In January 2000, near the end of the dot-com bubble, Yahoo's shares traded at more than $125 each.Eric Hippeau, one of Yahoo's original board members, who stepped down last year, characterized the company's handling of its troubles in a single devastating tweet:The hapless company: Yahoo goes from mishap to catastrophe, all self-inflicteddthin.gs/J3urxB&mdash; Eric Hippeau (@erichippeau)May 3, 2012BGC's Gillis said: "Yahoo is stuck in a difficult spot where if they let the CEO go, they've reset the turnaround process by that much time. It's been six months, and you're probably talking about another three months before the next guy comes in, and he needs his 100 days.""On the other hand, if he's not able to effectively turn the company around and he's got credibility issues, you gotta cut him loose."
The internet is a bigger part of the British economy than education, healthcare or construction. Britons generate more money online than any other G20 nation. But when it comes to high-speed broadband, the country is falling behind.The UK's average download speed is ranked 16th in Europe, according to IT companyAkamai, and experts warn that the country is beginning to miss out as a result."Britain is being frozen out of the next industrial revolution," Peter Cochrane, a former BT chief technology officer, has warned. "In terms of broadband, the UK is at the back of the pack. We're beaten by almost every other European country and Asia leaves us for dust."While other countries are racing to replace the old copper telephone networks with fibre optic cables running right to household doorsteps, and capable of almost unlimited speeds, the UK has settled for a compromise.BT Group, with a network that reaches nearly every home in the country, is laying fibre to cabinets in the streets, and relying on copper to carry the broadband signal the last leg to the doorstep. Today, that means speeds limited to 80 megabits per second (Mbps), compared with 1,000Mbps or more available in all-fibre networks.Russia already has 12m homes with fibre to the doorstep. France has 6m and says 70% of premises will be connected by 2020. The UK has just 400,000, and there are no targets to increase that number.Ministers rank broadband as one of Britain's top four infrastructure priorities, alongside roads, rail and energy, and George Osborne has committed £200bn to these sectors over the next five years. But a fraction of that will go to broadband – just £1.3bn from local and central government has been earmarked.If the UK had committed as much as the Chinese per head of population, some £7bn of taxpayer funds would be invested. Australia is pushing fibre to 93% of homes by 2018. In the UK, this would cost up to £29bn.The government has made a rather vague promise that we will have the best superfast broadband network in Europe by 2015. And by 2017, 90% of homes will have access to superfast speeds, with the final 10%, the most remote dwellings, getting a basic 2Mbps service.BT says it will pay for two-thirds of the work itself, but the government and local councils are finding most of the money needed to reach the final third of the population through a process being organised by the BDUK quango.Superfast is defined by the government as 24Mbps and over. BT says two-thirds of homes will have access to its Infinity product of up to 80Mpbs if they want it by the end of 2014, with rival Virgin Media offering even higher speeds via its cable network to 12m of the UK's 26m homes."In terms of superfast broadband the UK will be among a leading group by 2015, but the trade-off is there will be very little ultrafast fibre to the home," says Rupert Wood at research house Analysys Mason. All-fibre networks take time to build and Wood believes if the UK wants one it must start planning now."Eighty Mbps is more than people need," says BT's strategy head, Sean Williams. "We are not of the school that universal fibre to the premises is the solution."BT believes it will finish its rollout on time, if not ahead of schedule. Gangs of engineers and cable-layers have been hired, with ex-servicemen drafted in to dig for broadband Britain. "We are going as fast as we possibly can and as widely as we possibly can," says Williams.No matter how quickly BT digs, though, fibre evangelists say that by 2017, the national targets will be out of date. We will have moved from needing superfast to wishing for ultrafast broadband. Television and Skype video calling will demand more than BT's hybrid network can cope with."These targets are fulfilling the demands of the past," says Boris Ivanovic, the entrepreneur whoseHyperopticgroup is selling fibre connections to upmarket UK apartment blocks. "Fibre to the cabinet is a stop-gap solution, and will not put the UK in a leadership position."He says the £17bn committed by the government to a high-speed rail line from London to Birmingham could cover most of the costs of a future-proof all-fibre network. "If we had those links we wouldn't need to travel as often to Birmingham and we wouldn't be polluting the environment as much."With the number of screens per household increasing, watching television is becoming an increasingly solitary activity. Even with a 100Mbps connection, a Blu-ray quality film takes 13 minutes to download. BT's top-tier broadband services can cope with streaming several high-definition channels at once, but ultrahigh definition is on its way. The Japanese state broadcaster NHK will use it to record the London Olympics, with public screenings promised, and speeds of 100 to 200 Mbps are needed to transmit a single channel."If the country is happy to travel at the speed determined by the driver that is fine, if we want to force the driver to accelerate then we have to change the model," says Francesco Caio, a former Cable &amp; Wireless chief executive and a government adviser to the last government on broadband infrastructure.He says the ultimate aim should be "infinite bandwidth between any two points in the country" and that no single company is capable of achieving that. Instead, the government should recreate the kind of national company through which the state built the copper network before BT was privatised. This could be owned by the existing telecoms companies and need not involve piles of taxpayers' cash.To get fibre to rural and sprawling suburban areas, TalkTalk, BSkyB, Virgin, BT, and perhaps the state could jointly invest. The new company would concentrate on laying the pipes and have no direct relationship with consumers. Prices would be capped by regulators, and in exchange Virgin Media and others told to stay out of its territory.TalkTalk's chief executive, Dido Harding, argues that the priority should be getting more of the country online. Many of those left behind are elderly, on low incomes or have poor English. "I think that Britain's broadband vision needs to be about more people using broadband rather than macho claims about the speed of the technology," says Harding. "The UK has got 8 million people who have never used the internet and they are often the people in society who would most benefit from it."To make this happen, she says the government should deliver more services online, so that people have no choice but to log on, while also working with companies to make connections cheaper. TalkTalk customers on benefits can get a £49 reconditioned computer and £5-a-month broadband. Harding also believes the prices at which BT rents its fibre to broadband resellers such as hers is too expensive. She wants the telecoms watchdog Ofcom to begin consulting this year on the prices BT should charge for fibre after 2014, when it will have reached two-thirds of the UK.TalkTalk and Sky have no intention at the moment of laying their own fibre. But they want to rent BT's fibre at the same low prices they pay for access to copper broadband. Even BT recognises that the broadband market only took off when other companies got involved and competition forced customer prices down."Competition drives growth in the end as opposed to monopolies. The regulatory framework today is a little too skewed to driving investment and not enough to driving competition."With BT reporting its annual results on Thursday, the Guardian is starting the debate over what new targets the government should set. We will be asking the experts and you, our readers, for ideas on what Britain's Broadband Vision should look like.Help to create the most up-to-date internet speed map of the UK athttp://www.guardian.co.uk/news/datablog/2012/may/08/broadband-speed-britain, and join this Friday's discussion with internet entrepreneur Boris Ivanovic, who will be online on Guardian Technology between 2pm and 3pm.
The New York offices of stockbrokers JP Morgan flew a flag – with Facebook's familiar blue background and white logo – on Friday. Some onlookers were appalled that it was flying at the same height as the American flag beside it. But Facebook's status as an American icon is about to be cemented byits stock market offering.Mark Zuckerberg, the founder and chief executive, and other executives, began their "roadshow" on Monday to persuade institutional investors to buy shares before the flotation.The flag-flying JP Morgan is one of the underwriters, along with Goldman Sachs, with Morgan Stanley in the lead, of the initial public offering. It should not be too hard a sell. Hundreds of investors lined up outside New York's Sheraton Hotel yesterday to hear Zuckerberg set out the case for buying shares in Facebook's initial public offering (IPO) which has been eagerly awaited for months. Some 338m shares are being sold off at a price between $28 and $35 – which would raise between $9.4bn (£5.8bn) and $11.8bn in ready cash and potentially value the company at up to $100bn.That will make it substantially bigger than Google's 2004 IPO, which raised $1.66bn. Some think the company will push up the offer price even higher; beyond $38, it would be the fourth-largest IPO in history, beating Deutsche Telekom's $13bn in 1996. The final pricing is expected on 17 May. The social network is emerging into the sunlight after years in which its finances and operation have been surrounded by guesswork. It turns out to have a solid advertising model built around knowing precisely what people are interested in at any time – because its 900m users tell it through their self-penned biographies, updates and connections with each other.In the fourth quarter of 2011, it earned $302m on revenues of $1.13bn, but profits dipped in the first quarter to $205m as it spent more on marketing, although revenues grew 45% year on year to $1.06bn.The numbers are amazing: 125bn connections between those 900 million people (an average of 139 each). The "Like" button is pressed 2bn times a day. More than half – 526 m – of the users log on each day. And 488m connect using their mobile at least once a month. Of the daily active users, 152m are in Europe, and 129m in the US and Canada. The adverts that generate most of its money can be carefully targeted by age, interests or location – although, to advertisers, Facebook is in effect a black box that they push their requests into; it does not sell them the data.A video released to go with the roadshow gave a fascinating glimpse into Facebook's advertising metrics. Globally, it makes $4.34 in advertising revenue per user per year. In the US, its most fruitful region, it gets $9.51 per user, Europe generates $4.86, Asia $1.79, and the rest of the world $1.42. Overall, advertising generates 82% of its revenues; the other 18% comes from payments, for example its slice of the money people spend buying farm animals in games such as Zynga's Farmville (Zynga alone generates 15% of its overall revenue).Zuckerberg, 27, is joined on the 12-strong board (where he is chairman and chief executive, and the youngest by 10 years) by Mike Schroepfer, the vice-president of engineering, David Fischer, in charge of marketing, andSheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer. Sandberg, 42, received the highest cash and stock compensation, worth just under $31m last year; 37-year-old Schroepfer's package was worth $24.8m; Zuckerberg's was a more modest $1.7m.The pay is big – but so are the potential rewards. The main prize for Facebook is the largest internet population in the world: China. The company is still banned there, but Zuckerberg has made visits regarded as attempts to engage the authorities. Yet, if the experience of Google is anything to go by, the compromises needed to operate inside China's authoritarian sphere can cause high-level disagreements (although Google eventually left after discovering China-inspired hacking against Tibetan activists).Although Facebook would be able to drive its growth by moving into China, the censorship that would be required might be too much for it to stomach – even though the network has famously blocked pictures of breastfeeding, and has a complex rulebook for its moderators to consult when deciding whether to delete uploaded photos if people complain about them.But entering China may be a decision Zuckerberg will take solo. After the IPO, he will still hold 23.5% of the stock –  and 57.3% of the voting shares, because of the two-tier structure which allows him to continue to make decisions in effect without reference to the other directors, as happened with the $1bn purchase (23m shares, $300m in cash) in April ofInstagram, the mobile photo-sharing site, where the board was only informed after the fact.The Instagram deal has raised some concerns about the company. "That made it look like [Zuckerberg] was a kid in a candy store who wanted to have anything he wanted," said Francis Gaskins, president and editor of the research firm IPO Desktop. "They're moving into a different arena, and I don't think they fully realise the subtleties in terms of how to deal with institutional investors and how to run a company on a very cost-effective basis. He talks about connecting people, but he's just not connecting with the people who are going to be setting the value of his company."Facebook's biggest threats may not be external. Founded in Zuckerberg's room while he was at Harvard University in 2004, the company has no true challengers outside China. Google's attempts to move into the social space with Google+, launched last summer, have shown little sign of denting its rise or, more importantly, user engagement. And Zuckerberg is aware of the rapid rise and fall that befell earlier social networks such as Friends Reunited, Bebo, and MySpace; he has focused on broadening its appeal and building it into the fabric of the web through the "Like" button and similar systems.But two big threats do exist: mobile and privacy. The world's shift towards using mobile phones, and especially smartphones, is the key one. Facebook makes no money from mobile advertising – but 40% of its users access it that way at least once a month. That is a gap it is determined to fill, and quickly. In February it announced it was planning to develop strategies to correct this. One challenge is that mobile advertising generates less revenue than that on personal computers (because phone screens are smaller, offering fewer placements). But as the numbers using mobile overtake those on the desktop – expected some time in 2013 – that could compensate.Privacy has been a bugbear of users and government agencies in the past couple of years. In Europe, the company is obliged to work closely with data protection commissioners after complaints about its ever-changing privacy policy. "The company's financial success requires it to collect more personal information and make that available to advertisers," Bill Kerrigan, chief executive of the privacy company Abine, said recently. But a growing proportion of Facebook users hide data such as their age or home town – up from 12% in 2010 to 33% in 2011. The company recognises the "threats" in its regulatory filing about "changes in user sentiment" about its "privacy and sharing, safety, security or other factors".However, the latest annual study by Consumer Reports, extrapolating from 1,300 US households, suggests that 13 million of its users have never touched their privacy settings.That's just how Zuckerberg would like it. As he prepares to take his giant idea public, the last thing he wants is his users becoming more private.
Angry Birds has generated hundreds of millions of downloads for Finnish mobile games firm Rovio Entertainment, but the company's financial results for 2011 reveal just how lucrative the franchise was that year.The company has reported total revenues of €75.4m (£60.8m) for 2011, with earnings before tax of €48m (£38.7m).30% of Rovio's revenues for the year came from its consumer products business, which includes merchandising and licensing income.Rovio says that the total number of Angry Birds game downloads reached 648m by the end of 2011, with 200m monthly active users (MAUs) across all platforms.As context for that figure, social games publisher Zynga had21m MAUs at the end of March 2012, while also acquiring US developer OMGPOP, whose Draw Something mobile game currently has 33.9m MAUs. Meanwhile, in March developer Outfit7 said it hadjust over 100m MAUsfor its suite of Talking Friends apps.Rovio grew its headcount from 28 to 224 during the year, as it sought to capitalise on the popularity of Angry Birds by expanding into consumer products and animation."The strong growth in revenue clearly demonstrates the popularity of the Angry Birds brand," said chief executive Mikael Hed in a statement."The heavy investments made in 2011 to all business areas will be seen in future products. To ensure continuous success we need to be creative and stay focused on entertaining our millions of fans by continuously developing new and innovative products and services."Hed added that Rovio is "very optimistic" about continuing its growth in 2012. The company launched the latest Angry Birds game,Angry Birds Space, in March. It proceeded torack up 50m downloadsin the next 35 days.
