Chip maker Intel says it will fight new allegations of corruption, as it faces a fresh onslaught of claims over its business practices.The company - which is based in Santa Clara, California - rejected the casebrought against it yesterday by New York attorney general Andrew Cuomoand said it would fight the claims in court.Filing his case against the electronics giant, Cuomo said the company had "used bribery and coercion to maintain a stranglehold on the market", hurting competitors and consumers as a result.But Intel said the idea that it had damaged the market was incorrect."We disagree with the New York attorney general," said the company in a statement. "Neither consumers - who have consistently benefited from lower prices and increased innovation - nor justice are being served by filing a case now. Intel will defend itself."Intel's language did not, however, directly address the substance of Cuomo's claims – that the company paid billions of dollars in kickbacks to computer manufacturers to get them to use its products instead of those of its main rival, AMD.Instead, Intel's supporters rallied around to attack Cuomo and the case, putting forward a number of arguments that they believe exculpated the technology pioneer.Among them was American lobby group the Competitive Enterprise Institute, which takes an anti-regulatory stance and is notorious for suggesting that climate change is not a problem.Calling Cuomo's case a "baseless attack", CEI official Wayne Crews suggested that Intel's dominance of the lucrative computer chip market was, in fact, proof of its innocence."Intel's pricing and rebate policies are legitimate, pro-consumer business practices in a vibrant market setting," he said. "Intel is disciplined not only by its competitors but by downstream business customers like Dell and Hewlett-Packard."Meanwhile CNBC - the American business news channel that has beenaccused of blindly cheerleading the activities of corporations> in the past – questioned Cuomo's motives."Isn't it strange that this is the second major action filed by Cuomo in the last four days against a California corporate powerhouse?"wrote the network's Silicon Valley chief Jim Goldman yesterday, suggesting that there was a growing "gravy train" of officials looking to gang up on Intel for political benefit."Last I checked, Intel-based machines still share shelf space with machines running AMD chips… that prices continue to plunge … and innovation continues to increase… the proof is in the marketplace".Intel's case is likely to be weakened, however, by previous rulings made by regulators in Europe and Asia that have outlined some of the company's practices and cost it hundreds of millions of dollars in fines.Officials in Japan and South Korea have acted against the company for offering money to suppliers in order to exclude AMD from the market, while earlier this year European regulatorsfined the company €1bn for making anti-competitive paymentsto computer manufacturers.Intel is still appealing that ruling, but over the summer the European Commission took the unexpected step ofpublishing some of the documents used as evidence against Intel. Those included email conversations between executives at HP – the largest computer manufacturer in the world – which suggested that they had indeed been paid on the condition that they avoided AMD products."You can NOT use the commercial AMD line in the channel in any country, it must be done direct," said one email. "If you do and we get caught (and we will), the Intel money (each month) is gone (they would terminate the deal). The risk is too high."Ed Black, president of the Computer and Communications Industry Association – which argues that strong anti-competition law is required in the technology industry – said that Intel would be to stop protesting such accusations."It is time for Intel to admit its misconduct, repair the harms it has perpetrated and change its business practices," he said. "Its legal strategy is clearly not working and its broad claims of innocence are being shown to be more hollow each passing day."
&bull; Still plenty to chew over from yesterday's news that New York attorney general Andrew Cuomo wassuingIntelover allegations that it bullied, bribed and coerced partner companies to keep AMD out of the chip market. Cuomo has aggressively pursued a number of high-profile cases in the past, but Intel's still appealing the€1bn fine levied against itby European regulators amid similar accusations.&bull;Googlemight be one ofRupert Murdoch's favourite scapegoats at the moment - but the shoe could have switched to the other foot. RememberMySpace's exclusive deal that saw Google pay up to $900m for the right toprovide search services on the site? Turns out that the social network is struggling to hit its targets and the resulting incomecould fall short by as much as $100m this year, as Murdoch confirmed from our colleagues at PaidContent.&bull; Thursday, as always, marks the latest outing for the printed version ofTechnology Guardian- featuring the first in a security series -this time looking at the state of malware, myinterview with the man behind 8-bit revolutionaries PlayPowerand a look at whether forests in the desertcould be the answer to climate change. Much more besides, as always, with your £1 Guardian oronline here.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The US children's TV show Sesame Street has been paid the ultimate compliment of being featured in different Google doodles in different regions.Sesame Street has earned its place in the Google hall of fame on account ofcelebrating its 40th birthday.While the UK initially appeared to have been ignored -its homepage featured Wallace and Gromit celebrating their 20th birthday instead- it has now been brought in from the cold, with a doodle of the Cookie Monster having apparently taken a bite out of a Google logo. (Made out of cookies, naturally.)The US and Canadian Google homepage features the distinctive spindly legs of Big Bird, andother characters are in the spotlight on other countries' homepages.The popular television series actually celebrates its birthday on 10 November, when there will be an anniversary show featuring US First Lady Michelle Obama.New York City has proclaimed 10 November "Sesame Street Day", and will announce a temporary street naming (at Columbus Avenue and 64th Street) in honour of the programme. Sesame Street: A Celebration of Forty Years of Life on the Street, and Street Gang: The Complete History of Sesame Street are the latest additions to the literary.The show is now broadcast in more than 140 countries and has won 122 Emmy awards.
I am using a Dell Dimension 4700, which has become sluggish in operation and occasionally freezes. I understand from our friend Google that it could be a registry problem and that there are programs available to help.Brian ThomasThe Dell Dimension 4700 was launched in 2004 but its 3GHz Pentium is more than fast enough to run today's Windows XP SP3, if it has enough memory. At launch, XP ran in 128MB, so the Dell's 512MB was generous. Today, the practical minimum is 1GB, so you may need to add more.Crucial's websitehas a system scanner that will advise you – and sell you the memory. Running out of hard drive space has an even more catastrophic effect, so make sure you have at least 1GB free – not counting the Windows swap file, pagefile.sys.Otherwise, your PC's memory has probably been eaten up by big-name companies who want to make their programs launch faster, or want to keep updating them for you, but have little thought for what happens when everybody pulls the same selfish tricks. Unfortunately, there is no non-technical way to stop this, but Mike Lin's freeStartup Control Panelprovides a simple way to block the worst offenders.I generally don't recommend that inexperienced users run cleanup suites because the results can be catastrophic, and I don't believe registry cleaners make any practical difference in most circumstances. However,CCleaner– which isonlyavailable in a free version – is one of the safer options, and it includes a registry cleaner.The best solution is to reinstall Windows XP from scratch on a clean hard drive. However, with such an old PC, this will require a long series of Windows updates, and you will also have to reinstall your applications and transfer all your data. If you take that route – or pay someone to do it – then you may as well run theWindows 7 Upgrade Advisor. The 4700 isn't listed as compatible, but I'd expect it to work if you installed a new graphics card – look for one that supports DX11. Of course, if you have to buy more memory, a new graphics card and a copy of Windows 7, you'd be better off buying a new PC …
Why isn't there an external keyboard for the iPhone? It seems like a logical product to offer.Simon KingThere have been fold-up keyboards for pocket-sized PDAs since the days of the Palm Pilot and Compaq iPaq, and some connect via Bluetooth. However, it seems that Apple does not yet support keyboards via the iPhone's API (applications programming interface). Perhaps it plans to offer one, or charge third parties a licence fee for providing them, but that's speculation.In the meantime, Mobile Mechatronics is planning to release an iTwinge keyboard ($30) that fits over the iPhone's screen. You can see it in action atYouTube.
I'm considering upgrading from Windows XP to Windows 7. Is there a quick way to compile a list of installed applications, preferably including the product keys, to minimise the hassle of reinstallation?Robert CockThere must be dozens of programs that will provide a list of applications, hardware and other details, since this sort of thing is very useful to companies who need to audit their PCs.Belarc Advisoris a popular option, but Express Metrix'sExpress PC Audit Toolwill do the job.However, it doesn't capture product keys, and I can't think of a free program that does. It's not worth your while paying for something such asSIW System Information for Windowsbut perhaps a reader can suggest an economical option.Backchat: Nick Pinnock points out that Belarc Advisor "does tell you your Microsoft product keys, eg for Windows and Office. It will also record the keys used by some other manufacturers." The problem is that we don't know which keys it misses.Steve Mayer says: "how aboutProduct Key Finder? The disadvantages are that it only saves keys that are stored in the Windows registry, and it "doesn't save all the keys properly (I have informed the author about the latter bug)".
I maintain a small society's membership records with 180 fields on Microsoft Access 2003. I only need to produce such things as reports and mailmerge to Microsoft Word, and sometimes I analyse data with Excel. I would like to leave my successor a database that is more intuitive than Access and, importantly, one that is more widely used.Steve FergusonI am not an Access fan (I buy Office and don't even install it), but I don't know of an alternative that has all its features, reads its data files, and works as well with the rest of Microsoft Office. Also, because it's part of Office, it's one of the best-known office databases around. I suspect it would take more work to convert your records to use another product than it would to teach the next membership secretary the Access routines required.If I were starting from scratch, I'd look for a dedicated membership program that uses something such as MySQL as a back end, or even Microsoft's SQL Express. It should be possible to convert the Access data for one of those, if you fancy a challenge.Note: several useful comments about this question have been posted to the multi-part version of Ask Jackbelow.Backchat: Phil Woodall from Lasa (London Advice Services Alliance), which supports the "community and voluntary sector", says it has made one of its databases, AIMS, "available free of charge (lasa.org.uk/aims) It is specifically designed for case and contact management. Yes, it does have an Access back-end, but the interface is our own and, cliché or not, is very user friendly."
The OLPC (One Laptop Per Child) project has abandoned plans to produce an innovative dual-screen ebook/netbook, and is aiming for a tablet computer instead. There will also be an ARM-based version of the original XO-1 laptop, but this will not be able to run Microsoft Windows XP. In an interview withXconomy Boston, Nicholas Negroponte, the project's founder, said:2.0 has been replaced by two things: 1) model 1.75, same industrial design but an ARM inside, 2) model 3.0, totally different industrial design, more like a sheet of paper. No cost connectivity will start up with the ITU in Geneva. It has been the slowest piece.It's not clear how closely the XO-3 will resemble an ebook, like Amazon's Kindle. Asked for more info, Negroponte replied:Not much to say other than its aspirational aspects: 3.0 is a single sheet, completely plastic and unbreakable, waterproof, 1/4" thick, full color, reflective and transmissive, no bezel, no holes. 1W. $75, ready in 2012.It's also not clear how much progress has been made selling XO-1 laptops, because the numbers depend on the unknown number of serious orders. Negroponte says: "The precise numbers today are 1.1 million [laptops] out and a back-log of 400,000-700,000, depending on how you count." When I asked him inJanuary, he said: "There are 600,000 laptops in the field, 250,000 in transit and another 380,000 about to be made, so the total adds up to about 1.2m."It looks as though OLPC has fulfilled its orders, which is great, but sales have not taken off. If they had, then OLPC would have sold 2m units this year and would be looking to sell 4m next year. That would have been a reasonable sales performance for a Windows-based netbook. However, Negroponte reckons the numbers are less important than the acceptance of the concept. "In fact, a far more interesting number is that as much as 1/3 of the current worldwide production of laptops is netbooks," he says.Personally, I'm sad to see the casual demise of the XO-2 concept, even though Gizmodo has dismissed it with the headline:Rest In Peace, Ridiculous Dual-Screen OLPC XO-2. However,One Laptop Per Child Newssaid:Now there's something I didn't see coming! While I never believed that the XO-2 had gotten much beyond the concept stage I always considered it to be a strong vision of where OLPC was going in terms of device design. Sure, both the hardware and the software for an XO-2 are massive undertakings which would probably overstretch OLPC's limited resources but then again that's what everyone thought of the XO-1 design as well and arguably they did a great job there.Nor do I know of anyone else who actually intends to produce a dual-screen device like the XO-2, though someone might. A while ago, I asked a good contact at Asus about it, and after a somewhat embarrassed look, was told that they might have looked at the idea in the lab but not to believe everything I read in the papers. Not meaning the Guardian, obviously.
Handheld peeks at TwitterIn the US, Peek Inc has now launched TwitterPeek, a handheld dedicated to using Twitter via a mobile phone data network.Xperia gets AndroidSony Ericsson has unveiled the Android-based Xperia X10, its flagship smartphone for the first quarter of next year.Ribbit, says BT MobileBT has announced a beta test of Ribbit Mobile, a free cloud-based service that enables users to manage their mobile phones.War poetry in Second LifeOxford University's First World War Poetry Digital Archive is now tweeting (@aww1lit) and has created a virtual world in Second Life.3D on TVCourvoisier says it will be the first company to run a 3D advertisement on UK terrestrial television, during Channel 4's 3D Week: 16-22 November.Tracking Twitter ListsListorious is now tracking the most popular Twitter lists in the Listorious 140.Use the forceU Star, which sells personalised adult novels, says sales jumped 40% after "saucy army wives" started sending them to their partners in Afghanistan.Green Christmas dreamThe Green Christmas Appeal has been launched to plant 100,000 trees and give computers to 50,000 African children.
What do you do with a problem like cement? Around 2bn tonnes are used every year, each tonne a source of 0.4 tonnes of carbon dioxide as it is made. The cement industry is responsible for 5% of the world's carbon emissions –more than the entire aviation industry.Standard, or Portland, cement is made by heating limestone or clay to around 1,500C. This use of energy and the decomposition of the limestone as it cooks releases copious amounts of CO2. As the carbon reduction targets from global climate agreements begin to bite, sorting out cement will become a priority.Engineers have been working hard on the problem in recent years, with a range of approaches to cutting the environmental impact of the construction industry: some have tried synthetic polymers that would remove the need for limestone; others have fiddled with how cement is used in buildings. The latest on the block is Liquid Granite, a binding material that, according to its inventor, could almost entirely replace cement with a powder made from recycled waste materials.Liquid Granite replaces the need for more than two-thirds of this Portland cement when making concrete, thereby saving the associated carbon emissions. "One of the biggest culprits of carbon footprint is cement, which we use in making concrete – Liquid Granite does away with most of the use of cement. The amount used is pretty small," saysProf Pal Mangat of Sheffield Hallam University, who came up with the product. "Potentially, by the time we're finished with this developmental technology, it'll be close to zero."Mangat is cagey about the exact formulation of Liquid Granite, and with good reason: by 2020, the French bank Credit Agricole estimates, demand for cement will be 50% greater than today, and a new carbon-free building material could reap huge rewards. All that Mangat will say is that Liquid Granite is made from an inorganic powder, 30-70% of which is recycled industrial waste materials. Using the same aggregates as normal concrete, it could be used anywhere cement is but with a fraction of the carbon footprint."In some applications it's more suitable than concrete. For example, one of the main areas we are currently exploiting it is fire-resistant building materials," he says. "It has good fire-resistant properties, unlike concrete, which explodes upon exposure to high temperatures."There has already been interest from the building industry, with Liquid Granite has already been used in fire-rated lintels at the Olympic Village and Stratford Shopping Centre in east London.Others are hot on Mangat's heels. Novacem, based in London, last year createda cement that has a negative carbon footprint over its lifetime. His invention uses magnesium silicates, which emit no CO2when heated, and the processing is carried out at a much lower temperature than that required for Portland cement. In addition, the cement absorbs CO2as it hardens – each tonne could remove around 0.6 tonnes of the greenhouse gas over its lifetime.Transforming a global industry as established as construction was never going to be simple. But tackling the problem of cement seems a good place to start.
At a recent event run bythe Symbian Foundation, which makes most operating systems for mobiles, I saw some demos that reminded me the revolution is still in its infancy. One was a touchscreen on which you can use a real brush to paint (with digitised colours). On larger devices – such asApple's rumoured iTablet– it could change art in the way iTunes changed music. Another using "augmented reality" enables you to look at your screen to see who is sending messages through Twitter nearby or the whereabouts of friends, restaurants or goodness knows what.Apple is a runaway success, with more than 100,000 apps (though it only accounts for 1% of the total apps and games market). But the world is changing and Apple could be caught in a pincer movement. Coming from one side are mobile operators who,as Strand Consult has noted, aren't making money from iPhone sales because of Apple's stringent bargaining – and on the other side are disillusioned developers. Half of studios don't come back with a second app. Others complain about what Lee Williams, executive director of Symbian, calls the30% tax on developersthat Apple levies on sales. This is rough justice, as it was Apple that released backroom programmers from the far more restrictive walled gardens of the operators. That's life. Apple will now face competition from apps based on open source software from Google's Android platform and Symbian.In theory, Nokia, with 35% of the global market, and with strength in areas such as India and China that Apple hasn't yet cracked, should be dominant. But it has been slow to unify its empire and developers have to make different versions for varying screen sizes and models. Symbian says that in future developers will just make one app and Symbian will make adjustments automatically. That sounds good but developers say it hasn't happened yet and complain that for two months the search engine ofNokia's flagship Ovi storewasn't working.Enter Google, with a boulder to throw into the mobile pool. Its open source Android operating system is now appearing on new touchscreen phones. It is attractive to operators, who won't get taken to the cleaners as they have been by Apple, and to developers for whom open source offers great creative opportunities. But its killer app may be location. If you see a strange car in your street it may be part ofGoogle's fleet touring the world "turn-by-turn"– a mapping service that can actually be charged for. But for how much longer? In 2007, Nokia paid what now seems like an astronomical $8.1bn for NavTeq, one of the duopoly that controlled turn-by-turn navigation (the other, Tele Atlas, went to TomTom for $2.7bn). But now Google could offer this service, not only for free, but asBill Gurley points out, by including Google's contextual advertising service, possibly on a "Don't pay us, we'll pay you, basis". It is to Google's credit that it is setting up its own service rather than buying an existing one as this will increase competition and bring prices down with a vengeance (though it will also raise fresh worries about Google's extending tentacles).Who will win? The smart money is on Google in the long term, but this depends on whether location-based services turn up trumps. One difficulty rarely mentioned is not just the flakiness of GPS in towns but the difficulty of reading a mobile screen on the move, especially in strong daylight. Nokia is like a rabbit caught in headlights at the moment but it still has the most advanced phones and has proved it can make a comeback. And Apple? No one has yet reproduced the simple beauty and the beautiful simplicity of the iPhone. It may become less popular with early adopters but is a stunning piece of design for which people are still prepared to pay a premium. It will be difficult – but not impossible – to dislodge.twitter.com/vickeegan
Old PC is slowing fastI am using a Dell Dimension 4700, which has become sluggish in operation and occasionally freezes. I understand from our friend Google that it could be a registry problem and that there are programs available to help.Brian ThomasJack Schofield replies:The Dell Dimension 4700 was launched in 2004 but its 3GHz Pentium is more than fast enough to run today's Windows XP SP3, if it has enough memory. At launch, XP ran in 128MB, so the Dell's 512MB was generous. Today, the practical minimum is 1GB, so you may need to add more.Crucial's websitehas a system scanner that will advise you – and sell you the memory. Running out of hard drive space has an even more catastrophic effect, so make sure you have at least 1GB free – not counting the Windows swap file, pagefile.sys.Otherwise, your PC's memory has probably been eaten up by big-name companies who want to make their programs launch faster, or want to keep updating them for you, but have little thought for what happens when everybody pulls the same selfish tricks. Unfortunately, there is no non-technical way to stop this, butMike Lin's free Startup Control Panelprovides a simple way to block the worst offenders.I generally don't recommend that inexperienced users run cleanup suites because the results can be catastrophic, and I don't believe registry cleaners make any practical difference in most circumstances. However,CCleaner– which is only available in a free version – is one of the safer options, and it includes a registry cleaner.The best solution is to reinstall Windows XP from scratch on a clean hard drive. However, with such an old PC, this will require a long series of Windows updates, and you will also have to reinstall your applications and transfer all your data. If you take that route – or pay someone to do it– then you may as well run theWindows 7 Upgrade Advisor. The 4700 isn't listed as compatible, but I'd expect it to work if you installed a new graphics card – look for one that supports DX11. Of course, if you have to buy more memory, a new graphics card and a copy of Windows 7, you'd be better off buying a new PC …iPhone keyboard?Why isn't there an external keyboard for the iPhone? It seems like a logical product to offer.Simon KingJS:There have been fold-up keyboards for pocket-sized PDAs since the days of the Palm Pilot and Compaq iPaq, and some connect via Bluetooth. However, it seems that Apple does not yet support keyboards via the iPhone's API (applications programming interface). Perhaps it plans to offer one, or charge third parties a licence fee for providing them, but that's speculation.In the meantime, Mobile Mechatronics is planning to release an iTwinge keyboard ($30) that fits over the iPhone's screen. You can seeit in action at YouTube.PC auditI'm considering upgrading from Windows XP to Windows 7. Is there a quick way to compile a list of installed applications, preferably including the product keys, to minimise the hassle of reinstallation?Robert CockJS:There must be dozens of programs that will provide a list of applications, hardware and other details, since this sort of thing is very useful to companies who need to audit their PCs.Belarc Advisoris a popular option, butExpress Metrix's Express PC Audit Toolwill do the job.However, it doesn't capture product keys, and I can't think of a free program that does. It's not worth your while paying for something such asSIW System Information for Windowsbut perhaps a reader can suggest an economical option.Replacing AccessI maintain a small society's membership records with 180 fields on Microsoft Access 2003. I only need to produce such things as reports and mailmerge to Microsoft Word, and sometimes I analyse data with Excel. I would like to leave my successor a database that is more intuitive than Access and, importantly, one that is more widely used.Steve FergusonJS:I am not an Access fan (I buy Office and don't even install it), but I don't know of an alternative that has all its features, reads its data files, and works as well with the rest of Microsoft Office. Also, because it's part of Office, it's one of the best-known office databases around. I suspect it would take more work to convert your records to use another product than it would to teach the next membership secretary the Access routines required.If I were starting from scratch, I'd look for a dedicated membership program that uses something such as MySQL as a back end, or even Microsoft's SQL Express. It should be possible to convert the Access data for one of those, if you fancy a challenge.
Because it is failing to match high-level policy with funding where it's needed.Martha Lane Fox'sappointmentas the government's digital inclusion champion was supposed to usher in a new era of coordinated effort to get 6 million "digitally excluded" Britons online by 2012. However, it seems that heads still need to be banged together: last Friday, five UK Online centres set up by a member of Lane Fox's own digital inclusion task force went into liquidation, because funds are not available on the ground to meet the government's high-level aspirations.Catherine Marshall, then a single mother, set upThe Lighthouse Project(not to be confused with the similarly named substance abuse help scheme) in the West Midlands in 1997. The idea was to provide a "safe and welcoming place where people could meet and find the support they needed". The project set up five centres, offering people from socially excluded communities free IT-based courses ranging from "First time Online" to a 10-week family history course. They also helped attendees gain literacy and numeracy qualifications online.Research published last yearshowed that such schemes can help people rebuild their lives. "Participants were more likely to feel confident, and 40% had progressed into further training, employment, information, advice and guidance," it noted. In the words of one Lighthouse graduate: "I was in a right state – some days I was waking up in the afternoon and I'd get straight on the booze. At my lowest, I got into the habit of cutting myself too – I'm not proud of that. I was in a hole, and I needed shaking out of it."Lane Fox visited Lighthouse in August and says it did "a fantastic job".This year, Marshall became the grassroots organisations representative on Lane Fox's Digital Inclusion Task Force, whichaims to get the hardest-to-reach Britons online by 2012. Nearly everyone thinks efforts such as The Lighthouse Project are the way to do it. The trouble is, they rely on funding from local authorities and other agencies. Marshall says the crunch came in July when £78,000 of expected local authority funding was diverted to the government's "worklessness" programme. "It set off a slow domino effect, which we weren't able to avoid." Despite repeated efforts to raise funds through other sources, Lighthouse's 45 staff were made redundant last Friday.Marshall says that closing down the centres will cost the public purse more in redundancy payments and benefits than the money saved: "It makes no sense at all." With the help of volunteers, she plans to refer Lighthouse's 2,000 clients to other support schemes and use her role on the task force to raise awareness charities' work in promoting digital inclusion.Lane Fox calls the closure "a disaster".
It is nearly two years since Derek Lomas, then a graduate student on an internship with the communications giant Qualcomm, stumbled across a unexpected find while browsing a Bangalore market stall. Perusing the vast spread of goods, he was drawn to an array of strangely familiar computers.The boxes were emblazoned with slogans such as "EDUCATION COMPUTER" and "LEARN COMPUTERS THE FUN WAY", and generally contained a mouse, a couple of joysticks and a combined computer-keyboard that featured a built-in slot for game cartridges. On closer inspection he discovered that the machines were, in fact, modelled on the early generations of 8-bit computers – pioneering home PCs such as the Apple II, BBC Micro and Nintendo Entertainment System.For somebody brought up on these early machines, the find was a revelation … but the biggest surprise was the price: the entire set came in for $12 (around £7.50).Excited by the possibility of an extremely low-cost computer that was being bought across countries including India, China and Brazil, Lomas returned to the US and joined up with his colleagues at the University of California, San Diego, to startplaypower.org– an effort to jump on the bandwagon and provide software that can turn one of these machines from a simple entertainment device into something more useful.Get with the programmeIn the same way that millions of programmers were forged through early experiments with the BBC Micro or Commodore 64, PlayPower wants to see the same thing take place elsewhere."Even some basic computer skills such as touch-typing can be economically transformative – making the difference between making a dollar a day as an urban labourer, or a dollar an hour as a back-office worker," says Lomas, who is now a researcher at Carnegie Mellon University in Pennsylvania."So what we're trying to do is to obtain some of this 'abandonware' – 8-bit software that was produced in the 80s for education in England and America – and import it to this existing $12 dollar computer."It may seem crazy or even illegal that such machines can be sold so cheaply, but the situation has come about because the underlying patents have expired. With the chip designs in effect in the public domain, and western companies finding little use for them, manufacturers in China are able to copy, produce and sell these proto-PCs at very low cost.The result is that thousands (or even millions) of children worldwide are using these computers – and although it is 25-year-old technology that pales in comparison to today's powerful PCs, that is a substantial new market for anybody. Lomas says that the manufacturers cannot afford to make their own games – but they are eager to include any software that helps them sell more units."They recognise that having an educational impact is important for selling their product, but that's about as far as their engagement goes," he says. "They don't have the margins to invest in research and development of effective learning games, but they are interested in them.""When we contacted some of these manufacturers, one question we had was whether we had any content in Arabic because they're getting a lot of Middle Eastern buyers. So we might be able to provide them with some learning games for the different regions they sell to."PlayPower has formed a substantial open source community of hackers, coders and enthusiasts who want to help, and is looking to resurrect some of the popular 80s software left behind by its developers. It's also looking to build new software platforms that will help build in their own language, for local users.But bringing educational computing to the developing world is not a new idea – and it has not always been entirely successful in the past.Most notably, theOne Laptop per Childscheme – the so-called "$100 laptop" – has found it tough to deliver its pioneering machines to its target audience. Recently, the project made a group to provide computers for every student in Uruguay, but after years of deal-making and political machinations, it is still only making relatively slow progress.In fact, despite opposing viewpoints on the best way to achieve similar goals, he doesn't think that OLPC and PlayPower are competing. Instead of reinventing the wheel, says Lomas, he is simply trying to use the self-interest of existing manufacturers to achieve wider benefits."I don't think that there's much tension," he suggests. "The heart of what we're doing is content. We're not trying to develop new hardware, new systems, new distribution channels; we're trying to make use of existing manufacturing and existing distribution networks and we're just trying to acquire and develop good content."Play goes Pop!PlayPower's proposals have been put to a number of conferences and organisations – including last week at the annualPop!Techconference in the US, where several hundred luminaries across science, technology and the arts gathered to hear new ideas. The result has been a blossoming of the community, and excitement about the possibilities.Still, isn't there something problematic (or even patronising) about giving children hand-me-downs that are a quarter of a century old – especially as technology has moved so fast? Many countries want to use technology to leapfrog the development process – and it's arguable that teaching computer skills on 8-bit machines simply builds a new generation of employees for voracious multinationals, rather than a wave of home-grown entrepreneurs."It's a very legitimate argument," says Lomas, with a little sigh. "We're not forcing people to buy these machines – they're already buying them."A little market intervention on the side of education never did anyone any harm, he suggests – and as well as potentially providing the difference between a good job and subsistence, PlayPower also realises the difference between learning to use computers in general and learning to use very specific technologies. That is why the project is not limiting itself to this current generation of 8-bit computers, but also looking to the future generations of very low-cost PCs and mobiles that will become available as those systems also fall into the public domain."Tools become obsolete in a way that content doesn't," he says. "Mario Bros is not obsolete because there's a new version – you play the first one and it's still really fun."That's the incredible thing about this cultural exchange that's taking place: the kids in the slums of Dharavi in Bombay all know about Mario because it's one of the few pieces of digital culture that they're able to afford. And we can look at that and say: 'It's piracy'. We can look at that and say: 'Oh, they're so far behind'. Or we can look at that and smile, and be happy that these pieces of our culture that we've discarded – by and large – still have so much value."Even for our children, I'd imagine, we'd be pretty happy if our kids were playing some of the 8-bit games we grew up with."
The video is just a few minutes long, but it may be the most important game footage to be seen this year. It's a bootleg of a mission from Modern Warfare 2, the first-person shooter certain to be the winter's biggest-selling game. It shows the player joining Russian terrorists on a rampage through an airport; civilians are gunned down as armed men run through the departures lounge, and it's evident the player is firing too. In one alarming moment someone is shown dragging an injured person across the concourse – the player kills them both.Released on to the internet last week, the blurry footage has already provoked criticism, with a Mirror headline proclaiming: "Leaked level makes light of terrorist atrocities". Many see in it harrowing evocations of last year's Mumbai terror attacks in which more than 170 people were killed. For a while, it wasn't clear whether the sequence was genuine, but Activision has released a statement confirming its authenticity: "The leaked footage was taken from a copy of game that was obtained illegally and is not representative of the overall gameplay experience in Modern Warfare 2. Infinity Ward's Modern Warfare 2 features a deep and gripping storyline in which players face off against a terrorist threat dedicated to bringing the world to the brink of collapse … The scene is designed to evoke the atrocities of terrorism. At the beginning of the game, players encounter a mandatory 'checkpoint' in which they are warned that an upcoming segment may contain disturbing elements, and they can choose not to engage in the gameplay that involves this scene."So what should we make of all this? To some commentators, video games by their very nature "make light" of anything they portray. This is partially about semantics – the interpretation of the word "game" as something fundamentally frivolous. Partly, too, it is about the legacy of video games as a pastime for children, not for adults.Interactivity itself brings in complex moral questions. If a movie were to depict a terrorist outrage, the viewer takes no active part. But in a videogame, you're engaged and complicit. The participation is the entertainment, and that's always going to be problematic. Activision's argument about seeking to portray the depths of the terrorist cell's immorality in order to stir the player's emotions is sound to a point – it's an established narrative device. But is it necessary for the player to throw grenades? And wouldn't similar revulsion be elicited if the player were placed into the shoes of one of the victims? This would, after all, reflect the wonderful opening sequence to the original Modern Warfare, in which the player takes on the perspective of a prisoner who is bundled into a car and later executed.What we're robbed of when viewing this illicitly posted footage is what happens before and afterwards, the exact nature of the scene, and the authenticity of the player's involvement. The problem is, context can easily become an excuse to portray wanton violence. In the PlayStation title Driver, for example, the gamer is ostensibly controlling an undercover policeman posing as a criminal, but this backstory is immaterial to the game action, which involves stealing cars, smashing other vehicles out of the way – and having lots of fun in the process. That's a very different game, and a very different circumstance, but it's an example of how the framework can be bent to suit the core game dynamic.I'm also unsure about Activision's claim that the scene can be skipped. It's something of a cop-out rather than a pertinent justification. The point is, it's there – the developers put it there. It is an intended element of the experience.Responsibility is the deciding factor. Infinity Ward is an excellent developer, using narrative in a mature and sophisticated way. Witness the nuclear explosion sequence and the apparent death of Captain Price in Modern Warfare; moments of sheer emotional resonance that would have been fumbled or avoided by most studios. Both moments work perfectly within the game's depiction of a desperate global battle. I'm certain that will be the case here.That is why this blurry, inconclusive footage is so important. The scene portrayed may well represent a statement of intent: this is what games are capable of now – unsettling us with their powerful imagery, backing us into difficult situations, toying with our moral certainties. It is an 18 certificate game. We must be trusted to test ourselves against this.
Operating systems have become like buses: you wait ages for an OS update, and then three turn up at once. Apple let Snow Leopard out of its cage in August, and then, last Thursday, Microsoft released Windows 7, a major update of Vista. At the same time, Canonical chose to release "Karmic Koala" – which is otherwise known as the open-source operating system Ubuntu 9.10.In thefive years since its launch, Ubuntu has become one of the most popular Linuxes; though popular for servers or embedded systems, it remains a minority as a desktop operating system. Some put the figures as low as 1%, though the enthusiasts put the figure closer to 12%.Taking the vital aspects of an operating system into account, which is better, Ubuntu 9.10 or Windows 7?SpeedIn terms of speed, if you've got an older computer that is starting to feel sluggish but you either don't want to or can't afford to buy a new computer, give Ubuntu a go. You'll get an up-to-date operating system running quite smoothly on your out-of-date computer.Verdict:Windows 7 is much better than Vista on older hardware, while Ubuntu always has been strong on a wide range of hardware.Drivers and hardwareUbuntu is generally good at recognising hardware. Windows needed a driver downloaded for my vintage 3Com Wi-Fi PC Card, but it worked right away with Ubuntu – and even improved from 9.04 to 9.10. Ubuntu added extensions to take advantage of special keys for my laptop, and when I plugged in a spare Mac keyboard, it handled special Mac-centric keys too such as the CD eject button.If Ubuntu doesn't automatically install a driver, it can be quite a bit of effort getting something to work, and not all hardware and peripherals will work with Linux. Sometimes you'll have to go to the command line, which is terrifying territory for most users. It's worth checking to see if Linux drivers exist for your printer and other key peripherals.Windows has always had issues with drivers. I still am baffled why Windows forgets hardware that I have installed previously. Windows 7 doesn't seem to have completely solved these issues.Verdict: Both Microsoft and Ubuntu could improve how they handle drivers.MultimediaLooking at the default applications that come with both Windows 7 and Karmic Koala, Ubuntu installs the Rhythmbox player for music and the Movie Player for video. Both are capable, and anyone familiar with Apple's iTunes will find the application easy to navigate.Because of licensing restrictions and Ubuntu's own philosophy, it does not ship with the ability to play commercial DVDs. It's relatively easy to add commercial DVD support by adding Ubuntu Restricted Extras in the Software Centre.Most versions of Windows 7 come with Windows Media Player and Media Centre. The Media Centre is impressive and polished. It organises your pictures, video and music files, and it gives you the kind of 10-foot interface that works well from your couch in the lounge.Verdict:Microsoft wins this one with its Media Centre, though Linux enthusiasts will be quick to point out the digital-rights management issues of Windows.Software and applicationsIn terms of software, Ubuntu is like the iPhone. Almost anything you'd care to do, there's an app for that. However, you'll have to learn to translate from the applications that you're used to on the Mac or Windows. For people looking to make the switch to Linux,osalt.comis a good directory of open-source alternatives to common commercial software.Ubuntu comes withOpenOfficeandGimpphoto editing software installed.Windows 7 users will need to buy Microsoft Office, or you can also download OpenOffice and Gimp. Windows users will be used to Outlook to handle their email. Ubuntu ships with Evolution, which handles email and also has calendar software.Ubuntu 9.10 comes with Firefox 3.5 as standard, and it now ships with the Empathy multiple protocol instant messaging client. Empathy works with most instant messaging systems including AIM, Gtalk/Jabber, MSN and IRC, just to name a few.Windows 7 has Windows Live messenger and ships with Microsoft's internet Explorer 8, which is a vast improvement over previous versions. You'll have to download Windows Live messenger as part of the Windows Live apps. To install other applications, Ubuntu 9.10 changed the Add/Remove Software application with a refreshed tool called Ubuntu Software Centre. You can search the directory full of hundreds of applications.Verdict:Ubuntu wins this hands-down with a huge range of free software packages ready to download.Cloud computingUbuntu 9.10 brings cloud storage to the masses with its Ubuntu One service. It's simple and well integrated. Whenever you save a file, you have the option to save it directly to Ubuntu One. Up to 2GB of storage is free, and you can pay for higher amounts of storage.You can also share files with other people, and your files are easily available on other computers, even ones not running Ubuntu. The service is in beta, though, so I'd expect a few glitches.Microsoft has a remote storage and remote desktop service in beta calledLive MeshandSkyDrive, which offers 25GB of storage for free. It's not yet integrated into the operating system and Microsoft is under scrutiny about what it integrates into the OS because of its market dominance.Verdict:Ubuntu wins this as well. Live Mesh isn't as well integrated yet as Ubuntu One is immediately from startup.Ease of useThis is subjective. I've spent the past two years using Ubuntu, and find it relatively easy. However, just like any new operating system, there is a learning curve, and Linux advocates often gloss over this. Ubuntu has made great strides, but average users will still struggle with it at times.Adding new software sources so that you can easily install applications such as Skype or Google Earth will be beyond most average users. User interface design still lags behind software on Mac OS X and Windows 7.Windows 7 will be an adjustment for XP users. Vista users won't notice a change apart from a faster, smoother experience and fewer annoying pop-ups second-guessing your choices.Verdict:Windows still is easier to use than Linux for some key tasks. Ubuntu is making a lot of progress, but Microsoft has stepped up its game as well.Final VerdictWindows 7 is a worthy successor to Windows XP. Vista had well-known flaws, which meant it never replaced XP for most users. For those with a lot of investment in Windows software, there probably will be no reason to look elsewhere.For those not that tied into the world of Windows, Ubuntu is certainly worth a look. Consumers have never had more choices for capable, powerful and easy to use operating systems, and Ubuntu is only one Linux distribution.I had tried Linux frequently as soon as I got broadband almost 10 years ago, but I always gave up after a few days until the arrival of Ubuntu. It is a relatively easy-to-use, modern operating system, and one that will only cost you the time to download it.Read alonger version of this article
TheAsusUL30 notebook lasts longer than some of today's smartphones, and at a penny under £600, there may not be much difference in the price. Indeed, Carphone Warehouse is nowoffering a version of the UL30 freewith a USB dongle and 3GB of mobile broadband for £40 a month on a two-year contract.Asus says the UL30A's 8-cell battery lasts "up to 12 hours" with Windows 7, depending on how you use it. Set its Power4Gear software to the Battery Saving plan, lower the brightness of the glossy 13.3in LED screen, turn off the Wi-Fi and Bluetooth radios and you get more than 12 hours. Even using Wi-Fi, the power drains slowly, so I reckon you should get 10 hours. Frankly, I stopped looking. For someone who is used to carrying a laptop with spare battery and charging both after each day's use, it's liberating.The UL30 (from UnLimited) is one of this year's "thin and light" notebooksbased on Intel's CULV (Consumer Ultra Low Voltage) chips. The first models included the Acer Timeline series and MSI's X340, and I tried an early UL30A that originally had Vista installed. Asus says there will be versions running 64-bit Windows 7 to exploit the 4GB of memory, and a UL50 with a 15.6in screen.The long battery life comes from the ultra-low-voltage 1.3GHz Core 2 Duo (SU7300) processor, which is much faster than an Atom chip, or a Core Solo (SU3500). On the Windows Experience Index, the baseline score is 3.9 for the Intel 4500MHD integrated graphics, but the processor (4.0), memory (4.8), gaming graphics (4.9) and hard drive (5.6) all rate higher. It easily runs HD videos on the 1366 x 768 widescreen.Other features include a multi-touch touchpad, webcam, card slot, Ethernet, HDMI and three USB ports. There are downward-facing twin Altec Lansing stereo speakers on the bottom. A brushed aluminium top helps protect the screen.The main drawback is the keyboard layout. The "isolated keyboard" (well-separated flat keys) feels good but has a column of extra keys to the right of the large backspace and Enter keys. I still keep hitting them by mistake. Also, at 1.7kg, the UL30A is on the heavy side for a thin PC with no built-in DVD. The big battery makes it heavier than an MSI X Slim X340 (1.33kg) or Acer Timeline 3810 (1.6kg), but you can get models with a 4-cell battery.The UL30 is nicely finished, feels robust, and performs well by ultraportable standards. If you can adapt to the keyboard layout, it's well worth considering.Pros:Above-average build quality and finish; very quiet; 4GB memory; far better performance than a netbook.Cons:Keyboard layout; downward-facing speakers can be muffled; no built-in SIM slot for mobile broadband.
TheBritish government wants to stop filesharingto protect copyright owners, but shows no similar enthusiasm for protecting the general public from malware, which is arguably more important to us – and perhaps to the nation. After all, what happens to e-commerce if people don't feel secure enough to buy things, do their banking or interact with government online?One problem is trying to determine the size of the problem because antivirus software suppliers and journalists may sometimes exaggerate the threat. The antivirus companies benefit from shock-horror stories, and we are often happy to write them, especially if the threats have catchy names – Melissa, Blaster, Slammer, Conficker. Scare stories prompt people to spend money on new or upgraded antivirus protection, so they become more secure, and everybody's happy. Or, more likely, scared.The risk of exposureDavid Emm, a UK-based antivirus expert with Russian supplierKaspersky Lab, says: "We're adding 5,000-6,000 [malware] records to our database every day, but it doesn't mean people are exposed to them. Online crime is like offline crime: we all know people get knifed, and potentially we're all vulnerable to attack, but there are things we can do to minimise the risk."Examples for PC users include running up-to-date antivirus software and firewalls, keeping your operating system and applications patched, not repeating or recycling passwords, and watching for the padlock when using secure sites."It's dangerous for us as an industry to talk up the overall level of threats," adds Emm. "The threat's genuine, but it's not a juggernaut that's going to run you down."The growth in Mac and Linux use and the increased security of more recent Microsoft software – including Windows 7, Vista and IE8 – has helped encourage "social engineering" and indirect attacks such as phishing, fake antivirus programs, and malware bundled with video codecs or pirate software. Indeed, there's now a fuzzy line between malware and legitimate software.David Harley, ESET's director of malware intelligence says the UK's biggest malware in October "was actually a 'possibly unwanted program' – an adware toolbar – with 4.02% of detections." There are toolbars with "serious Trojan functionality," he says, but he won't name names "because of the risk of legal difficulties". In many cases, then, computer security firms are trying to protect us from ourselves.How many PCs are actually infected, and to what level, seems impossible to find out. Microsoft has just publishedits seventh Security Intelligence Report(SIR) using data from running its Malicious Software Removal Tool (MSRT) on 450m PCs and OneCare or Defender on more than 100m. Microsoft UK's head of security Cliff Evans describes it as "the most comprehensive view of the internet threat landscape".The bad news is that worm infections doubled in the first half of 2009, that "Conficker has had a big impact" with about 6m-7m infections at any one time, and "Taterf is specifically targeting people on online role-playing games. Criminals have decided that worms are a form of attack that should be revisited," he says.But the number of "cleans" in the UK is 4.9 per 1,000 runs, says Evans. That's only half of one per cent. Are you more likely to be mugged in the street?Microsoft's numbers won't show the full threat, because MSRT is only run when it delivers patches. People who have auto-updates turned on probably run antivirus software and firewalls as well, so perhaps their PCs should really be safer. In places such as China, Russia and Latin America where piracy is rife, and pirate versions of Windows may be heavily pre-infected with Trojans and backdoors, the infection rate is much higher.Still, what researchers call the "threat landscape" has changed dramatically in the past few years, as vandalism has been replaced by organised crime. Rik Ferguson, senior security advisor atTrend Micro, says around 92% of threats now come from the web, and the growth of malware is being "rocket-fuelled by the firmly established and very lucrative underground economy dealing in stolen information and machines (bots)". He says: "We have identified over 100m bot-compromised IPs globally, of which 23m are active."Botnets (networks of compromised PCs) concern all of us because they are rented out to scammers who want to send out billions of spam emails, or to attack web servers and hold companies to ransom. The botnet infection may not have much impact on the person who owns a PC, but it affects the rest of us.Battling the botConficker has been of great interest as it's the best botnet we've seen, though it was also lucky: Microsoft had patched the hole before it got going, so companies and government organisations that don't use its auto-update service were most affected. Rodney Joffe, chief technologist atNeustarand a member of theConficker Working Group, says that, in the UK, it infected one of the largest high-street retail chains, a hotel chain, one of the larger universities, a couple of city councils and a London borough, among others. Clean-up costs have been enormous.Joffe has watched the code improve and now says: "Conficker is rock solid. The level of sophistication is mind-boggling: it does everything right. It's going to become the platform of choice for the distribution of malware." As it's the leading example of anti-antivirus technology, it's easy to see Conficker as a frightening indicator for the future. However, Eric Sites, chief technology office ofSunbelt Softwareand also a member of the Conficker Working Group, believes "it could be the last of the megabots".He says: "The most successful cybercrime is designed to be parasitic in nature, striving to survive for long periods of time undetected. Conficker's notoriety has shown that the bigger the bot, the less effective it may end up becoming. Too much attention means little activity and little gain." What Conficker did achieve was to get people working together to fight it, withF-Secure's chief research officer Mikko Hyppönen saying: "Over my 20-year career in information security, Conficker Working Group has been the single best example of cross-industry co-operation." It's one of the few global threats to get a real global response.Still, one of the points that emerges from Microsoft's SIR is thatsome countries, such as Austria, Finland and Japan, are doing better than others.Acting on impulseIn Finland, for example, they follow up on widely available information about infected computers and actually do something about them. Finland'sComputer Emergency Response Team(CERT) runs an Autoreporter service that tells local IT administrators about breaches and prompts them to act. SIR quotes Erka Koivunen, head of Finland's CERT, saying: "As a result, the infected computers get treated fast or risk losing connectivity." Botnets don't last long on Finland's networks.What Finland can do, the UK can do. If the government thinks it's appropriate to cut people off for filesharing, why isn't it appropriate to cut them off if their PCs are part of a botnet? Trend Micro's Ferguson adds: "More ISPs should follow the lead of ComCast in the US, which has begun using pop-ups to notify customers it believes to be infected. While the headline-grabbing initiatives focus on international espionage and teenage hacker recruitment, the reality is that if we can deprive criminals of their stockpile of compromised machines, we would severely impact their ability to operate."In the future, it seems the most successful criminal malware will be super-stealthy infections that users don't even know they've got. If that happens, a co-operative community of antivirus companies, researchers, ISPs, police forces and other government agencies may be our only hope.Next week: the threat to the web
We've got the builders in. Yes, we're doing building. And doing building means building inspectors, sent by the council to make sure we aren't building a fire trap in the extension to our house.They're also very keen to check we're not building something that won't conform to new environmental regulations: the ceiling and walls have to have particular thicknesses of insulating material, which doesn't come cheap, but will – we're assured – save energy.Though when the inspector called a few days ago, he regretfully had to point out that we needed to add another 4cm of insulation to the sloping ceiling that we'd hoped would house a bedroom and perhaps even a toilet. With the extra insulation, it's starting to look as though we're only going to be inviting very small children to the bedroom.And for our builder, the extra 4cm was a layer too far. "But you've got us putting that in while you've also insisted that we have single-glazed windows all through!" he blurted, his indignation finally getting the better of him. It's true. Our local council, which recently passed a solemn resolution that it was against climate change and would take it "seriously", has insisted that we may not have double-glazed windows in the new building.Why? Because the main building is, by virtue of its age, listed – that strange process by which slightly obsessive-compulsive types hope to hang on to the past by pretending that the present isn't happening and that the future won't mind.Ah, but it gets better. The main building – the one in which we actually, you know, live – isn't a paragon of "listedness" (unless you mean actually physically listing, which the floors do towards one end). In fact, it has a number of double-glazed windows. And who put them in? Why, the council itself, which used to own the property a few decades ago.Shall we recap? We're building a modern extension in which we're obliged to put energy-leaking windows in order to conform to an historic ideal about our main home that hasn't actually been followed by the organisation now forcing us to put in the inefficient windows.The whole process is indicative of how utterly our establishment has failed to get to grips with the twin realities of climate change and energy demand, which aren't linked but have similar outcomes: we need to use less fossil fuel energy. (Yes, we could use secondary glazing on the windows, but it's far less effective than real double glazing.)For years, the Labour government has shied away from making rational – if politically brave – decisions about energy use: we've needed more investment in nuclear power and renewables. Instead, six years ago nuclear was left out of the energy white paper.That's six years of not building the replacement for fossil fuels we've used (and will in future have to import from countries such as Russia, not known for its helpfulness towards Britain). I wish someone had noticed what Norway was doing – investing its windfall from oil exports in new energy sources. Too late now for North Sea oil. We spent it on … well, possibly the banks.Meanwhile, our local councils run masterclasses in cognitive dissonance: frowning on climate change, "urging" action, insisting its aim is to "reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the council and the district", while forcing people to do things that will be costly in precisely those terms in the future.My guess is that a sensible government in the future would drop the whole idea of "listing" buildings. The trouble is that when the energy crunch comes, it will be too late. We'll have been driven down a road wearing the blinkers imposed by the past. Stupidity comes in many forms; and on this occasion, it comes in the form of insulation standing by a single-glazed window.
Microsoft is cutting another 800 jobs worldwide as it attempts to cope with falling demand for its products, the company announced today.The software maker said the cuts - which come on top of two earlier rounds of redundancies - were the latest part of its plan to cut 5,000 jobs worldwide in an attempt to reduce costs."Today, we are eliminating around 800 positions spread across multiple businesses and locations and have completed our reduction plan sooner than we had anticipated 11 months ago," the company said in a statement. "At the same time, we continue to hire in priority areas, but also understand that continuing to manage our businesses closely, as we always do, can mean additional headcount adjustments."Earlier this year Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer said the company would be cutting "up to" 5,000 positions, although the latest round of layoffs take the company beyond that initial figure.Although it did not say which areas of the business would be affected by the latest cuts, the company confirmed that 2% of its 2,700 jobs in the UK would be lost as a result of the decision."We are working closely with affected employees to help them through this difficult transition," said the statement. "While job eliminations are always difficult, we need to ensure that our investments are aligned to current and future revenue opportunities."The move comes shortly after the companyreported falling profits and revenues in its most recent financial filings. Although those results were actually ahead of Wall Street's expectations, they still marked a significant decline on the previous year - leaving the company still searching for ways to boost its bottom line and reduce unnecessary spending.While the extent of the job cuts is relatively small compared to previous layoffs - Microsoft still employs more than 90,000 people worldwide - they mark another blow to the company's ambitions, and are a reflection of its current struggle to keep its huge software business growing in the face of stiffening competition and the economic crisis.Until this year the world's biggest software company, which is based outside of Seattle, had never made any large-scale redundancies.Difficulties in the PC market - which has been hit hard by the recession - left the company withnegative growth for the first time in its 34-year history, even though observers were largely pleased by thelaunch last month of Windows 7, the company's latest operating system.Although its core business of operating systems and office software is still highly profitable, the numbers are waning - and increasing competition from the likes of Google has forced Microsoft to invest heavily in its loss-making internet unit.Even when the company has managed to make progress, things have not run smoothly. After the failed $44bn bid to buy Yahoo last year, chief executive Steve Ballmer did manage to forge an agreement with his Silicon Valley rival that would see Microsofttake over the advertising on Yahoo's search engine. However, that deal has been delayed and will not be completed until next year."This is the first time Microsoft has ever reduced headcount, so they're probably taking it slowly," said Matt Rosoff, an analyst with Directions on Microsoft.Rosoff said it was still not clear whether there would be more cuts in the future, with the figures surrounding Windows 7 still to be determined and the company continuing to make bullish predictions on the level of costs it can save."There are some groups affected more than others - they've just had a new release of Windows, which traditionally results in a reorganisation and some folk might not find a spot when the music stops," he said. "The cuts are mostly in sales and marketing, and less in research and development, but they have cut some products."
News siteGamesindustry.bizis running two interesting interviews at the moment -onewith Square Enix global president Yoichi Wada, theotherwith Codemasters CEO, Rod Cousens. Here's a quote from the former:"we want to develop and nurture new IPs - we want to work on them very carefully and thoroughly, which doesn't necessarily mean just increasing the number of people. We won't blindly launch new IPs, but we'll take time with each one so that they can be successful."And here's a chunk from the latter:"what we're not prepared to do and what we will not do as a company is more of the same. When you have a series of games... and the one thing that slightly troubles me in the market today is if we as an industry do not continue to innovate in games, we will turn off our consumer."While there may be a view that you can't publish new IP with any great success, I don't buy off on that. If all you're going to do is more of the same, then we'll face all the hurdles and obstacles that the music and movie businesses have faced before. If we don't learn from that, then shame on us."Notice the similarity? Yes, they're both talking about the importance of new IP.These are the sorts of platitudes videogame executives often roll out during industry interviews when they want to appear simultaneously pugnacious, visionary and in touch with the games community - but cruciallydon'twant to stoke controversy or upset anyone. Everyone agrees that new IP is good, that the industry could do with more of it, and that we'll all be in trouble if someone doesn't jolly well do something about it. It's a bit like being more responsible about the environment, except the planet won't die/drown/explode if no-one develops the next saleable videogame franchise.The difficult bit is actually doing something about it. Certainly, Codemasters has performed reasonably well in this regard, launching Rise of the Argonauts, Damnation and FUEL this year, and lining up the bank robbery adventure HEI$T for 2010. Square Enix, though, spent most of 2009 releasing Final Fantasy offshoots and DS versions of classic SNES RPGs. Looking forward, the company's financial hopeswould seem to be pinnedon Final Fantasy XIII and... Final Fantasy XIV.Sure, Square has always been about Final Fantasy, just as Enix has always been about Dragon Quest. But in the mid-nineties, Square was also firing out original IP at an impressive rate, the likes of Chrono Trigger, Front Mission, Bushido Blade and Xenogears all attracting considerable praise. Wada says he will be cautious about new IP, but really, in this day and age, caution is anathema to originality - it's bloody madness to create a new game in an industry where big releases cost £20m a pop, so it is necessary to gamble, and it is necessary at times to fail.I'd almost rather hear a CEO say, actually, who cares about new IP? This reliance on tie-ins and sequels seems to be working just fine - there's enough established IP out there to keep us going indefinitely, why upset the apple cart with expensive 'failures' like Mirror's Edge or MadWorld? No one wants to say it, but it's almost certainly being thought.Original IP is a tyrannical concept looming over the industry making everyone feel guilty. It's the Jacob Marley of games - bigwigs hear its clanging chains and panic. They'd love to plan it into their release schedules, stick a couple of titles on the spreadsheet, but the problem is, originality doesn't work like that.This is why it's so frustrating to see executives calmly and rationally attempting to ease the concept of new IP into their ordered and sensible construction of the games business. It'll be guts and flair that lead to innovation, it'll never be the allocation of resources on an Excel sheet, it'll never be dictated from the boardroom. And you know why? Because it's not IP, it's a game, agame. If you can't bear to say the word, you'll never really understand it.
Fifteen years after it established the beat-em-up standard for next generation consoles, Tekken remains a showcase for how 1-on-1 fighting should be done.Featuring its most complete roster of fighters yet, Tekken 6 boasts more than 40 characters, including favourites such as Jin and Paul, newer recruits like Dragunov and six all-new characters such as the chainsaw-wielding Alyssa. Between them there's almost every weapon, appendage and move you can imagine to please all types of player – from button-bashing novices to 10-hit combo masters depending on how prodigious your move-memory is. The basics are typically solid, mapping a limb to each button and leaving the rest to a combination of D-pad or Left stick presses, buttons and careful timing. Some of these can be learned in Practice mode; others, like wall juggles and the new "bound" system for aerial attacks, can only be mastered by experimenting – ideally with another player.Speaking of which, there's a new Ghost Battle Mode that lets you download more than 100 new fighting "personalities" – beefing up both the online and offline experience of a game that's otherwise lacking innovation. Even the new "Rage" system that adds a destructive second wind to your fighter (coincidentally similar to Borderlands) is more of a gimmick than a genuinely new tactic. In play, Tekken 6 is still majestic to behold, now complete with HD textures that maintain a healthy frame rate even while helicopters are smashing into the destructible scenery around you. However, with a noticeable lag during some online bouts, occasional clipping and tedious loading times between levels, it feels like a less polished and complete effort than Tekken 5.Meanwhile, the game's biggest new feature, the Scenario Campaign, is a bewildering addition at best. Imagine a pseudo-3D version of Double Dragon with you and an NPC partner mincing from point to point, dispatching identikit goons and boss characters punctuated by mini arena tournaments that are better experienced in Arcade mode. With no means of looking around as enemies materialise from thin air, you're constantly left waiting for the camera to move, often with enemies raining down blows on you from behind. Admittedly it's chock-full of bonuses and a riveting animated recap of the series so far, but it does nothing to broaden the game's appeal, which was surely the whole point of including it.So no, this isn't a new dawn for beat-em-ups, especially after Street Fighter 4's new attitude and energy. However, with its biggest line-up of fighters and massive arena battles that still deliver the most perfectly balanced fighting action money can buy, Tekken fans will be enjoying and, no doubt, debating its merits for months to come.
It's somewhat shocking to discover from a Google Doodle thatSesame Streetis 40 years old. The educational show created by the Children's Television Workshop certainly has legs, as they say, and Google has chosen to highlight the ones belonging to Big Bird rather than exploit Kermit, Bert and Ernie, Elmo or other likely candidates…Well, that's true for the US and Canada, though your local version of Google may vary. There are different logos and different characters in different countries, asThe Next Webhas pointed out. And in the UK, where Sesame Street (as distinct from The Muppets) has not had the same cultural impact, Google has gone withWallace and Gromit's 20th birthdayinstead.Google's Sesame Street celebration is slightly early -- it should be on 10 November, when there will be an anniversary show featuring First Lady Michelle Obama, with or without Hula Hoop. There will also be a couple of books: Sesame Street: A Celebration of Forty Years of Life on the Street, and Street Gang: The Complete History of Sesame Street.When I was growing up in Canada in the early 1970s*, I almost never missed Sesame Street, and while Big Bird was never the best character, I enjoyed his jousts with Mr Hooper Hooper. In the UK, however, the series was considered too fast-paced and people frowned on its use of advertising techniques. Of course, a series made for disadvantaged inner-city kids also had lots of elements unfamiliar in suburban Surrey, or even Islington. And even the most brilliant of those early episodes would not pass through the Political Correctness barrier today.* Technically, I was doing an MA atUBCat the time, but I also did some toddler-sitting with some of Sesame Street's biggest fans.
(Click for larger image)Something is killing a number of Apple's Time Capsule - its wireless, networked, remote storage device launched with great fanfare in January 2008 by Steve Jobs - prematurely.Suspicions have fallen on the internal design of the system: specifically, that thedrives simply overheatpower supplydies, killing the electronics. And once yourhard drivepower supplyhas died, you haven't got much hope of resuscitating it. There's no external power supply: the power supply unit, rectifier, hard drive, and wireless are all in the same tight box. (Updatedwith info from Pim van Bochoven - see below. It's specifically thepower supply, not the hard drive, that dies.)TheTime Capsule Memorialsite, set up only on 12 October by the "annoyed" Dutch ex-Time Capsule user Pim van Bochoven, has already got more than 750 registrations from people all over the world whose machines have died after as little as 17 days' use. The longest-lived on the site is 643 days - though that's not much more than 21 months. The average for those submitted is stubbornly around the 540-day mark.He says he created it because "I was annoyed by Apple refusing to acknowledge that there's a problem. When my TC died, I was overwhelmed by the sheer number of people who had the same experience in such a small timeframe (it started around end of August). Instead of (just) complaining on discussion boards that Apple never reads, I figured we'd have a better chance of getting Apple to take notice when we are able to provide a better overview of the scale of this 'thing'. And of course, getting enough attention in doing so, not only towards Apple, but also to get as much people who are affected by the massive failure aware of the project."Apple however has declined to replace the systems, saying that they're out of its one-year warranty. (However one of the UK users had it fail after just 31 days, and two others had failures in less than 365 days: they should have cases under the Sale of Goods act.)I asked an Apple representative to comment on this and whether Apple would take any action or could explain why it was happening. Apple has not responded.Of course it is not possible to say what proportion of Time Capsules are failing, as Apple has not released sales figures; but nor will everyone whose device has failed have registered it on van Bochoven's site.However any failure is a long way from theclaims made at its launch: ""With Time Capsule and Time Machine, all your irreplaceable photos, movies and documents are automatically protected and incredibly easy to retrieve if they are ever lost." Apparently Steve Jobs told that to an Apple PR person. He hasn't yet told it to anyone whose Time Capsule has died peacefully in its sleep during the night - leaving them screaming in horror.What's the cause of the failures? "Overheated electronics," says van Bochoven. "Apparently the power supply's capacitors can't take heat for such a long period of time. Like so many others, I noticed that the TC gets really hot, but I hadn't expected this to become fatal in just 18 months time."He thinks that Apple should recall them all: "It's tough, but the [Time Capsule] thermal design is really a big mistake. The problem of course is the data stored on the harddisk, which cannot be taken out by an average user."There is an option to fix it by creating an external power supply - Ray Haverfield has asite explaining how to do it.  But you might find that unattractive.For those with long memories, this whole overheating affair will bring back memories of the problems with the early versions of Apple's first wireless device, the Apple Airport Base Station. Those, too, turned out to beprone to overheating. That was back in 2001.In fact Apple sometimes seems like it's prone to problems with thermal cycling: remember thelogic board on the iBook G4?Whether this will now lead to some action by Apple is hard to tell. It may require a class action in the US - but we'd still say that people in the UK whose Time Capsule fails within a year of purchase have a very good case for replacement (though we don't know if you'll be able to keep the disk with the data); if it fails within two years you might be able to. On that topic, you'd need to refer to ourCapital Letters consumer section...Update:we've also been directed to the HardMac page which points tohundreds of Apple's Airport Express (plug-in Wi-Fi servers) dyingafter about 18 months. And of course Microsoft's Xbox360 has beenplagued by heat-related failure problems. The fact that this is so widespread does seem to point to something more general - a point we'll pursue.Meanwhile I've asked Apple specifically if it will acknowledge a problem with the design of the Time Capsule, if it will replace them for those older than one year, and if it will guarantee to restore the data from hard drives (as those shouldn't be affected by the thermal problems). We await a reply.
If any lingering doubts remained as to the true relevance and importance of downloadable content, Episodes From Liberty City will finally blow them away. Consisting of the second and third instalments of Grand Theft Auto IV – The Lost &amp; Damned and The Ballad Of Gay Tony – packaged on a single disc and available, in a coup for Microsoft, exclusively to Xbox 360 owners, Episodes From Liberty City is sufficiently meaty to be accorded a status not far below a full-blown new GTA release.Of the two episodes, The Lost &amp; Damned is the most familiar, having been available for download for some time. It takes a gritty approach (enhanced by a clever visual filter), focusing on a biker gang called The Lost Motorcycle Club, in which you play Johnny Klebnitz, the gang's number two, but in temporary charge while club president Billy Grey is in rehab. Naturally, the psychotic Billy soon returns, to undo all your efforts to bump the game up the organised crime ladder. Story-wise, The Lost &amp; Damned is as rich and involving as we have come to expect from GTA, and the missions focus on combat and riding motorbikes. All thoroughly enjoyable, but it's GTA at its most serious and reflective (although fear not, that doesn't mean it isn't rammed with filth and outrage).Whereas The Lost &amp; Damned is low-down and dirty, The Ballad Of Gay Tony is loud, brash, in-your-face and thoroughly over the top. It sure doesn't mess around. You play Luis Lopez, "business partner", bodyguard and general right-hand man for the eponymous Gay Tony, owner of the two most successful nightclubs in Manhattan (one gay, one straight, naturally). Everybody loves Tony – he's a charismatic party animal – but he is heroically feckless, with a penchant for doing things like apparently selling his clubs to two different buyers – and it's up to you to clean up his spectacular messes.A process which, from the off, consists of deliciously spectacular missions – less than an hour into the game, you will have taken out a building-full of homicidal Chinatown gangsters, pulled a girl off your club's dancefloor for a knee-trembler in a toilet cubicle, hit golf balls at a bolshy Union official strapped to the front of a Mafioso's golf cart, blown up a crane, train and plane and, at the behest of the gloriously monstrous and deluded Yusuf (voiced by Omid Djalili), and stolen an attack-helicopter (in the grand GTA manner an absolute pig to fly) from a drug-dealer's gin-palace, which you then use to blow the aforementioned yacht to smithereens, plus the drug-runners escaping in a flotilla of boats.Later on, you take part in a base-jumping contest, and the missions become astonishingly spectacular. The Ballad Of Gay Tony distils all that is best about GTA into a hilarious, larger-than-life romp. If you haven't downloaded The Lost &amp; Damned, Episodes From Liberty City is a must-buy. And if you have, make sure you download The Ballad Of Gay Tony, too.
On Symantec's security blog,Ben Nahorney has posted a storyabout a 1980s-style Mac game that deliberately deletes files in your home directory. Symantec classes this as a threat, OSX.Loosemaque.Having watched the video, there doesn't seem to be anything deceptive about it. The game's opening screen says in block capitals that "Playing Lose/Lose will likely result in files on your hard drive being deleted" and "Killing in Lose/Lose deletes your files".And asLonnie Lazar points out at Cult of Mac:The game in question is an art project called Lose/Lose that first appeared on the webback in September, created by digital artist Zach Gage and featured in Electrofringe's current exhibition of online art,Electro Online 2009.The idea behind the project is to use game mechanics to call into question the idea of mindless killing for fun. Are gamers so obsessive they must kill aliens at any cost? In the game, each alien is based on a random file on the players computer. If the player kills the alien, the file it is based on is deletedPity Symantec didn't spot that -- or, apparently, that "Sophos' Anti-Virus and Intego's VirusBarrier X5 also define the game as a threat," as the Cult of Mac story also points out.The problem with the art-not-threat argument is that the game could still have victims who don't pay attention to what they're doing, never bother to read game instructions anyway, or don't understand English. Some of those could be children. While the game might be well-intentioned, it could still cause damage. It's like distributing a toy gun that fires real bullets.Nahorney explains another reason it's a potential threat:While interesting in its own right, there's nothing stopping someone with more malicious intentions from modifying it slightly and then passing it on to unsuspecting users, causing significant damage to a computer. As a result, we're detecting this threat as OSX.Loosemaque.Of course, it might also be adapted to provide a mildly amusing (if stupidly long-winded) way of deleting files you don't want. Hardly any programs make file deletion fun, though I do remember a Windows Filofax-style program called Threadz Organizer (which was then bought by Lotus). When you chucked something into its waste bin, the unwanted file burst into flames….
Modern Warfare 2 may be set to break all gaming sales records but Grand Theft Auto is still the franchise to beat. This means the release of Chinatown Wars for the PSP is a big deal. Well big-ish. The title was originally released for the Nintendo DS and may come as a surprise to those used to the 3D version of the series.Like the original 90s GTA games the graphics are viewed from the top down and lack the realistic harder edge seen in the likes of GTA IV. And the game too is a more light-hearted take on the series. But don't be fooled – this is still a GTA with all the car chases and over-the-top plotlines you would expect. In this case the latter involves working for the triads to recover an ancient sword.But as usual with GTA games there is always a mammoth to-do list to get through. In Chinatown Wars there is plenty of drug-dealing too. If you tire of buying and selling there is still all the car-jacking and shoot-outs you would expect. Yes, the Daily Mail would not be amused.Chinatown Wars has some issues, though. Compared with the Nintendo DS original, Chinatown Wars on the PSP looks a lot sharper and smoother.Unfortunately the lack of second screen and stylus means that some of the features – such as lock-cracking and bomb-making – are much clunkier to play on the PSP. Chinatown Wars also has plenty of the sudden difficulty spikes that have always plagued the series.The PSP has always been the most technically impressive of the handhelds but has never had the quantity of A-grade games it should have. Given this paucity Chinatown Wars is certainly worth a look. It is hardly the most graphically impressive game on the PSP but packs in more entertainment than most and is unlikely to disappoint.
The founders of Skype are closing in on a deal that could end a complex legal battle and give them back a significant stake in the internet telephony service.The move, sparked by arguments over the technology that underpins the popular internet service, could bring down the curtain on a drawn-out fracas that had threatened the $2bn attempt by eBay to offload part of its stake in Skype - but could also drastically change the nature of the deal.The Guardian understands that negotiations between eBay and JoltId - a company owned by Skype's founders Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis - are close to reaching a conclusion, with the parties prepared to settle alawsuit filed in Septemberalleging that Skype was breaching a licensing agreement by continuing to use JoltId's proprietary "Global Index" system.The argument had beenbrewing for some months, but a string of lawsuits were filed shortly after the Californian auction siteagreed to sell 65% of Skype for $1.9bn earlier this year. That agreement, with a consortium of buyers,With a deal now thought to be on the table, however, a number of press reports suggest the Scandinavian duo could regain a share of the company they sold for  $2.6bn in 2005 - at the expense of some of the other proposed investors.Reports fromthe All Things Digital blogand theWall Street Journalsuggest that two crucial players in $1.9bn deal - venture capital firm Index Ventures and respected Silicon Valley executive Mike Volpi - could drop their involvement.Instead, they would be replaced by Zennstrom and Friis, who are keen to recover their stake in the company they started in 2002.It would mark a bizarre end to the latest chapter in Skype's story, which took a twist when the duo made specific claims that Index and Volpi had abused their inside knowledge of JoltId's business in order to boost the chances of the deal succeeding.After filing one action to block the deal in September, a separate legal filing shortly afterwards alleged that Volpi and Index hadstolen trade secrets in order to forge the deal for Skype. Lawyers argued that the groups used their intimate knowledge acquired through another company, Joost - a video startup also founded by the Scandinavian duo and that Volpi was running.Joost has now been liquidated, and Volpi proceeded to take on a position with Index - a venture capital group based in London that has been an early investor in dotcom success stories such as Last.fm, Betfair.com and MySQL.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Remember when consoles just did gaming? Those days are long gone granddad, but the Sky Player on Xbox 360 farce shows that the path to general entertainment box is far from smooth. If you own a 360 and live in the UK then you will probably be aware that that the Sky Player launch has been beset with problems. The sheer amount of 360 owners who wanted to watch sports and Sky news – ok, probably just the sports – on their consoles clearly surprised Sky and Microsoft. The good news – for those who can afford thesteep subscription charges– is that the service appears to be rolling out successfully now. Anyone here managed to connect yet? What do you think?PS3 and PSP owners shouldn't feel too left out though.  Sony America hasjust added some new partners– the largest of which is Lucasarts - to their video download service. According to Sony:PlayStation Network now boasts the most content of any downloadable video delivery service through a videogame console available todayUK, France and Spain should get the service – currently US only – later this year so comparisons with the 360 video on demand offer can be properly made then. In the meantime PS3 owners in the UK can at least enjoy the rather neat BBC iPlayer integration on their PS3.So what does it all mean? Will we ever see a day when potential buyers see the quality of the video service to be as important as the games offering when it comes to choosing a console? Or is video simply a nice additional service – maybe something to placate your partner? – when you need a break from gaming?
&bull; Afteraccusationsthat some social network application developers are acting unethically - making money by tricking people into paying for services they don't want -MySpaceboss Owen Van Natta has said thatsuch deceptive practices will be banned on the site.&bull; It wouldn't be surprising if you haven't heard ofACTA- the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement that is currently under negotiation - after all, a number of governments have been fighting to keep the details secret. But according to Canadian law professor and campaignerMichael Geist, leaked details of the talks suggest that aglobal three strikes policy could be on the wayand the dissolution of "safe harbour" or "mere conduit" rules for internet service providers. TheElectronic Frontier Foundationhas more detail.&bull; Hallowe'en might be over for this year (though in my house, it's never over for personal reasons - it's my birthday) but that doesn't mean you can't marvel at the great costumes people made. Thisbig-head wireframe by Eric Testroetehas had a lot of admirers, while thisthis baby Katamari costumeis great. More in the comments, please!You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
A couple of weeks ago, I posted abouta selection of forthcoming eventsthat I thought would interest Gamesblog readers. Since then several more have been announced, so here's a new list.Wunderbar FestivalWhere:various locations across the North EastWhen:November 6-15What:The press release describes this curious event as a, "dynamic new festival of contemporary performances, visual art, and extraordinary happenings for the North East placing the audience at the heart of the experience." I like the look of Jamie Allen'sFrom Here On Out, a kind of augmented reality tour of Newcastle city centre and Goh Ideta, interactive light installation,Reflections.Bradford Animation FestivalWhere:National Media Museum, BradfordWhen: November 10-14What: For the fifth year running this internationally respected event is running a dedicated gaming channel, which takes place over the first two days. Aimed mainly at students keen to get into game development, the diary is jammed with fascinating speakers including representatives from Sony London Studios (the team behind all the PlayStation 'Eye' games), Team17 and Bizarre Creations. There will also be a live opening night performance by top chiptunesmith, PixelH8. It's also worth catching as much of the animation strand as possible - there's some amazing stuff on show, taking in professional full-length movies as well as student films, short animations, music videos and animations for children. Highly recommended.Alternate Reality Gaming conferenceWhere:Serious Games Institute, CoventryWhen:November 11What:I've been covering urban and alternative reality games quite a bit recently, so I was intrigued to see this on BAFTA's schedule of regional events. The press release promises, "an intensive afternoon of talks and workshops exploring the emergence of Alternate Reality Games - games that utilize real spaces, online spaces and virtual worlds, providing successful examples and case studies." If you've enjoyed the works of, say, ARG specialist,42 Entertainment, or interactive art group,Blast Theory, this should be good. Tickets are availablehere.As If It Were the Last TimeWhere:London, Bristol, LiverpoolWhen:November 12, 13, 14What:Duncan Speakman, a member of theVauxhall Collective, is a sound and video artist who often uses the 'flash mob' concept to create fully interactive cinematic happenings. For this project, taking place in three cities over consecutive evenings, prospective audience members can sign up via thededicated website, where they'll receive an MP3 file to copy onto their mobiles or ipods. Participants then turn up at the designated meeting point, put their headphones on and play the track, following the instructions it provides. According to the press details, "the audience members will see the street they walk down framed in a very different way as Speakman, with the help of a plethora of artists, actors, sound engineers and musicians, offers them an alternative view of their surroundings". Apparently it'll be like simultaneously appearing in and watching a film. Except on a street. With real people. Intriguing...NEoNWhere:DundeeWhen:November 13-15What:This scintillating new games fest was criminally overlooked in my last events round-up, so I'm making up for it here. NEoN boasts a huge list of speakers including the likes of Dave Jones, Andy Sithers from Microsoft and ex-Pixar bigwig Bud Luckey. Plus, there's a luscious music event named Video Games Live kicking the whole thing off, featuring orchestras and choirs performing classic game soundtracks. There will doubtless be plenty of networking opportunities, too, for those looking to get a foot in the door. Dundee is, of course, a videogame development nerve centre, with the likes of Realtime Worlds, Ruffian Games, Tag Games, Proper Games and Denki all within a few hundred yards of each other. There are some nice pubs too...Lisson Presents 7 art exhibitionWhere:Lisson Gallery, LondonWhen:November 24 - 'early in the New Year'What:A collection of works by Lisson's stable of artists, guest curated by leading digital artistCory Arcangel. I've written about Cory a few times on Gamesblog before; he's heavily influenced by videogames and uses lots of familiar gaming motifs in his work - check outSuper Mario Clouds, a hacked version of Super Mario Brothers, and the re-written gun game,I Shot Andy Warhol. Several of Cory's own works will be exhibited, too, includingSans Simon.Games Networking NightWhere:David Lean Room, BAFTA, LondonWhen:November 27What:Another interesting BAFTA event, this time billed as an, "informal networking evening for anyone who works (or has an interest in) the games industry." It looks like there will be some playable games. And drinking. Sounds like our sort of thing, doesn't it? The evening starts at 18:00 and costs £5.
Tales from the Twilight Zone of the iPhone App Store, pt 946: Apple has rejected an ebook submitted by Macworld because it contains the word "iPhone".Yes. It's true. Even though there is another ebook called "iPhone: The Missing Manual". And that if you do a search in the iTunes App Store on "iPhone", you get a stack of results.Jason Snell, one of the reviewers and editors at Macworld,tweetedin indignant fury about the problem - which he couldn't see a way around. "We were told: You can't show an iPhone or even use the word iPhone in the icon. [But] It's the SUBJECT OF THE BOOK."His outrage was not leavened by the fact that David Pogue - occasional reviewer for the New York Times - has written a book about the iPhone . "Note the title and icon", Snell wrote. Though it came across more like a virtual snarl. (You can see the pic above.)"So basically, you can write a book about the iPhone, and even sell that book on the App Store, but you can't say what the book is about.""I have to admit, my initial response to Apple's rejection was to replace the word iPhone with the image of a hand giving Apple the finger.""We worked with Apple's rejectors," hecontinued. "Removed the image of the iPhone. Changed title to bogus [ie not much good, rather than 'false' - CA] 'Macworld Superguide for iPhone' still rejected.""FWIW [For what it's worth], we had a very productive app approval process for our App Gems app. It included one reasonable rejection, and we fixed the issue," Snellexplained. "I appreciate Apple wanting to protect its trademarks. However, publishers need to be able to communicate the subject of their content.""In the real world, we can actually name products because of the First Amendment. In the App Store, Apple's product names are sacrosanct," hegrumbled.And then a brainwave: how about, heposited, "New title: "Macworld Superguide For The Product You're Holding Right Now."The madness of the iPhone App Store rejection criteria - which seem to come and go like the weather, withsome having calculatedthat every reviewer (it's believed to be a small team) has to review 80 prospective apps per day,everyday - has been well documented here before. Look, here's the0870 app;Ninjawords;Eucalyptus book reader(rejected, you'll recall, because you could, if you tried, find the Kama Sutra, being as how it's out of copyright and all); and of courseGoogle Voice, which Apple has always maintained it hasn't rejected, it simply has "under review". Uh-huh. For how many months now?Amidst all the praise for Apple's App Store, it's always worth reminding ourselves of the reality that comes with its review process. Sure, there's an app for that. But how many other apps for that, or for something entirely different, have we never seen because it got rejected for the most spurious or groan-inducing of reasons?UPDATE:Snell says that somebody from Apple contacted him to say it was a "misunderstanding" - that a reviewer misunderstood the terms - and he is now resubmitting it.
There are few things that annoy me more than fake transparency. The duplicity of being lied to makes it all the worse when you realise somebody who says they're being open with you is, in fact, just pretending.Right now, we're experiencing an epidemic of openness, particularly in government. Just witness the way that everybody fromBarack ObamatoDavid CamerontoSan Franciscois jumping on the open bandwagon to get an idea of the importance of the concept of openness in government at the moment. Along the way, the buzzword gets grabbed by anyone trying to appear transparent - such as Adobe, who are trying tomarket closed standards as open onesin order to get more business from government.Now, it seems, there could be a whole new attempt to pay lip service to openness for me to get annoyed about.Somewhere in a dark corner of the Brussels, there is a document known as the European Interoperability Framework - an outline for governments giving them a basic idea of how to make sure their computer systems work together.The EIF is not the law, per se, but it is an important guideline that helps set a number of standards for wonks and policy people, so that (hopefully) the right decisions get made at a national and local level.That's not only important because it might boost efficiency somewhere along the line, but because it promotes cooperation, competition and transparency - and stops corporate interests from getting an unfair lock on government business.Well, a new version of the EIF is being drafted and Glyn Moody, a sometime contributor to these pages, has written about the subjectover at ComputerWorld UK. Thanks to a leaked version of the document, he points out that Europe could be preparing to dramatically alter the wording of the document in a way that seriously changes the for what is considered an open standard.The old guidance, which has been in place since 2004, was a fairly straightforward definition: maintained by a non-profit group and updated in public view, cost-free, royalty-free and reusable.The new one? Here's what theleaked document(PDF) says:Within the context of the EIF, openness is the willingness of persons, organisations or other members of a community of interest to share knowledge and to stimulate debate within that community of interest, having as ultimate goal the advancement of knowledge and the use thereof to solve relevant problems. In that sense, openness leads to considerable gains in efficiency.So now, if this draft gets ratified, "openness" becomes merely the willingness to share - a closed system can become open if the participants talk about it publicly, whether they actually open anything up or not.It's easy to get excised about semantics, but hey - I work with words, and I think they can be very powerful things. Perhaps it's time to take back the word "open" or redefine it so that it can't be abused.
The financial difference between buying an iPhone from Orange and O2may be minimal, but it seems that there are other restrictions that could help shoppers make up their mind which network to plump for.When the price plans for Orange's handsets wereannounced yesterday, it was widely reported that the mobile network was imposing a download cap to prevent users from abusing the network. Orange customers will only be able to download 750MB of data over the mobile network (not Wi-Fi) before they are in breach of their contract and could have their service restricted.The idea is to stop the company's 3G network getting overloaded, but what does the cap actually involve? Over at the BBC, Rory Cellan-Jonesspotted this rather disturbing phrasein the company's terms and conditions:"Not to be used for other activities (eg using your handset as a modem, non-Orange internet based streaming services, voice or video over the internet, instant messaging, peer to peer file sharing, non-Orange internet based video). Should such use be detected notice may be given and Network protection controls applied to all services which Orange does not believe constitutes mobile browsing."That list of non-Orange streaming services would be pretty long, including music services like Spotify, voice applications like Skype, instant messaging systems like AIM, and video streams like YouTube (aside from, one assumes, the built-in iPhone app). And that's just the tip of the iceberg.Just take a video service like the BBC iPlayer, which streams programs at a rate of around 516 kilobits per second - that means by my quick back-of-the-envelope calculations that you would fill up your 750MB limit by watching around 194 minutes of iPlayer video in a month.So what's really going on?In a statement, Orange have responded by saying that they don'treallywant to ban these applications - but they're only saying they will to make sure you don't overstep your bandwidth cap."We do not intend to apply network protection controls to anyone, as long as they are within their usage allowance," the company said. "The T&amp;Cs are in place to reserve the right to restrict access should they continue to exceed our Fair Usage policy."So essentially, they are saying that they aren't going to stop you from using non-Orange streaming applications, but if you overstep their limits then it's a way that they can enforce the terms of your contract.
This week on Tech Weekly, we hear from Miles Jacobson, who gives us the lowdown on not just what to expect from Football manager 2010, but what the future might bring to the games franchise. Bobbie also delves deep into the PlayPower project, a scheme aiming to equip kids in the developing world with computer skills, via good old 8-bit gaming.And of course, there's top tech news analysis, from the likes of the unrivalled Charles Arthur, touching on iphone pricing, illegal downloading an more, and finally, a look at what's been causing controversy on the blogs in the past week. Phew.Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
It's always risky merging two genres, especially two as well established as the FPS and the RPG, but Gearbox just about has the pedigree to try.Borderlands blurs boundaries at every step, with an almost ray-traced look that's a mix of cartoon, cyberpunk and wild west – think Mad Max and you're not far off the mark. You start the game by choosing from four characters each with their own preferred weapon class and style of combat. How these characters progress depends on how many kills you make and how many missions you complete, with skill points being spent on one of 21 ability upgrades to compensate for their initially poorly differentiated nature. After a brief tutorial, guided by your Wall-E style mascot, Claptrap, you're thrown into the massive dustball that is Pandora, a planet full of shanty towns punctuated by large expanses of desert. From then on, Borderlands progresses via through 100+ sub-quests ranging from simple fetch-and-carry tasks to killing particular targets, each opening up NPC allies who provide information or new weapons.Combat is handled with the same interface used in Call of Duty, namely left joystick to move and right to look, right trigger for firing and left to zoom in with your chosen weapon. The only unique combat trick are the 'Fight For Your Life' sequences – an emergency trick to replenish extra health by downing enemies without taking damage while the screen flashes. This is especially useful during the tense boss-battles that usually take place in sealed off locations and nearly always reduce you to your last dregs of energy. Speaking of combat, there's literally millions of weapons, most of which can be upgraded or modified. Yes, you read that correctly – millions, although you soon realise that most of these on-the-fly creations are subtle modifications of the usual rifles, pistols, rocket launchers etc.Much like Diablo or Dungeon Siege, weapons that can't be used in your initial two weapon slots can be used as currency when you find an NPC trader. You can also loot fallen foes for credits or ammo and pick up vehicles to speed your progress through the desert expanses. Borderlands is certainly a hefty slice of gaming, beautifully scripted and drawn and action-packed from start to finish. However, you have to play it for a while before the single player storyline really kicks in by which time you may have tired of the formulaic quests and countless (ultimately worthless) weapons. This makes it somewhat less than the self-proclaimed 'role playing shooter' it aims to be although there's a meaty 4-player co-op mode to dive into, which cranks up the difficulty and makes for more frantic, chaotic fun.All in all, Borderlands has more of the hit &amp; miss appeal of Far Cry 2 than the finely tuned Fallout 3, which it clearly aspires to, but it's a distinctive twist on the FPS nonetheless.
Conceptually, DJ Hero is immaculate: it's exactly analogous to Guitar Hero. As such, it picks the subject of DJing, removes all the aspects of that art which require skill – especially song-selection, beat-matching, cueing and mixing – picks some of its more striking physical elements and works them into a party game which won't teach you any essential skills but is fantastically good fun and fearsomely addictive.Instead of plastic instruments, you get a mini-turntable/mixer combo; the turntable has three colour-coded buttons representing left and right channels plus sound effects/samples in the middle, while the mixer has a cross-fader, a button for triggering Euphoria (DJ Hero's equivalent to Star Power) and an Effects knob, which operates much like a filter. The mixer can be clipped to either side of the turntable, accommodating left-handers. Which is just as well, since the system has quirks – the most notable one being the need to scratch using your thumb, as the buttons have to be pressed with great precision, so you nail both the start and finish of scratches. Although right-handed, I was most comfortable with the turntable rotated through 90 degrees, with the buttons to the right rather than the left. Luckily, it's very flexible.It swiftly becomes obvious that DJ Hero actually concerns itself with a small subset of DJing, namely scratch DJing (all other DJs – well, more than 99% of the world's DJs, we'd hazard – ignore the notoriously unreliable cross-faders and mix using the channel faders). Thus you're really cutting, not mixing. But if you were doing anything more true-to-life, it wouldn't be anywhere near as much fun: the frenetic button-stabbing, cross-fader-flipping and scratching gives you a real work-out, and much satisfaction when you nail a complex passage.The key is to put together sequences, bumping up your multiplier with Euphoria, and filtering at the allotted times. Euphoria is handy because it gives you a period of automatic cross-fading, and when you rack up the multiplier, you get the chance to pull spin-backs and replay sections, which is the path to high scores and lots of stars. There are some tracks in which you can get a mate to accompany you on a Guitar Hero guitar. Music-wise, what you're essentially doing is creating mash-ups, so some surprisingly cheesy tracks are in evidence, albeit scratched, filtered and thrashed to within millimetres of their lives.Plenty of serious dance music heavyweights have contributed mash-ups, notably Grandmaster Flash, Jazzy Jeff, DJ Yoda and DJ Shadow, but musically, Daft Punk are the undisputed stars, although the Scratch Perverts delight in making you feel like a cack-handed fool. It isn't DJing as we know it – but it is irresistible party fun and, for a large proportion of the population, easier on the ears than Guitar Hero and its ilk.
Three years ago this month, a fledgling company called YouTube was bought by Google for $1.65 billion. Since then its dedicated army of commenters have developed a language of their own. Juvenile, aggressive, misspelled, sexist, homophobic, swinging from raging at the contents of a video to providing a pointlessly detailed description followed by a LOL, YouTube comments are a hotbed of infantile debate and unashamed ignorance – with the occasional burst of wit shining through.These are our some of our favourite comments. Please add your own after the jump – with links if you have got them.Simon and Garfunkel, Bridge over Troubled WaterIn brief:Triumphant swansong from world-beating 60s duo.Commentsthishereguitar:I don't know why, it's just me, but listening to this, I somehow understand why Art Garfunkel drove Paul Simon crazy.Cadbury's gorilla advert: In the Air TonightIn brief:Primate drums along to Phil Collins hit to advertise chocolate.Commentsmattbootry:you could sell oil to the arabs with an ad like thatfrilloz4:the arabs are the ones with the oil stupidColdplay, Fix YouIn brief:Heartwarmingly high-pitched lachrymose stadium rock hit.Commentssaeta:This band it's kinda cool, hope they do wellMateriaAlchemist:Umm... it's coldplay. They're already millionares!!Kings of Leon, MilkIn brief:2004 album track from now-massive American rockers.CommentsRonan21491:Kings of Leon are unbelievable..we all agree! FUCK u fools who think yee are the 'real' fans cuz u heard of them first? So stupid! IDOITS!!!!!!!!mudmonkey88:haha misspelled idiots bro...oh, the ironyMariah Carey, All I want for Christmas is YouIn brief:Seasonal 90s mega-hit from US soul singer.Commentschrisoltjuh:Merry Christmas And A Happy New Year  From The Netherlands!!! And Be Carefull With The Firework Dont Lose Your Fingers Hahaha Because I Have Lost 1 Finger Last Year hahaBeatles, Hey JudeIn brief:Hairy late 60s version of Fab Four perform for David Frost.Commentsbrian10jones:girl at 6.28 was hotJediMasters100:Who was the hottest beatle I think Ringo starr agreepokemaniac121:Ok, is it just me or does ANYBODY think that all the great people are British? Like, the best Authors, Musicians, Y'know, stuff like that.jb66ss396:You have it wrong...The Beatles except Ringo are of Irish decent. (#1 band today is U2 and are Irish) Also, many of the best authors/writers in recent history are of Irish decent.obiwanobiwan13:na, na na, na na na na...BrenAGC:no! its naaaaaaaaaa naaaaaa naa, na na na na, na na na naa... :Dobiwanobiwan13:na, na na, na na na na...BrenAGC:no! its naaaaaaaaaa naaaaaa naa, na na na na, na na na naa... :DOn the WaterfrontIn brief:Marlon Brando gives career-best performance as troubled ex-boxer Terry Molloy.Commentsiloveclassics50:i just came back from imdb and there was a huge controversy that women didnt like this film, am i the only girl on here who liked it? or is imdb people just bitter?pelytcb:Don't worry.......I loooove this film and I'm a 18 year old girl ;)iloveclassics50:i knew i couldnt have been the only one! :)animelegacy:My grandma still has a crush on him. LOL.Britney Spears, Hit Me Baby One More TimeIn brief:Pop phenomenon's paedo-baiting, school-uniform-fetishising first video.Commentsluchofelo06:I miss this great times when she was still NORMAL.Citizen Kane – final sceneIn brief:Ending of film consistently hailed as greatest ever made, in which media mogul's last word - "Rosebud" - is explained.Commentsnicebike1:"Rosebud" was William Randloph Hearst's slang for the clitorus of his girlfriend Marion Davies. Look closely at the picture of the rose on the sled in the fire.MAXXNinja:You are a fucking jackass, I don't care who you are I'll fucking beat the shit out of you, this is the greatest movie of all time.smokyprogg:The amount of people who flat-out don't "get" this is astounding.capaldicorporations:Care to enlighten the ignorant masses, oh wise one?rainbowdragonyoshi:Me like RoseBudBand Aid, Do they know it's Christmas?In brief:80s rock stars join in harmony to feed the world.CommentsPistolPeteSCFC:How uninterested does Sting look about the whole thing? Pisses me off.Style Council, Long Hot SummerIn brief:Unexpectedly homoerotic video from pop star who grew up to become laddish "Modfather" of dadrock.Commentsedobriensgrin:I neither know nor care about his orientation :P Paul's great. All videos looked "gay" in the 80s, it was a very camp decade!
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
I was out yesterday so missed this nice snippet ofRare related news. Rare? You know, theOasis of videogame developers– ie fantastic in the 90s but struggling to be relevant in the 21st century. Ok, they were hugely relevant in the 80s too, but you get my point. The noughties have not been a classic time for Rare games. Grabbed by the Ghoulies had its moments but one of their more recent titles that did make an impression was Kameo. It stood out from the other Xbox 360 launch titles by being colourful, humorous and slightly nostalgic (a Zelda-ish fantasy setting). It didn't stand a chance.360 owners love their grey and brown shooters, especially the early adopters, and Kameo tanked at retail. So the speculation that Kameo 2 was canned is not a surprise. Given the sales disasters for Banjo Kazooie: Nuts and Bolts and Viva Pinata it would be a surprise if a Kameo 2 fared any better. It is a shame though. None of these titles are classics but all bought some much needed colour and (British) humour to an increasingly hardcore 360 catalogue. But maybe all today's gamer wants is Modern Warfare and GTA? Is there any interest in colourful "childish" games on the 360? Heck, how would LittleBigPlanet fared on the Xbox?What do you think? Would you have bought Kameo 2? Or should Rare just give up on traditional games and focus on Project Natal titles?
The White House has yet to appoint a head of cybersecurity, more than five months after President Obama announced that protecting America's computer systems was a "national security priority".The slow progress has left some senior figures concerned that government officials are not taking the threat seriously - despite a string of high-profile attacks on America's internet infrastructure.The role, which is meant to draw together different areas of the nation's cyberdefence for the first time, wasannounced earlier this yearas part of an attempt to coordinate organisations including the National Security Agency, Department of Homeland Security and the Pentagon.In May, President Obama said that it was vital to establish a White House office responsible for coordinating cybersecurity because it was "one of the most serious economic and national security challenges we face"."Cyberspace is real, and so is the risk that comes with it," he said at the time. "From now on, our digital infrastructure will be treated as a strategic asset."The move came after a series of revelations about failures in online security that had potential impact across the US and Europe. One report suggestedChinese hackers had successfully infiltrated the system that operates the US electrical grid, while others suggested that computer criminals hadstolen valuable documentsrelating to the military's £182bn Joint Strike Fighter programme - which is being jointly funded by the UK government.Such news also encouraged British officials to follow suit, with Gordon Brown announcing a similar plan tocreate a new security centre to protect the UK from hackersshortly afterwards.It is not yet clear who might be in line to take the White House position, but one frontrunner for the job - former Bush administration adviser Melissa Hathaway - quashed expectations that she would take over when she left her position with the government over the summer.Hathaway - whooversaw the lightning reviewthat led to the creation of the new, centralised cybersecurity role - resigned in August citing family commitments, and is now working at Harvard.Last month she said that she was never a serious contender for the top job, and toldFederal News Radiothat the failure to announce a cybersecurity adviser was not an indication that the job was considered a low priority.That view was echoed last week by Chris Painter, who took over from Hathaway as the White House's acting senior coordinator for cybersecurity."That process is well underway, it's moving forward, and there's not much more I can offer on that," he told a meeting in Washington. "You shouldn't confuse the fact that the person is not in place with the fact that activity is not really going on in the cybersecurity directorate."However, those comments have yet to satisfy those who believe that the job must be filled sooner rather than later. A number of senior political figures - including former vice presidential candidate Joe Lieberman - have urged officials to fill the vacancy."Of course, I'm concerned that we have yet to see that person emerge," said Congresswoman Yvette Clark, who chairs a subcommittee on cybersecurity. "I know the process is underway to identify the individual, the vetting process is one that is very slow and deliberate."
Remember the news that Microsoft hadtapped up Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlanefor a TV show sponsorship?The software megacorp said it was going to ditch traditional advertising around a comedy special (due to be broadcast next week) in favour of "deeply integrated" mentions of Windows 7. The prospect left me a little aghast, and you too -AlanAudiosaid it would be "memorable for all the wrong reasons", whileSlabmansaid it was a brilliant way "to put ammo in the hands of your detractors".Turns out itwasall a little bit too much for Microsoft. They've pulled their sponsorship, after seeing the show. According to thisSeattle PI story, Microsoft said:"We initially chose to participate in the Seth and Alex variety show based on the audience composition and creative humor of 'Family Guy'... but after reviewing an early version of the variety show it became clear that the content was not a fit with the Windows brand."Instead, the comedy show will be sponsored by Warner Bros - which will use it to trail the new Sherlock Holmes movie, starring Robert Downey Jr and Jude Law.My question: if Windows 7 was so "deeply integrated" into the show (largely, one has to expect, in the form of the script itself) then how can it simply be removed? And did Microsoft really expect that it would be any different?
&bull; Hot on the heels of thecontroversial Demos surveythat suggested filesharers spend more on music than average consumers,McAfeehas found rather than squash the rate of p2p activity online, the temporary closure of thePirate Bayactually led to a 300% surge in activity(via PCPro).&bull; Here's one I missed while on holiday last week, but seems as useful today as it was on Friday: theConfickerworm has now infected more than 7 million computers worldwide(courtesy of IDG).&bull; And a treat for digital historians, courtesy ofMark Pilgrim- who dug around the mailing lists from the early days of web development and pulled out the reasonswhy HTML has an IMG tag. In a nutshell: a number of ideas were proposed by various luminaries, but (as Pilgrim says) Mark Andreessen won out by shipping code that did it the way he thought would work.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The world's eyes are  focused on a small village calledArgletonjust off the A59 near Ormskirk, Lancashire. Camera crews have been dispatched. "Argleton" is fast becoming a popular hashtag on Twitter. There is even talk of  merchandising opportunities.The reason for all the interest is simple: Argleton doesn't actually exist. It is a phantom village that appears on Google Maps. You can search online for Argleton's local weather forecast (10C yesterday), property prices (not much for sale at the moment) or for the number of a local plumber, but in reality the village's coordinates point to little more than a muddy field. However, just a few hundred metres away stands the very real village of Aughton. So, is this a case of a simple spelling mistake by a cartographer? Or is Argleton evidence of something more conspiratorial afoot in the county? After all, the Ormskirk and Skelmersdale Advertiser has already posed the question of whether the Argleton mystery might indicate the presence of a "Bermuda triangle of West Lancashire".The man who originally  noticed Argleton on Google Maps holds a somewhat more rational view. Mike Nolan works as  head of web services at Edge Hill  University in Ormskirk and posted on his blog more than a year ago that he'd noticed the anomaly."I grew up in the area and spotted on the map one day that it said 'Argleton'," he says. "But it's just a farmer's field close to the village hall and playing fields. I think a footpath goes across the field, but that's all. The name 'Argleton' is similar to 'Aughton'. Maybe someone made a mistake when keying in the name?"It's a plausible explanation, and one supported by Professor Danny Dorling, the president of the Society of Cartographers: "I would bet that this is an innocent mistake. In other words, it was not intentionally inserted to catch out anyone infringing the map's copyright, as some are saying. But the bottom line is that we don't know what mapping companies do to protect their maps or to hide secret locations, as some are obligated to do." Dorling says that there is still even confusion about what constitutes a place: "Usually, a place is defined as anywhere mentioned three or more times on a 1-25,000 scale map. But if I was inventing a new place name I would have a bit more fun. For example, in Yorkshire there's the area known by  locals as Cleckuddersfax, which is a place name made from the nearby names of Cleckheaton, Huddersfield and Halifax."All Google is saying on the matter is that it does experience "occasional errors" and that the mapping information was provided by a Dutch company called Tele Atlas. And all Tele Atlas's spokesperson will add is that "I really can't explain why these anomalies get into our database."
If you wanted to know just how incredibly closely related the pricing on the iPhone from O2 and from Orange is, then take a look at the spreadsheet below, which compares the contract prices between the two networks for the different models of phones, at the different tariffs.Basically, the "best" - as in biggest money-saving - deal, which shows Orange to havereallyundercut those O2 people, offers you a whopping saving of84 penceon an 18-month contract for the iPhone 3GS 16GB model. You can also get the same saving - though over 24 months - on the same model but with the £34.26 per month contract. Though hey, you make the saving upfront. Oh, and Orange does offer twice as many minutes and texts on the low-end 18-month £29.38 contract.Though what is this "saving" we're talking about? There's nothing,nothingbetween these two sets of contracts. They could not be closer.Now you can argue that this is because Apple charges particular prices for the iPhone. Or you could argue that it's because of the horrendous cost of the data downloads that all those iPhone users demand.The latter argument doesn't hold up, though. Since O2 set its contract prices, the cost of moving data around has fallen - perhaps not a lot, but some. Enough for the prices on an 18-month or 24-month (the latter particularly) to be somewhat lower, given that the cost of data will fall over that period and you'll still be a money-maker to the network.It might be Apple charging huge bucks for the iPhone, of course, That's a possibility. Or there's another one: that Orange looked at the prices that O2 charges, looked at the level of demand there seemed to be for the iPhone (200,000 people registering interest in the first few days of its announcement), and decided that, well, perhaps people don't mind spending that much.It will be interesting to see how that goes. I'll admit, my own interest in an iPhone contract with Orange rather diminished on doing that comparison. And I'll admit too that I was one of the people who registered interest.So - is the 84 pence sufficient incentive for you? Or were you hoping for something else?O2 vs Orange iPhone contract prices18 month contract24 month contractTariffO229.3834.2644.0573.41-34.2644.0573.41Orange29.3634.2644.0473.429.3634.2644.0473.4122.34iPhone 3G 8GBO296.8996.89FreeFreeFreeFreeFreeOrange96.596.5FreeFreeFreeFreeFreeFreeO2 excess vs Orange0.750.75iPhone 3GS 16GBO2184.98184.9887.11Free87.11FreeFreeOrange184.5184.587Free12587FreeFreeO2 excess vs Orange0.84iPhone 3GS 32GBO2274.23274.23175.1996.89175.1996.89FreeOrange27427417596.522517596.5FreeO2 excess vs OrangeUK MinutesO2756001200300060012003000Orange1506001200300015060012003000UK MessagesO2125500500500500500500Orange250500500500250500500500Unlimited UK Data and Wi-FiYesYesYesYesYesYesYesNote: I haven't looked at the PAYG options. Perhaps in a later post...PS: yes, I know the table spills over horribly. Sorry.
A minor controversy has erupted over the possibility that the review code for long-awaited psychological horror titleAlan Wakemay not include the game's ending, as the development team are paranoid about spoilers.Well, that's the version of the story as filtered through the videogame blogosphere, which at times operates like a game of Chinese whispers played by hearing-impaired introverts who all speak different languages. The rumour is based arounda quick blogposton G4TV, which quotes Matias Myllyrinne, MD of the game's developer, Remedy Entertainment, thus:"I think we're going to be insanely careful about how much of the story we reveal [...] We'll clearly discuss with some of our friends at Microsoft whether we even give the ending of the game for anybody's preview. I'd like to hold it back, [I] don't want anybody to spoil it for the audience. That's just my personal feeling."Despite the fact that Myllyrinne is talking aboutpreviewnot review code, and that it's his personal opinion, not the official strategy of the game's publisher, this led to several sensationalist headlines, including Spong's alarmist, "No Full Game Reviews for Alan Wake" - a conjecture (I hope) devised purely to generate traffic.But this non-story throws up several interesting questions, foremost among them: do gamers actually expect reviewers to finish the games they're writing about?The obvious answer is "yes, absolutely, you moron" but let's take a look at the logistics. In the mainstream press, most game reviews are between 50 and 250 words in length, which will mean a fee of around £50 for the writer - perhaps more in one of the glossy lifestyle publications. In the dedicated games press, reviews will come in at around £50-70 a page, depending on word count, and very few games get more than two pages. Some freelancers might get to review the same title for more than one publication, but this is frowned upon.If you take a major adventure brand like Final Fantasy or Resident Evil, you're looking at 20-40 hours of gameplay - that could mean as little as £3 an hour for the writer - and they've not even started penning their article yet. Its not a particularly attractive scenario. I'm not casting dispersions on the credibility of game reviewers - I'm sure a lot of them DO 'finish' the games they write about - I'm just looking at it from an economic standpoint.But even from a critical perspective, finishing a game might not be vitally important. Game reviews tend to deal with issues like control mechanisms, visuals, the quality of interaction with enemies, the imaginative clarity of the virtual world - none of this is greatly dependent on the quality of a game's final ten minutes. Indeed, from what I've heard, game designers tend to put their very best stuff in the first half of the game, because this is the bit most players actually see. Gamers, as you probably know, don't finish games either.In any case, 'finishing the game' is an increasingly arbitrary notion. Sure, in some titles you work through a linear series of levels before reaching one authoritative dénouement. However, these days there are likely to be several alternative endings based on the player's actions and achievements throughout the game. On top of that, most action adventures now boast non-linear and even sandbox environments, each of which may well contain bonus tasks and hidden areas. Plus, we're now used to games offering a variety of skill levels, which could all differ significantly in content. And we haven't even considered co-op missions, online multiplayer deathmatch modes and downloadable content. Just how complete does complete actually mean?Of course, in the case of Alan Wake, it seems the concern is purely narrative-based - Myllyrinne doesn't want writers to give away the ending of the story. But how important is that in an interactive experience? People often use the Sixth Sense analogy - the whole movie would have been ruined if someone told you the twist at the beginning. But then, Sixth Sense was a highly-contrived non-interactive experience, specifically constructed to deliver one knockout narrative blow. Most games don't work like that - plot isusuallysubservient to the player-controlled action.There was a great story on The Onion once about fans criticising JK Rowling for filling her final Harry Potter novel with spoilers; the piece was spot on in its characterisation of a frenzied community, which simultaneously craved and dreaded narrative revelations. I know that Alan Wake will have more to offer than a shock final scene, and I'm pretty sure a reasonable number of reviewers won't see the finale anyway - between those two hypotheses the real meat of the story lies.
Orange has announced prices for the iPhone on its network – but shown little appetite for a price war with O2, which presently has the monopoly on iPhone sales in the UK.The phone will go on sale from 10 November across Orange's retail network, as well as Apple retail stores, Phones4U, Orange concessions in HMV stores and – aspredicted in the Guardian last month– in Carphone Warehouse shops.But thetariffs announced todayoffer little temptation for any O2 users to change, or for non-iPhone users to switch. Orange contract buyers can get a 16GB iPhone 3GS for £184.50 plus £29.36 per month on an 18-month contract; at O2, the same phone costs £184.98 plus £29.38 per month on an 18-month contract.Both networks say that they offer "unlimited" data downloads over the phone network – though Orange adds a warning that its "fair usage" policy in fact limits it to 750MB per month. (The iPhone also has Wi-Fi, which can be used without limit.)When Orange announced that it would sell the iPhone it put up a web page where people could register their interest. It says that more than 200,000 did so – though how many will maintain that interest now that they have seen the tariffs on offer is hard to determine.The launch does threaten O2's position as the UK's largest mobile network. Reports of inconsistent data connections troubling iPhone users on its network may have put some people off switching; Orange, by contrast, has claimed to have the largest 3G network in the UK.But it will come under sustained pressure once it launches the iPhone, which is famous among network operators for using comparatively large amounts of bandwidth for emails and web browsing, compared to most smartphones – and especially standard mobile phones – which use little data, and where users are given strict data rations. Apple's ability to negotiate O2 and other mobile networks around the world into giving iPhone users "unlimited" data downloads over the phone networks has made the device enormously attractive to a new generation of mobile workers, but squeezed operators' margins to the limits.Orange will offer Apple's hot-selling internet device on a business plan, where a 16GB iPhone 3GS costs £87 on a 24-month £30 per month contract – significantly cheaper than the personal contract.In addition, Orange will offer the iPhone on pay-as-you-go contracts – £440 for a 16GB iPhone 3GS.The announcement of the prices intensifies the competition for customers between the networks, though with Vodafoneready to start selling the iPhoneearly next year, there may be the chance of some price pressure.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
