The Industry Standard, the magazine that came to symbolise the dot.com boom, has closed after falling victim to the internet collapse.It will file for bankruptcy unless a lastminute buyer can be found.Its collapse symbolises the dashing of yet another dot.com dream for San Francisco's digerati, who enjoyed legendary rooftop parties at the magazine's headquarters to celebrate the thriving internet economy.But, like the industry it was set up to chronicle, the magazine has struggled in the declining advertising market and will officially suspend publication on Monday with all but 15 of the 180 staff being laid off.In the statement, Alissa Neil, a spokeswoman for the magazine, said: "The Standard will be suspending publication of its weekly print magazine, the Industry Standard, while the company continues to look for a buyer."It is quite possible that, during that time, we will file chapter 11 &#91;for bankruptcy&#93;."We're very disappointed our short-term financial situation requires this, but we remain hopeful our assets will be sold."Founded in 1997, the Industry Standard became the fastest growing magazine in American history, boasting up to 350 advertising-packed pages an issue.The company's parties became a magnet for all internet wannabes in the Bay area.The company also sponsored close to a dozen conferences in 1999, including one in Barcelona where more than &#163;1million was spent on one party alone.But signs of the decline began to emerge earlier this year, when the European edition closed less than 12 months after its launch.It is believed the US magazine brought in &#163;100 million last year, allowing the magazine to turn a profit in its third year of existence.The Industry Standard went on to win a string of awards and, at the height of the dot.com flotation boom, it was valued at more than £140m.Such was the optimism surrounding its future, it leased office space for up to 600 staff in San Francisco and New York, with some leases negotiated to last at least 10 years.And as part of the feel-good atmosphere, it offered employees free snacks, happy hours, massages and gym membership.But advertising plunged by 75% in the first half of this year and the magazine was looking at losses of around &#163;35m this year.Rumours of its demise started to circulate earlier this week and it was thought  one its backers, Pearson, would throw it a lifeline.The magazine's website,www.thestandard.com, is expected to continue in the immediate future, operating with a skeleton crew of journalists and technicians.MediaGuardian.co.uk special reportsAdvertising slumpDot.coms and dot.gones
British investors in dot.com companies are joining disgruntled American shareholders to launch a legal action against the star investment analysts they hold responsible for fuelling the tech stock boom which crashed so spectacularly last year.The case is the first time that British investors have become directly involved in moves to seek compensation from Wall Street bankers for giving biased advice. American shareholders have launched a number of legal actions, spurred on by recent six-figure payouts from two leading US banks.British shareholders in US-listed internet companies are understood to be among the litigants in a case organised by New York law firm Beatie and Osborn, which alleges that Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and its star internet analyst Mary Meeker failed to protect small investors when tech stocks started to slide.Morgan Stanley is just one of a number of big investment banks facing a winter of discontent as law suits flood in. Several east coast law firms have started class action suits, inspired by recent compensation awards by Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch.Merrill Lynch last month paid $400,000 to a New York doctor who had bought shares in tech company InfoSpace on the strength of a recommendation from the bank's analyst Henry Blodget, one of the most high-profile evangelists for dot.com companies.Although the bank admitted no wrongdoing in the settlement, lawyers believe the pay-out to investor Debases Kanjilal set a dangerous precedent.Last week the National Association of Securities Dealers forced Goldman Sachs to pay $400,000 compensation to Texan billionaires, the Hunt family, who had bought shares in funeral home operator Loewen after a recommendation from the bank, which was also investment banker for the company. Loewen went bust a year later and the Hunt family claimed $5m damages.Although the charges against the analyst in question were dismissed, subsequently Goldman Sachs has ruled that its analysts must disclose whether they have shares in the companies they are analysing. Similar rulings on analysts' share dealings have been made by Merrill Lynch and Credit Suisse First Boston.Beatie and Osborn has five cases running against investment banks including Merrill Lynch and CSFB. However, while some recent class action suits in the US have accused investment bankers of fraud, which demands a trial in a federal court under SEC rules, Beatie and Osborn is concentrating on the refusal of analysts to issue sell recommendations even when stocks were sporting dramatic losses.Daniel Osborn, one of the lawyers leading the British case said he hopes to have it heard in a state court to speed up matters. "Our theory is clearly that the analysts in these investment banks breached their fiduciary duty to retail customers by failing to issue sell recommendations," he said.MSDW declined to comment.
Did the dot.com crash kill off the worst websites?Many of the better websites did survive, like Yahoo, Amazon and Google. So many of the sites that died didn't have what users needed. Usability is only one of many things: for example they may have over-invested on warehouses and things not really to do with usability but there is strong connection between usability and success.Are newer sites improving?Yes but at a very slow pace. It is what I call Design Darwinism, or the survival of the easiest because the difficult sites are more likely to die and therefore vanish. The easier sites are more likely to keep loyal customers and therefore flourish. At the same time, when new sites come online they make many of the same mistakes as the old sites. Not enough is learned, which is one of the reasons for this new book (E-Commerce User Experience). It has a collection of findings on usability -such as can you find the store, or if it is a bank can you find where they have their ATM? There are websites now that have done fairly well. What I'm doing now is to collectguidelines for services such as e-commerce over the web or helping people trying to find locations on the web.Are people using such multimedia tools as Flash more - which you have criticised in the past?There is more focus on simplicity in web design. I'm a little disappointed in how they are being used. There's not enough good and valuable use. I do believe we can do good multimedia. Maybe the next leaning curve will be more appropriate use of multimedia on the web. Most use of Flash or multimedia is irrelevant to the user. It is almost lucky for the web that we don't have broadband yet because it focuses attention on more useful services and delivering information users need. With broadband it is easier to get away with irrelevant multimedia and bad Flash. When more people have broadband in five or 10 years, when it will be common if not ubiquitous, we will also have evolved an understanding of good multimedia design.Favourite sites?Amazon. I buy lots of stuff on Amazon because it is easy. They were the highest scoring site in our e-commerce report with 72%.Leisure sites?The web is not really a leisure environment. It is more for getting things done. If you want to sit and enjoy yourself, watch television or read a book.Favourite gadget?My favourite isBlackberry, the wireless email device. It is well designed and good for keeping in touch with the office.First computer?It was a GIER in high school in Denmark in 1974. It had 5k of Ram and no integrated circuits. We were allowed to use a bigger one in the university basement. It was a horrible computer and one of the reasons I work in usability.Visit:www.nngroup.com
Britain has just missed one of its first e-government's targets. Chief secretary to the Treasury Andrew Smith waited to announce this discreetly in a parliamentary question on the last day of the Commons session.Around Whitehall there are a few mutterings about "disappointment", but this is no resigning matter. The e-government objectives, like many other New Labour targets, are a shambles. A    relic of a period when Downing Street's priority was to clamber on to the e-bandwagon at any price, the targets would simply be a bit of an embarrassment except that the Treasury is enforcing them hard on the public sector.What counts as an e-government interaction has been vague. Does a phone call to the local council complaining about the bin men help take Britain into the Knowledge Age? No one knew - until now when the new government e-envoy, Andrew   Pinder, is facing up to some unpalatable contradictions.From the moment New Labour first got a whiff of the internet it was hooked. To greed-driven venture capitalists the lure was instant wealth. But the masters of spin at Millbank were intoxicated by something different, the prospect of an endless slew of new initiatives and easy headline wins: Citizens' Portal Opens Up Brave New Digital World and so on. The net also promised millions in government procurement savings. And it was hoped it could defeat the Sir Humphreys to join up the myriad bits of government; for the first time the citizenry would have seamless dealings with the state.At the start, the web was a lifestyle statement to Tony Blair and New Labour -youthful, entrepreneurial, inclusive and full of potential. Indeed Blair's online love affair can be traced back to the Bournemouth party conference in 1994. There, as leader of the opposition, he famously unveiled a "deal" with BT to put every school online. As propaganda it was brilliant, and had Norman Tebbit, then a BT director, choking on his digestives.After the 1997 Labour victory, Whitehall began churning out reports stressing the vital importance of Britain joining the Information Age. Getting your family online became a moral imperative. These were days of irrational exuberance when hard-nosed bankers valued dot.coms such as Boo, Boxman and QXL at billions.The Blair administration succumbed to the hype and gave it a firm twist. The government was to be an "exemplar" for industry and the rest of the nation. The stuffy men at the Treasury thought they could launch an online mall where a mandarin would, at the click of a mouse, procure a carton of paper clips, a set of red boxes for his minister, or a battle tank. The Cabinet Office produced reports warning of the dire consequences of missing out on e-government. "Electronic service delivery offers unparalleled opportunities to improve public service for the benefit of the citizen," gushed one such paper. Another claimed the web could "transform relations between the citizen and the state".And there had to be, of course, an e-tzar, called, for   alliterative purposes, an "e-envoy". So taken is the PM with this that he recently upped Pinder's starting salary to around &#163;150,000. There is an e-minister and government webmaster, too.Blair's stated objective is to make the UK "the best environment in the world for e-commerce by 2002". That entails outclassing both the United States and Sweden, the true epicentre of the internet economy in Europe.And, this being New Labour, e-government was to be pushed forward by pledges. The prime minister's electronic service delivery target calls for 25% of public services to be available electronically by 2002 and 100% by 2005. He has promised that everyone who wants it will have access to the internet by 2005.And, there was the target that Smith admitted has just been missed. Ministers had decreed that departments should be buying 90% of routine goods and services on-line by now. In fact, the figure for these low-value deals is little more than half that.The targets appear to have been dreamed up - and announced - before even a stab was made at setting the criteria. Understandably a tone of quiet desperation has crept into public sector IT professionals. Take the formal response of the Society of IT Management, (SOCITM), which complained that the government's e-government definition "was broader than expected and includes things that most people would not think of as electronic."It declared ruefully: "We need some proper definition of what can be counted as contributing to the target and what cannot. For example, if a telephone call is just to gain information eg, 'What are your opening times?' that surely should not be counted, but if it is to undertake an interaction, for example to make a booking, then presumably it would."As for the question of internet access - well, the government has recently committed another &#163;30m to extend broadband technology outside metropolitan areas. Sweden is committing &#163;1.19bn.This summer, town halls have had to bear the brunt with an exercise to explain how e-government will be one of the three "core drivers" in improving local public services. By the end of last month each local authority was required to submit an Implementing Electronic   Government statement to the new Department for Transport Local Government and the Regions (DTLR). The aim is to "embed e-government" into the culture of local authorities. Above all, these must explain how they will attain Blair's 2005 target. Councils will in due course be awarded a traffic-light status of red, amber or green to show how they are faring - just as they were with the millennium bug.Many local government bosses have been stumped by this - they see e-government as a distraction from the hard grind council services. And there is a further twist. It is widely believed that the DTLR sees the e-government statements as pointless too. But they have gone along with them to placate Gordon Brown's target-toting Treasury which reluctantly agreed an extra &#163;350m for local government.However, consultants, who found Y2K compliance offered rich pickings, have hit pay dirt again.The man grappling with Britain's heroic bid to be at the fore of e-government presides over the Office of the E-envoy. In an interview with the Guardian, Pinder reveals himself as above all a realist, someone determined to get the spirit, not the letter, of the targets observed. He's inherited the rhetorical baggage of   the government, but plainly has no taste for it himself."If you say the internet has not lived up to the hype, well, very few things do - it was hard to live up to the hype of the press and the markets in a few fevered moments," says Pinder. He sees the internet growing steadily and playing an ever more fundamental role in peoples' lives. Of about 90 targets, the government is behind in only about one in 10.Pinder says: "We have nearly half of government services online already. There is a lot of stuff there that wasn't there a year or two years ago. So a lot of progress has been made." Almost 45% of information-only services are now up on the web. The Government Gateway, with its well-publicised life-episodes portal, is a hit with a million visitors a week and is a "worldbeater" technology wise.But what about online services involving transactions? Well, the answer is that you can get a passport, fishing licence, company reports, report a minor crime and do some returns for VAT, income tax and to the agriculture ministry. But you can't pay a parking fine, council tax, receive housing benefit, sell your house, register a birth, death or marriage, report an mugging, complain direct to the ombudsman, book a driving test or the 101 other things that citizens might expect.Pinder's line is, don't worry - that's why we've given ourselves until 2005. But the reality is daunting. Primary legislation has been required for the validation of electronic signatures and complex legal changes are underway permitting house sales online. It is going to be awfully hard slog, case by case.Pinder's take on the targets is canny. He will not disown them, but has been downplaying their significance since he was appointed earlier this year. "They're a good galvaniser for action, but the real need is to push the amount of take-up, to increase the use of the principal services."But what about the vagueness of the main target? What about the fear (articulated by SOCITM) that telephone, fax even, may count and thereby render the whole process a farce? At this point, Pinder has evidently decided that the usefulness of government obfuscation has bounds.He concedes that "we have   not defined what electronic means" and that SOCITM "have rightly criticised us".At a stroke he then goes on to avow simply that "what I mean by online is 'available to people online via the internet'". No telephone and no fax, then. Simple. Except that once the escape route of counting phone calls is gone there is a big knock-off on Blair's target of getting all relevant services online by 2005.For one thing, some services may always be more appropriately delivered in person or over the telephone. Does the e-envoy squander taxpayers money on online services that are unlikely to be used simply to meet the Blair pledge? Or does he admit that call centres, for example, may be a better way? If he chooses the latter - given that he has ruled out phone calls - bang goes the pledge.Pinder bravely plumps for the latter. "There will be circumstances where it does not make sense to put services online, but it make sense to spend the money in a different way, for example on other modern communications such as a call centre."In that situation, I would expect to explain why I hadn't hit the 100% target and why some services were available methods using modern communications."But he says that the 2005 target is "big, broad-brush and aspirational". Aspirational? Someone better tell the PM and the Treasury.
Anyone concerned about the boys, after girls once again finished first in this year's exams, will be happy to know that men have managed to come out top in another area: they waste more company time on non-work related emails than their female colleagues.A study carried out by edesigns.co.uk, an email marketing company, found that one in three men spend about 40 minutes a day flirting, gossiping and sending each other pornographic web addresses via email. The worst offenders among women only admitted to spending about 25 minutes a day on personal emails.Just over a quarter of men surveyed said they used company email for flirting, closely followed by gossiping about fellow staff members, contacting non-work friends and organising their social lives. Only 13% of the women interviewed said they spent time flirting, with nearly a third making plans with friends and one in five contacting relatives.Louis Halpern, the chief executive of edesigns.co.uk, said companies may want to develop policies that prevent rampant misuse of emails."While companies should not deny staff a reasonable amount of time to conduct personal affairs, companies can protect themselves by providing employees with access to personal emails - either web based addresses, or using branded emails to distinguish between work and personal emails," he said.The study relied on a respondent's honesty, so it is possible that the men were simply more willing to confess their bad email habits. Then again, as the pundits keep telling us about girls and exams, perhaps the women are more conscientious about their work.Top 5 non-work related email uses (men):&#149; Flirting 27%&#149; Gossiping 18%&#149; Contacting non-work friends 16%&#149; Forwarding pornographic URLs 13%&#149; Organising social life 11%Top 5 non-work related email uses (women):&#149; Planning social life 32%&#149; Contacting siblings 18%&#149; Gossiping 15%&#149; Flirting 13%&#149; Forwarding pornographic URLs 7%Related articlesNet notes: Email10.06.2001: Millions are driven to attack their computers26.04.2001: Netiquette for email and news13.04.2001: Have a bitch about the bossesUseful linkedesigns.co.uk
Next time you are at a German airport, take a peek at Lufthansa's rapid check-in kiosks, which bear a close resemblance to cash machines. As well as allowing German frequent fliers to check in more speedily, the kiosks allow them to check in using their mobile phone.The system, known as m-Barq, extends the internet electronic ticketing and check-in system Lufthansa introduced last year. They can now have their e-tickets delivered to their internet-enabled mobile phone. Instead of a number, travellers download a barcode, which they wave in front of the automated kiosk. After answering a few security questions, boarding cards are printed.A new UK-based firm called Link77 has gone one better, however, and developed the world's first secure e-ticket system using text messaging as its medium. The company's Ticket Mobile system allows cinemas, promoters and club organisers to securely e-ticket events via mobile phones.Text messaging was never designed for e-ticketing, but for more mundane advisory messages, such as details of local traffic jams.Therefore, no one thought to include features such as encryption and authentication in the original text messaging standards.Link77 has side-stepped the fact that it is nearly impossible to ensure a text message is received by only one person, by including non-standard characters in the   header and footer of a typical message transmission.By including a "delta" (triangle) symbol in the header, when the text message reaches the users' mobile, it displays the symbol on the title page of the message. And, if the recipient tries to copy the e-ticket, the header data on the text message is lost, and the security symbol goes missing.Simon Luttrell, Link77's founder, says this inability to forward complete e-tickets makes the system secure.Luttrell recently left Psion. He sold Psion his first mobile internet company, Fonedata, for &#163;1m before the dot.com crash. He admits the system could be compromised, but the value of the targeted market - around &#163;10 for each ticket - makes such fraud uneconomic.There are other checks, such as an encoded (and invisible) PIN in the footer of each e-ticket, which can be verified if the text message is sent back to base. The e-ticket master can check if the copy e-ticket has come from the right mobile. Luttrell has patented his brainchild and is negotiating licensing deals.More immediately, however, text messaging can be used to track your investments, thanks to a link between two French compa nies, Alertim and MobileWay. Their service, PrimAlert, offers investors a global email, paging and text messaging alert service.Alertim operates Boursealert, a French alerting company, which started two years ago, but Primalert is several steps ahead, since it ties in global brokerage services with global market alert facilities.UK, German and Spanish mobile phone users can already use the Alertim service, with other networks coming onstream this year.Subscribers input their requirements to the system, allowing them, for example, to be alerted if a stock hits a given price.The Alertim.com main web portal also acts as a gateway to the world's online brokerages, allowing, for example, UK   users to trade online in, say, French shares, with a French brokerage house, and receive alerts from the Alertim site on their stock prices. The company says 12 exchanges around the world are on the service.Because the service is real-time, Alertim must pay for the information feeds from various exchanges. Subscribers buy blocks of 250 "e-points" at eight euros (&#163;4.90) a pop. A monthly scan of a single stock costs 10 e-points (20p), with emails costing 20 e-points (40p), and text messages or paging alerts costing 30 e-points (60p) each.Rieunier says the Alertim service compares the users' alert settings every 10 seconds with the relevant exchange and sends an alert within 60 seconds of a users' alert level being reached.LinksLufthansawww.lufthansa.comLink77www.link77.comAlertimwww.boursealert.frMobilewaywww.mobileway.comPrimalertwww.primalert.com
Mega Man X5PS1	 &#163;19.99 Capcom 	**Legends 2PS1	 &#163;19.99 Capcom 	***The original PlayStation was launched in 1995, promising, and delivering, groundbreaking 3D visuals. It is odd then, that six years later, games such as Mega Man X5 are still being released.Along with Legends 2, Capcom has yet again milked a successful franchise. Mega Man X5 is the latest game to feature the Japanese superhero, but there is little here that will surprise. X5 is as retro as they come, with 2D graphics, steep learning curves and a complete disregard for the past few years of gaming progress.So rather than sophisticated characterisation or freedom of movement, you simply guide Mega Man to the left of the scrolling screen while clashing with numer ous bad guys. Sure, the jumping 'n' shooting will bring back warm memories but play more than 10 minutes and you will realise that nostalgia ain't what it used to be.The other Mega Man release, Legends 2, is a typically quirky RPG (role-playing game) that at least nods a head to modern gaming trends.For a start, the action is in the third dimension and there is plenty of depth for those who get intrigued by the mix of combat and puzzling. The latter is slightly disappointing, with relatively simplistic dungeons, but the fighting   elements work well, with the need to earn more money for weapon upgrades extremely addictive.The whole game has the look of an  anime movie with spiky-haired adolescents, gaudy backdrops and cute, yet deadly, assailants.Nevertheless,3D visuals or not, this is still one for fans only. There have been more than 20 Mega Man games, with the latest two adding relatively little to the franchise. Innovation is urgently required if these aren't to be the last.  (GH)Star Trek: Deep Space Nine - Dominion WarsPC	 &#163;34.99 Gizmo/ Pan Interactive 	****Wow. That is the first word that crosses your mind when you start up Gizmo Games' space combat sim, which puts you in command of either   Federation or Dominion forces in the battle for control of the Alpha quadrant. (Right, that should have got rid of all the non-Star Trek fans.)The blurb boasts "movie-quality" graphics, which is a bit of a fib, but this comes closer than many similar efforts: the ships are exquisitely accurate recreations of those from the series, the combat is spectacular, with battle damage in particular rendered in astonishing detail, and the heavenly bodies such as planets and asteroids are, well, heavenly.It is just as well that DW is so satisfying to look at, because the game is something of a spectator sport. Sure, there are plenty of things you can do: select combat tactics, "play dead", divert power to shields and so on. Besides, the rudiments of combat - who and when to attack and with which weapons - are largely han dled by the AI. That means you can complete the first few missions by telling your fleet where to go, then sit back and watch the fireworks.For this reason, most of the work comes in the planning phase where, with limited funds, you assemble your fleet by purchasing ships, captains and equipment upgrades. Each side has 10 types of craft to choose from, of which a maximum of six may be used, along with a bewildering selection of potential commanders who improve with every completed mission.The captains, however, are the only personal touch. Combat commands are acknowledged by a monotonous computer voice, and there is no vocal input from any crew, nor a view of the ship's bridge. It thus becomes difficult to engage emotionally with the game.There are a few quibbles: the repetitive, mediocre soundtrack; the "truly 3D" action that is guilty of two-dimensional thinking; the slightly fiddly interface; occasional graphic slowdowns; and ships that get destroyed even after the enemy has been wiped out.But for sheer eye-goggling spectacle, there is nothing around to touch this.  (AB)&#149;  Guardian readers can buy this title for &#163;19.99, incl UK P&amp;P. Call 0870 066 7809
Softly, softlyI disagree with Dr David Harper (Feedback, August 9), in which he talks about Microsoft's "smart tags" and how they are "altering the content" of websites. Many people look at smart tags as another nasty Microsoft creation without fully looking at the evidence. I suggest readers visit Microsoft's website and the previews of Internet Explorer 6, and you will find the following:&#149;  Smart tags can be switched on and off by the web page author  and the user.&#149;  Smart tag information is provided by non-Microsoft companies.&#149;  Companies like to give users more information about their companies, which is for the user's benefit.&#149;  Smart tags don't "alter" the original web page meaning at all. It is like having an extension over the top of the browser that is aimed to help users find more information. Anyone who has digital TV is used to being given program and film information by their digital provider, and this is just the same.I think smart tags are a good thing. I am tired of search engines and the acres of superfluous information they present to me.The real issue is the desire of website owners to continually increase "traffic", and create "sticky" websites that keep the users on their site. This means they don't link out of the site, which in turn is killing the true value of the web through reduced use of external hyperlinks. Website owners see external links as a bad thing rather than something that is good for your online business. Provide your visitors with good links to external sites, and they will come back again and again!!Roll on Microsoft... at least they are thinking smarter.For information about smart tags,visit:www.microsoft.com/Windows/ie/preview/smarttags/default.aspBen Powellbpowell@addictivity.comBack to schoolI have just spent one year studying for the MCSE (the Microsoft Certified Software Engineer qualification). The course cost me &#163;2,995 (which excluded exam fees) and for that I received two computers, a printer, a scanner (the idea is to have a network of your own on which to practise) and a series of Microsoft 2000 manuals. All of these I can keep. I also received a series of lectures and the promise of help from the lecturers. I was fortunate: I was eligible for a training grant that has now been discontinued. The true cost of the course, including the grant, was &#163;3,995. The course was disappointing. The lectures were short and inadequate, providing no more than a very basic introduction to the subject matter covered in the Microsoft exams. These exams are designed to eliminate the so-called "paper MCSEs", those students without the thorough knowledge that Microsoft requires of Windows 2000.Sometimes the lecturers would not be present when you wanted them or were not qualified to teach the classes. The majority of students work full-time and study in the evenings so it was annoying to turn up to classes only to find they had been cancelled.After our first series of lectures, for Windows Professional and Server, we were told by one lecturer that "we were on our own". Small wonder that so many dropped out. Some of the few struggling on have had to buy an extension to their one year course.The course providers are advertising the MCSE for &#163;2,995: the period of tuition is now six months instead of 12. Can a complete novice, as many of these students are, master the intricacies of the MCSE course in so short a time? I doubt it.I would be interested to know if any of your readers has had similar a experience.Graham Mainmg104925@cs.comLeft behindIf the various plans to provide high-speed web access for individuals come to pass, will the servers and other communication links be upgraded to cope? Using a 56k modem, it seems to me that the bottleneck is often elsewhere. There can be long periods waiting for a page or a file when the   modem link is idle, presumably because some other part of the web is too busy. It would be silly to concentrate on the local link if the rest of the system isn't going to be upgraded to match. Or don't other users find this a problem?Colin Liebenroodcjlieben@waitrose.comOK to be FlashA letter to Feedback last week complains of "overcomplicated websites" and citeswww.ippr.org.ukas a top offender. He points to its "flash&#91;from Macromedia&#93; and Java &#91;Sun Microsystems&#93; heavy website" (strange, since after the front two pages there seems to be little evidence of Flash or Java, rather a rich content, mainly text website). While I agree that websites (especially those of public institutions) should provide an alternative text-only version, I don't think that Flash or Java are intrinsically bad. Innovation is vital for the web to develop. Web content should not be aimed at only the highest spec systems, but neither should it restrict itself to the lower end of the spectrum. If the web is kept to text only viewing, a huge amount of its potential is being neglected, and we may as well not bother with it and stick to conventional media. As for the apparently random Microsoft bashing, it is perfectly possible to view the website with Netscape Navigator (I tried it) and probably many of the other non-microsoft products that support both Flash and Java.Chris Sparkschris.sparks@talk21.comGoogle goggleJust a quick note on Google's phrase searches - according to their FAQ atwww.google.co.uk/intl/en/help/refinesearch.htmlyou can search for phrases in a number of ways, using quote marks, hyphens, periods, slashes, dashes, equal signs and apostrophes. I have tried it using periods and it seems to work fine.Matt Kilcastcrusoe@disinfo.netQuote me on itGoogle weakness with phrases? I have found it very effective if you enclose the phrase in double quotes. As a college lecturer, I have used this to nail suspicions of plagiarism in students' work.Gerry Cordong.cordon@cableinet.co.uk
Festival timeThe Edinburgh International Festival is now in full swing and this year there is a flotilla of festival sites to help you navigate around its myriad delights. A good place to start iswww.edinburghfestivals.co.ukwhich provides a solid overview - even if some of the information is a year out of date. Much better iswww.edinburghguide.com, featuring many independent reviews and is better organised. The Edinburgh festival is actually several festivals all being held at the same time, and each has its own site. The official site for the International Festival is atwww.eif.co.uk. The ever popular Fringe  is atwww.edfringe.com. For the Book Festival go towww.edbookfest.co.ukand the Film fest is atwww.edfilmfest.org.uk/2001. One of Scotland's leading film ezines,iofilm.co.uk, is also running daily coverage of the Film Festival. There is also theTattooand theGuardian-sponsored television festival. Further Guardian coverage atwww.guardian.co.uk/artslatest.AmazonMike Daisey is an actor and playwright who also spent two years working for online    booksellerAmazon.com. The non-disclosure agreement he signed has just expired, allowing him to tell the "real story" of Amazon.com. His hilarious take on how he "learned to slavishly love idealistic mouth breathers, 60-hour weeks, and the cult of personality that is Jeff Bezos," is now online. The result is 21 Dog Years, a Gonzo-style expose for the dot.com age, that mixes fact and humour in the manner of Michael Moore or the UK's Mark Thomas. Or as Daisy puts it, "a philosophical inquisition yielding the same kinds of questions one might ask after surviving a bender in Vegas." Seewww.mikedaisey.comFilm searchCNMovies.com claims to contain information on more than 321,000 films, culled from the pages of books such as the Complete Index to World Film since 1895, the Halliwell Film Guide and Who's Who. It also has a stills library, vintage movies section and magazine. All this, it claims, should be enough to give theInternet Movie Database- regarded as the Mecca for film buffs online - a run for its money.www.cnmovies.com.Foreign waysThe online campaign to force the government to fulfil its election promise and give us all a continental-style drinking culture has been launched. Think you are as grown up as the French? Then sign the petition atwww.drinklikejohnnyforeigner.co.ukDeep spaceLaunched more than two years ago, the Chandra X-Ray telescope has captured some of the most magnificent images of the deep universe. The best have been collated and now been made available on a new website. Check out the pictures, or just download some stellar wallpaper. Seehttp://chandra.harvard.eduBook wormsA new site helps net users search for books held in their local libraries from the comfort of home. It works by arranging books on a set of sliding scales. You tell it what kind of book you like and it narrows it down to a handful of choices.www.branchingout.net/foragerWindow shopGermany's online net art bible, Telepolis, has a new online exhibition. Shopping Windows examines "net art after the age of e-commerce" and the exhibition includes new work by a number of   net.art pioneers, including a very playable deconstruction of the computer game by Belgium duo JODI.The UK is represented with the inclusion of work by I/O/D's Mathew Fuller and Harwood, a sometime member of digital art collective,    Mongrel. Be patient, mind, it takes ages to load.www.heise.de/tp/english/kunst/nk/shoppingEmbracing itVirgin Records is making the new Embrace album available to net users two weeks before it is due in the shops. The only snag is is that you have to have bought their debut album if you want the preview.  Virgin is trialing a new CD fingerprinting scheme, which is designed to reward loyalty. All you do is pop the debut album in your CD drive on   your PC and you will be driven to a special streaming site where the entire album will be available. If successful, Virgin says it will extend the service.www.embrace.co.ukNew &amp; noted&#149;  New quotations and sayings database atwww.quotesandsayings.com&#149;  Yell.com has launched a new property site.http://uk.yell.com/property&#149;  Live comedy across the UK.www.chortle.co.ukSix of the bestHuman cloningThe advocateswww.humancloning.orgThe instructionswww.biofact.com/cloning/human.htmlThe debatehttp://farnsworthfamily.tripod.com/Humancloning/cloning.htmThe official linewww.dti.gov.uk/hgacThe case againsthttp://web.mit.edu/news office/tt/2001/apr04/cloning.htmlThe Guardianwww.guardian.co.uk/genes
One day soon, "I saw it on the web" and "someone sent me an email" will overtake "a bloke in the pub told me" as
   the catch-all verification that separates urban myth, Nazi propaganda, and good old-fashioned lunacy from truth.While conspiracy theories are as old as the hills, the internet's ability to connect believers and create
   communities of shared interests is blurring the already-weak line between fact, factoid and subjective
   interpretation. Tell schoolchildren to go surf the web to help with their history homework and they are likely to
   come up with a site presenting "evidence" that a cabal of 666 rabbis rules the world from a secret hideout in
   northern California.And it is not just the young and na¿ve who are vulnerable. If you think you are too smart to
   be taken in by web spoofing, then take a peek at this site:www.cnn.com&amp;business_story=breaking_news&amp;urgent@www.itstrue.eu.com. Most people would assume that by clicking on this link, they would
   be connected to CNN.Not so. Instead, they find themselves at a plausible but entirely bogus news site. The trick
   works because most people do not understand URL syntax. The "cnn.com" to the left of the "@" is interpreted as
   a user name for the (bogus) site to the right of it. This simple redirection trick is good enough to fool almost all
   web surfers, and there are some even better tricks available to the determined hoaxer who is prepared to learn
   some Javascript and so on.What this demonstrates is that it is frighteningly easy to fool people into believing
   bogus news and current affairs stories. It is worth noting, however, that the net's ability to propagate patent
   untruths is a novel contribution to the human condition.Until we have a workable digital identity infrastructure,
   it will remain ridiculously easy to fabricate legitimacy on the internet. "Ah," you might say, "but how many people
   can a bogus site attract?" The truth is, it is entirely possible for one person working from home with a computer
   and a modem to create a website that appears just as credible as those created by businesses, universities,
   agencies and governments.On the night of the top-rated CBS Survivor show's finale last year, the CBS website,
   with all the resources of a major TV network behind it, attracted 245,000 unique visitors.On the same night,www.survivorsucks.com, run by a Paul Sims, based in Dallas, Texas, drew 100,000 visitors. This is just the
   beginning. Once broadband becomes widespread, individuals will be setting up their own TV channels.Who will care
   about the News at Ten, or the BBC's analysis when half the population is watching Dave's Nude News at Eleven or
   the Idaho Survivalist's News Corner? Who is to say that my mate down the pub knows less than a BBC reporter
   about what is going on in a particular hospital, company or government department: my mate down the pub might
   actually work there. Who is to know?One response might be to teach people to put their trust in respected
   individuals. Nice idea, but again, identities are very difficult to verify on the internet. The FBI now calls identity
   theft the fastest growing white-collar crime in history. Here is a recent example: a few weeks ago in California,
   the police accused Michael Morse, 27, of sneaking into the office of a health club where he was a member and
   stealing the identities of a dozen or so people who were also members, which he then used to trade on eBay.All
   you need is someone's name and address and you can start running up bills in their name: trouble that costs
   considerable time and effort to repair. More to the point, you can easily assume their identity online and have no
   end of mischief. One result of all this ought to be a shift in educational emphasis toward the evaluation of
   sources rather than depending on their labels.What is the point of teaching children facts when they can find
   them almost instantaneously on the web? If they want to know who succeeded Henry II, they can find that out in a
   couple of seconds. When they do a search on "treatment for liver cancer" on the internet, how do they begin to
   evaluate what comes back? The real challenge is not finding out facts, but figuring out what is a fact! But before
   the letters page is overrun by philosophers vying to answer that question, I have a few others to pose. How do
   you know that I am really Dave Birch?Or that I work for Consult Hyperion? If someone were to discover that I am
   actually an avatar, a computer-simulated creation, would that make my column any
   less interesting? After all, you can't believe everything you read in the newspapers.
Can I click it? Of course I can, and I have been all summer. To explain: the cricket season is a time when we footie fanatics are reduced to shadows of our winter selves. With the nation's footballers doing a collective impersonation of Tottenham's Darren "Sicknote" Anderton and taking extended holidays, it is not so much a case of in the back of the net my son, more a case of trawling the net to find some transfer minutiae the papers might have overlooked.Nailing my colours to the goalposts, that means I have spent a lot of time at the home of Leeds United,www.lufc.com, in the vague hope that Elland Road's finest might actually sign a player or two. Fat chance. Instead of welcoming multi-million pounds signings, we Leeds fans have had to make do with silly season news about a new Elland Road tropical fish tank, apparently to calm match-day nerves. Bet it won't stop Alan Smith upsetting opposition defenders.Not that Leeds' management is unique in feeding fans such inconsequential items. A look around the clubs' official websites - from Aberdeen,www.afc.co.uk, toYork City- reveals much    the same pattern.Manchester United's gargantuan site, for instance, features player profiles, stats, ticket information, the opportunity to buy a club shirt that will probably be replaced with a new design inside six months, and the links to the sponsors needed to pay David Beckham's hairdressing bills.Thankfully, escaping the clubs' corporate hospitality is a simple matter of jumping to the myriad fan sites out there. Some of these are gloriously and barkingly specialised. The Gloucester Gulls site,http://website.lineone.net/~gloucester.gulls, for instance, is put together by "Torquay United supporters who happen to be living in the Gloucester area", and thus spend unfeasible amounts of time travelling around the country to watch division three football.At the other end of the scale, the Big Daddy of fan sites isKop Talk. Perhaps because Liverpool were the last Premiership side to get themselves an official website, this is infinitely better than the Reds' official online home,www.liverpoolfc.tvand features opinionated columns from former players such as Tommy "Hardman" Smith and Barry "Haircut" Venison.You can, of course, look for such sites via the usual search    engines, but it is more fun to go towww.rivals.net,  a sports portal largely compiled by fans. The result is a decidedly idiosyncratic window on footie culture. In the Chelsea section, for instance, you will find Blues' fan Juvenile D reflecting on the recent sale of Jon Harley to Fulham. It seems Juvenile's daughter Urchin had a crush on Harley and Juvenile now has to watch sadly as his child learns a bitter life lesson. "I'm left to pick up the pieces and explain to Urchin that it is better to have loved and lost than to never to have loved at all," reflects Juvenile.At least Urchin can console herself with the thought that, if Harley's star continues to rise, he will soon have his own personal site similar to those atwww.icons.com. Here you will find the personal sites of the likes of Dennis Bergkamp, Robbie Fowler and Marc Overmars, sites increasingly quoted by jaded journos who presumably can't face actually talking to footballers.For a more objective look at how players are doing, you can't go wrong with the Opta database,www.opta.co.uk. There are, of course, those who reckon Leeds' pass completion rate of 69% is an insubstantial piece of information, but these are people totally devoid of pub conver sation and to be avoided.As indeed should the online home of theEnglish FA, a site so slow to load that I can only suggest its webmaster looks at theScottish FA's site, for a much needed lesson in design simplicity, or Uefa's clear site atwww.uefa.com.Not that any of these sites are destinations for breaking news. If you absolutely need up to the minute football information, tryNews Now, but be warned this is a site that aggregates every slice of trivial gossip you can imagine. For a filter between you and the news feeds, try theBBCorTeamtalk. Best of all, if only for Danny Kelly's pithy columns, visitFootball 365.Still can't find that elusive site devoted to pre-war Lithuanian away kits? Then try the links page, www. soccer-links.com . And finally, as a reminder that football really isn't more important than life or death, visit theChristmas Truce Football Match Haiku Friendly page- a compendium of three line poems devoted to the day in the first world war when British and German troops had a kickabout in No Man's Land.&#149;  Two companies are now offering footie update services via SMS for mobile phone users.Boltbluecosts &#163;3 a month and covers the Premiership, while Teamtalk (as above) covers all the English and Scottish leagues but costs &#163;5 a month for news, and another &#163;3.50 more a month for scores and results too.
The subject of one of the world's first webcams - a coffee pot in a Cambridge University computer lab - has sold on eBay for &#163;3,350.German newsmagazine Spiegal Online bought the piece of internet nostalgia, a broken Krups ProAroma coffee-maker, which it plans to continue displaying on the web.Internet users have flocked in their thousands to view the machine slowly percolating in the university's computer lab, known as the Trojan Room.The coffee pot cam was set up in 1991 to allow Cambridge programmers sprawled over several floors in a university building know if coffee was available, thus saving fruitless trips up and down flights of stairs to an empty coffee machine.A small picture on a user's computer screen provided minute-by-minute updates on the state of the coffee.Quentin Stafford-Fraser, one of the authors of the coffee cam software, said in his online biography of the coffee pot cam that it was the most useful thing he wrote in his time working on computer networks.He wrote: "The image was only updated about three times a minute, but that was fine because the pot filled rather slowly, and it was only greyscale, which was also fine, because so was the coffee."The students plan to use the money to replace the old filter coffee machine with an espresso machine.Useful linksBiography of the Trojan Room coffee camSpeigal Online explains its decision to by the coffee pot
Webvan, the online grocer which declared itself bankrupt last month, expects to raise sufficient funds to honour an agreement to pay former chief executive George Shaheen $375,000 (&#163;256,000) a year for life.It will not, however, be able to pay its shareholders.Last month Webvan, which raised $1bn to build a grocery delivery company in the early days of the internet frenzy, filed for bankruptcy protection, saying it would cease operations and sack 2,000 employees.The company had assets with a book value of $1.2bn and debts of $106m, according to papers filed in the bankruptcy court in Delaware.The company is now looking for buyers for its business units, technology platforms and other assets, including its electronic warehouse management platform. The company said it has contacted more than 60 potential buyers and expects several to submit offers by the deadline of August 27.Mr Shaheen, who is one of a list of unsecured creditors, resigned in April, after Webvan said that although first-quarter sales more than doubled to $77.2m, its net loss rose to $217m.
"Happy families are alike," wrote Tolstoy in Anna Karenina. "Every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way." Startup.com, a fly-on-the-wall documentary by Chris Hegedus and Jehane Noujaim about the rise and fall ofwww.GovWorks.com, a New York internet company whose mission is to let consumers pay their parking tickets online, demonstrates that Tolstoy's point applies to businesses, too.The first third of the film, which deals with the company's early successes, is smug and dull. Twenty-something banker Kaleil Isaza Tuzman leaves Goldman Sachs to join a startup, and the film follows him and his high-school friend Tom Herman through the process of choosing a name for their company, raising $60m, organising various cheerleading events for their fast-growing workforce, and looking forward to "an IPO within six months" - a public offering of shares that will make them both billionaires.It is when things begin to go wrong that the story gets interesting. A competing company launches its service first, and our heroes' own website is delayed by technical problems and then proves to be substandard.In March 2000, technology stocks begin their crash, and the company runs into serious trouble. The board blames Herman for the technical problems, and Tuzman joins forces with the outside investors to boot him out, signing a letter of termination that Herman receives as we watch.Yet throwing Jonah out of the ship fails to calm the storm. Despite Tuzman's charm and salesmanship, the company fails to meet its revenue projections and its investors refuse to put up more cash. In December 2000, 19 months after its foundation, GovWorks.com is sold for a song to an old-economy business - and Tuzman, too, is out of a job. In one of the final scenes, when it is clear that they will now never make a dime from the business, the two friends make up and count the personal cost of what has happened.With gripping footage of triumphs and disasters, family tenderness and human rivalries, an extraordinary film could have been made - but Startup.com is not that film. Tighter editing could have made it 40 minutes shorter, and removed some overstaged early scenes. Better use of narration or voice-over, ruled out by the director's determination to maintain the camcorder atmosphere, could have cleared up confusions and set things in context more effectively.Yet despite these shortcomings, the film reveals some extraordinary things about the manic-depressive life of anyone running an internet company at the height of the boom. One day Tuzman and Herman are punching the air, certain they will conquer the world; the next, they are plunged into despair, kicking boxes around the office in their anger and frustration.With a workforce that grows in a year from nine people to 230, GovWorks.com is a furnace that has to be regularly fed with banknotes - forcing Tuzman to spend much of his time on the road raising more and more rounds of investment. The fundraising begins to feel like an end in itself. In an unguarded comment caught on film - "It's starting to pay off for us, man!" - the founders make the easy mistake of confusing the working capital that other people are   willing to put up for their business with real cash in their pockets.GovWorks.com is an all-or-nothing bet. This is true not just at a corporate level, where the company at one stage is within a few days of raising tens of millions of dollars, but has only $20,000 left in the bank and may not meet the month's payroll, but also personally: under the standard terms of US venture capitalists, Tom Herman finds his dismissal costs him not only salary, but also a large chunk of his shares.Stress comes from every side. There are small frustrations, such as Tuzman's inability to reach the company's lawyer when an investor has given him a one-hour deadline to respond to an offer. Other problems are worse, like Tuzman's horrified discovery that the   website he has paid outside consultants $8.5m to build simply does not work. When he tries to search using the word "parking ticket", the site responds by asking whether he means Park as a first name or a second name.It is not surprising, then, that the founders should take their venture so seriously. They work punishing hours, often getting only two hours sleep a night, and rush constantly between meetings by car, taxi and plane. Many of the most dramatic developments take place during conversations on mobile phones; at one stage, Tuzman is so   buzzed after his day at work that he wakes his mother at 1am. She thinks he has called to announce his engagement; in fact, he just wants to chat.In the course of building the company, the two founders give up any attempt to balance work with the rest of their lives. Tuzman squeezes a few seconds of meditation in the office late at night before packing his briefcase and chants prayers in the car from a book held on the steering wheel as he drives home. In one heartbreaking late-night scene, his girlfriend gently chides him for not returning her messages. Tuzman puts his arm round her, but keeps dealing with his email.Herman, by contrast, has a beautiful three-year-old daughter who trots around his apartment after him, ignored, while he has business discussions. Even on a trip to the circus, she is left in a baby seat in the back of the car while her father and Tuzman continue to talk shop.But the withering of their personal lives is partly voluntary. When the company seems on an upward path, the buzz is addictive. Tuzman finds himself profiled on magazine covers, fawned on by television, and befriended by President Bill Clinton - to whom, with marvellous chutzpah, he gives a business card and a job offer. It is no wonder that Herman's mother, after her son reveals he has been fired, says: "I'm not sorry that that part of your life is over - I didn't like what it did to you."So does the film show the internet entrepreneurs as driven only by greed? To be fair, GovWorks.com is an unfortunate exemplar to pick. People like Tuzman, whose earlier choice of a career in banking showed how important money was to him, were late arrivals to the gold rush. Those who started internet companies two or three years earlier were a much more eccentric and idealistic bunch, revolutionaries at the margins of society rather than get-rich-quick merchants exchanging their pin-stripes for T-shirts.But even Herman, who admits cheerfully that he considered starting businesses offering virtual tombstones and wedding registries before settling on the parking ticket idea, and Tuzman become passionate and obsessed by their mission.Money is important; as the venture capitalists in Silicon Valley say, it's the best way of keeping the score. But winning and succeeding soon take over. In the shock of seeing the competition launch first, Tuzman rouses his troops with a revealing comment: "I refuse, refuse, refuse to lose."In retrospect, it is easy to see that his and most of the other internet ventures were doomed. But Startup.com helps bring to life the wider optimism of the times too. When everyone knew the internet was going to change the world, venture capitalists who wanted a piece of it had to make quick decisions. The people they chose to back were often energetic young evangelists who made things happen at extraordinary speed because they had not been around long enough to know that their timetables were impossible.The reason that venture capitalists did not put more money behind more established business types - seasoned corporate warriors with decades of experience and address books full of industry contacts - was simple. Not enough of those people were willing to take the risk of quitting their jobs.&#149; Startup.com is at the Edinburgh International Film Festival on August 23 and 24. Details: 0131-623 8030. On general release on September 7
The new premiership season kicks off this Saturday, and apart from the prospect of the first real battle for the title in years, there will be one other significant difference. For the very first time, coverage of the matches will finally be on the internet.Until now, video footage of premiership football has been limited to a handful of classic games. This is because rights to the coverage have been tied up in the league's contract with the television companies. But this summer a new deal was signed that carved off internet rights for the first time. As early as next week, clubs will start showing edited highlights of their matches - on both the clubs' growing number of digital TV channels and on their official websites.This, alas, does not mean that you will be able to watch live matches on the net. To protect its lucrative TV contracts, the premier league has stipulated that all matches can only be streamed after a delay of between two and 48 hours after the final whistle.For games played on Saturday, Sunday or Monday, the clubs now have the rights to broadcast up to 90 minutes of footage from midnight on Monday. For games played on other days, footage will be made available on midnight on the same day of the game - often just a couple of hours after the final whistle.Not surprisingly, the league champions Manchester United are racing ahead. United - the richest club in the world - was the first club to launch its own digital TV channel, MUTV. Now, says United, the net is the next logical step for a club that is increasingly attracting a global following - estimated by some to be as large as 55m. This summer, it cut a deal with Sky to bring coverage of all its football matches to the net from the start of the season.Beginning with its match against Aston Villa on August 25 (there will only be a "teaser" package for its earlier match against Fulham), United will broadcast a highlights package lasting around 15 minutes of each game they play in the premiership. It will be available as a broadband stream - or in downloadable form for those with slower connections. United says it is looking to charge between &#163;2 and &#163;3 per game."If you look at the arithmetic of the Sky contract," says Ben Hutton, director of business development at Manchester United. "Even accounting for the extra pay-per-view games &#91;on digital television&#93;, that still leaves a minimum of 18 games that will only be available on either MUTV or in highlights form on the internet."But there's more than that in the offing. To further whet the appetite of its millions of fans, United is currently digitalising every premiership match since 1992 that they have footage of. The club plans to release the archive on the web as early as   October. Not only will fans be able to order up any match they desire, claims United, the archive will be fully searchable. This will allow fans to tailor footage of David Beckham goals or Roy Keane red cards. Eventually, this service will also be available on customisable DVDs.The club will offer a "season ticket" priced between &#163;35 and &#163;40 per year. This will give full access to the searchable archive and every game in the premiership. There are no rights for Uefa champions league matches or the Worthington cup. However, United says that it is hopeful that it will get some rights to the FA cup this season. Again on a delayed basis."Four years ago, when the negotiations for the last TV deal were under way, the idea of streaming technology being available in a commercial sense wasn't part of anybody's thinking," says Hutton. "But there has been a natural evolution in the ability of the clubs themselves to be able to leverage those rights on an individual club basis."Which means that a few miles down the East Lancs Road, Liverpool will be breathing hard down United's neck. Their old rivals may not have the same commercial clout, or global reach, but they do have the more developed website.Earlier this year, the Audit Bureau of Circulations (ABC) reported that a staggering 1.385m unique users visited the LiverpoolFc.tv site in May - more than double the rate in September. During the day after the Uefa cup final, when Liverpool dramatically beat Deportivo Alavez 5-4, the site scored more than 1m page impressions - believed to be the first time a football club has hit a million in a day.Liverpool's site has been created out of a joint venture between the club and the Granada Media Group. In April the site relaunched and asked its users to register if interested in a package of enhanced services. The club claims 120,000 registrations so far.This season, Liverpool will add a similar highlights package to that offered by United. Initially Liverpool's service will be free, but early in the season it plans to introduce a subscription package. The club is looking at a price of between &#163;3.99 and &#163;5.99 per month for the service. It is aiming to have a highlights package available for its match against West Ham this Saturday.For the last three games of last season, Liverpool began offering enhanced audio commentary from all games played at Anfield. This includes still photographs - updated every three seconds - live webcams from the players' tunnel and the Kop, and live footage of the post-match press conference. Since April, limited coverage of the Uefa games was also made available 48 hours after the final whistle."It's quite a commitment for people to buy a season ticket for a product that they haven't seen yet," says Adam Rhodes, chief executive of LiverpoolFC.tv. "It's important to give people the chance to take it on a trial basis."Liverpool already offers videos of classic matches and reserve and youth games. The club hopes to extend its archive, but has no plans to attempt anything on the scale of United."The premier league archive goes back through the 1990s when Liverpool's success was not as great as it was   in the 1970s and 1980s," says Rhodes. "But the international following of the club and the fact that we have just won three trophies combine to give us the opportunity to make this a very successful business."In Scotland, fans will have to wait a wee bit longer. The current TV deal with the Scottish premier league does not expire until the end of this season. Negotiations are currently underway, and a spokesman confirmed that there was a "strong like lihood" that internet rights would be part of the new deal.This hasn't stopped Glasgow Celtic experimenting. In September, Celtic became the first British club to broadcast a football match on the internet. It streamed three Uefa cup matches to narrowband users - all for free. The club then moved into broadband and in May streamed Tommy Boyd's testimonial live. The club also offered the pre-season friendly against Manchester United. Tellingly, it priced both games at $7.99 (not &#163;5). The club claims that - although the audience was relatively low - the feedback from fans was "very positive".This season, Celtic will offer its champions league qualifier against Ajax live on the net as a pay-per-view event. Celtic already has more than 100,000 registered users of their website - more than 40% of them outside the UK.A spokesman for Celtic says: "We are looking at broadband streaming to provide a practical service for our fans worldwide. We see the internet as an ideal way of promoting our global brand to fans overseas."Still - porn aside - there is no proven market for pay-per-view anywhere in the world. According to NetValue, only one in 32 UK homes has broadband access. But its advocates say that exclusive premiership football on the internet could change all that.Of course, the sports portals are not very happy, claiming that the clubs now have an unfair advantage. What isn't in doubt is that the wider internet community will be watching the clubs very, very closely. If football cannot encourage users to pay for content, what can?
An American businesswoman is planning to cream off &#163;5m commission from an international appeal to build a memorial garden to Princess Diana which claims to have the approval of the Queen, the Queen Mother and the Prince of Wales.A Guardian investigation has discovered that at last month's official launch, its promoter, Oklahoma businesswoman Bonnie Masterson, made exaggerated claims about royal patronage and asked people to donate money   to a trust that does not yet exist.The garden is seen as a lifeline to save the world's oldest national plant society, the 125-year-old Royal National Rose Society (RNRS), whose patron is the Queen Mother. The charity - which has a deficit of &#163;225,000 - is completing a deal to buy 20 hectares (50 acres) of farmland to convert into three royal gardens next to its headquarters in Chiswell Green, Hertfordshire.It has appointed Ms Masterson - who contacted the charity through the internet - as its vice-chairwoman for international funding and is   to appoint her to chair a new historic trust. In return it signed a contract with her which will give her 25% commission on any sum raised for the garden.Her appointment has split the society and led to the resignation of Roy Ward, its president-elect. The project is to be debated at an emergency general meeting of the society on October 6. Complaints by members have also been made to the charity commission.Ms Masterson is also in a dispute with Frances Shand Kydd, Diana's mother, and Lady Sarah McCorquodale, her sister, over the trademark ing of roses called England's Rose, People's Princess, Crowning Glory, Forever Royal and Mummy, in Australia.She has the use of domain names such asenglands-rose.com, dianasroses.com, princessofwalesrose.com, and herboysrose.com in the US. An attempt by the Diana memorial fund - which protects the princess's name from commercial exploitation - failed to get these domain names revoked at an arbitration hearing in the US.Ms Masterson was warned, however, that "the panel is critical of strangers who seek to exploit the names of per sons, living or dead, for mere commercial gain".According to the press release launching the appeal and her englandsrose website, the royal national rose garden will be "the first major public memorial to the memory of Diana, Princess of Wales". In fact 30 gardens have been approved, according to the Diana memorial fund.The statement says: "It has been approved by RNRS royal patron, the Queen Mother, and HRH the Prince of Wales and other members of the royal family have also given their approval to the &#163;20m project."It quotes Ms Masterson as   vice-patron international funding and chair of the RNRS historic trust: "We are delighted that we now reveal our plans for the royal national rose garden to the world."It is thanks to the dedication of the Royal National Rose Society and the team working on this project that we have managed to get this far and we hope the public will embrace the garden as a place where they can contemplate and commemorate a much-loved figure." The site includes an address to send money to the trust.Ms Masterson originally promised to donate the   &#163;160,000 needed to buy the site for the garden - she is described as an anonymous major donor in the 1999 society accounts. The Prince of Wales was also informed that "the necessary funds have been made available by a group of benefactors including some from America".But inquiries by the Guardian revealed that the Prince of Wales and Prince William turned down an invitation to launch the appeal on April 5 this year. Prince Charles was said to be delighted to know of the society's project but declined to help.The Queen also differentiated between the plan for a golden jubilee garden on the site and the Princess Diana garden - giving her approval only to the former - according to the society's director general, Ken Grapes. Only the Queen Mother approved the entire project.David Jones, president of the RNRS, disclosed that the historic trust had still to be legally established and that they have it had no details of the money that has been raised.Mr Jones also defended the commission that was to be paid to Ms Master son if she raised the &#163;20m. "We are very satisfied with the deal. We shall be getting 75% of the money which we would never have got."He disclosed that Ms Masterson had been unable to come up with the money to buy the land. "We have taken out a loan for the money to buy the land to speed things up. The proposals have so far cost the society a lot of money. We spent &#163;90,000 on getting planning permission and we spent a lot of money on a proposal to   the millennium commission which was turned down."He admitted the royal approval for the scheme fell short of an official endorsement from the Prince of Wales or the Queen for the project. "Silence could be taken as approval. There has been no objection," he said.Ms Masterson said last night: "I have signed an agreement with the society giving them the rights to the various products to promote the garden. So far I have given 100%   of all the money raised to the project."Obviously though this a three-year job and I need to have a pension so I would not be able to do this for nothing. You could not devote three years of your life for no money."She said she decided not to give the money for the land because she had to divert other funds to fighting the Diana memorial fund over the use of the domain names in the US.
Bonnie Masterson, the Oklahoma businesswoman behind the &#163;20m Diana Memorial Rose Garden appeal, describes herself as a "visionary" on her website,englandsrose, which promotes the project.She says that like millions of others she was touched by Princess Diana's death and wondered "Why someone couldn't offer a significant memorial to someone who had obviously touched so many lives."Diana needed a proper commemoration of her life. I had England's Rose. The Royal National Rose Society had a plan for the Royal National Rose Garden. Together we have set to build a garden for the people's princess."But an interview with the New York Times last year reveals a slightly different explanation. For it shows that Ms Masterson, who runs a small company, Collectible Commemorative Gardens, in Tulsa, was also in need of new   business. The New York Times reported: "The idea came to her when she was in need of a new product to market. She had not had a big hit since she designed the Winniest Bear, a teddy bear to celebrate the famous football coach Bear Bryant and his University of Alabama team."She said: "I wanted to combine something beautiful with business. I started thinking of that poor woman and her   tragic life and those poor boys. I'd heard the name England's Rose, so I called Cynthia, a gardener, and said: 'Have you ever seen an England's Rose in the catalogues?' She said: 'No,I don't think so.' So I called the trademark lawyers. Because if there wasn't an England's Rose, there needed to be."She then trademarked the name, got on the internet and found the site of the Royal National Rose Society.Two months and dozens of emails later, she persuaded Ken Grapes, director general of the society, to talk about promoting her trademark rose with a plan for a new garden in memory of Princess Diana.Until then, Ms Masterson had never visited Britain, but she says she was enraptured by meeting Colonel Grapes, whom she describes as a cross between David Niven and Colonel Mustard in Cluedo.She is now proud to be a vice-patron of the society and boasts of being invited with her husband, John, to meet the   Queen at a royal garden party at Buckingham Palace.She has big business plans for her company, which already has a toll-free ordering service for knick-knacks such   as petal pillows and other trinkets in honour of Princess Diana.She is planning a collection of roses themed after various stages of Diana's life. Names   include Shy Di, Royal Bride, and Queen of Hearts. She envisages an international industry, plus a bridal line and collectibles."I have combined beauty and business to own the name of what will become the most famous rose in the world."Royalty and hard times&#149; The Royal National Rose Society is the world's oldest national plant society, founded in 1876 by the dean of Rochester, Canon Hole. He believed that the scent of 10,000 roses would defy "the all-pervading stench of the river Thames".&#149; It has had royal patrons since Queen Alexandra in 1888; the Queen Mother is present patron.&#149; It moved to its present site outside St Albans in Hertfordshire in 1948, but has fallen on hard times. The society has 11,000 members but deficits of &#163;225,000.&#149; The Garden of the Rose, its headquarters in Chiswell Green, St Albans, has 30,000 plants and 1,800 species, and opens June to September.&#149; The society hopes a &#163;20m appeal and redevelopment of its site to include three royal gardens will revive it - particularly with access close to the M25.
A US fad for using live butterflies as an exciting alternative to confetti is spreading to Britain, despite the complaint of butterfly experts that is cruel and environmentally damaging.Instead of pouches of rice or paper, wedding guests are handed small decorated envelopes to open at the climactic moment. Inside are butterflies, which are supposed to take off in a multi-hued blizzard.According to the Florida Monarch Butterfly Farm, one of the leading companies in the business, the practice has its roots in an 'Indian legend'.Its website states: "If anyone desires a wish to come true they must first capture a butterfly and whisper that wish to it. Since a butterfly can make no sound, the butterfly cannot reveal the wish to anyone but the Great Spirit who hears and sees all."The Butterfly Celebration, a Milton Keynes subsidiary of a US company, Insect Lore, now   offers a "live butterfly release set" of the painted lady species for special occasions.In the US a minimum order of 50 butterflies costs $200 (&#163;140), and orders must be received a month in advance, to allow a consignment to be hatched and ready for shipment as adults.The Florida Monarch Butterfly Farm advises customers to keep them in a cool, dark place to "keep them calm". It also says: "Butterflies released at funerals can be very therapeutic to the mourning process."However, the North American Butterfly Association has criticised the practice, saying: "Butterflies raised by unregulated commercial interests may spread diseases and parasites to wild populations, with devastating results."But on the website, Insect Lore's president, Carlos White, argues that released butterflies are more likely to be infected by wild ones. "In a world where Nature seems to be disappearing all about us, attempts to bring it ever closer to our lives should be rewarded," he states.
These days Dogg, the famous data detective, is much in demand on the  dinner party circuit. He is happy to accept, for as a master of disguise  he enjoys this game of social charades. But how does the Dogg sing for  his supper on these occasions?What manner of tales does he weave? The art of conversation is not lost on Dogg, and should he want to want to get things really humming, he just tells his co-diners that he knows every fact about them.Before the dinner he has logged onto databases that hold files on each fellow diner. He can start with a simple check on their credit references, or just enter their name into "Google" and see what turns up. If his suspicions are aroused Dogg can move onto the more sophisticated searches, for bank account details and employment records. Some call it hacking but the Dogg remains unmoved by labels.  Trust me this is relatively easy stuff. Most people are on at least 200  databases, and that's without the links. Pretty soon, Dogg can know  everything from their credit card transactions to phone calls. And when  he gives examples of some of the intimate details which appear on his  co-diners' files, like their sexual or political orientation, there is  much spluttering over the cold gazpacho."That's outrageous," they cry. "Shouldn't something be done to stop  this? "I thought that was illegal."Legal or not, he replies, it is being done. Welcome to the end of  privacy.Now it always surprises the Dogg just how twitchy his co-diners get  about the subject of privacy. They are suffer chronic social poise  dysfunction at the prospect that someone else can gain access to their  private lives; that all their transactions are being held and watched on  databases in air-conditioned Data Centres down the M4 corridor. It's the  new taboo.So to play upon their emotions, the Dogg will probe his subjects a  little. Most will start off by telling him they're worried about Big  Brother knowing everything about them - that's why privacy is so  important. They blame the Thought Police. But that's a con'. They're not  really worried about Big Brother. Deep down they know that unless  they're a terrorist or a money launderer or dealing in crack, Big  Brother isn't going to be too interested in their normal little lives.So let's forget the conspiracy theories. The answer the Dogg has come to  is that people sense that privacy is intimately involved in identity.  Losing privacy affects their sense of self.Data protection is about self protection. You see it's not simply that  my fellow diners at parties are concerned to protect themselves from  others knowing about them, it is more about protecting their whole sense  of who they are.In the past a guest could attend a dinner party safe in the assumption  that he or she was in charge of their own narrative; he had more data  about himself than anyone or anything else. This meant two things. First  he could arrange the facts, edit and deploy them to suit his purposes.  When seated next to a potential new mate for the first time, he could  impress them by the size of his Jaguar parked outside, without telling  them he didn't actually own the vehicle, it was leased to the company he  works for and his contract for employment is up in three days time. Or  like the attractive blonde (in marketing) seated on the Dogg's right,  who when she went for an interview with a new employer, could claim that  the reason she had left her last job was a difference of opinion about  the future direction of the company, rather than letting on about that  unseemly incident at the photocopier. In short, owning your own  narrative keeps you in control of your self, by manipulating how others  see you.The second issue is that, in the privacy world, a diner knew more about  his or her self, their "real self" than anyone else. They know the true  person inside, the secret internal diner. This is the old  internal/external argument. If a diner were master of the inner story  and there weren't enough external facts to disprove it, they could live  on with that internal story intact. So for instance, when the media  exec' seated opposite says that he is very close to his parents, he is  not prepared for that story to be challenged. But now,  the Dogg can  tell from the data on file that he hasn't called his parents in months,  nor have they called him, and that he hasn't been up to Lancashire,  where they live, for the past 6 years. Close but not too close, huh? The  point here is that in the post-privacy world things can be measured that  were never measured before: soft things like emotions and likes and  dislikes, affinities and preferences. And the Dogg would say that this  sort of data is more real than the inner lies which people kid  themselves with. At least data is pegged to facts.Little by little, all of this adds up to a gruesome realisation, my co-diners. A guest needs his secrets. Secret "facts" about himself which  shore up his sense of who he is. Secrets keep the internal story alive.  And for the vivacious blonde (in marketing) on the Dogg's right, they  make it possible for her to believe that deep down, she's one of the  good guys. But when all the facts are known about her, the biggest shock  is not that other people will think differently about her, but that she  will have to think differently about herself. Now there's a dinner party  conversation stopper. At this point the host will often cheerfully chip  in: "Any more wine, Dogg?" Comes the reply, "Don't mind if I do."Arthur C. Dogg, data detective, is the creation of Adam Lury and Steve Gibson, and the narrator of their novel,Dangerous Databy Lury.Gibson, published by Transworld
Internet content management groupMediasurfacehas become another casualty of the collapse of the dot.com boom. The company, which was last year considering a flotation at up to 1bn pounds, yesterday cut its staff to 90 from around 260 as it refocused its business.Founded in 1996, the company had been picked by many in the online world as a potential winner but has been hard hit by a slowdown in corporate demand for web-based applications and services.Mediasurface admitted yesterday that it was refocusing its business on the media, publishing, financial services, retail, public sector and entertainment markets, where the company believes it has the best chance of success.It is also reining in its overseas operations, closing facilities in Germany, France and North America."Given the current environment, we are focused on keeping our operating resources properly aligned to remain committed to achieving profitability and maintain a strong cash position following the last funding round," the company said in a statement. "As a consequence, we have had to reduce headcount."However, staff concerns that the business has only two months left to trade have been denied by one of the group's investors. In June, Mediasurface received 11.5m pounds in funding from investors including 3i, Goldman Sachs, GE Equity and Reuters Greenhouse Fund.One of the company's backers said last night that the company had received the cash and would continue trading.Last year the company was considering a flotation which analysts said could have valued the business at up to 1bn pounds. But the downturn in the stock market caused the company to shelve its plans.Earlier this year the downturn in dot.com spending hit website designers such as Wheel and online marketing groups like Grey Interactive and Razorfish. That malaise has now spread to the providers of back-end software, such as Mediasurface.Last May Mediasurface parted company with chief executive James Metcalf after a row over the company's strategy. He went on to become executive chairman at London-listed Knowledge Management Software.
Almost half of you will know this already: 40% of home internet users look at porn sites, a web-monitoring company said today.Many surfers spend more than 45 minutes logged on to X-rated material each month, according to Netvalue.It said that 3.8m home users in Britain - more than a quarter of the entire home internet population - logged on to adult sites in June.Of the 9,411 websites that the company's survey sample of 5,000 people visited in June, 3,879, or 41.2 percent, were pornographic.British surfers may be getting hot under the collar, but Germans are credited with the most insatiable appetite for internet pornography in Europe.Netvalue said that more than 5.3m Germans visited porn sites in June."Pornography has become a lucrative online business, with many companies now recognising it as a valuable additional revenue stream," said Alki Manias of Netvalue."This would seem to be a stable business area - the popularity of online pornography continues unchecked."Related articlesT-Online considers porn for the regionsUseful sitesExcuses for getting caught with pornographyJILT: The Regulation of Pornography and Child Pornography on the InternetNetvalue
When the Court of Appeals sent the Microsoft case and the Justice Department's proposed "break up" remedy back to the lower courts for a fix, everyone - at least everyone in the press and punditry pen - seemed to think it marked a victory for Bill Gates. His company would now remain whole and, even if he were eventually punished, his web browser would have even more time to establish itself as the standard. I still get email asking why I haven't spoken out against the decision.I haven't criticised the Court of Appeals' decision because it was right.Having had a chance to   review their findings, as well as the opportunity to speak with insiders at Redmond and a few state attorneys' general offices, I believe this decision - rather than taking the pressure off Microsoft - could potentially deal a blow to Bill Gates far more deadly than anything Joel Klein (conceiver of the original break up plan) could dream up. And, if the lower court and Justice Department now act intelligently in their design of a new remedy, they could successfully break the effects of Microsoft's longstanding monopolistic practices.First, what happened. Judge Jackson originally found that Microsoft had a monopoly in the operating   systems (OS) market, and was using this monopoly to maintain its position. Further, and wading into murkier waters, Jackson found that Microsoft was using its browser monopoly to monopolise the browser market. He then adopted Joel Klein's remedy proposal: to break Microsoft in two. One of the new companies would be dedicated to the Windows operating system, and the other would make applications, like Microsoft Office.The appellate court rejected the notion that Microsoft monopolised the browser market, because there  is no browser market. At least no evidence of a browser market was presented; most browsers are given away. They also rejected   the remedy. What the court held up, quite emphatically, was the charge that Microsoft enjoys a monopoly over the OS market, and that it has used its power to maintain this position - illegally, by definition. They sent the case back for a sane remedy.The aggregate brainpower of the appellate court and its affiliated guest thinkers was, perhaps, the greatest in the modern history of jurisprudence. And their decision reflected a keen understanding of the law, technology and business. Antitrust practitioners with whom I have consulted agree that this is one of the most intellectually rigorous decisions made by a court in recent years.Though conceived by jurists   considered to be quite friendly to Microsoft's interests, this decision gives the Justice Department and the state's attorneys general all they need to resolve the situation. That is, it is all they need if they can focus on something other than their spiteful (if justified) lust for vengeance against Bill Gates' Evil Empire, and look to concentrate, instead, on helping liberate the computer operating system from Microsoft's stranglehold.The Justice Department chose to punish and publicly humiliate Bill Gates with a break up of his company rather than addressing the need for a remedy to the OS monopoly. As the Appellate Court must have surmised, breaking up Microsoft into two companies would not change their power over the OS. It was a policy of containment, really, in which Microsoft would be allowed to maintain the monopolies it has already won, but no more.Of course, the new spin-off company would have owned Office, already something of a monopoly in its own right. In any case, the applications company would have little motivation to compete against its parent in the OS   market, as Klein believed would happen. It has every reason to keep Microsoft - for which it makes the best software - healthy.Had the Justice Department's proposal been subjected to a hearing, as Microsoft itself suggested, these flaws would have been exposed. Now, the 7-0 appellate decision refocuses the parties and the lower court on the real issue of the case: the OS market.So, what should the Justice Department and attorneys general do? Focus on reintroducing innovation and competition to the browser market, rather than just punishing Bill Gates. Here is just one such remedy: force Microsoft to license its OS to   five of its competitors. Set up an auction, supervised by the Justice Department, in which companies bid for licenses to the entire Windows OS at its current stage of development, as well as its source code. Their bids can include an upfront price, ongoing licensing fees - whatever the market will bear.Then, these five companies can take whichever direction they want in the further development of the OS. They all start with the same advantage: all those Windows-compatible programs out there will work on everyone's OS.Each version of Windows can follow its own development path. If, say, IBM goes in a direction that more users like, then it is their version of   Windows that will begin to win market share. At least Windows will be able to evolve based on competition rather than monopoly. And Microsoft will have to compete and innovate right along with everyone else. The object is not to cripple Microsoft, but to break its monopoly and improve the climate of OS development.Of course mine is just one possible remedy. There are many. The important thing for the Justice Department to accept is that the "conduct" restrictions and structural remedies, of which they are so fond, only "feel" like substantive victories. If they don't actually introduce competition to the marketplace, they aren't remedies at all.
How did you encounter computers?I started quite early, but solely for word processing. I wrote my first book, a law book, while still an attorney, on an IBM Selectric typewriter, and it was gruelling! Because I do a lot of rewriting, it is an arduous task to cut and paste when you really are cutting and pasting. Early on I bought an NEC computer, which operated with a pre-DOS system called CPM. I lost money on that book, because this new invention was so expensive. I have upgraded since then, but actually have no intrinsic knowledge of computers.What are you using now?I have a hybrid Windows 98-based system. A friend put it together for me with parts. I couldn't tell you what they were.Was the web useful for researching your novel?Extremely - I use it all the time. There is a wealth of information out there, particularly for this book because it is about hackers and computers. I would visit chat rooms, and lurk, not participate. I am writing the new Lincoln Rhyme novel, Stone Monkey, and researching illegal immigration for that.Do you have any favourite places on the net?I don't. I useAltaVistaas my search engine, but my favourite is whatever website has the information I need for my research. My list of bookmarks is miles long, but once I have finished a novel, I don't go back to them. You have to read between the pixels. Researching Blue Nowhere I discovered Cap'n Crunch has his own website -he is the hacker who discovered that the toy whistles given away with Cap'n Crunch cereal produced sound at the right frequency to hack into the telephone system. Now he runs a hacking website. I spent a lot of time reading the Usenet newsgroups about hacking, reading thousands of messages: some brilliantly written, some illiterate. It gave me a lot of information, and more important, a sense of who these people were.Are you worried about someone hacking into your life?Sure... my own websites are not hacker proof, nothing is, as you know if you read my novel. It is like a cop told me 25 years ago when my car was stolen in Chicago: if they want to steal, it they will steal it. All you can do is make it so difficult they will steal someone else's car instead. But if they want to hack into your computer they will, unless you have a "concrete firewall", really serious stuff, with zero access to outside connections. I do not do anything sensitive, like cheque books or banking, by computer. I have ordered a few things via the net, but your credit card is out there so often anyway.Visit:www.jeffreydeaver.com;www.bluenowhere.com
DEL what?I got to C:\WINDOWS\COOKIES&gt; but when I typed DEL*.* it said "Bad command or file name" and I could not delete the index.dat file.Donald Lovelldon.lovell@btinternet.comJack Schofield replies:A lot of people had this problem. The command should be DEL *.* with a space in the middle. Sorry, it was hard to tell from the printed version.Cookies in MeI tried the tip you offered on July 26 to purge my computer of cookies. Unfortunately, it didn't work. I use Windows Me, and that does not seem to have a facility to re-start the computer in MS-DOS mode.Robert CandlishRobertCandlish@aol.comI went to delete the index.dat file in MS-DOS but it comes up as Access Denied. I am using Windows Me, if that's any help.Lee Redfernidaho-blues@breathe.comJS:Sorry, I did not realise so many people were using Windows Me. The idea is to delete these files in MS-DOS, before Windows loads and protects them. It does not work if you use a DOS window or "Command prompt" inside Windows.Windows Me does not include what is known as Real Mode DOS so it cannot be restarted in DOS mode. The solution is to make a "boot floppy" and start the computer from the A: drive. To do this, format a floppy disk and go to the C:\Windows\Command\Ebd directory. Copy two files, Command.com and Io.sys, to the floppy, and exit Windows Me. If you switch your PC on with the floppy in the A: drive it should start in DOS. However, you will have to use primitive DOS commands (on separate lines: C:, cd windows, cd cookies) to get to the Cookies folder.If you already have a Windows 98 boot floppy you can   use that with Me as long as you do not copy the DOS files from the floppy to the hard drive. Also, if your PC starts from the C: drive, you will have to change the boot order using the Bios chip's Setup utility.Finally, you can download an unofficial Real-DOS Mode patch that modifies some Windows Me system files to restore Real Mode DOS. Seewww.geocities.com/mfd4life_2000Folder IconsI have Windows 2000 Professional, and I have noticed that the My Pictures folder has a different icon to the others. Is there a way that I can use my own icons for other folders? For example, I have a music icon that I would like to use for a My Music folder.El Bazelbaz@turnip.co.ukJS:You can't change the default folder icons in Windows Explorer, as far as I know. However, there is a workaround. Create a folder called Music Files, right-click it, and select Create Shortcut. This will create a new folder with a small arrow on it (which shows it is a shortcut to a folder, not a real folder). Rename this My Music. Right-click this shortcut folder, select Properties, and click the Change Icon button on the Shortcut properties sheet.This should let you select a different icon from the system's Shell32 file (C:\WINNT\SYSTEM\ SHELL32.DLL or, in Windows 98/Me, C:\WINDOWS\SYSTEM\SHELL32.DLL) or another source if you browse to it.Folders placed on the Windows desktop are also short cuts, of course, so you can change their icons using the same approach.In January 1999, PC Magazine published a small program, Folders.zip, to help you change desktop folders. You can download it fromwww.zdnet.co.uk/pcmag/product/source99.htmlPC World magazine offers a program called 3D Folders, which you can download fromwww.e-businessworld.com/english/crd_pc_87800.html. This page offers a range of icon changing programs and thousands of icons including Frightcons (frightening icons).Backchat&#183;The Sircam virus continues to mail out files randomly chosen from users' My Documents folder. I referred readers to the Symantec anti-virus site, among others, for advice on how to deal with it.Jennie Macfiesays these sites make it sound incredibly complicated and points out that John Woram has produced step-by-step instructions and some small utilities to deal with Sircam infections. You can download the file fromwww.woram.com/zips/surkam.zip&#183;David Hamblinasked for a way to disable the automatic list numbering feature in Microsoft Word, and I explained how (go to Insert| AutoText|AutoText and see   the tab marked AutoFormat As You Type). However, Conrad Cork (conradcork@ tadleyewing.co.uk) writes: "Isn't a simpler answer to click the numbered list icon on the toolbar? This will instantly switch a paragraph starting with a number back to normal text (or vice versa, of course)." Which icon? Put the mouse pointer over it, and it will show the word Numbering.&#183;Meanwhile the Great PC Caps Lock Key Debate has reached the stage where people are levering off the hated key with a screwdriver. But the last word may go toMartin Blighwho says: "I just thought you might like to remind your readers that Windows can be customised to emit a bleep whenever the Num Lock, Scroll Lock and Caps Lock keys are pressed, using the Accessibility Options program in Control Panel. This saves the bother of re-programming Caps Lock to other keys, and means you still have it, eg in Notepad which otherwise loses the facility." On my IBM PS/2 "clicky" keyboard, each of these keys already has a green LED indicator....
Max PaynePC	 &#163;29.99 3D Realms/ Take Two 	*****Max Payne is a swaggering, strutting piece of software that is, by a long way, the most stylish PC game made.After a summer of game-to-film releases - Tomb Raider, Final Fantasy - Max Payne redresses the balance by borrowing cinematic elements from Jon Woo and The Matrix to produce an atmospherically drenched blaster.From the start it is obvious something special is happening. Using flashbacks and chilling sound effects, the player controls Max as he    discovers the bodies of his murdered family. Fast forward three years and it is your job to seek revenge on    the streets and subways of a noir-ish New York. There are some investigative elements but basically this is   about shooting bad guys in as many different ways as possible. This seemingly simple premise is made special by two unique aspects - Bullet Time and Bullet Dodge. By using either, the player can slow down time, allowing bullets to be seen leaving Max's sparking weapon.This makes it easier to hit the enemy but, more importantly, allows you to look the part as you fly through the air, guns blazing.It is too short - 10 hours first time through - but as a glimpse of more stylish gaming, Max Payne comes highly recommended. (GH)Breath of FirePS1	 &#163;19.99 Capcom 	*In the week when one long-running role-playing game (RPG) hits the big screens, another makes it to an unexpected fourth incarnation. Breath of Fire may lack some of Final Fantasy's visual ammo, but it does contain all the elements for RPG fans:   mini-games, 2D sprites for heroes, random, turn-based combat and so on.Typically, the plot involves saving someone and a super-deformed hero to do it but, as always, the Japanese maintain a love for epic storytelling.As you progress, your party will swell by up to five people, but only three can be used in combat at the same time. Combat and many key locations are invisible: you simply run into them as you move and have to play out the consequences. The actual battles, however, yield many opportunities for strategy; when to rest your characters,   for instance, or unleash some of the bigger magic attacks.The big problem is that it looks like it was designed a decade ago on the Nintendo SNES. The animated cut-scenes are amazingly long and of staggeringly poor quality, and feature some truly brainless dialogue.Even worse, and again traditional to many RPGs, is the fact that you cannot skip these scenes. If developers are going to insist on such feeble rules, they at least have a duty to make the story interesting or the animation watchable. BOF does neither, and having to wait 30 seconds to watch a horridly pixellated character   pull on a pair of boots is unacceptable. The fact that many will be playing this on a PlayStation 2 simpy emphasises how dated it all is.RPG purists may well find hidden depths, but to be so easily pleased is not something to boast about. Undoubtedly there will be a fifth instalment, but Final Fantasy and Baldur's Gate have redefined the quality of RPGs and did so a long time ago. Someone really ought to tell Capcom. (MA)&#149; Guardian readers can buy this title for £19.99, incl. UK P&amp;P. Call 0870 066 7809
Magistrates courts staff are having to work with two computers on their desks instead of one after being presented with new PCs which do not have the software to do the main job they were bought for.In the latest in a long line of government IT humiliations, the Lord Chancellor's Department is pressing ahead with the installation of new computers in 400 magistrates courts even though delivery of the core application, a new case management system, has been indefinitely delayed.The result is that staff still rely on their old computers - installed 10 years ago - to access the casework system, while using the new PCs only for basic functions such as word processing and email.An investigation by Computer Weekly has established that by installing the computers, the contractor ICL is now entitled to be paid more than half the contract's &#163;319m value, despite its failure to deliver the core application.The fiasco with the Libra project to computerise the courts, is certain to reignite widespread criticism of the government's handling of IT contracts and the use of the private finance initiative to fund them. Under PFI contracts, the main risks of non-delivery are supposed to fall on the supplier.Rosie Eagleson, general sec retary of the Association of Magisterial Officers, said: "The whole area of funding needs to be looked at again. This arrangement seems to be more about getting money up front to ICL than it is about delivering an efficient system for the courts."The Libra project is a key component of ministers' promise to streamline the criminal justice system. In 1998, ICL was contracted to provide the networked computer infrastructure, comprising the PCs and Microsoft Office software, along with the main casework application. 
The application would enable the courts to handle case files electronically, allowing them to be transferred between individual courts as well as the police, prisons, probation service and other agencies.ICL was the only bidder for the contract, originally worth &#163;183m. But two years after it signed up, the company renegotiated the terms, increasing the length of the contract from eight years to 12 and raising the value to &#163;319m.The contract was written so that ICL has to deliver only the infrastructure - the most straightforward part of the project - to trigger the bulk of the payments. Delivery of the core application is worth less than half the contract's value.Both the Lord Chancellor's Department and ICL insist the full project will be completed.In a letter to all justices' chief executives, Peter White, head of magistrates courts IT division, said the casework system would be delivered in an estimated 15 to 18 months.In the meantime, the installation of the computers first would "ease the eventual roll-out of the whole project by avoiding the pitfalls of a 'big bang' in which hardware, software and other changes would all be made at the same time".But some independent experts fear the Libra project may never be completed.Mr White's letter suggested the problems with the the new software are deep rooted, with many of the challenges not yet fully understood. "Once we understand better what will be needed to overcome the problems... we will need to agree a revised timetable."The saga has unhappy parallels with another public sector IT disaster: the installation of a computer system to streamline asylum applications for the Home Office's immigration and nationality directorate.In February, the government admitted that the &#163;77m contract, awarded to Siemens Business Systems had been scrapped, more than three years after problems with the system first emerged and the contractor began being paid.Last night, both the Lord Chancellor's Department and ICL refused to discuss the contract, but said all parties involved remained committed to delivering the full system.
Tucked away in the genteel north London suburb of St John's Wood lies Abbey Road Studios. Famous for the eponymous Beatles album, as well as numerous film scores, last month the latest addition to its labyrinthine complex was unveiled - a purpose-built DVD remastering suite.Abbey Road Interactive has been making "enhanced" CDs in NW6 for five years now. Last year, the company moved into the DVD market, which it says has already transformed its business. In the past six months it says the number of clients who want to master DVDs at Abbey Road has more than doubled and an increasing number of them are now record companies keen to exploit a new market.The company - a subsidiary of EMI - produces a range of DVDs for a variety of clients. Titles range from Bach's Cantatas to Hancock's Half Hour. Last year the interactive arm of the studios employed 13 full-time staff, today it employs 22. The new DVD studios sit next door to studio one where the soundtrack to the Phantom Menace was recorded.The production of DVDs (Digital Versatile Disc) is perhaps the one sector of the digital economy that is booming. Although individual record and film companies have yet to release specific figures, companies such as Amazon report that sales of DVDs have more than doubled in the past 12 months.The British Video Association claim that &#163;264m worth of DVDs were sold in the UK last year. Thanks largely to DVD players being embedded in PCs and Sony PlayStation 2, UK consumers are taking to DVD faster than they took to the CD player. And standalone DVD players can now be bought in Tesco for as little as &#163;130.But only of late has the music industry begun to take advantage of the new format. Acts as diverse as Blur and Queen were quick to re-release their video (ie, VHS) back catalogue in the DVD format. And in February, the French DJ Laurent Garnier released Greed, a 30-minute interactive DVD single. But up until now music DVDs have been little more than repackaged VHS.Then, last week, Epic's Super Furry Animals became the first act to begin to take advantage of the new medium. Last Monday, the Furries released Rings Around the World - in what is believed to be the first   simultaneous DVD/CD release in the world. The CD comes with the standard 74 minutes worth of music - in this case 13 tracks. The DVD version comes with 18 tracks, each accompanied with its own specially commissioned film. The DVD also includes remixes of each track, and an 'extras' section containing previously unreleased footage. It retails at the inflated price of &#163;18.99.Next week sees DVD releases by Bj&ouml;rk and New Order, while acts that are genres apart, such as U2 and Emma Bunting, have new DVD albums in the offing. The music industry clearly feels it can recoup some of the money it lavishes on music videos by selling enhanced DVDs - but there may be more to it than that.As well as DVD video there is now a new format - DVD audio. A standard CD holds 4.5Mb, while the most common DVDs hold between   4.7Gb and 8.5Gb (or between seven and 13 times more data). But you will only find just over an hour of music on DVD audio. Its advocates claim that DVD audio offers the ultimate in recorded listening because it makes use of surround sound ie, six speakers all capable of handling different bits of a soundtrack. DVD audio is also superior to DVD video because it uses the video space, enhancing the sound even further.And despite their consumer success, there are also many who feel the discs are already overpriced. Discs bought in the US will not work on most European DVD players and DVDs are much cheaper in the US than in the EU. The European Commission recently launched an inquiry into the pricing of DVDs in the EU.Of course we have been here before - with CDs, DATs and MiniDisc. Some might say that a new format is just what a beleaguered record industry needs after the psychological battering it has received from Napster.  But perhaps most importantly, because of the size of the files, DVDs are much more difficult to share across networks, such as Gnutella, than MP3 files - for the time being at least.
Maybe it is an age thing but the more my liver spots blossom, the more cross I get about stuff. I am not talking about little stuff, like all the bits falling out of Cosmo when I am attempting a free read in the newsagent, but big stuff, like the estimated 10m birds killed each year on British roads, or Norway still not saving whales. And along with all the good things about age - wearing purple, affecting grumpiness, not giving a damn - comes the desire to actually make a difference, rather than just talk about it.This revelation did not come to me in a dream, but in a pet centre. There I was, looking for toys for Bob and Jessica and my eye lighted on an exercise ball, marketed for guinea pigs and rats. But hold on, I thought, guinea pigs aren't bendy! Put them in one of these and they will die horribly. A quick letter to the manager of the centre and, hey presto, exercise balls for guinea pigs are withdrawn and, even better, the manufacturer stops marketing them for guinea pigs.OK, this may seem a pathetic story to you and, yes, it does help that I wrote to animal-friendly people. But it does illustrate that just one letter can make a difference.Anyone who has a border collie will tell you that some animals have more personality than people, and it is not just dogs. Pigs aren't fools, either. The foot and mouth experience is focusing attention on the less-than-perfect farming industry.Compassion in World Farmingcampaigns to end the cruelty that factory farming routinely commits, such as mutilations performed without anaesthetic, hellish housing and live exports, the latter not just from the UK. Each year, 100,000 horses for meat are lugged from Eastern Europe to the EU.The site's excellent briefings will enable you not only to write to your MP in a more effective way than "Listen, Shorty, do something about the chickens," and bully him into tabling a question in parliament. If you are not sure whether your MP is that new bird or the old bloke with the beard, find out atwww.locata.co.uk/commons.It is not just our favourite Fuzzy Felt creatures that need help. British wildlife is taking a beating from our native thugs. Taking pleasure in cruelty can never be right. We all know of the ladies and gentlemen who kill foxes and hares, but did you know there is a bustling trade in birds, mink and deer? Visitwww.league.uk.comfor information on lobbying against this as well as instructions on how to make a hedgehog house or a fox hidey-hole, or put on a display in your nearest library. Atwww.overthegardengate.co.ukthere is information on shoring up local wildlife by attracting it to your garden. If zoos and circuses give you the willies, check outwww.caps-uk.dircon.co.uk.But British cruelty seems tame compared to the pastimes of a Spanish minority, where tearing the heads off chickens and crushing donkeys are considered jolly good fun.Fight Against Cruelty to Animals in Europeis a well-established group that campaigns to stop this hobby, with some success.You may not want to cancel your fortnight in Benidorm, but check whether the bronzer you buy for that sunkissed look has been tested on animals. Investigatewww.peta-online.orgto find out whether the manufacturer still uses animal tested ingredients. Slap companies that do by supporting an EC sales ban on their products through the RSPCA's campaign atwww.rspca.org.uk.You would not want to kill a lipstick bunny, but what about a medical research bunny? Some say it might one day save your bacon. Check out the arguments for atwww.rds-online.org.ukand against atwww.vivisection-absurd.org.uk. Humane research methods are discussed atwww.animalaid.org.uk, a great site that also provides 20 sound tips on living a cruelty-free life.Let's face it, rabbits are not at the same risk of extinction as the tiger or rhino. Atwww.dscf.demon.co.ukandwww.careforthewild.orgyou can donate money or time to keep these more exotic creatures alive. The latter site even funds a study on kind ways to shear a Chilean vicuna. Closer to home, you can find voluntary work with animals in your area by checking outwww.volunteering.org.ukandwww.do-it.org.uk.Taking your caring nature a step further, how about "adopting" a badger or a bear atwww.adoption.co.uk? Donkey fans will drool overwww.thedonkeysanctuary.org.uk, which has so far rescued more than 8,000 donkeys, orwww.neddi.org.This saving-the-beasts lark is addictive. Keep your hand in by dipping intowww.virunga.org, a comprehensive site focusing on animal protection worldwide. If God turns out to be a celestial marmoset, you just might have earned your ticket to heaven.
Look hereGoogle is the net's best search engine but it does have weaknesses. One is its handling of phrases. Now there's Teoma, which does that job superbly. The demo version of Teoma is not powerful enough to replace Google and its database is too small. However, it has some neat ideas, and is well worth bookmarking.http://home.teoma.net/DALiDALi is, as everyone knows, an acronym for Distributed Artificial Life. And thanks to DALiWorld, that is what you get. Imagine the internet as a gigantic fish tank. When a fish swims across your screen, it is on your computer, but when it swims away, it goes to someone else's, peer-to-peer fashion. Click on a fish and you can find out where it has been. Download the software and you get your own fish. One day you may be able to give fish messages and send them off to someone else.www.daliworld.netwww.dalilab.comwww.dalilab.comNot NapsterThere are so many file-sharing programs around now that it is hard to keep track of them. But not surprisingly, a website has taken over the job. Zeropaid provides information about most contenders, links, and the most illiterate user reviews within sight of Alpha Centauri.www.zeropaid.comBack chatAs soon as I mentioned that Lycos's free web-based SMS service did not require registration, they changed it: now it does. However, the change accompanies a new service called Reply2Me, which means that for the first time in Europe, mobile phone users can send messages back to their web-based buddies. At the moment, the reply feature only works with Vodafone phones, but Lycos says other networks will be added. Also, there's a UK website that lets you send 10 free SMS messages a day: Vizzavi.www.lycos.co.uk/webguides/mobile/smsnote.htmlwww.vizzavi.co.ukWhale againwww.eatthewhales.comMake a date"On this day in history" pages may be old hat, but dMarie has given the idea a new twist by enabling you to create a Time Capsule Page for birthdays. The sections include news headlines, a terrific collection of famous people's birthdays, and the top songs, TV shows, books and toys of the year in which they were born. The final page adds other details such as the name of the US president. Yes, sorry, it is American. Please can someone do a UK version?www.dmarie.com/timecapDead lettersMail Expire offers web-based mailboxes with a fixed lifespan: there are five options from 12 hours to three months. Mail sent to the box will be forwarded to your real address, but after it expires, spam will not. It could be useful for sites where you have to provide a working email or can't be bothered to set up another Hotmail account.www.mailexpire.comAIThere seems to be no real connection between AI, Spielberg's new film, and AI Puzzler, a new Microsoft game. Still, the microsite lets you try three of the 130 puzzles created for the game by a Microsoft employee, Alexey Pajitnov, who is best known for writing Tetris.www.microsoft.com/games/aipuzzlerRed alertIs the internet about to collapse thanks to the Code Red worm or other viruses? Find    out by going to the Global Threat Operations Centre ( https://gtoc.iss.net/index.php ). Click on customer login, then click AlertCon Trends for a graphic that purports to show the state of alert. Incidentally, you need not worry about catching Code Red. It only affects PCs running Microsoft Windows NT Server/Windows 2000 along with Internet Information Server (IIS) 4.0. But if you do happen to run web servers, go to:www.microsoft.com/windows2000/downloads/critical/q300972www.microsoft.com/ntserver/ntsdownloads/critical/q300972New &amp; notedVisit Beckingham Palace:www.victoriabeckham.mu&#149;  Stop monkeying around:www.planetoftheapes.com&#149; Commonwealth of Learning:www.col.org/virtualed&#149; Some people have too much time on their hands:www.virtualstapler.com&#149; For those who don't have a life:www.carphonewarehouse.com/fonefashionSix of the bestComparison shoppingStill growinghttp://uk.kelkoo.comTop titleshttp://uk.shopsmart.comPrice challengewww.checkaprice.comBookswww.bookbrain.co.ukRemote controlwww.bigbots.co.ukLinkswww.splut.com/003/026
Point of it allI have waited six years for the nail to be hit on the head as accurately as did Dave Birch (Second sight, August     2). He should be read by all the luminaries in telecoms who have made my prospects of obtaining broadband net     access what they are today.Richard A ClarkeRichardAClarke@compuserve.comContent warsJack Schofield (Web watch, July 26) describes the extensive criticism of Microsoft's "smart tags"     technology as "an astonishing amount of ignorant invective from people who presumably had not seen similar     things before". As a website owner, I'd like to reassure Jack that I have seen hypertext links before. My web     pages contain plenty of them, and I put them there because they are my web pages. What Microsoft proposes to     do with "smart tags" is nothing less than altering the content of other people's websites without consent by     inserting links to external sites of Microsoft's choosing.Here's an analogy that may help Jack to understand why     website owners are outraged by "smart tags". Suppose I decide that the contents of the Guardian need to be     livened up. I set up my own printing press and produce an edition of the Guardian that is identical to the real one,     except that I add adverts for, say, the Daily Telegraph, the Daily Mail and the Sun. I slip my altered copies in     among the genuine copies, so that readers aren't even aware that some copies have been changed. Just a bit of     harmless added content?Dr David Harperadh@sanger.ac.ukAfrica shocksJack Schofield explains how to text from a PC (Mobile Matters, 2 August). My daughter in Zanzibar (where text     messaging is free) can send a text message to a specified phone number and it appears in the e-mail inbox of my     iMAC seconds later - all at no cost, in contrast to high minimum rates for international phone calls. Has the UK     yet caught up with Africa technologically? Can I text to a PC here?L FT Smithlftsmith@powermac.demon.co.ukFor art's sakeI read with interest the article on working the web: Art (August 2). I was particularly interested in the Originals     Gallery, as we here at Quay Art considered earlier in the year launching a webcam project following a residency of     two months at the gallery of a young painter, Esther Cawley.We desisted on the webcam project because we     thought that it was a bit of a gimmick, it gave no privacy to Esther (the project was not for a couple of days, but     for a couple of months), and lack of control of what the viewers were meant to see.We used instead a weekly     posting of Esther's diary entries with selected and edited images to show the significative stages in the progress     of her work rather than an endless and meaningless succession of images. Our current project follows a rather     different route, in so far that the artist-photographer, Andy Lock, has worked out his project, Nowhere so     Foreign, on the web. He is exploring modern travel by taking a residency on a North Sea ferry. Both projects are     on line at:www.quay-art.orgPablo Luis Gonzalezquay.art@care4free.netKeep it simpleRegarding over complicated websites: one of the worst offenders for this sort of thing is surely the Institute for     Public Policy Research (IPPR). Its Flash and java heavy website is unusable at work, although I can battle through     from (my much newer) laptop. So_ for the IPPR's latest work on poverty and social exclusion: just spend å£1,500     on a new computer and make sure you are au fait with Microsoft's latest programs...Name and address supplied
You will soon be able to get high-speed access to the internet, even if you don't have a phone line - as long as you can see the sky to the south.Last week, BT announced a BTopenworld two-way satellite service, but it won't be the only option. At least three more companies - Hughes Electronics, Tiscali and Aramiska - will announce or test similar services this year. And one of those will be 10 times faster than BT.Satellite internet systems have one compelling advantage: they work in parts of the country that existing high-speed, or broadband, phone and cable networks cannot reach. Millions of business and domestic users, and thousands of schools that   would like a high-speed internet connection, cannot have one because they live too far from a digital exchange for ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line), and they do not have a local cable TV supplier. But signals from satellites in orbit 36,000km above the earth don't care very much whether you are close to an exchange or not, or even which country you are in, as long as you have a dish within their footprint.Satellite internet services such as Hughes Electronics' DirecPC have been available in the UK since 1998, without sales taking off. However, they are one-way systems, so you have to be connected to the net via a phone line at the same time as you use the satellite service. The phone is used to send   requests to web servers and so on, then the pages are sent to your PC via a satellite dish fixed to your roof or outside wall.The new systems use the satellite both ways. That means you can surf the net at speed even if you do not have a phone. However, you will need a new satellite dish fixed to a roof or wall, plus a satellite terminal or set-top box.These will greatly increase the start-up cost. The need to erect a dish, and probably drill holes through walls for the cables, means installation will take longer and be more expensive than ADSL, which converts an existing copper phone line for broadband use. BT has not fixed prices yet, but its two-way satellite equipment - including a 60 by 90cm oval dish - could cost &#163;350 or more to install, then about &#163;100 per month for unlimited use.Although satellites can deliver 8-10 megabits of data per second, the BT service will provide about a twentieth of that: 512kbps. This is comparable with BT's ADSL service. ADSL can deliver 6mbps, and the "lite" version BT sells - which splits off some bandwidth to provide a voice line - can provide 1.5mbps. Again, BT sells an ADSL service at only 512kbp, which is a third of what the technology allows.Tony Harris, the BT senior vice president running the business side of the operation, says the company has tried to make the two-way satellite service as much like ADSL as possible. "The real difference is the purchase of the equipment," says Harris. "But the power of this is that, overnight, broadband is available to every business in the UK. It is important that rural busi nesses are not denied the opportunity."But satellite internet is not suitable for home gamers: the signal's long trip into space and back introduces a delay that would not help anyone trying to play Quake III. But a BT spokesman says that if consumers want the service for other reasons, "We're not going to turn them away."The BTopenworld service will be available in the Scottish Highlands and Northern Ireland in November, with a UK roll-out early next year. Whether BT will offer two-way satellite comms in other European countries remains to be seen, but Tiscali, based in Sardinia, is expected to invade BT's turf.Both BT and Tiscali have signed hardware deals with Gilat Satellite Networks of Israel. Gilat has grown rapidly, and now has 23.7% of the VSAT (Very Small Aperture Satellite) market, against Hughes's 55.5%, according to Communication Systems Ltd.At the end of June, a Tiscali spokeswoman, Simona Vecchies, said it would be "the   first company to offer &#91;a two-way satellite&#93; service on a pan-European level. It will be available in all the 15 European countries where Tiscali is present." Last week, Tiscali stepped up its UK presence by buying an internet service provider (ISP) from Tiny, the PC manufacturer.For BT, Harris said he welcomed the competition, but there may not be much if the two services are incompatible. Gidi Talmor, vice president of pre-sales engineering for Gilat Europe, confirmed that "Yes, you could use the same dish, technically, and as far as I know for now, you would be able to use the same switch."However, the two Gilat-powered systems may be implemented in such a way that the end-user equipment is incompatible, making it harder for buyers to change systems.Hughes Electronics, the market leader in one-way satellite internet, also plans to get in on the two-way VSAT act. It is already conducting trials with users, but will compete with Gilat as a supplier, not with BT and Tiscali as a retailer.Sampath Ramaswami, the Rome-based senior director of Hughes Network Systems responsible for strategic marketing, says: "Hughes is a wholesale offering, so we would provide a solution to an ISP or application service provider, who would use it to complement their other offerings."We have deals with various ISPs in the US, and we are in discussion with ISPs in Europe to do similar deals here. We can offer other ISPs the facilities that BT will have, and we can offer differentiated services such as streamed content and high-speed content."Hughes's two-way service,   DirecWay, is intended to take over from the current one-way service, DirecPC. DirecWay's leading US backer could turn out to be America Online (AOL), though it has yet to start marketing the service in its usual carpet-bombing style.There is an added complication in that Rupert Murdoch has been negotiating to buy Hughes for some time, to get his hands on DirecTV, the US equivalent of BSkyB. That would leave DirecWay beholden to two megacorporations - News Corporation   and AOL Time Warner - both bent on world domination, with unpredictable results.And if Murdoch does not get Hughes, a rival satellite TV operator might. Echostar tabled a $32bn merger offer earlier this week, and such a deal would muddy the waters even further.Yet again, the equipment for DirecWay is different from the hardware used by Gilat licensees. "There are some efforts going into standardisation," says Ramaswami, "but at the moment there are   strong technology differences between the companies."Things could change with the arrival of a new European Telecommunications Standards Institute open standard called Digital Video Broadcast - Return Channel by Satellite. A start-up company, Aramiska plans to offer a service in five European countries, including the UK. Trials will start late this year using Newtec's 2Way-Sat network and terminal equipment.Philippe Bodart, Aramiska's chief executive officer, says the service will   offer faster speeds than BT, with 75cm dishes, to a broader market over a larger area. The download speed will be 8mbps -16 times faster than BTopenworld - with upload speeds of 1.5mbps, almost 10 times faster than BT's 153kbps. "And this is phase one," Bodart adds. "We really anticipate being able to offer even faster speeds in 12-18 months."Aramiska plans to launch in five markets. It will start in the UK "because the UK still has by far the largest telecoms    spending per capita, and is also very familiar with satellites," says Bodart. France, Germany, Italy and Spain will follow. Aramiska's chief marketing officer, Steve Petrie, reckons the European broadband market will be   worth &#163;5.6bn by 2004, of which &#163;2.9bn will be in varieties of DSL . After cable and wireless internet is deducted, he says that leaves a &#163;1.9bn market for satellite, "because nobody else can reach them."Joost Kruytzer, a director of Fletcher Advisory in London, which is part of Forrester Research, says the company has not forecast the size of the market, but says "it makes sense" for an incumbent supplier, such as BT, to have two-way satellite comms in its portfolio.There are, however, doubts   about it reaching a mass market. "There are two questions," says Kruytzer. "Is there enough capacity in the air, and is the price affordable?" The answers imply that this is going to be a service for small businesses and home offices. We are still waiting for what he calls "the real big story", when companies such as SkyBridge launch low-earth orbit multimedia satellites."Then you really would have high-speed two-way communications that you could operate in a mass market," he says.
The US attorney general, John Ashcroft, yesterday issued a string of charges arising from one of the largest international child porn investigations in history, linking merchants in the US, Indonesia and Russia to customers around the world.One hundred people have been arrested as a result of a two-year investigation, US officials said yesterday.The child pornography network was centred on Texas, where a company calling itself Landslide Productions Inc took credit card payments over the internet for access to pornographic pictures and films from Russia and Indonesia showing children being sexually abused."With the help and cooperation of parents we will not only identify and prosecute those who seek to victimise children in cyberspace but we will prevent future children from becoming victims as well," Mr Ashcroft pledged yesterday.The case was part of a nationwide operation against child pornography, code-named Avalanche, involving the Dallas police and the US Postal Inspection Service (USPIS), which first detected the Landslide ring."During an Operation Avalanche search, we found a collection of videotapes produced by a suspect depicting the sexual abuse of several young girls. One of the girls was only four years old," said Kenneth Weaver, the chief postal inspector. He said the suspect had worked as a computer consultant and that pornography was also distributed by post.According to the USPIS, the Landslide website had an estimated 250,000 visitors, who paid $30 (&#163;21) for a monthly subscription, earning the company profits of up to $1.4m (&#163;1m).The postal inspectors were able to track down many of Landslide's customers from credit card information and other traces left by their internet transactions. Thomas Reedy, who ran Landslide out of Fort Worth, was sentenced to a total of 1,335 years in prison on Monday, after having been found guilty of sexual exploitation of minors, distribution of child pornography and conspiracy.His wife, Janice, the ring's accountant, was sentenced to 14 years in jail.Warrants have been issued for the arrest of three other webmasters who are accused of selling child pornography through the Landslide site: RW Kusuma and Hanny Ingganata of Indonesia and Boris Greenberg of Russia, but all three are still at large.Indonesia's national police spokesman, Major General Didi Widayadi, said the US authorities first contacted Indonesian detectives at the end of last year in connection with an investigation into child pornography."It seems Indonesians opened a website on a server and through an account in America and then put pornographic pictures of children on it," he said.The Indonesian police have been cooperating closely with their American counterparts but prosecutions are likely to prove difficult because Indonesian laws governing this type of crime "are minimal", Gen Widayadi said."This is a new and international type of crime so it's taking more time to process," he said. "Our laws don't really cover situations where the person is based in Indonesia but committing the crime in another country."Mr Ashcroft said that the justice department's efforts to combat child pornography relied heavily on a "cyber tip line" which encouraged citizens to report suspicious online activity.
Google, the web search engine that was started by a couple of university students three years ago, has reached net profitability despite being run "like a raw start-up where everybody runs around like crazy", its new chief executive has revealed."We are quite profitable," said Eric Schmidt, the former chief executive of software firm Novell who this week took the helm from Google co-founder Larry Page. "And we are not one of those companies that reached profitability because we didn't buy any pencils during the quarter."Mr Schmidt, who has been chairman of privately owned Google for three months, said the Silicon Valley company had made an operating profit in the first half of 2001 and a net profit in the three months to July. Only a few big internet players have reached profitability in the US, including eBay and Priceline.Analysts said Google, which is used by 50m web surfers each month, has won a loyal fan base thanks to the clarity and speed of its searches. Where competitors have cluttered their sites with banner adverts and expensive content - and irritated users by taking payments for skewing searches - Google offers a fast, no-frills service."It searches a higher proportion of the web than most other engines," said Rebecca Ulph, an analyst at Forrester Research, "and it is increasingly used to power the searches behind other portals."Another analyst told reporters Google's revenue could reach $50m next year.Google already supplies some search technology to its larger rival Yahoo!, the once profitable portal which - despite attracting 200m users a month - fell into the red earlier this year after its advertising orders dropped off.Mr Schmidt, 46, who has also been a director of Sun Microsystems, told Reuters: "Currently it is a challenge of managing the growth. Google is used to being run sort of like a raw start-up where everybody runs around like crazy. It has to have a business plan in place."Describing the management style of former Stamford University students Mr Page, 28, and Sergey Brin, 27, as a touch "by the seat of the pants", Mr Schmidt said: "I've seen the problems of scale, of getting everybody pointed in the same direction."The presence of an experienced executive such as Mr Schmidt is likely to give Google's backers confidence that the business can continue to buck the downward trend among firms reliant on advertising income.The company, which handles some 100m web searches a day, is thought to receive half of its revenue from selling on its search technology and the rest from advertising.Mr Schmidt said Google, which has $35m on its balance sheet, had no plans to go to the market in the current economic climate.Unlike many of its rivals, Google resisted the temptation to rush into a public offering at the height of the dot.com boom, preferring to steadily refine its search technology and build a user base through word of mouth recommendation.It has also avoided the temptation to establish a one-stop web gateway - providing news, share prices, email or other services - which have proved so expensive for the likes of AOL, Yahoo! and MSN."We try to keep it simple," said Mr Page, who moves into the role of president of products. Mr Brin was made president of technology.
A judge in New Jersey yesterday ordered the FBI to reveal the details of its advanced computer surveillance system after lawyers for a man caught with the system argued that it amounted to an illegal wire tap.The FBI used the system to record the keystrokes of Nicodemo Scarfo Jr - the son of convicted mob boss Nicodemo "Little Nicky" Scarfo - who is standing trial on charges of loan sharking and running an illegal gambling operation. Mr Scarfo's lawyers want evidence gathered by the device thrown out on the grounds that it was collected illegally.Although the bureau had a court order authorising the search and the surveillance, it has never told the court anything about how the system works.The FBI argued that revealing details of the system would compromise national security and maintained that because the device recorded and stored information, it was not technically a wire tap.The federal judge trying the case yesterday told the FBI that it must explain to the court how the system functions so that he can rule on the matter. He gave the FBI until the end of the month to hand over a full report on the surveillance system.The FBI began recording Mr Scarfo's keystrokes because he had been using encryption software from Pretty Good Privacy to protect sensitive files.Unable to break the encryption, agents broke into Mr Scarfo's office in Belleville, New Jersey and placed the tap on his computer to record his activities. From his keystrokes, they learned his passwords and accessed the information that allowed a prosecution.Related article21.07.2001: FBI under fire over internet stingUseful linksUS attorney's officeFBIPretty Good Privacy
It's big," said the delightful chap who runs this page. This was not happy news. My accident rate makes formula one fall-guy Pedro Diniz look like a successful driver, and the prospect of driving an MPV was worrying. I find parking my Golf difficult enough; I would surely need a street to myself for this beast.Worse news was to follow. The person delivering the car had had an altercation with a taxi which resulted in a dent in the near-side passenger door. If he was having trouble, what chance did I have? Look, perhaps someone else ought to have a crack at this. But no, the die was cast. There she was on the top floor of the NCP, gleaming in the sun, stubbily appealing and less intimidating than I had expected. Maybe this was going to be manageable after all - even if after my first spin in the car I proved incapable of re-parking it within those irritatingly narrow white lines.Honda, in its ads for the Stream, presents it as the car that allows you to have it all: a seven-seater that doesn't look like a bus; a fun car that accommodates a large family; an MPV that thinks it's a GTi. "Life is full of choices," says the ad, and this is how to avoid having to make any. Clever stuff, though its idea of a cutting-edge challenge to convention - "Why can't you wear jeans and a suit jacket?" - is a trifle bathetic.The shape of the car is derived from the five-door Honda Civic. While it is by no means elegant, it has a certain charm and is far from boxy. It replaces Honda's previous people carrier, the Shuttle, and is being pitched as an SAV (sports activity vehicle), a kind of grown-up relation of the SUV. You're a parent, you're surrounded by small children, but you wear your responsibilities lightly and still know how to have fun. Galaxy man (or woman) is a solid citizen with a practical take on life; Stream man (or ditto) combines practicality with pizazz: he (or she) has a bit more zest for life, a little more spontaneity.Perhaps insufficient consideration was given to the niceties of who should test this car. A large family would seem de rigueur. I have a wife and one very tall son, but that didn't quite seem to qualify. It fell to the latter to try out all the seats. The back two are impossibly small for anyone over about 4ft 10in; so young children only here. The middle three offer more leg room, but three adults would be a bit of a squeeze. Boot space is very limited, though all five seats fold down if you want to dispense with the children and take lots of luggage instead. It may claim to be a seven-seater, but that would be pushing it; five plus luggage would be ideal.It is smaller than most MPVs - more like a taller version of an estate car - and is, as the ad claims, fun to drive. It handles well, doesn't feel heavy and even the automatic I was testing offered good acceleration from the two-litre engine. I had expected to have to adjust my driving to allow for a bigger vehicle, but that didn't prove necessary. It's simple to drive, I wasn't forever worrying about the width of the gap I had to drive through, and even parking wasn't quite the nightmare I had anticipated.On the motorway it was nippy. The driving position is higher than in an ordinary saloon, which gave me greater confidence, even if it did nothing for my wife's (when I'm driving, her preferred position is under the seat). The only drawback was that the headrests on the passenger seats slightly interfered with my view out of the back window, forcing me to use the near-side mirror more than I normally do (probably a welcome development).The automatic version of the Stream also has manual override. Philosophically, I can't quite see the point of this: if you opt for an automatic, why would you sometimes want to revert to the chore of changing gear? But, apparently, this is increasingly common: you can have the automatic in town and take full control in the country.The manual gear changes are extremely easy - a nudge on the gear stick to go up or down through the four gears. I didn't quite grasp the system initially and spent the first 10 minutes driving around in first (the car took to this surprisingly well, but apologies to Honda if it has caused any long-term damage). Thereafter, my only problem was remembering which gear I was in without being able to feel the position of the gear stick.Now the tricky bit. The Stream has an i-VTEC engine, an enhanced version of Honda's fabled VTEC system. This is  very important , though I have yet to grasp precisely why. Something to do with maximising efficiency by permitting a variable camshaft position. My son made several valiant attempts to explain how this worked, but each required at least a passing knowledge of the internal combustion engine. When I asked Honda's press man what it meant, he assured me it was all to do with the alignment of the cam lobes and the upshot was "two engines in one". So that's marvellous, if impenetrable.I seemed to get through a tank of petrol with pocket-emptying ease, but perhaps this reflected my driving style. Average fuel consumption of 32.8mpg for the manual and 31mpg for the automatic is reasonable for a vehicle of this power, though it is bested by the two-litre version of the Renault Scenic, which manages 35.3mpg. Perhaps that's the price you pay for wanting the treacle tart as well as the sticky toffee pudding.
T-Online, Europe's largest internet service provider, is exploring plans to reinvent regional portals as gateways to selected online pornography websites as part of its efforts to boost revenue prospects.Ya.com, bought by T-Online for &euro;550m (&#163;342m) last September, has signed an agreement with Nasdaq-listed pornography supplierPrivate Media Groupto allow users access to its adult entertainment archives in a deal that could soon be extended to other T-Online portals.T-Online, owned by Deutsche Telekom, hopes the introduction of pornographic content will bolster its share of subscription charges in the face of dwindling advertising orders. In March, T-Online was forced to write-off &#163;203m from the combined value of its French portal Club Internet and Ya.com in Spain. "It is a fact that adult content is the most popular area of interest on the web," said Alvaro Ibanez, chief web officer at Ya.com."This co-operation &#91;with Private Media&#93; will provide our adult users with the best quality adult content, and, at the same time, it also guarantees security and privacy."Last week, chairman Thomas Holtrop told a German newspaper: "You can make a lot of money with erotica. It is a lucrative business which we are examining very closely."With Italian rival Tiscali threatening T-Online's position as Europe's largest ISP, Mr Holtrop said he planned to grow the German business by focusing on providing more lucrative content on its portals rather than buying up smaller competitors.
Businesses have been warned once again to protect themselves from the Code Red computer worm, after a new and more malicious version began circulating on the internet.The Home Office said that the new version exploited the same flaw in Microsoft's IIS software and will not infect machines that have already downloaded a patch from Microsoft to protect against Code Red.The worm gave hackers remote control of infected computers by leaving a "Trojan horse" in the system. It spreads up to six times faster than Code Red.The new variant was identified by Uniras, a government agency that defends Britain's computing infrastructure from electronic attack, and the anti-virus software company Network Associates.Uniras said that the worm's writers were likely to use infected machines as hop-points for hacking other systems, thereby making themselves more difficult to trace.Uniras's website said: "This new threat is more dangerous than previous versions of Code Red though it is still unlikely to affect the whole internet infrastructure in the short term."Localised segments of the internet could be affected and performance degraded, and this might have serious consequences for communities of users affected."The variant discovered yesterday concentrates on spreading locally rather than infecting any site across the internet.It is difficult to detect and more complicated to remove than Code Red. Both worms exploit a flaw in a type of software that it used almost exclusively by businesses and thus does not affect home PC users.The main effect of Code Red was to slow down the internet by creating excess traffic as the worm searched for vulnerable computer systems to infect.On the 20th of each month, Code Red also launches a denial-of-service attack on the White House website, attempting to crash the site by flooding the server with requests. Some websites were also defaced with the words, "hacked by Chinese".Code Red was believed to have hit more than 150,000 websites worldwide and sparked an unprecedented FBI warning, but it failed to degrade overall internet performance when it reactivited on August 1. A solution to the problem can be downloaded from the Microsoft website.Related articles01.08.2001: Code Red fails to cause internet meltdown31.07.2001: Business warned against Code RedExplainedCode Red wormComment31.07.2001, Neil McIntosh: Code Red meltdown? Don't bet on itUseful linksCode Red worm profile - Trend Micro Virus EncyclopaediaStep-by-step instructions for eliminating the Code Red worm vulnerability - Digital IslandHere comes the Code Red hysteriaInformation on "Code Red" IIS wormMicrosoft security bulletin offering patch for Code RedCodeRed Scanner - eEye Digital SecurityHow to recover your system following an attack by Code Red - CertThings to remember when virus hysteria strikes - Vmyths.comHere comes the Code Red hysteria - Vmyths.com
In a corner of a two-storey, humdrum office block on a modern business park just off the M5 near Gloucester, there is a room. Sealed off by thick, floor-to-ceiling panes of glass and a stout wooden door, it looks like a scaled-down version of the hi-tech bunkers typecast by Hollywood as the place from where nuclear wars are fought.One wall is taken up by a series of large electronic screens, each constantly-bubbling an array of data and charts feeding back up-to-the-millisecond, full-colour information from command stations across three continents.In front of the screens are three banks of computers, tended by staff who simultaneously pore over their own desktop consoles and keep a wary eye on the electronic wall, all with the sober intensity of those who believe even a moment's inattention could have nasty consequences.Welcome to the control room of MessageLabs, a key British watchtower in the escalating global battle against computer viruses.For two weeks, the screens have been monitoring an unprecedented global outbreak of a new email-borne virus known as SirCam. In the past, even the most virulent mass mailer worms had a life expectancy of barely 48 hours, each of them contained after the initial explosion.But when Alex Shipp, MessageLabs' senior anti-virus technologist, arrived at his desk on Monday, the news which greeted him was not good: it was only 9am, the United States was yet to wake up, but SirCam was propagating itself faster than ever, infecting millions of computers worldwide with the help of its victims' electronic address books."We've never seen anything like this," Mr Shipp said. "Normally you would have expected it to fizzle out but it's worse than ever. It's going to be a bad day."Email-borne viruses account for well over 90% of the most active strains in cyberspace. MessageLabs scans more than 3m emails on behalf of its clients every day as they cross the internet to weed out any viruses hidden within them.MessageLabs was the first centre to detect the Love Bug worm, which heralded the era of the mass-mailer virus with a global outbreak last year that caused millions of pounds of damage to computer systems.The company has built a unique network of powerful computers - dubbed control towers - at eight locations in the UK, mainland Europe, the US and Hong Kong, each loaded with four separate powerful virus detection packages.As well as recognising the signatures of known viruses, these are programmed to recognise virus-like code and behaviour in emails and attachments so that previously unseen viruses can also be detected. The chances of a virus writer coming up with something completely new are slim; instead they adapt or borrow bits from previous strains, making it easier for the scanners to pick them up when they are released into the wild.Unusual patternsLive data from each of the towers is sent back to the Gloucester control room, where staff monitor the flow of emails and watch for unusual patterns which could give the first hint of a new threat. On Monday, there was one of them waiting for Mr Shipp. At 3.29am, one of the control towers had picked up a suspicious-looking email and flagged it up to Gloucester. The offending file was automatically sent to his computer for assessment.The analysis is done in another anonymous office. On one side are Mr Shipp's team of technologists, on the other the team responsible for compiling the massive database of virus information. In a room at the far end, separated by a large glass screen and another door, is a self-contained computer network where viruses can be tested and deconstructed without any danger of them being accidentally released into the main system.One of the team retreated into the room with the new virus for full analysis, while Mr Shipp skimmed through a three-page printout of the computer code for a preliminary assessment so that alerts could be posted on the internet and to the other anti-virus companies.The company sees on average two new strains a week, the vast majority of which come to nothing, but at first glance this one looked like a threat. Apparently originating in Germany, it followed the same mass mailer model as SirCam, Love Bug and the rest. But once inside an infected computer, the worm was designed to open up a backdoor through the machine's security protection, allowing the virus writer access at will.Although the worm was picked up easily by the MessageLabs scanners, another member of the team began analysing ways in which slight changes to the virus code might have allowed it to slip through the net. This battle is more cat-and-mouse than all-out warfare: "If we can work out how they could have got through, we can plug the gaps before the virus writers think of them," said Mr Shipp.By the end of the day, however, the new virus had been written off as a flop and the focus was back on SirCam. With the US just coming online, more than 7,000 emails containing the worm had been picked up already by the scanners.After a week in which activity was concentrated on the other side of the Atlantic, Europe was now in the firing line, marking a significant if unwelcome milestone in the history of the internet. For the first time the number of emails containing viruses detected by MessageLabs scanners rose above the 1 in 400 mark. Mr Shipp's prediction of a bad day had come true."This is officially the worst day ever on record for viruses thanks to SirCam," he said. "It has completely changed the game, but we better get used to it because there will be plenty more like it."Bugs which baffledMelissaThe world's first email-borne virus hit cyberspace in March 1999. By today's standards it was tame, limiting its propagation to the first 50 names in its victims' address books.Love BugThe most damaging email virus on record. Within hours of being detected in May last year, it had spread worldwide, causing havoc.Anna KournikovaThe successor to Love Bug was based on the same model but spread faster because of its clever promise of a picture of the Russian tennis star. Thousands of users opened the infected attachmenthomepageDespite using the same basic tricks as its two predecessors, homepage managed to subvert millions of pounds of anti-virus protection in May. Victims faced the additional embarrassment of having hardcore porn sites popping up on their screens.
The internet is in danger of grinding to a halt if email-borne virus attacks continue to escalate, a leading computer security expert has warned.Alex Shipp, senior anti-virus technologist with the widely respected British firm, MessageLabs, said the global computer networks upon which the internet is based could be brought to a halt by the sheer volume of infected material circulating in cyberspace.Mr Shipp also claimed that traditional desktop-based protection methods could no longer cope with the onslaught of new, rapidly propagating email-borne infections.This public intervention from a senior frontline expert will increase concern about the significant rise in virus activity in recent months, and the growing technical sophistication of the people writing them.Last week, US authorities issued dire warnings to computer users to protect their machines against the Code Red virus. The predictions of internet meltdown, however, failed to materialise.Email-borne viruses account for more than 90% of outbreaks. Consultants PricewaterhouseCoopers say viruses could cost businesses more than $1.3 trillion (&#163;907bn) by the end of next year.In the last fortnight, one email virus, SirCam, has risen from obscurity to become the most common, most sophisticated and most resilient virus in history. It is rampaging across millions of computers.The number of emails infected by a virus being picked up by MessageLabs has risen above the one in 400 mark. When the company launched three years ago, the rate was about one in 1,500.Mr Shipp blamed home users and small businesses. "All the emails we are stopping are from people using domestic internet providers like Hotmail and Freeserve. These are people who do not have the expertise to realise that their anti-virus protection is either non-existent or badly needs updating."They just can't keep up with the amount of stuff that is coming at them now."But Ross Anderson, reader in security engineering at Cambridge university, said the blame for the growth in viruses should be aimed not at users, but at software companies who had failed to build adequate protection into their products.
Stewart Brand stands as if the world were rushing at him like a bull and he was ready to vault it: balanced on the balls of his feet, grinning and eager in the car park of an industrial estate outside San Francisco. At his belt hangs a sheath knife. He lives on a houseboat, works in a prefabricated shed and has a fair claim to be one of the most influential thinkers in modern America. He is currently intent on raising $3bn for his latest project: he wants to find every species of living thing on earth, so that when we talk about biodiversity, we know what we really mean.The All Species project, as he calls it, has the simple ring of his first really successful campaign, when he was a hippie photographer living in San Francisco in 1966 and hitch-hiked across the country selling badges that said simply "Why haven't we seen a photograph of the whole Earth yet?" The story of the Whole Earth badges is a nice example of how Brand gets things done, starting with an idea that appears completely crazy, and insinuating it through the cracks in society until it becomes just a piece of the common sense on which we all stand. Pictures of Earth from space are commonplace now, but when he had the idea it was 10 years since the first Sputnik launch and no one had pointed a camera back at Earth and photographed the whole planet.That first idea came from idleness. "I was just a loafing artist in North Beach, and I went up on the roof, took a few mikes of LSD and watched the day go by, shivering in a blanket.  I noticed that the buildings of downtown San Francisco were not parallel. They diverged slightly - it's a standard psychedelic illusion. But at the same time, I was thinking that given that the surface of the earth is curved, they do diverge slightly, especially on the fault line. And I can see that from my altitude of 200 micrograms and three storeys. But I would see it a great deal more if I were up higher. At a certain distance, the curved horizon closes and you get the image of the Earth as a whole. That's why I conjured up the badges, and I started selling them the following week. A bunch of them got to Nasa and various other places in Washington, and, some say, may have been influential in the photos we got back from Apollo 8."What distinguished Brand from a lot of hippie visionaries is that phrase: "I started selling them the following week" - he acted on the idea as soon as he had it. When Tom Wolfe was being rattled up and down the streets of San Francisco in a pickup truck full of crazed freaks - the scene which opens Ken Kesey's Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test - Brand was the straight man doing the driving. There is something conservative, serious, almost Victorian about the ways in which he has promoted revolutions; yet this upright quality has enabled him to keep his balance through 40 years of varied enthusiasms.He was into ecology and American Indians - nobody called them Native Americans then - in the early 60s, and personal computers by the early 70s. In the 80s he was one of the first to exploit the early internet, and then he founded a business consultancy which set out to spread the gospel of the new economy around the world. By the 90s, his interests had switched to architecture: his book How Buildings Learn is a wonderful manifesto against the ambitions of most modern architecture. The millennium was celebrated with a project to build the biggest and slowest clock in the world: one that will last 10,000 years. And now there is the ambitious All Species project, a return to his roots as a biology student in California in the late 50s.His friend and protege, Kevin Kelly, one of the founders of Wired magazine, says: "He has an appetite for where things are happening; lots of other people have good instincts, like journalists, for what will be interesting. Stewart's take on the world is to do things. He will take an idea, say within a few minutes that this could be turned into action, and then pursue it until it happens."His background was solid, educated, upper middle-class: he was born in 1939, in Rockford, Illinois, where his father, a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, ran an advertising agency. His mother had graduated from another elite university, Vassar. Stewart was the youngest of four children. He says: "All of us got out of the Midwest just as soon as we could: headed for the various coasts and stayed there." He spent two years at an East Coast prep school, ended up at Stanford University, south of San Francisco, where he read biology and, in his spare time, did officer training.After Stanford, he joined the army as a lieutenant for two years. He qualified for the paratroops, but never fought anywhere. Instead, he was trained as a photographer. He still appreciates his time in the army: "At government expense I was trained in leadership and small- unit management." He is businesslike and bellicose in his assessment of the modern American army: "They are given rules of engagement that strike me as impractical and basically cowardly - it offends me as an infantry officer to treat our troops that way. It's a lack of respect for their capabilities."Yet outside the army, his life was bohemian. He hung around with artists in New York and San Francisco; he spent one summer working as a logger, and after his military service found a summer job photographing a Native American  reservation in central Oregon. In the winter of 1963 he was living in the steeple of a church outside New York that had been converted into a "psychedelic tabernacle".Even at this stage, Brand, it seems, knew interesting people: "Through Ansel Adams &#91;the photographer&#93;, I got work with Stuart Udall, secretary of the interior, photographing Indians. The Indians were not on anyone's map at that time. They had just disappeared. Hanging out there gave me a glimpse of a completely different and in some ways much more interesting America. So then I started hanging out on reservations basically every summer. In the course of one of those things I went to a conference in Sheridan, Wyoming, where I met Lois Jennings, a Chippewa woman from Washington DC, and a couple of years later married her."It was in this period that he met Ken Kesey, the novelist and apostle of LSD, partly because Kesey's first novel, One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest, had a Native American hero, Chief Broom. He became a member of Kesey's group, the Merry Pranksters; and was a link between the urban bohemian and Native American cultures. He ran a series of shows, something between multimedia art and street theatre, called "America Needs Indians", so that in the middle of the chaos of an acid test, you might find Stewart Brand, short-haired, in a wigwam on the floor of whatever warehouse had been taken over for the night. He was always short-haired: he never even grew a beard.The idea that indigenous people are the natural allies of the hip, young, and fashionable is so obvious now that it is easy to forget that someone must first have had it and Brand, in the early 60s, may have been that person.  His take on what happened is characteristically wry: "By the end of the 60s, Indians had been adopted by the hippies as a source of inspiration and possible alliance; and to everyone's astonishment, not least mine, it basically worked out. There was a transmission of traditional frames of reference from older Indians to hippies, who were then passing it to their young peers on the reservations and a lineage was inadvertently, but I think genuinely, preserved."By the time everyone else was on the reservations, Brand had moved down the peninsula from San Francisco to the university town of Palo Alto, on the edge of what is now Silicon Valley. There he founded and ran the Whole Earth Catalogue, an extraordinary collection of short reviews of books, clothes, stoves, and even early computers, along with fiction and anything else that might be used to change the world. It was done with characteristic military briskness: his rule was to read a book for 15 minutes before reviewing it. These were books for people who wanted things done. At the front of each edition he placed a slogan that faced the world as he did, witty, profound, high-spirited and serious: "We are as Gods, and we might as well get good at it."His vision of the psychedelic era was essentially businesslike - as he tells the story, a lot of the founding hippie generation learned their manners as drug dealers in Haight Ashbury, San Francisco: "I wasn't one myself, though I knew a lot of people that were. But when the Mob came in and killed a few of us, then we got out of that business, because they sliced up &#91;the hippie dealer&#93; Superspade and hung his torso from a tree out on the beach."So my friends went into legitimate business with the same moves they learnt as dealers - being honest with your customers, being honest with your sources. We were rejected by all large institutions. They did not want to be sullied by the likes of us. They didn't need to be. The people who did want to be sullied were small business people who noticed that we paid our bills on time. We didn't know any better. So we became small business people, and technology enjoyers, appreciators, users, and inventors. That's why the 60s had a lasting impact and effect."The catalogue became an extraordinary success, even in Britain, where Penguin had a huge success with the last edition. In the States it won a National Book Award and sold 1.5m copies, but by 1971 Brand was burned out. "I went into pretty severe depression and just kept working. Then I had the idea that we could just quit. Got a deal with Random House that they would distribute the last one and I stopped the catalogue, stopped being married, and moved to San Francisco."The farewell party was a typical piece of theatre: he invited 1500 people and announced at 10:30pm that he had brought $20,000 to give away and it was up to the partygoers to decide who should have it. The discussion continued until dawn, when there were only about 20 people left, and they decided unanimously to give it to a computer hacker named Fred Moore.  One report said: "Moore wandered around for a while, trying to get riders to accompany him back to Palo Alto and wondering aloud whether he should deposit the money in a bank account... then realised he had no bank account."At this time, for most of Brand's bohemian contemporaries, computers meant large and faceless companies like IBM. But Brand himself had caught a glimpse of a different future at the beginning of the 60s, when a copy of the first computer game ever written, Space War, had escaped from MIT and found its way to Stanford. In about 1962, Brand had seen people playing the game, and been astonished by the effect it had: "What I saw was an interaction around computers that was as intense as anything I saw around drugs or anything else that I knew. People were absolutely out of their bodies playing. It seemed that computers were doing everything that drugs had promised. Drugs were much more self-limiting than computers: the hackers had found something better than drugs, but theirs was the same bohemian frame of reference."Most of the profit from the last Whole Earth Catalogue went into a charitable foundation that gave away $1m in three years: the money was only given to individuals, not to groups or causes. This was one of the inspirations behind the later MacArthur "genius" awards, which are made to scientists to allow them to become more interesting by freeing them from financial worries. At times, Brand has been disappointed that he's never had a MacArthur award, but eventually he decided to live as if he had one anyway.Brand does not just gesture with his hands. He is a man quite visibly animated by ideas: and when he gets onto a subject that inspires him, he is animated all through his spine, like a dancer. This is partly because he approaches conversations as something more than salesmanship. Kevin Kelly says, "I think he took a vow never to repeat himself. He's terrible at giving talks, and he knows this. But he's like a nova in conversation. The idea in his life is never to use the same description of anything twice." The flip-side is that when he has nothing to say, he says nothing. Howard Rheingold, who edited the Whole Earth Catalogue after Kelly went on to be one of the founders of Wired, says: "A lot of people find him somewhat aloof and cold. My office was about a dozen feet from his, and in the four years I worked there, we talked about 12 times."The only time I really saw him animated was when I noticed he had a new Swiss army knife on his belt and I asked him about it. He took it out and showed me every single blade and gadget. There was even a kind of saw on it - he said 'you could cut your way out of a car trunk with this'. He definitely has this nerdy side; and he really liked being in the army. That's a big part of the way he left his editors alone. His style is that you promote the guy or you sack him. You don't try to do his job for him."At the age of 32, having made $1m for the charity that managed the Whole Earth profits, Brand was astonished to find he needed a job again. Instead, he did some journalism, and in 1974 published his first book, Two Cybernetic Frontiers. The book came out the year before Bill Gates and Paul Allen founded Microsoft, a time Brand now calls the computer renaissance. Many of the early Silicon Valley hackers were close to the Portola Institute, a California think-tank which had shared a building with the Whole Earth Catalogue. That was how he met Steve Wozniak and Steve Jobs, when they were building their first Apple computer in a garage.Lee Felsenstein, who later designed the first portable computer, was a radical trying to co-opt mainframe computers to the   revolution when he first met Brand in 1972. He says, "Stewart gave people  permission to think about technology as something of which society is made rather than as something counterposed to society. Everyone wanted him to tell them what to do &#91;instead&#93; he empowered us by sticking to discussing principles and reporting on what others were doing and saying. We really needed to trust ourselves and he constantly passed back to us our attempts to give our power to him. This made him look stand-offish and disengaged. It was a price worth paying. He and Whole Earth had enough authority to convene the first Hacker's Conference as the launch party for Steven Levy's book Hackers, in 1984. Typically he left it to others to pick up the idea of  an ongoing gathering."In 1975 Brand started a new magazine, Co-Evolution Quarterly, which was to some extent a continuation of the catalogue through other means. He had a son, Noah, from a relationship that did not last. For the last 18 years he has been married to Ryan Phelan, a businesswoman 13 years his junior who he regards with delight. He and Phelan live on a small boat moored off an industrial estate in Sausalito, across the Bay from San Francisco. His main office is another boat, the Mary Heartline, which rests on trestles a couple of yards inland. He relishes the story of the Mary Heartline's progress from fishing boat to hideaway for a gay couple to a place  where a pair of mob laywers could take their mistresses - they were the ones who moved it onto land - and finally to his own office. He once described it as "like working inside a Victorian roll-top desk".The new magazine was much more concerned with computers than the old one had been: the idea that effective environmentalism doesn't mean rejecting technology but embracing the right ones had now become enthusiastically accepted. He worked for a while as an adviser to Jerry Brown, former governor of California, and ran courses with provocative titles such as "Creative Philanthropy", "Business as Service", "Street Saint Skills". Then, in the early 80s, the personal computer, whose conception Brand had watched 10 years before, suddenly emerged into the wider world.It was a vindication of all his predictions. It was also the occasion of his most catastrophic failure. In 1984, his agent, John Brockman, secured what was then the largest advance in paperback history, $1.3m, for the Whole Earth Software Catalogue. Brand dithered for 12 hours whether to accept the money, threw the I Ching and took the plunge.The timing couldn't have been worse. The new catalogue was the 257th computer magazine in the world rather than the first; it came out quarterly when the news was weekly, and it launched in the teeth of the first big recession in the industry, when more than half the software companies went bust. The venture collapsed as thoroughly as any dot.com. The British publisher paid £40,000 for the rights, and sold 220 copies. "It was probably about the last time I used the I Ching that way," Brand says. "The book should have told me 'Uh oh' and 'Too late'. But I still have my original 1957 edition with all the questions and answers pencilled in the end papers."Yet in 1984, the same year as the software catalogue went bust, he managed two bits of social engineering that had a lasting impact. The first was the Hackers' Conference, which brought together for the first time all the different clans who had been involved in the genesis of the personal computer: the MIT hackers of the 60s who had produced Space War; the Silicon Valley types who had built the first desktop computers; and the 80s generation, who had first made money out of software, and in some cases lost it already too.In 1984 he also co-founded the Well, a bulletin board which is something like an internet chatroom. It was where most of the discoveries of cyberspace were first made: the speed, intimacy and addictiveness of communication; the possibilities of fraud; the extraordinary way in which people find themselves "belonging" on a hard disk 1,000 miles from home. But it has never been very profitable. Financially, the Well was rescued by Deadheads (fans of the Grateful Dead) who found in it a place to discuss those obsessions which the outside world finds tedious."The Well proved early on what everyone else proved later, that it is almost impossible to make money online, unless you're Ebay," says Brand. Once the Well was running, Brand decamped to the east coast, where he spent a year at MIT exploring what computers could do for multimedia and ended up writing a book on the MIT media lab. Then he became involved in some of the first thinking about globalisation: setting up a consultancy called the Global Business Network, and consulting for a couple of years for Royal Dutch Shell. The lineage from outcast longhairs to the ponytails who were to inherit the 90s was complete.His influence grew steadily. "People will always take a call from Stewart," says Kevin Kelly. "He's very good at making friends and networking. He has wonderful manners; part of his success is in always making allies, and he has always been quick to give credit to other people, in private as well as in public. But he's not a partygoer. He's very shy, and he would just rather read a book."In the 90s, just as everyone else was trying to rush into the future, Brand got interested in conservatism again. He spent six years working on How Buildings Learn, which was also made into a series for BBC2. The book brought together all his interests in the social uses of technology in an entirely original way. By studying buildings as four-dimensional artefacts, whose changes through time are as important as the way they stand when built, he was able to ask very clearly exactly what they did for people. It was a return, in a sense, to the aesthetic of the Whole Earth Catalogue and the early Native American phase: a belief in the wisdom of old things matured over centuries. James Runcie, who produced the series for the BBC, says: "He is basically a decent ex-hippie, very Californian, but who is still trying to make some lasting mark on the world."All of Brand's career seems to oscillate between revolution and anachronism: but he sees it as a choice between two forms of revolution: "The contrast between the French revolution and its outcome, and the American revolution and its outcome is actually something that I care about. Much as we carried on Diderot's encyclopedia in the catalogue and carried on a French Salon approach in the Well, the conservatism of the American revolution is what made it so successful and meant that the original leaders carried it all the way through, and that they did not kill each other, unlike the French revolution, which aspired to a great deal more. The American founding fathers did not repudiate the past in the way the French did. They burned their bridges but   kept the libraries. That conservatism of continuity is basically   the same as the conservatism of How Buildings Learn."As the dot.com bubble began to collapse, inflated in part by his proteges at Wired, Brand turned away and became involved with the Clock of the Long Now, a gigantic piece of retro technology that is planned to run for 10,000 years. There is a prototype in the Science Museum in London, but the real thing will be built in a national park in the Nevada desert. If built to plan, it will tick once a day and chime once a century, yet the mechanism, designed by Brand's friend Danny Hillis, who built one of the first parallel-processing supercomputers at MIT and then went on to become a senior executive at Walt Disney Imagineering, will be accurate to within one day in 20,000 years.Along with the clock goes a library, which addresses the paradox of digital information - it is eternal but in practice lasts no more than 15 years, as the software and even the hardware with which it was recorded falls out of use. We can read Newton's research notes from 1690 more easily than the files of the first generation of computer researchers at MIT in the 60s. So the Long Now Foundation is working on making digital information as long-lived in practice as it is in theory. Among other things, it is  planning to preserve 1000 human languages, their grammar, vocabulary, and history, all etched onto a single compact disc in   letters that can be read by a human eye with a magnifier, not by a   silicon chip with a laser beam like normal CDs.With this exercise under way, Brand is onto the next one. The All Species project is hugely ambitious, and characteristically original. It is a measure of its ambition that no one knows just how ambitious it will be. Are there 30m species of life on Earth, or 50m? The only way to find out is by counting. It is an idea which   combines almost all his strengths: he knows how to network, to   raise the money and to get the foundation set up; he is in touch with the kind of technological changes that will make it possible to sort through the DNA of innumerable bacteria; it is sufficiently grand and theatrical to stir imagination, but it is also participatory theatre, which will require masses of volunteer labour. And it is global, by definition.For a man so American, he has a finely developed sense of the world outside his own continent. Britain, he says, could well be the first country to complete an inventory of all its species. He likes this country, obviously; and to some of his American friends, he appears rather British - he even says bloody, which is unusual in California. But looked at from here, his mixture of optimism, ambition, and pragmatism makes him a very American revolutionary.Life at a glance:Stewart BrandBorn:December 14 1938, Rockford, Illinois.Education:1954-56, Phillips Exeter Academy; Stanford University.Married:v1966 Lois Jennings (marr. diss '72). Ryan Phelan 1983- . One son, Noah Johnson.Career:1960-62, US Army officer; '62-68 Created multi-media performances; '77-79; adviser to Jerry Brown; '88- co-founder and board member Global Business Network; '89 - Member board   of trustees, Santa Fe Institute;   '95 - co-founder, then president, The Long Now Foundation;   2000 co-Founder, All Species project.  Publications: 1968-72, Founded, edited, and published Whole Earth Catalogue; '74 Two Cybernetic Frontiers; '87 The Media Lab; '94 How Buildings Learn; '99 The Clock Of The   Long Now.
One of the world's largest computer manufacturers, Dell, has stopped producing desktop PCs and laptops pre-installed with alternative operating system Linux, leaving fans of the open source system wondering if anyone can challenge the supremacy of Windows.Dell embraced Linux last year, agreeing to sell a range of products for the consumer market featuring open source software in place of the usual Microsoft fare. However stagnant sales have forced Dell to abandon the project.Dell spokesman Jim Mazzola said: "Not that many customers are using Linux for their desktop systems. We're a customer-demand driven company, so as we see customer demand in certain areas that's where we opt to sell certain products or services."Robin Bloor, the head of analyst house Bloor Research, said: "This is probably the final indication that Linux will never make it in the market as a Windows competitor on the bog-standard PC."Linux - a free operating system maintained by a dedicated group of developers - had been touted as a viable challenger to the domination of Microsoft Windows software on PC desktops. The company even cited Linux as an example of healthy competition in its anti-trust battle with the US government.But neither frequent viruses nor cost has kept the vast majority of users from choosing PCs pre-installed with Windows software. Open source developers have maintained that Linux offers users a low cost, stable, virus-proof alternative to Windows, and freedom from the infamous "blue screen of death" that signals a Windows crash.Dell's announcement does not signal the death of Linux, and the company will continue to offer Linux for corporate customers on workstations and servers. Mr Bloor added that Linux has taken off on servers and could prove big on consumer computing devices, such as the digital video recorders from TiVo that run Linux.Useful linksDellLinux.comRed HatMicrosoftLinux at IBMTiVo
A minister undertook a lighting about-turn yesterday over plans to publish the names of anyone lodging a claim at an employment tribunal on a website after unions warned the proposal would encourage company blacklisting of "troublemakers".Alan Johnson, the industry minister, already facing a backbench revolt over plans to impose fees for using the employment service, killed the website plan yesterday. He said the proposal had never been put directly to ministers and was the brainchild of civil servants.Names of applicants at present can only be accessed manually at an obscure government office in Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk.The Department of Trade and Industry had viewed the website as a form of routine electronic modernisation. But unions feared the website could be open to abuse by rogue emplyers. There are signs that blacklisting is reappearing, especially as employers try to fight off union recognition ballots.Jon Cruddas, the Labour MP for Dagenham, had also warned: "This appears to be yet another disincentive for workers to seek justice. Blacklisting appears to be returning through the back door."TUC officials also pointed out yesterday that employees are required to file an application within three months of the alleged offence. By putting the name on a website immediately, the chances of conciliation would be reduced.One company is already using the manual files on employment tribunals to offer a service to companies on the employment history.Tribunal Info says on its website: "You as an employer will expect to build a picture of a potential employees past career history. Participation in employment tribunals is an important component."
Rich DeVaul is feeling pleased. "I got through a whole day," he says, "without people looking at me in a strange way. This is a huge breakthrough for a wearable computer user. Sometimes people would cross the street to avoid me!"When I take the vest off, of course, I look like an extra from Star Trek..."Looking normal is a triumph in what is known as the Borg Lab at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge, where DeVaul   is helping to pioneer wearable computers on MIT's MIThril project. But the network of computer cards and cables attached to the vest is only a means to an end. "This is a research project," he says. "We don't anticipate that people will be going around wearing things like this!"DeVaul does, because you don't learn much about wearable computing sitting behind a desk. In that, he is following in the footsteps of Steve Mann, the father of wearable computing, who received his PhD from MIT in 1997. Mann has   looked like a cyborg for two decades, having built a head-mounted computer device as a high school student in the 1970s. But as wearable computers and head-mounted displays become smaller and sleeker, there is less and less need to look or even act like a geek.And before long, tens of millions of people could be wearing computers one way or another. The parts may slot into a CyberJacket or BlazerJet like the ones developed at the University of Bristol in conjunction with Hewlett-Packard's local research lab. They may be built into belts, like the Xybernaut models that have been commercially available for years. They may be subsumed into decorative jewellery like the Charmed technologies presented at cyber-fashion shows from Boston to Beijing, or the pendant computer Toshiba showed in concept form last year. They may become part of military uniforms, like BARS (Battlefield Augmented Reality System) military project funded by the US Office of Naval Research.According to the Wearable Computing website: "In the next five years, we can expect wearable computing to be adopted in a variety of industries, including health care, shipping and courier services, inventory and warehouse operations, conference and trade shows settings, security and law enforcement, newsgathering, museums and zoos, automatic data collection, and sports and entertainment. Large scale acceptance of wearables in the general consumer market   will surge in about 2005. By 2015, wearables will have virtually eliminated desktop, laptop, and handheld solutions altogether, leaving only installed computers - ie, computers and monitors built into the walls of your home -and wearables."That may seem unlikely, but not too long ago, so did personal computers and mobile phones.There is already a big market for mobile computers, including notebook PCs and Palm-style personal organisers. What drives the next step into wearables is the need to carry and use mobile computers without necessarily losing the use of your hands. The first step could be to put computing capabilities into a wristwatch, like Seiko's Ruputer, launched in Japan in 1998. It could be as simple as fastening a Palm to your arm (seewww.orang-otang.com).But more sophisticated applications may require wearable computers that are as powerful as desktop and notebook PCs, or even more powerful. Divers may want to use such computers on the ocean floor, like the WetPC, while construction workers may want to take them to the top of unfinished skyscrapers. The tricky bit isn't packing computer power into a limited space: advances in chip technology are more or less guaranteed to do that anyway. The real problems come from trying to replace the keyboard, screen and mouse with   more portable and more flexible input/output devices.That's why DeVaul can look a little strange. It is not the computer hardware, which is distributed around a mesh waistcoat then hidden under a jacket. It is the spectacle-mounted screen display, and the handheld controller, a Twiddler, which includes a number of small keys.Looking into the screen is rather like looking through a jeweller's loupe: the image is sharp, but very small. DeVaul says: "You could check your email or read the web, but you wouldn't really want to do that using a wearable. What would be much more useful would be to get supporting information during the day." In other words, the wearable would act like a personal assistant, providing information about the places you go and the people you meet.The secret of making the interface work is "to give you the key things well, not to give   you a lot of things," says Professor Steven Schwarz, "It's about maximising the value of the information and reducing the disruption." Schwarz, who used to work for Xybernaut, is the leader of the MIThril development, which is a continuation of his Smart Vest project. MIT is exploring this problem with a simplified interface, the Enchantment window manager. Voice recognition is another obvious alternative.But it is not just about doing old things in new ways, it is about doing new things. Schwarz argues that wearable computing also involves "shifting from explicit to implicit commands, &#91;which&#93; is not a trivial step." The mobile phone, for example, is "fundamentally broken" because it can ring at any time, unless you remember to turn it off. "The cell phone is deaf and blind. It doesn't know if I'm giving a lecture or watching a movie," says Schwarz.The wearable computer should therefore have some sense of you and your environment so that it can act appropriately. Knowing your schedule is a good start, says Schwarz. DeVaul says his vest-based system also includes an accelerometer so "it can distinguish when I'm sitting still, walking, riding a bicycle. When I'm sitting down, I'm much more interruptible."You could also add location data picked up from GPS, the global positioning satellite network, and from wireless "tags" added to the environment, "because GPS doesn't work very well indoors," laughs Schwarz.Both approaches could be expanded. Instead of just monitoring your position and movement, a wearable computer could also monitor your heart and other bodily functions. And a sufficiently powerful system could provide access to a vast amount of visual, spatial and other data   about the outside world. Imagine a sort of "virtual reality" display overlaid on the real world. The result is "augmented reality", and one example is MARS, the Mobile Augmented Reality Systems research project at Columbia University. At the moment you need a backpack of stuff, but it takes us a baby step along the road to becoming borgs.Such "context-aware" systems could be of tremendous benefit to the disabled, for example. But they are more likely to find military applications such as BARS   (Battlefield Augmented Reality System): "a fully-functional prototype of a multi-user, distributed, wearable computer infrastructure for warfighters operating in the urban environment".But if everything you do is based on computers, what happens to privacy?"Privacy is the main reason I got into wearable computing in the first place," DeVaul replies. "It's really a way of turning &#91;Orwell's&#93; Big Brother inside out: you're tracking the environment, rather than the environment tracking you." With a wearable, you own your own information, and you decide when to disclose it. "Unless we show that it can work, people are going to build centralised privacy-invading   systems because that's what everybody knows how to do."How many people will build their own wearables is open to doubt, but one of MIThril's goals is to make that possible. "We are in the process of making &#91;the design&#93; available over the web, as a do-it-yourself kit," says DeVaul. It will be one of the few computers to include sewing instructions.However, today's wearable computer builders are more likely to turn to Lart, the Linux Advanced Radio Terminal being developed at the Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands. One of the system's advantages is that you can buy Lart boards from Aleph One Ltd, which is based near Cambridge, England. Lart boards have Strong-ARM processors and run Linux, just like MIThril's wearable, and can also be used for robotics and embedded applications.Laurie van Someren, Aleph One's founder and managing director, says there is an interest in wearable computers but the market is being held back by the high price of spectacle-mounted displays - around $5,000 for a VGA (640 by 480 pixel) screen. "A cheap display would make the market much more interesting."However, van Someren points out that "we don't sell developed products, we sell things to help people develop products." And from that point of view, the UK news is not encouraging. "Most of our sales are to the Pacific rim," he says, "and a pathetically small fraction to the UK."If wearable computing really is next wave, we probably won't be on it, but Hitachi will. With Xybernaut it has developed the first Wearable Internet Appliance (WIA) for the consumer market, and expects to have it on sale in the US before Christmas for less than $2,000. The device weighs 10.9 ounces and, like many personal digital assistants (PDAs), runs Microsoft's Windows CE.Shigeru Matsuoka, boss of Hitachi's Net-PDA Venture Company, says: "We expect that our new product line will completely change the way people live, work and play."Wearable webMIThrilhttp://wearables.www.media.mit.edu/projects/wearables/mithrilThe Enchantment Window Manager:http://albireo.mit.edu/enchantment.htmlSteve Mannhttp://wearcam.orgWearable Computingwww.wearablecomputing.comXybernautwww.xybernaut.comWetPCwww.aims.gov.au/wetpcTwiddlerswww.handykey.com5th International Symposium on Wearable Computershttp://iswc.gatech.eduBristol Wearable Computing projecthttp://wearables.cs.bris.ac.uk/Charmedwww.charmed.comMARS - Mobile Augmented Reality Systemswww.cs.columbia.edu/graphics/projects/mars/mars.htmlBARShttp://ait.nrl.navy.mil/vrlab/projects/BARS/BARS.htmlLartwww.lart.tudelft.nl
We had our first death today.A young French climber and friend of ours went to his bed in Broad Peak Base Camp with a headache and died in his sleep of cerebral oedema. He was twenty years old.As we climbed over the Baltoro Glacier, dodging the crevasses, on our way to Broad Peak Base Camp a helicopter raced over our heads. We assumed that it was delivering supplies to the climbers at the base camps as usual. However on it's return we saw that there was a body bag strapped to the side of it. Our friend's body was in it.God, what I am doing here?Four months ago I set myself the challenge to run my on-line outdoor clothing business, WildDay.com from the wildest place on earth and to send the highest e-mail ever recorded from the top of Broad Peak. With the help of my friend Mark Lewis of expedition company WorldSummits.com the plan took on a life of it's own and now I find myself typing on my laptop at 5000m in the shadow of K2.I was aware of the dangers involved as I have climbed for years. I used to think that the proximity of one's death created an urgency, a celebration of life, but now when I think of the French climber's parent's it seems like so much reckless vanity and boyish nonsense.I am at Broad Peak Base Camp now and as I type this I am staring at the mountain, my impassive, potential executioner. 150 porters toiled with us through the searing days and freezing nights to help us reach "The Throne Room of the Mountain Gods". The ancient peoples who lived here believed that gods dwelt in the peaks above. I now know why. As the avalanches surge around us I can here the deity's roaring "Go home. You don't belong here."The villages we passed on the trek in were different from the idyllic arcadia that we passed through during our acclimatisation trek round Nanga Parbat. Unlike the spontaneous friendliness of the porters there, our current gang look like they were recruited from a high security prison and we have been warned to protect our equipment against petty theft.The reason is depressingly simple. There are a lot more climbers and trekkers in this area. The corruption from the west has started! You have to laugh at the irony. While I am trying to stop porters stealing my sunglasses, on a much grander scale I am currently working on preventing international on-line credit card fraud on my site. No matter how much technology advances the basic instincts of people remain the same.WildDay.com has experienced very little domestic credit card fraud. However on an international scale there are continuous failed attempts to defraud us. As a result there are certain areas of the globe where we will not deliver goods to, namely Eastern Europe, specifically Romania and Russia, and Indonesia. I do not mean to be disrespectful to the law-abiding citizens of these countries but the fact remains that the vast majority of attempted credit card on WildDay.com comes from these countries.Up to now we have used simple but very effective methods for detecting fraudulent orders and my business partner Michael Green seems to have sixth sense for spotting them, but due to the vast increase in orders we are experiencing we need to make our prevention systems more automatic.There are three simple procedures that we are in the process of implementing. The first is to use the function in our ecommerce package, Actinic Business, whereby when the customer comes to the order page they can select the "Pay by cheque before despatch" option. When we receive dubious orders we simply e-mail the customer and ask them to use this option.The second simple option involves placing a drop down list on the order page with all the countries that we are willing to sell to. By omitting countries such as Romania, the Actinic software will block the customer from that country from continuing with their order.The third is more drastic but would prevent our staff from going through the irritating administrative hassles that international fraud attempts create. Everybody who uses the internet has an IP address that identifies them to the world. The last few digits of this number identify the country of origin of the user. The last option then is to simply block everybody from the countries we choose from accessing WildDay.com. It's a bit like an electronic bouncer.There are advantages and disadvantages to each solution and it is an issue that we will have to keep constantly ahead of.Before I finish for today I call the technical team of Indigo Vision in Edinburgh. It has developed an embedded technology that allows you to send and receive streaming video to a handheld device. I am fascinated by the cutting edge technology they are pioneering and will be working with them when I return to Scotland.My motives are simple. I miss my family desperately and wish I could see their faces. When I call my father I wish he could see that I was safe and be able to experience the lunar landscape that surrounds me. I also believe that had the technology been available years ago maybe I would not have lost so many friends who died unable to summon help in the mountains.I switch off my laptop as the sun sets and the brutality of the heat is replaced by the debilitating cold. The porters are laying out their prayer mats and soon the mountains reverberate with their devotions. I am humbled by their faith. Belief in God seems to be an academic debate in my comfortable life in Scotland but K2's silence screams the vulnerability of my humanity. I find myself thinking of the forgotten God of my childhood and pray that he will keep me safe in his arms as I climb, not for my sake, but so that I don't break my Mother's heart.The expedition has been sponsored by Actinic
Is all your writing done on computer now?Yes. I fill up notebooks when I'm on the move but I couldn't imagine working without a computer now. I wrote most of The Perfect Fool in motel rooms on a laptop while touring stand-up. After my electric typewriter I got anAmstrad word processorin 1991   and a computer finally in 1997. I spend so long at the screen I dream in blocks of text and click on links to my next chain of thought!Is there any good comedy on the net?Yes, but it's mainly websites of already existing magazines and people, likeThe Onion. I don't know if there's an internet comedy brand that has succeeded in its own right, apart fromTVGoHome, which is funny. There are loads of sites that are funnier than the things that are supposed to be funny,the Menstrual Hut, for example. That said, there's lots of good information about comedy on the net.Would you ever consider writing something solely for the net?I worked out that if we 'nobbled' everyone who has ever visitedwww.leeandherring.comfor a small donation, Richard Herring and I could easily raise a bigger budget than those offered by BBC TV for the kind of shows we like to make. You could stream it and people could put in credit card details to access it.Any favourite gadgets?I have a1972 Wurlitzer jukebox. It's analogue, contains valves, and works by scraping a needle across small round pieces of black plastic. It's not easily portable and actually had to be winched into my flat by a crane. It's unlikely to replace the MP3 player, which is 1,000 times smaller and contains significantly more music, but the jukebox is beautiful and I love it. Still room for love in the technological world, isn't there?Do you think the net will continue being unregulated?I think certain servers will regulate, others won't, and there will be a split between customers who want different things from the net. Personally, I like being able to visit sites by the IRA, Militant Muslim Black Power Groups, and Christian Sado-Masochists and would be sad to see access denied.What technological advance could make your life as a writer easier?A robot which looked like Jane Root, controller of BBC2, but which was programmed to help advance mankind's intellect and creative ambition, rather than run it into the ground!Any favourite websites?www.notbbc.co.uk/corpses/for comedy news. I often sit and stare at thisTurkish animationandwww.freedonia.com/%7Ejeff/fallhas the lyrics to all The Fall's songs.Visit:www.stewartlee.co.uk
The Pokemon effect is still driving the US games console business. The three best selling titles in the first half of the year     were Pokemon Studio, Pokemon Silver and Pokemon Gold, according to NPD Group research. Madden NFL 2001 for the Sony     PlayStation 2 came fourth, and Super Mario Advance for the Game Boy Advance handheld fifth...Thanks to the success of     the PS2 and GBA , the retail value of US sales of console game hardware, software and accessories grew by 28%. The next     six months could continue the growth with the arrival of two more next-generation machines: Nintendo's Gamecube and     Microsoft's Xbox...It is just possible that you don't have original copies of Tomb Raider , TOCA Touring Car Championship,     Ridge Racer Revolution, and WWF War Zone. If so, you can buy them now in a four-pack for only £19.99, with a warm glow     because all the profits go to the Entertainment Software Charity to help disadvantaged children. It's even better value if     you have a PlayStation to play them on...FFX, the 10th in the Final Fantasy series, was launched in Japan last week. Square     says it shipped 2.14m units and sold 70% on the first day...Every red-blooded man in the UK would like to manage a football     team, but at least a few could be tempted to manage a rock band instead. Sweden's Pan Interactive could therefore do well     with its forthcoming simulation for the PC,Rock Manager. The game, due out on October 5, will     exhibit "ironical humour and a politically incorrect attitude".
I was very sorry to hear that our drug tsar Keith Hellawell has been sidelined by the home secretary. I thought he had been doing an excellent job - illegal drugs are now widely and conveniently available throughout the UK. So much so, in fact, that according to a recent Channel 4 documentary in some cities it is easier to get a packet of heroin delivered than a pizza.The statistics attest to this. Over the past decade, the price of cocaine in Britain has fallen by 20%, and heroin by 40%, while the purity of both has increased. What's more, the success has not been narrowly focused at the expensive end of the market. The use of cannabis is proportionately higher in Britain than it is in the Netherlands, where for all intents and purposes its use is much less restricted. In fact, we have seven times the rate of drug-related deaths that they do.I admit this remarkable achievement has been helped by enormous public expenditure - for police, lawyers, judges, prison builders and so on.A recent study on people arrested for cannabis possession in London revealed that, on average, it costs the forces of law and order up to &#163;10,000 to prosecute each offender, who is then given an average fine of &#163;45.In a different department, the office of the e-envoy is faring less well. The current   e-envoy, Andrew Pinder, who took up his &#163;120,000 per annum government post at the end of January after leaving the Inland Revenue, seems to be falling short of his goal of preventing e-commerce of any kind from flourishing in Britain.Admittedly, he enjoyed some early success: the government's originally firm targets to get the men from the ministry on the web by 2005 have now been relegated to aspirations; broadband rollout has been stifled, and the UK has recently fallen two places in the UN's league table of e-economies.Not that Pinder hasn't set some tough targets: he recently said he was "reasonably confident" that 50 "gov ernment services" would be online by 2005. Meanwhile, in Singapore, their "e-Citizen programme" provides a one-stop web shop for more than 130 government services, from registering births to applying for various licences.While our e-envoy seems to have tried to fight off the infiltration of these foreign ideas, the UK's Government Gateway already offers a handful of useful services such as applying for agricultural area aid and (yes, it's true) downloading the paper forms needed for a passport.Since illegal drugs are available to anyone who wants them, while DSL (digital subscriber line) and cable modems are not, surely the solution is to swap roles. Let's   get the government to hire a broadband tsar charged with reducing broadband use to zero over the next few years. Then, we might reasonably expect broadband connections to be deployed through an unregulated underground market or smuggled in from abroad. Young people would apply all of their creative energies to seeking out illicit broadband services, which would no doubt begin to flourish.Oddly enough, this is already happening in the US, where people are beginning to apply some highly creative solutions to getting the broadband access they crave. The well-known technology writer Robert X Cringley got his broadband connection by adding an external antenna to his Apple Airport (an 802.11 wireless Lan unit), thereby extending its range from 150 feet to 10 miles (yes, 10 miles). He found a neighbour who lived in line of sight close enough to the phone company office to get a DSL connection, persuaded the neighbour to let him pay for their connection, and then accessed it with his new wireless interface.Another northern Cali fornian group, having successfully extended their wireless Lan across a five-mile valley, is now working to extend it over 20 miles. All this is perfectly legal, since the Airport (like all other 802.11 systems) operates in unlicensed bandwidth.If only our e-envoy - ahem, e-tsar - could be persuaded to launch a "just say no to DSL" campaign. Then we might finally see samizdat broadband access spreading across the UK.Meanwhile, on the drugs front, one can imagine that the first speech by the new drugs envoy extolling the merits of ecstasy would send the nation's youth scrambling for Lucozade and extra-strong mints.
I may not know much about art, but I know what I like and that is viewing it, buying it and creating it.Despite living in London, surrounded by art galleries, the choice of exhibitions and sales is incredibly limited given the enormousness of what exists in galleries from Tokyo to Los Angeles. And often gallery shops do not make exhibition favourites available as prints.Most galleries have websites nowadays, even if they give scant information other than an address. The best sites, such as theTate, let you browse through their collections online, but then we would expect nothing less from national galleries with generous sponsors.When you look at the smaller venues, theOriginals Galleryin Stow-on-Wold has gone one better than simply whacking up some JPEGS and text. To encourage punters to take a closer look at its paintings, the gallery has begun screening a series of web casts that follow a single artist creating work over a day or a weekend.Owner Richard Thomas says 1,000 people flocked to the site to take part in the first   webcast in May. Sadly, the increased traffic has still not convinced anyone to buy original work directly from the site, but Thomas expects that to change within two or three years. He has already sold 20 works that people viewed on the site and then visited in person.The first artist to take part in the webcast project was painter Martin Hall, who has also tried selling direct from his site atwww.martin-artist.com. He agrees that at the moment, the quality of the online image is not good enough to the sell the work of a relatively unknown artist, as most people would be unwilling to part with between &#163;500 and &#163;1,000 for a work they had not viewed in person.If you are ready to make that online purchase now, however,Londonarthas original works by 300 artists for sale and allows you to search by category (ie, abstract, landscape, photography), artist name, size and even price.Axisclaims to have the largest interactive database of contemporary British art on the internet, featuring 4,000 artists and 15,500 artworks. The database will search for   anything from animation to glassware to watercolour, and much of the work is for sale.The site also puts together online exhibitions in its cyber gallery, which unfortunately requires a cumbersome software download (unless you happen to have Blaxxun Contact preinstalled) and registration process. Once there, you can walk around the gallery scanning the works on offer, stopping to click on anything of particular interest.If you do not feel confident enough to buy an original work online, you can opt to buy prints. London-basedEasyartis a great place to start. It sells hundreds of reproductions and even lets you turn digital photos of your friends, family or self into Warhol-esque prints. An interactive framing facility - combined with a real-time pricing mechanism - lets you try out different frames online before making a decision.For beyond-the-JPEG artistic surfing, there are sites that create work specifically for the online medium, and some of the best digital art lives ate-2. The site features Word Perhect, an internet project by   former Turner prize nominee Tomoko Takahashi that examines the way word processing software has changed our language and our lives. The work is clever, interactive, and a far more fulfilling experience than pixelated Renoirs.Another digital art destination is theFranklin Furnace, a New York city art institution that existed in the real world at 112 Franklin Street until 1998, when it ran out of funds to keep the building. Now it exists only in cyberspace.Franklin Furnace focuses on performance art, so much of the work is archived as video. Given the quality of video on the internet, your enjoyment of the site will vary with the quality of your connection and your level of patience.If all of that has inspired you to action,Art-headsis a new British initiative to get everyone involved in creating art by providing a collaboration space online. The first project will be a photography exhibition of kebab shops worldwide.Elly Clarke put Art-heads together, and she wants to see, for example, someone taking a photograph of a kebab shop in New York, swapping it with an project participant in Berlin, and then displaying the German photo back in the American shop.So go on, no art history degree necessary, just grab a keyboard and a camera and get involved.
Tolkien talk Tolkien fans on the net (and there are a few) have been gossiping about the forthcoming Lord of the Rings film     for years, and its Christmas release is bringing expectation to fever pitch. Into this frenzy HarperCollins has just launched     an informative new site on the book's author, JRR Tolkien. The site includes background material on his books, archive     interviews with the author, and his artwork. There will also be a swathe of competitions for limited- edition merchandise.Seewww.tolkien.co.ukMyth bustersAs another virus alert sounds (this time it's the Code Red worm) it's worth remembering     that most virus hype is whipped up by the big anti-virus companies who want to sell their otherwise pretty unexciting     software and services. Then it's made worse by their well-meaning, but unwitting, accomplices on the net, who spread email     panics and virus hoaxes, or by people who open attachments because an email tells them: "read this - it's cool/sexy/funny!"Avoid the stampede by checking out a few excellent internet resources which have been around a long while (in net terms)     and so seen it all before. Most importantly, they're put together by real experts and are not influenced by the anti-virus     companies' spin. Vmyths promises "the truth about computer virus myths and hoaxes", and takes a hard line against     ambulance chasing "virus experts" while Hoaxbusters is another well-established site.www.vmyths.comhttp://hoaxbusters.ciac.orgBard sillyThat said, the Sircam virus - which plucks a random file from an infected PC and     sends it round the net - has thrown up a few entertaining reads for net users. US journalist Glenn Fleishman has catalogued     some of the randomly thrown-up files - or "found poetry" - on his weblog. Prime examples include a confidential background     check on officers of a company, and a student's essay on Romeo and Juliet which comments, about William Shakespeare:     "Many of the plays he has written remain famous even today." Quite.http://glennf.com/blog/2001/07/24.htmlIn the washGiven the British obsession with the weather, you'd think it would be easy to find decent weather information on the web.     Yet it ain't necessarily so - the five-day forecast on Yahoo! UK and Ireland last week predicted showery spells on what     turned out to be one of the hottest days of the year. Into these uncertain waters comes the Weather Channel's various     meteorological gimmicks: 10 (count 'em) day forecasts, special predictions for the nation's top sports venues and plenty of     detail for the real... er...  anoraks. Only a good British winter will decide if it can save us from a soaking.www.weather.co.ukhttp://weather.yahoo.com/Slow snapsPasPic says it's going to "make the high street photo booth as we know it obsolete".     The proposition? Instead of going into a photo booth at your nearest bus or train station, inserting a couple of quid and     waiting five minutes you ... er...  register on a website, get a friend to photograph you, get that processed, scan and upload a     favourite pose (or post a picture to them for scanning), fill in an online order form, pay your couple of quid and wait a few     days for the pictures to arrive in the post. Which all sounds much easier, and much less hassle. Doesn't it?www.paspic.comBig CheekName and shame time: being a fan of Little Chef's giant breakfasts (we all have our vices), I'd love to tell you     about their new website, which promises a few useful features and some fun competitions. So it's a shame that whoever     designed it decided some frilly animations were more important than letting folk view the site, and barred access to those     of us obliged to use less than the very latest Internet Explorer, with the newest release of Shockwave plugged in. We can     only hope the Little Chef Big Chief realises the utter folly being committed online in his name, and includes a version sans     daft animations pronto.www.little-chef.co.ukHighland pingOf course, user-unfriendly websites pale into insignificance     alongside the horrors of Britain's sweating, choked motorways. But you could always make a virtual journey - and view a     chunk of the north of Scotland through the lens of German webmaster Frederik Ramm - from the comfort of your home. His     home page has an animated series of photographs of his round trip from Inverness, taking in the many sights en route, via     places like Lochinver, Ullapool and Gairloch. Frederik's something of an uber geek, which is why the whole photo-taking     process was automated, using a GPS satellite positioning system. The result? In his own words: "Oh dear! This is what     happens when a mad tourist straps a camera and a GPS to his Land Rover and shoots 2,968 photos (the actual number is     almost twice that but only 2,968 have made it onto the web)."www.remote.org/frederik/roadhog/scotlandNew &amp; notedHope you'll never need..www.nextofkin.uk.com&#149;  The Barbican opens up online...www.barbican.org.uk&#149;  New Flash-ridden     Guinness site..www.guinness.com
PDAs: selling short or selling outI read your article on the personal digital assistants (PDA) market with great interest (Online 19 July).The question posed in the article "Has the 'electronic Filofax' gone out of fashion...?" is an interesting one, for it has two answers. The first is yes, the reason being that anybody today expects functionality of their PC with whatever portable electronic device they choose to have with them. A mere electronic version of a Filofax is never going to be up to the job.The "no" is because you can now have virtualy the same functionality as a PC in your hand, capable of being continuously backed up with your PC, which means on the move computing has never been easier.This is the reason the Compaq iPaq is such a valuable tool. Not only do I have all the key Microsoft programmes in use on my office-based PC, but I have a mobile MP3 player, a digital dictaphone, an ebook reader, a games console and a communications device capable of internet/email access. In short it is a shirt-pocket sized office. Not only that but it is massively expandable.And I don't have to relearn how to write to input data as the character recogniser is very forgiving.I look forward to the day when I can have all of this with a phone built in, perhaps the one other thing I would want it to do.Andy Bradshawandy.bradshaw@granadamedia.comIt is no suprise to me that the market for PDAs is stagnant or worse.For most people these devices cannot replace the functionality and ease of use of a pocket diary.When the manufacturers actually make a product that people want - a fully converged device - and sell it for &#163;200 or less , the story will be radically different.Until then, forget it. I for one will stick to a paper notebook.Christian Evanschrise@addisonlee.co.ukThe real reason why the palmtop market has collapsed is the lack of user customisation. When the first machines such as Casio and Sharp came out in the 1980s   they came with programming manuals with many applications in bio-technology rather than accounting.Until the market is worked out the corporations need to be able to use the ideas of its customers. The internet and Linux have grown in this fashion but the CEOs of many of the convenience devices have thrown money into a bonfire by consulting their accountants rather than potential world-wide users.In its current form the "design to consumer product" means we are getting the technology that only an elite want, and much of the political and legal elite is totally devoid of knowledge of mathematics, science, or engineering.Naturally the world elite would sooner sell dumbed down products because they think they can make the decisions for everyone. In fact the technology would advance more if some smart products were made available at a cheap price.The whole sorry saga of the dot.com and the telecoms bubble is based on the same level of cynical exploitation which lead to the demise of the British South Sea Bubble and the burning of plantations in the Far East to combat recession at home.With a greater use of genetic programming algorithms and market research it should be possible to bring out a far broader range of consumer products than at present, but the technology must be made more accessible to the average user. Most of the applications of the technology are dictated by the small elite who wish to control us.When you think of hand held devices and palmtops you might think of early miltary scramblers and suchlike. It started as the technology of control. When the objects become cheap and mass market then everyone who is in business or government want to control the market and get people to buy useless products.Convenience computers were user programmeable in the 1970s and 80s but the world has moved backwards. This is because marketers get 99.5% of the money involved in the popularisation of a technology.The only skills required nowadays are those to abuse   and manipulate other people. Dumb Britain is no place for smart machines.Tony Goddardcat@animal.u-net.comOrganisers are ending up as landfill because the population at large just does not know what to do with them.Whereas desktop computers are in the press at large, (so people get an idea of what they can use them for), hand held computer users think that their machines can only do what they can do straight out of the box - in a similar way to a &#163;20 organiser that you might buy from Argos.The sales people in the shops are not helping either, in-store advertising shows the Handspring Visor's features as things like "can store 65000 addresses, 5000 notes' and 'built-in microphone'. This is perpeptuating the myth of the organiser not as a notebook replacement - which is what I use mine for.Companies should start promoting the cool stuff that handhelds do. Even the basic Palm III can connect to the internet via an IR link to a mobile phone, print to an IR printer or standard printer via a cable available from Maplins, the Visor's Presenter to Go Springboard expansion allows the user to install a Powerpoint presentation and display it through a composite videooutput. How's that for a killer app?But when you visit the shops, you are lucky if they sell a keyboard.Nobody I meet with a handheld has software installed (including the 8MB Dram fix). And I have to hold their hands while showing them what cool stuff they can do, if they make the effort. (Overclocking to 33MHz and running the Liberty Gameboy Emulator is a good example, or viewing AVI films and pictures with FireViewer)My message is "get the sales staff up to date!" or preinstall more software. You can never underestimate a person's ability to underuse a great product.Adrian Heskethadrianhesketh@yahoo.comSurely the Palm handheld machines will not end up as landfill. What a wicked waste. Why can't they be distributed to schools?Irene Marshallalanirene@waitrose.com
